-- 
Following Volcker Rule on Trading May Fall To CEOs and Directors

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y ,   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-10-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/following-volcker-rule-on-trading-may-fall-to-ceos-and-directors.html
Chief executive officers and
directors of Wall Street banks would have to personally approve
compliance with a ban on proprietary trading under the so-called
Volcker rule, according to a draft of the proposal.  Financial regulators would require senior management to
establish detailed programs for ensuring their banks are
following the new rules, according to the 288-page proposal
dated Sept. 30 and labeled “confidential and predecisional.” A
copy was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Each bank’s CEO and board would be “responsible for
setting an appropriate culture of compliance” and the board
would be responsible for ensuring compensation structures are
aligned with the rule, according to the draft.  The Volcker rule, which is named for its original champion,
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is intended to
prevent banks from making investments with their own capital
that put their deposits at risk. The provision was part of the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act, and policy makers are drafting regulations
to enforce it.  The draft, which has a 205-page preamble and an 83-page
text, is being written by four federal agencies and is scheduled
to be released for comment on Oct. 11 by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  Public attestation by CEOs that compliance standards would
be met was one of the recommendations in a January  study  on the
Volcker rule by the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a 10-
member board that includes the chairmen of each of the banking
regulatory agencies. The draft rule does not explicitly require
the CEOs to attest publicly to the effectiveness of the
compliance regime.  Other Exemptions  “The CEO public attestation requirement will serve as a
strong deterrent from evading the Volcker Rules,”  Glenn Schorr ,
a senior analyst with  Nomura Holdings Inc. (NMR) , said in an Oct. 6
note.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have shut or made plans to spin off
stand-alone, proprietary-trading groups to prepare for the rule.  Bloomberg News previously reported that the draft proposal
also includes guidelines for exemptions from the rule in hedging
and market-making activities.  The proposal includes a series of exemptions for trades
designed to hedge credit,  interest rate  or other specific risks.
A bank could be free of the Volcker restrictions if it is
hedging a specific position or a portfolio of risks across
multiple trading desks.  Hedging trades would need to have a “reasonable,” not a
full, correlation with the underlying risk. Banks could also win
exemptions if they are hedging a risk they are “highly likely”
to face in the future.  The draft rule also would exempt trades related to market-
making as long as the activity met at least seven standards, or
principles. One principle would be that traders get paid from
fees and the spread of the transactions rather than the
appreciation or profit from their positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 