-- 
Food-Price Declines Won’t Help Feed Hungry as Dollar Strengthens

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-07T11:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/food-price-declines-won-t-help-feed-hungry-as-dollar-strengthens.html
Lower food prices may be of no help
to the world’s hungry people because a stronger dollar might
limit purchasing power, according to the  United Nations ’  Food
and Agriculture Organization .  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, climbed the most last month since October
2008 as investors sought a haven from the European debt crisis.
A UN food-price index fell in September to 224.98, the lowest
level since December, the FAO said in a report yesterday.  “If the dollar were to appreciate or strengthen against
the importing country’s currency, then some or all, depending on
the change, of the benefit of lower prices may be lost to the
rising dollar,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the
FAO, said yesterday. “The U.S. dollar’s relation to food prices
is often overlooked.”  A gauge of cereal prices dropped to 245.09, the lowest
level since January, FAO data show. A strengthening dollar makes
crops from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter of corn and
wheat and third-largest shipper of rice, more costly to overseas
buyers using their own currencies.  “The dollar has been a factor, especially with grains,
because the U.S. has been such a big player in agriculture,”
Abbassian said.  1 Billion People  Higher food costs have sent “tens of millions of people”
into poverty since late 2010, and the world’s hungry people may
soon exceed 1 billion again, Oxfam International said Aug. 3.
The number of malnourished people in the world fell last year to
925 million from 1.02 billion in 2009, according to the FAO.  World food output will have to rise 70 percent by 2050 as
the global population climbs to 9.2 billion from an estimated
6.9 billion in 2010, the FAO estimates. Prices of staple foods
including corn will more than double in two decades without
action, Oxfam said in May.  World cereal production will climb to 2.31 billion metric
tons in 2011-12, the FAO said in a separate report yesterday,
raising its estimate by 3 million tons on increased forecasts
for wheat and rice production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 