-- 
French Wine Production to Rise as Weather Curbs Mold

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-07T16:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/french-wine-production-to-rise-as-weather-curbs-mold.html
France ’s wine production may rise to
a five-year high after August rain that filled grapes was
followed by dry September weather that limited damage from gray
mold fungus, the  Agriculture Ministry  said.  The volume of wine produced this year may jump 11 percent
to 50.2 million hectoliters (1.33 billion gallons) from 45.4
million hectoliters in 2010, the ministry  said  in a report on
its website today, raising its forecast from 48.8 million
hectoliters in September.  France’s shipments of wine and champagne last year had a
value of 6.33 billion euros ($8.8 billion), or 13 percent of the
country’s overall farm and food exports. Wine exports in the
first six month of 2011 rose 15 percent to 3.13 billion euros,
according to  government data .  “The harvest went well at the end of the period, due to
clement weather,” the ministry said. “Thanks to dry weather
conditions in September, the level of botrytis attacks has been
contained in most  regions .”  The ministry reported last month the wine harvest was at
increased risk of  botrytis , a fungus that can cause gray mold on
grapes in wet or humid conditions, after the August rain.  French wine production is forecast to be the highest since
2006. Spring drought was followed by a rainy summer in July and
August in many regions that increased the harvest potential,
according to the ministry.  Acidity Levels  “Most of the harvests started with an advance at the end
of August,” the ministry said. “The initial acidity levels
will be quite low.’  The volume of wines produced with a protected designation
of origin, known by their French abbreviation AOP, may climb 7.4
percent to 23.3 million hectoliters, the ministry said.  The volume of  Champagne -appellation wines is estimated to
increase 25 percent to 2.89 million hectoliters and  Burgundy  and
Beaujolais appellation volumes will rise 8.7 percent to 2.43
million hectoliters, the ministry said.  In the Bordeaux region, the biggest producer of designated-
origin wines, AOP volumes will slip 1.1 percent to 5.63 million
hectoliters, according to the report. Grape yields suffered from
summer drought, local hail damage and botrytis damage, the
ministry said.  The biggest gain in production of AOP wines is forecast for
the Alsace region, with volumes climbing 31 percent to 1.2
million hectoliters, the ministry said.  “Botrytis, which affected mostly the pinots gris and noirs
and the Rieslings, resulted in a slight reduction of the harvest
outlook” in Alsace, the ministry said. “The wines should have
acidity levels that are lower than in previous years.”  In Languedoc-Roussillon, the biggest wine-production region
overall, output is forecast to advance 21 percent to 14.5
million hectoliters, with about a fifth having a protected
designation of origin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 