-- 
Gasoline Futures Slide After U.S. Jobless Rate Was Unchanged

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-10-07T19:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/gasoline-futures-decline-after-u-s-jobless-rate-was-unchanged.html
Gasoline fell after a report that the
U.S. jobless rate was unchanged last month, sparking concern
that not enough jobs are being created to spur economic growth
and improve fuel demand.  Futures fell for the first time in three days as the
 unemployment rate  in September held at 9.1 percent, according to
Labor Department data. The jobless rate has been at 9 percent or
higher for 27 of the past 29 months. Payrolls climbed by 103,000
workers after a revised 57,000 increase the prior month that was
more than originally estimated.  “The good news was more jobs were created than expected,
but the bad news is they’re not enough to cut into the
unemployment rate,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for November delivery fell 3.84 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $2.6476 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract was up 4.3 percent this week.  Futures reached $2.6893 immediately after the jobs report,
before resuming their decline. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of 60,000.  Prices also slipped as equities retreated and the dollar
gained when  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the government debt of
Italy and Spain, citing factors that included their
vulnerability to the “euro zone crisis.”  The dollar gained 0.4 percent against the euro at 3:05 p.m.
in  New York  after falling as much as 0.7 percent, reducing the
investment appeal of commodities. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index lost 0.5 percent.  “The downgrades weren’t good for the equities,” said Fred
Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  ‘Not Enough’  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the
employment gains aren’t enough to sustain growth. The economy
needs 200,000 to 250,000 new jobs per month to expand, Gross,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  The gain reflected the return to work of 45,000
telecommunications employees after the resolution of a labor
dispute at Verizon Communications Inc.  “If you factor in number of Verizon workers returning from
strike, we didn’t beat expectations,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“And there really isn’t strong demand.”  Gasoline Demand  Gasoline demand at the pump slid 2.9 percent from a year
earlier in the week ended Sept. 30, according to MasterCard
Inc.’s Oct. 4 SpendingPulse report. The four-week average has
been below year-earlier levels for 28 consecutive weeks.  Prices gained 7.9 percent the prior two days as the
 European Central Bank  outlined a strategy to shield regional
banks from a potential Greek default.  “The real things that drove prices down are still there,
fear of a European bond default and fears about the  U.S.
economy ,” McGillian said.  Plans to inject capital into  Europe ’s banks are “well
under way,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said
yesterday. The European Central Bank also reintroduced yearlong
loans.  European Union leaders are under pressure from investors to
devise a comprehensive plan to rescue the region’s banks before
a Group of 20 summit in November.  “People are still concerned about the European debt crisis
and whether the European economy will slow,” Lipow said.  Heating oil for November delivery fell 0.23 cent to settle
at $2.8588 a gallon on the exchange. The contract gained 2.9
percent this week.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.39 yesterday, according to AAA data. That’s the
cheapest since March 1. Prices may drop 20 cents to $3.19 a
gallon by early November, according to the median estimate of
eight analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  