-- 
Gazprom Seeks Power Assets From Japan to U.K. to Fill Atomic Gap

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-10-07T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/gazprom-seeks-power-assets-from-japan-to-u-k-to-fill-atomic-gap.html
OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas
producer, is seeking electricity generating assets from  Japan  to
the U.K. as the closure of nuclear reactors raises demand for
gas-fired power stations.  Gazprom may pick three to four projects in Europe to submit
for board approval by year-end and will hire an adviser on
entering Asian power generation, said Denis Fedorov, head of the
OOO Gazprom Energoholding electricity unit. The Moscow-based
company wants controlling stakes.  “‘We shouldn’t be feared but looked at as a partner,”
Fedorov said. “Nothing will happen other than an increase in
competition in the power market, there will be no monopoly.”  European Union antitrust regulators raided Gazprom’s gas
trading ventures last month as part of a competition probe. The
27-nation bloc is backing a gas link bypassing  Russia , and some
members had considered expanding nuclear power, to weaken
dependence on Gazprom after winter gas flows across Ukraine were
disrupted at least twice since 2006.  The Europe Union, Gazprom’s biggest gas market by revenue,
is now revising plans for nuclear power after the March
earthquake and tsunami in Japan lead to a reactor meltdown.
 Germany , the biggest economy in the bloc, has decided to shut
its atomic plants by 2022.  ‘Intensive’ Talks  Alexei Miller , the Russian gas exporter’s chief executive
officer, has made electricity a priority to bolster corporate
cash flows and expand internationally to compete with companies
such as EON AG, Electricite de France SA and Endesa SA.  About 10 potential assets in Europe have been identified,
Fedorov told reporters in his Moscow office late on Oct. 5,
without naming any projects.  Gazprom and  RWE AG (RWE)  are holding exclusive talks on forming a
power-generation joint venture with new or existing, gas or
coal-fired plants in Germany, the U.K., and the Benelux
countries. The work will continue “intensively” until the end
of the year, the two companies said yesterday.  Any acquisitions will be financed with cash, Fedorov said,
declining to elaborate on the accord.  The Russian producer is also considering several projects
in  Bulgaria  and is looking at Turkey and  Romania , Fedorov said.
With no budget or capacity targets, the division is open for any
interesting projects, he said.  ‘Undesirable’ Concentration  At home, Gazprom Energoholding controls four generators
with a combined capacity of 37 gigawatts, which is about 17
percent of Russia’s total. The utility agreed to buy billionaire
 Viktor Vekselberg ’s electricity assets in July in a deal that
may boost its market share to 25 percent. That has met
resistance from the antitrust watchdog, which has called it
“undesirable.”  The board may vote on the deal by the end of the year,
Fedorov said. Vekselberg’s Renova Group, one of the biggest
investors in Russia’s power market through its IES Holding unit,
will have at least 25 percent plus one share in the combined
utility, and Gazprom will hold no more than 75 percent,
according to the July accord.  Gazprom is ready to meet requirements set by the antitrust
regulator, including selling assets in some regions, Fedorov
said. The Federal Anti-Monopoly Agency is reviewing the deal.  The utility, which is merging its OGK-2 and OGK-6 wholesale
generators, targets an initial public offering in 2014 or 2015,
Fedorov said, without giving details. Management may consider
Asian exchanges, visiting them this year or next.  ‘Colossal Investments’  “There will be colossal investments,’” Fedorov said,
referring to investor interest in Gazprom Energoholding. “No
one in Russia has raised such major foreign investment in recent
years.”  Banks have approached Fedorov over the past three months
with unidentified international investors expressing interest in
controlling stakes in Gazprom Energoholding’s generators even
before an IPO, the executive said.  As Gazprom seeks to diversify its supply markets, Gazprom
may build Asian gas-fired  power plants , Fedorov said. The
company is starting talks and may identify the first projects in
no less than a year, he said.  “Japan,  South Korea  and  China  are the three countries
where we will focus the most attention,” Fedorov said. “If we
supply gas to China, we are interested in building a vertical
chain to the consumer.”  Gazprom is negotiating a gas sales contract with China, the
world’s biggest energy consumer, and aims to build a pipeline
across Siberia to carry the fuel. Plans to build another link
across the Korean peninsula advanced after Russia helped broker
between the North and South.  Asian demand for gas may increase as the economy grows and
Japan’s nuclear disaster in March shut down reactors. China
plans to move to gas, which burns cleaner than traditional coal-
fired plants, while  Korea , which buys liquefied natural gas,
seeks to cut import costs.  Gazprom wants to supply as much gas to  Asia  as it does to
 Europe , Miller has said.  Talks with Asian partners may be “no less difficult than
with European partners,” Fedorov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  