-- 
German Industrial Production Falls Less Than Forecast; Factory Orders Slow

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-10-07T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/german-industrial-production-falls-less-than-forecast-factory-orders-slow.html
Industrial production in  Germany ,
Europe’s largest economy, declined less than economists forecast
in August after surging in the previous month.  Output fell 1 percent from July, when it jumped 3.9
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast a 2 percent decline, according to the median of 35
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the year, production
rose 7.7 percent when adjusted for working days.  The German economy came to a near standstill in the second
quarter and European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said yesterday that expansion in the 17-nation euro area,
Germany’s largest export market, will be “very moderate” in the
second half of the year. Confidence among German businesses and
investors worsened in September as the region’s debt crisis
threatens to derail growth.  “At the moment, companies are benefiting from existing
orders on their books, but we have to expect weaker data as
fears about the debt crisis and financial-market tensions push
back investment decisions,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an
economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “I’m seriously concerned
about a recession in Germany.”  Production of  consumer goods  slumped 4.9 percent in August
and construction activity declined 1.2 percent, today’s report
showed. Production of investment goods rose 0.2 percent.  While industrial production continues to expand, slowing
factory orders suggest the growth dynamic will weaken further,
the Economy Ministry said.  Orders Decline  German factory orders unexpectedly declined for a second
month in August, led by a drop in domestic demand, the ministry
said yesterday. Orders for investment goods also decreased.  The Bundesbank on Sept. 19 predicted “robust” growth in
the third quarter. At the same time, it said the outlook “has
clouded more than previously expected amid heightened
uncertainty” as Greece teeters on the brink of default and
global growth slows.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month lowered its
growth forecasts for Germany to 2.7 percent from 3.2 percent for
2011 and to 1.3 percent from 2 percent for 2012.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  expects its cargo business to be
weaker in coming months amid faltering global trade, Chief
Financial Officer Stephan Gemkow told Boersen-Zeitung in an
interview published Oct. 3. The airline last month lowered its
full-year profit forecast and said it would deepen capacity cuts
this winter.  Vossloh AG (VOS) , a manufacturer of railroad equipment, cut its
full-year sales forecast on Sept. 29, citing slower business in
China and a “sharp reduction” in orders from southern Europe.  “Capacity utilization is declining, partly reflecting more
cautious investment behavior but also a slowdown of the
economy,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “The question is whether market
confidence will return at the beginning of next year and release
pent-up demand for German industrial goods. The more uncertainty
lingers on around the debt crisis, the more unlikely it
becomes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  