-- 
Italian Bonds Fall Most in Two Weeks as ECB Optimism Fades; Bunds Decline

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-10-07T16:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/german-notes-fall-yields-approach-3-week-high-as-shares-gain.html
Italy ’s bonds declined, pushing
yields up the most in two weeks, amid fading optimism that euro-
area officials are near to resolving the region’s debt crisis.  German bunds fell after a U.S. report showed employers
added more jobs last month than economists forecast, reducing
demand for safer assets.  Portugal ’s bonds slid as Moody’s
Investors Service said it cut the ratings on nine of the
nation’s banks. Spanish debt advanced as the  European Central
Bank  was said to purchase the country’s securities along with
those of Italy.  Fitch Ratings  cut Italy and Spain’s credit
ratings after the bond markets closed.  “The concern for investors is that we are not so close to
a solution” to  Europe ’s debt crisis, said Alessandro Giansanti,
a senior interest-rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
Portugal is the country “most at risk of a restructuring after
Greece,” he said.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond climbed seven basis
points to 5.52 percent at 5 p.m. in London. The rate increased
as much as 14 basis points, the most since Sept. 20. The 4.75
percent security due September 2021 fell 0.485, or 4.85 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,349) face amount, to 94.720.  Portuguese 10-year bond yields increased five basis points
to 11.25 percent. Greek 10-year rates climbed 28 basis points to
23.53 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , divided on whether to insist on greater losses
for Greek bondholders, are due to meet in Berlin on Oct. 9 to
discuss the debt crisis. European Union leaders will discuss
banks’ capital at their summit on Oct. 17-18, Merkel told
reporters today in Berlin.  Greece  isn’t likely to have a
“central role” in the summit, she said.  Pressure for Plan  European leaders are under pressure to devise a
comprehensive plan to support banks after Dexia SA was pushed
toward a breakup, with France, Belgium and Luxembourg seeking to
protect their local units of the lender.  If leaders don’t address the crisis “in a credible way, I
believe within perhaps two to three weeks we will have a
meltdown in sovereign debt, which will produce a meltdown across
the European banking system,” Robert Shapiro, an adviser to the
 International Monetary Fund , told the British Broadcasting
Corp.’s Newsnight yesterday.  Italy’s bonds also dropped after the nation said it plans
to sell debt maturing between 2016 and 2025 next week.  Supply Concern  “The downside that we are seeing in Italian bond prices is
supply related,” said  Matteo Regesta , a senior fixed-income
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “Some seem to be trying
to create concession ahead of the sale. It doesn’t help that
this is occurring against the backdrop of negative sentiment
towards policy makers.”  Fitch Ratings cut Italy’s credit ratings A+ from AA-,
citing concerns about the nation’s vulnerability to the “euro-
zone crisis.” It lowered Spain’s rating by two notches to AA-
from AA+.  German bunds fell for a third day after the U.S. Labor
Department said payrolls climbed by 103,000 in September
following a revised 57,000 increase the previous month. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase
of 60,000.  German 10-year yields rose six basis points to 2 percent,
and two-year rates were little changed at 0.60 percent.  Spanish Bonds  Spanish 10-year bonds advanced after three people with
knowledge of the transactions said the ECB bought the nation’s
debt today. The central bank also scooped up Italian bonds, said
the people who declined to be identified because the trades are
confidential.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield declined two basis points to
4.99 percent.  The Dutch parliament’s lower house approved the expansion
of Europe’s temporary rescue fund yesterday, leaving only
Slovakia and Malta yet to vote on the plan. Slovakia’s Freedom
and Solidarity party proposed a compromise in which it would
agree with its three partners in the ruling coalition on the
overhaul of the temporary bailout mechanism.  “There is progress being made, albeit at a gradual pace,”
said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  German bunds have returned 7.3 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italian bonds have lost 2.2
percent and Portuguese have dropped 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  