-- 
Ghana Cedi Depreciation Will Be Limited to 5%, Central Bank Says

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-10-07T15:07:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ghana-cedi-depreciation-will-be-limited-to-5-central-bank-says.html
Ghana’s cedi will recover against the
dollar by the end of the year as the West African nation gets
inflows of U.S. currency from the cocoa pre-export finance
facility and bond auctions, the central bank said.  The depreciation of the cedi will be limited to 5 percent
on a year-on-year basis, Adams Nyinaku, head of treasury at the
Accra-based  Bank of Ghana  said in a response to questions
through mobile-phone message today.  “The cedi will recover strongly by the end of December as
we take on these inflows,” he said. “We monitor the  currency
market  on daily basis and we will provide liquidity when we see
the need for it.”  The cedi, which depreciated to 1.621 per dollar on Oct. 4,
the weakest since at least 1994 when Bloomberg began compiling
the data, recovered, losing less than 0.1 percent to 1.6165 per
dollar as of 1:27 p.m. in Accra, the capital. The cumulative
loss since the beginning of the year stood at 8.8 percent.  “The central bank sold dollars today, the third time they
were on the market this week,” Chris Nettey, a currency trader
at the local unit of Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a phone
interview. “The market is stabilizing, as compared to previous
recent sessions.”  The central bank received $800 million as the first part of
a syndicated cocoa loan on Oct. 3, Nyinaku said.  Ghana  Cocoa
Board, which regulates the industry in the West African nation,
signed a total $2 billion with more than 20 international and
local banks, it said Sept. 22.  The board also known as Cocobod will use the money to buy
cocoa from farmers in the 2011-12 season that starts this month.  Bond Auction  The central bank will sell its fourth three-year bond of
2011 on Oct. 13, to offer 300 million cedis ($185.6 million) of
the debt, which is open to offshore investors. The Bank of Ghana
also plans its second five-year bond of 200 million cedis in
December.  “We are confident about the auction,” Nyinakuy said in an
interview at his office Oct. 5. “The fundamentals of the
economy are still strong, the central bank’s inflation target
remains within reach and treasury bill rates are in record
lows.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 