-- 
Nissan’s Ghosn Warns of Japan ‘Hollowing Out’ on Yen’s Surge

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-10-07T18:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ghosn-says-japan-failing-to-curb-yen-shows-employment-isn-t-top-priority.html
Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer
of Nissan Motor Co., said  Japan  faces a “hollowing out” of its
industrial base should the government fail to take steps to
counter the yen’s rise.  “I have spoken to the prime minister about this
directly,” Ghosn said in an interview from Rio de Janeiro
yesterday after Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan announced a new
$1.4 billion auto plant in Brazil. “If Japan wants employment,
you’re going to have to do something about establishing a normal
 exchange rate .”  Nissan,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co., Japan’s
three largest automakers, are shifting production overseas as
the yen’s surge erodes the profitability of building cars in
their home market. The nation’s currency has risen 5.7 percent
this year against the dollar and touched a postwar high of
75.95. The government, led by the  Democratic Party of Japan ,
last moved to weaken the yen in August.  A lack of government action “is showing that employment is
not their number one priority,” Ghosn said. “At 76 yen to the
dollar, if this rate was to stay for a while, I think you’re
going to see a hollowing out of the industry.”  The yen traded at 76.79 per dollar at 12:57 p.m. New York
time.  ‘Empty Shell’  “Short term, you have the margin pressures from the yen
that are affecting all the Japanese automakers,” said  Efraim Levy , a New York-based equity analyst for S&P Capital IQ, who
follows Nissan and rates its American depositary receipts a
“buy.”  “At these levels, I don’t see any choice but to move
significant manufacturing operations out of Japan,” he said.  The  Liberal Democratic Party , Japan’s main opposition
party, proposed increasing the Bank of Japan’s asset fund and
diversifying the methods of yen intervention to help the country
recover from its March 11 earthquake and the nuclear disaster at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s plant in Fukushima.  The LDP called for increasing the central bank’s asset-
buying fund by 10 trillion yen ($130 billion) to 25 trillion
yen, according to a document obtained from LDP lawmaker Naokazu Takemoto.  “The DPJ government has left the accelerating yen’s rise
to its own course,” the LDP document said. “The Japanese
economy runs the risk of becoming like an empty shell.”  Nissan’s new 200,000-unit assembly plant in  Brazil  is
scheduled to open in 2014. The company has also boosted
investment in factories in Mexico and  Thailand  for small cars
that it says can no longer be built profitably in Japan.  Toyota Parts  Toyota,  Asia ’s biggest carmaker, is telling parts suppliers
in Japan to slash prices or face being replaced by overseas
rivals as the yen appreciates, four people involved with the
discussions said.  Toyota, which loses 34 billion yen ($443 million) in
operating profit for every 1 yen appreciation against the
dollar, told parts-makers it will buy more from emerging markets
if domestic suppliers can’t match overseas prices, according to
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  Toyota said last month it will spend 26.3 billion yen to
build a second factory in  Indonesia . The Toyota City-based
company is setting up a production hub complete with a network
of suppliers in the Southeast Asian country as it aims to get
half its sales from emerging markets by 2015.  Honda Exports  Honda, based in Tokyo, said Oct. 5 it will reduce exports
to as little as 10 percent of domestic production, from 34
percent last year.  “Business people, when they make a decision about where to
source a new project or where to source new parts or where to
source a new car, well, at 76 yen to the dollar it’s very easy
to come to the conclusion that Japan is not a good place to
source that,” Ghosn said.  “I don’t think Japanese corporations are going to suffer
from it, they are just going to adapt to it,” he said.
“Adapting to it means projects are going to be made outside
Japan.”  Nissan rose 2.2 percent to 701 yen earlier at the close in
 Tokyo . The shares have fallen 9.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  