-- 
Global Investors in Poll Favoring Romney Over Republican Rivals on Economy

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-10-07T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/global-investors-in-poll-favor-romney-over-rivals-on-economy.html
Global investors like  Mitt Romney 
better than any other U.S. presidential candidate, while
remaining cool to the Republican field in general.  About one in five investors say the former Massachusetts
governor and founder of private equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
would be best for the world economy among all the Republican
contenders, according to a Sept. 26 Bloomberg Global Poll. All
the other candidates are in single-digits. And by a margin of 37
percent to 34 percent, investors say Romney would be better for
the economy than would President  Barack Obama .  Among U.S. investors, Romney does much better than Obama,
with 69 percent favoring him on the economy versus 16 percent
for the president. Romney, who will face off against the other
Republicans in an Oct. 11 Dartmouth College debate sponsored by
Bloomberg News and the Washington Post, is seen less favorably
overseas, according to the quarterly poll, which covered 1,031
investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  “Romney isn’t an enthusiastic choice,” says Sam Katzman,
49, chief investment officer at Constellation Wealth Advisors in
 New York . “But he’s better than Obama.”  Twenty-one percent of international investors say Romney
would handle the world economy better than the other
Republicans. More than half either choose none of the contenders
or say they have no idea.  Obama Over Perry  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  doesn’t fare as well against
Obama among global investors. They choose Obama over Perry by 42
percent to 28 percent, though the governor also scores better
among U.S. respondents, with 52 percent saying he would handle
the world economy better than Obama, who gets 30 percent. Perry
trails Romney among U.S. respondents, with 34 percent saying
Romney would be best for the global economy among the Republican
contenders, and 7 percent picking Perry.  “I would prefer Romney over Perry for the simple reason
that any politician who attacks and wants to remove even a
minute piece of the  Federal Reserve ’s independence is a negative
for the confidence investors need to invest in the U.S.,” says
Jonathan Sadowsky, chief investment officer at San Francisco-
based Vaca Creek Asset Management.  Just three days after he started his campaign on Aug. 13,
Perry said things could get “ugly” for Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in Texas if he tries additional, “almost treasonous,”
monetary stimulus measures.  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who served as Obama’s
ambassador to  China , gets 6 percent among global investors on
the economy. Huntsman is favored by 7 percent of Asia
respondents.  Paul, Cain Trail  Eight percent of global respondents say Texas Congressman
 Ron Paul  would do the best job on the world economy among
Republicans. Former Godfather’s Pizza Chief Executive Officer
Herman Cain gets 3 percent support as does former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich ; and U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  and
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  each get 1 percent.  “It is not just that Romney dominates investors’ views of
the Republican field; the other candidates tested are actively
disliked,” says J. Ann Selzer, president of Selzer & Co., a  Des
Moines , Iowa-based firm that conducted the survey.  While U.S. investors prefer Romney over Obama on the world
economy, the president does better overseas, with 50 percent of
Europeans choosing him versus 13 percent for Romney, and Asian
respondents picking him by a margin of 31 percent to 26 percent.  Obama Overseas  Since the quarterly poll began in July 2009, overseas
investors have expressed a far more positive view of Obama and
his policies than have U.S. investors, though his standing has
dropped across all regions as the global economy has slowed and
debt concerns mount, especially in Europe. Among investors
outside the U.S., 52 percent view him favorably while 17 percent
do inside the U.S.  In a reflection of Romney’s popularity among U.S.
investors, he has raised more than twice as much money from  Wall
Street  as Obama -- an edge gained in part by luring away at
least 100 donors, mostly investors, who backed the president in
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Romney also does better than Perry and the other
Republicans on respondents’ overall feeling about the
candidates.  Fifty-one percent of global investors have an unfavorable
view of Perry against just 17 percent with a positive feeling;
his numbers are bad in the U.S., too, with 62 percent of
investors there saying they have an unfavorable view of him,
compared with 32 percent with a favorable view.  Global Growth Slows  Thirty-two percent of global investors have a positive view
of Romney, versus 34 percent with an unfavorable impression. His
numbers were stronger in the U.S., with 59 percent of
respondents saying they have a positive feeling about him,
against 35 percent with a negative view.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its forecast
for global growth and predicted “severe” repercussions if
 Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers
can’t break an impasse over a plan to reduce the federal
deficit. The world economy will expand 4 percent this year and
next, the IMF said, compared with June forecasts of 4.3 percent
in 2011 and of 4.5 percent in 2012. The U.S. growth projection
for 2011 was lowered to 1.5 percent from 2.5 percent in June.  The Bloomberg Global Poll has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington
D.C. at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 