-- 
Global Investors in Poll Prefer Romney over Rivals on Economy

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-07T14:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/global-investors-in-poll-prefer-romney-over-rivals-on-economy.html

Press Release  Bloomberg and The Washington Post Republican Debate, Centered on
the Economy, to be Hosted at Dartmouth College on Tuesday,
Oct. 11  New York -- Global investors like  Mitt Romney  better than any
other U.S. presidential candidate, while remaining lukewarm
about the Republican field in general.  About one in five investors say the former Massachusetts
governor and founder of private equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
would be best for the world economy among all the Republican
contenders, according to a Sept. 26 Bloomberg Global Poll. All
the other candidates are in single-digits. And by a margin of 37
percent to 34 percent, investors say Romney would be better for
the economy than would President  Barack Obama .  Among U.S. investors, Romney does much better than Obama, with
69 percent favoring him on the economy versus 16 percent for the
president. Romney, who will face off against the other
Republicans in an Oct. 11  Dartmouth College  debate sponsored by
Bloomberg and the Washington Post, is seen less favorably
overseas, according to the quarterly poll, which covered 1,031
investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  The full story is available at:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/global-investors-in -
poll-favor-romney-over-rivals-on-economy.html  Bloomberg and The Washington Post, in partnership with WBIN-TV
and host Dartmouth College, will present the first debate of the
2012 campaign centered exclusively on the issues voters consider
most important - the economy, debt, deficits, taxes, trade and
jobs. With the candidates seated side-by-side, the roundtable
debate will be moderated by  Charlie Rose , The Washington Post
political correspondent Karen Tumulty and Bloomberg White House
correspondent Julianna Goldman.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  doesn’t fare as well against Obama
among global investors. They choose Obama over Perry by 42
percent to 28 percent, though the governor also scores better
among U.S. respondents, with 52 percent saying he would handle
the world economy better than Obama, who gets 30 percent. Perry
trails Romney among U.S. respondents, with 34 percent saying
Romney would be best for the global economy among the Republican
contenders, and 7 percent picking Perry.  Eight percent of global respondents say Texas Congressman  Ron
Paul  would do the best job on the world economy among
Republicans. Former Godfather’s Pizza Chief Executive Officer
Herman Cain gets 3 percent support as does former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich ; and U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  and
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  each get 1 percent.  Watch the debate live on Oct. 11th at 8PM ET on Bloomberg
Television or via livestream on  Bloomberg.com ,
 washingtonpost.com/debate  and Bloomberg Mobile.  Be a part of the Bloomberg/The Washington Post debate
conversation on Twitter with #EconDebate and on Facebook at
 http://facebook.com/bloombergtelevision  and
 http://facebook.com/washingtonpost .  Learn more about the debate here:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/video/76202680/   To find Bloomberg Television in your area, visit
 http://bloomberg.viewerlink.tv/   Contact for Bloomberg:  Kristin Swenson, +1 212-617-4264,  kswenson@bloomberg.net 
