-- 
Goldman Sachs Says Buy Morgan Stanley

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-10-07T17:04:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/goldman-sachs-tells-investors-to-buy-morgan-stanley-call-options.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  shares are likely to
rally when the firm reports earnings this month as management
eases concern that profit will be hurt by risks linked to
European sovereign debt,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  Morgan Stanley is likely to provide more details on its
sovereign risk and improved liquidity, helping shares to rally
to 70 percent of tangible book value from their current 57
percent, analysts at New York-based Goldman Sachs wrote in a
note today. They recommended investors buy $16 October calls and
sell short-dated credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley, which
is also based in New York.  Investors’ concerns that the firm has large European swap
exposures are “overdone,” analysts and strategists including
 John Marshall  and Louise Pitt said in the note. They made the
recommendation even as they said third-quarter earnings are
likely to be “weak.” Goldman Sachs left its “neutral” rating
unchanged.  “The risk/reward balance of MS shares at current levels
appear tempting,” the analysts said, referring to the company
by its stock ticker. “MS should be able to ride out the current
market duress assuming global macroeconomic indicators do not
materially decay. Moreover, concerns regarding its European swap
and loan exposures appear unwarranted, as the firm has signaled
its net exposures to  France  and the periphery are modest if not
immaterial.”  Morgan Stanley fell 80 cents, or 5.3 percent, to $14.38 at
12:40 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares gained 22 percent the three days through yesterday, the
largest three-day climb since May 2009. That rally left the
shares down 44 percent this year. An increase to 70 percent of
tangible book value would imply a jump to $18.63.  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley, the owner of the
world’s biggest retail brokerage, fell 54 basis points to 420 as
of 11:07 a.m. in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group. The five-year contracts have declined from 650 basis
points on Oct. 4, the highest since October 2008, the month
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  