-- 
Google, Samsung Delay Product Introduction Citing Steve Jobs’s Death

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-10-07T20:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/google-samsung-telecommunications-delay-product-introduction.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. delayed a new product introduction scheduled for an Oct. 11
trade show after the death of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder Steve Jobs.  Samsung sent out invitations last month announcing an event
in San Diego that would include a look at what’s new for
Google’s Android, a software used on mobile phones. The decision
was not related to technical problems, said Kim Titus, a
spokesman for Samsung Electronics, based in Suwon,  South Korea .
Jobs, who oversaw development of the Apple Inc. iPhone, died
earlier this week.  “We decided it was not the right time to announce a new
product while the world was expressing tribute to  Steve Jobs ’s
passing,” Titus said in a telephone interview. “The industry
has never lost such an iconic figure. Obviously we were well
down the path but decided this was the right thing to do.”
Samsung hasn’t disclosed the name of the product, Titus said.  Google’s Android is the world’s most popular smartphone
software and is used by device makers such as Samsung, HTC Corp.
and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. Research firm IDC estimates
that the number of smartphones sold will double to 1 billion by
2015. While Apple is the single biggest device maker, the
Android coalition leads the market, accounting for 41.7 percent.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , closed up less
than one percent to $515.12 in New York trading. Samsung’s
shares rose 0.6 percent yesterday to 860,000 won at the close of
Seoul trading.  At a developers’ conference in May, Google discussed the
next version of Android, dubbed Ice Cream Sandwich. The version
was set to be available to partners sometime this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ; or
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  