-- 
Google Defends Android System, HTC Phones in Apple Patent Fight

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-10-07T21:24:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/google-defends-android-system-htc-phones-in-apple-patent-fight.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  told a trade panel that
 HTC Corp. (2498)  phones using the Android operating system shouldn’t be
barred from the U.S. if they are found to infringe  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
patents.  An import ban would hurt the ability of consumers to have
their choice of mobile phones in a fast-growing industry, Google
said in a filing yesterday with the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington. The ITC, which can block imports of
products found to violate U.S. patents, is reviewing a trade
judge’s finding that HTC’s Android phones infringe two Apple
patents.  “Apple is the largest seller of mobile computing devices
in the U.S.,”  Mountain View , California-based Google said in
the filing. “Allowing this supplier to eliminate the
competition from a fast-moving maverick competitor (HTC) could
drive up prices, diminish service, decrease consumers’ access to
the technology and reduce innovation.”  Google argued that HTC’s Android devices “are helping
prevent Apple’s iOS from becoming the sole viable mobile
platform.” Pointing to Apple’s patent cases against Samsung
Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., which also
make Android phones, Google said a victory in the HTC dispute
could lead to a monopoly on the mobile-device industry in the
U.S.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , accounts for more than a
third of Android devices sold in the U.S., according to Google.  The six-member commission is scheduled to announce its
decision on Dec. 6. As part of its analysis, the agency has to
consider the effect of any ban on the public interest. If one is
imposed, President  Barack Obama  can overrule based on public
safety concerns.  The case  is In the Matter Of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  