-- 
Greece Expects $27 Billion Solar Plan to Advance by Year-End

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-10-07T12:46:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/greece-expects-27-billion-solar-project-to-advance-by-year-end.html
Greece’s Energy Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said he expects an agreement by the end of the
year that will advance a 20 billion-euro ($27 billion) solar
power project, part of an initiative to boost the economy.  Papaconstantinou said he plans to sign a pact with European
Union officials and renewable energy companies that will help
deliver Project Helios, named after the Greek god of the sun,
which envisions luring foreign investors to install as many as
10 gigawatts of solar panels in Greece.  “I have spoken with three German ministers now on the
project as well as with the EU, and I’m optimistic we can get a
framework agreement by the end of the year,” Greek Energy
Minister Papaconstantinou said in an interview in  Athens  today.  His remarks during a trip by German Economy Minister
Philipp Roesler are part of a plan to revive the  Greek economy ,
which may shrink more than 5 percent in 2011 as the government
slashes spending to avoid a default on its bonds.  Roesler is due to sign accords this afternoon outlining
German-Greek cooperation on cutting bureaucracy, backing
renewable energy and aiding tourism. More than 70 company
officials, mainly from the  energy industry , traveled with the
minister.  Renewable Growth  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has suggested
that Greece, benefiting from relatively strong solar radiation
and  Europe ’s highest premium for photovoltaic power, should look
to its renewable energy industry for growth opportunities.  Pietro Radoia, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance
in  London , said while Helios’ 10-gigawatt target is realistic,
several questions about it remain unanswered.  Exporting solar power to  Germany , for example, would be
relatively expensive and technically difficult, he said. Since
Germany has more than 20 gigawatts of domestic peak solar
capacity, “it would also be like bringing wood to the forest,”
he said.  There may be financial limitations to a solar boom in
Greece, Radoia said. “I’m not sure the government will have the
money to pay for a feed-in-tariff that’s guaranteed for 20
years,” he said.  Europe’s solar industry is ready to contribute 5 percent of
the estimated 20 billion euros of investments needed for Helios,
with EU funding to account for the remainder, Frank Asbeck,
chief executive officer of  Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s largest
panel maker, told reporters in Athens.  Planning Hurdles  The country needs to remove bureaucratic hurdles by
speeding up planning and permitting processes to unlock Greece’s
“enormous photovoltaic potential,” Asbeck said.  Last month, Greece said it would put three solar projects
worth 1 billion euros on a fast track for approval. They include
the 200-megawatt Kozani plant, to be developed by Public Power
Corp. SA, a 131-megawatt plant by Solar Cells Hellas Group and
Silcio SA’s 127-megawatts project.  Greece may add as much as 498 megawatts of solar capacity
this year, more than three times the level in 2010, according to
estimates from New Energy Finance. More than 200 megawatts were
installed through August, according to the Hellenic Association
of Photovoltaic Cos., an industry lobby. Germany, the world’s
biggest market, installed 7,400 megawatts in 2010.  Solar PV projects in  Greece  earn 35 euro cents to 40 euro
cents per kilowatt-hour. Germany pays 21 cents to 29 cents.  Greece should reduce its feed-in-tariff to about 28 cents,
Asbeck said. That would “sort the gold diggers from the serious
investors,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  