-- 
Gross Says Jobs Gains Not Enough for Growth: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-10-07T14:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/gross-says-u-s-employment-gains-are-not-enough-to-grow-economy-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said job gains in September aren’t enough to sustain
growth in the  U.S. economy  and that neither political party
understands what’s needed to boost employment.  The economy needs 200,000 to 250,000 new jobs per month to
expand, Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and Ken Prewitt. Global investors like  Mitt Romney  better than
any other U.S. presidential candidate, while remaining cool to
the Republican field in general, according to a Bloomberg poll.  “I don’t think Barack Obama has been very good for the
economy and I don’t think Mitt Romney would be either; neither
camp recognized the problem in terms of  job creation ,” Gross
said. “We need to, yes, to have currency revaluations, which
the Republicans are opposing. We need in some cases penalties,
tariffs where applicable. We need a buy-American, produce-
America type of policy in order to create jobs.”  Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised 57,000
increase the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department data showed today in Washington. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of
60,000. The gain reflected the return to work of 45,000
telecommunications employees. The jobless rate held at 9.1
percent.  ‘Screams Decent’  “This report screams decent, it doesn’t scream pretty
good,” said Gross, who serves of co-chief investment officer
with Mohamed A. El-Erian at Pimco.  The U.S. needs to simultaneously address housing, the labor
market, infrastructure and credit for companies, El-Erian, who
is Pimco’s chief executive officer, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu.  “We have lots of small- and medium-sized businesses that
can’t get credit today because the banks aren’t lending,” El-
Erian said. “We are like deer stuck in headlights thinking that
there’s some magical solution. There isn’t. This is hard work
across a whole range of issues.”  Among U.S. investors, former Massachusetts governor Romney
does much better than President  Barack Obama , with 69 percent
favoring him on the economy versus 16 percent for the president,
according to a Sept. 26 Bloomberg Global Poll. All the other
candidates are in single-digits.  Safe Sovereigns  Pimco favors bonds of the U.S., U.K.,  Germany ,  Australia 
and  Canada  amid slow growth in developed economies, Gross
reiterated. European leaders are under pressure from their
global counterparts to find a solution to their debt crisis that
has caused financial turmoil and threatens to tip the world
economy into recession.  “These are countries that can survive a global recession
if it comes to that,” said Gross, the founder of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco.  Romney, who will face off against the other Republicans in
an Oct. 11 Dartmouth College debate sponsored by Bloomberg News
and the  Washington  Post, is seen less favorably overseas,
according to the quarterly poll, which covered 1,031 investors,
traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  After eliminating Treasuries from his $242 billion Total
Return Fund in February because they were too expensive, Gross
increased his holdings in U.S. government securities to 16
percent as the debt posted the highest quarterly returns in
almost three years. Treasuries gained 6.4 percent in the third
quarter as investors sought refuge amid slowing growth and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  The Total Return Fund has lost 0.4 percent in the past
year, lagging behind 91 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the fund has
returned 7.7 percent on average, topping 97 percent of rival
funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  