-- 
Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia Shares Nobel Peace Prize With Gbowee, Karman

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a ,   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-10-07T21:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/liberia-s-johnson-sirleaf-wins-2011-nobel-peace.html
Liberian President Ellen Johnson- Sirleaf, activist Leymah Gbowee and Yemen’s Tawakkul Karman were
awarded the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize for their work in promoting
 women’s rights  and peace.  Johnson-Sirleaf, 72, Gbowee, 39, and Karman, 32, were
announced as winners of the 10 million-krona ($1.5 million)
prize today by the Norwegian Nobel Committee in Oslo. They were
honored for “their non-violent struggle for the safety of women
and for women’s rights to full participation in peace-building
work,” the committee said.  Johnson-Sirleaf, who was elected Africa’s first female
president in 2005, has been rebuilding a country devastated by
civil wars from 1989 to 2003 that killed an estimated 250,000
people. Liberia’s Gbowee, a mother of five and head of the
Accra-based Women Peace and Security Network Africa, helped end
the Liberian war by encouraging women to go on a sex strike,
forcing men to listen to their wives’ pleas to stop fighting.
She’s featured in “Pray the Devil Back to Hell,” a documentary
about how Liberian women took on warlords and the regime of
Charles Taylor during the civil war.  The recognition “will motivate women all over  Africa ,
as well as the world, to be able to stand up to take leadership
roles, to have the courage of their conviction in standing up
for the principles in which they believe,” Johnson-Sirleaf told
reporters.  Lives Sacrificed  Karman is a human rights activist and journalist. She has
helped organize protests inspired by the so-called Arab Spring
that swept across North Africa to challenge the rule of
President Ali Abdulla Saleh.  ‘‘I dedicate this to all the people who have sacrificed
their lives to the freedom of the country,’’ Karman said by
phone from Sanaa. ‘‘This will help push young people to continue
working for peace, democracy and freedom. This recognizes the
role of youth in these countries.’’  Twelve women have won the peace prize out of a total 97
individuals, according to the Nobel website. Bertha von Suttner
was the first woman to win 1905. The last woman, and African, to
win was Wangari Maathai in 2004, who died last month.  ‘‘Women today are the ones who suffer the most during
conflicts and wars, notably due to rape and other violence and
this has become a security concern of first order,’’ said
Thorbjoern Jagland, head of the Norwegian Nobel Committee.
‘‘It’s the same theme that became important during the Arab
Spring -- if women aren’t part of the democratization process,
one can’t obtain full democracy.”  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896,
and the first prizes were handed out in 1901.  Liu Xiaobo   Last year’s peace prize went to Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo for his struggle to promote human rights and democracy.
The decision sparked a diplomatic spat between Norway and  China .
Liu has been serving an 11-year sentence in a Chinese prison
since 2009 on a charge of plotting to subvert the ruling
Communist Party. U.S. President Barack Obama won two years ago
for his efforts to strengthen diplomacy and cooperation. Other
past laureates include Martin Luther King Jr. and Mother Teresa.  Johnson-Sirleaf, a Harvard University-trained economist,
said in a speech to the  U.S. Congress  in 2006 that Liberia,
partly populated by repatriated U.S. slaves, would be
“America’s success story” in Africa. In August 2003, President
 George W. Bush  sent Marines to Liberia as peacekeepers after
Charles Taylor agreed to demands to step down.  Deserves Credit  The turnaround has since helped attract more than $16
billion in investments in mining, farming, oil exploration and
forestry industries and driven annual economic growth of 5
percent to 9.5 percent, according the  president’s website.   “She deserves credit,” said Nana Ampofo, a London-based
Liberia analyst with Songhai Advisory, by phone. “Much of this
has depended on her ability to maintain and protect
relationships with the donor community.”  Johnson-Sirleaf first held positions at the nation’s
Treasury in 1965 before earning a Master’s Degree from Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government in 1971. She later
became Finance Minister in 1979 and left the country after a
military coup the following year. She has worked for Citibank in
 Kenya  and for the  World Bank  in  Washington . In 1992, she joined
as director in Africa of the United Nations Development Program.  She briefly returned to contest elections in 1997, losing
to warlord  Charles Taylor  and returning to exile. She came back
again in 2003, when Taylor left the country, to head the
Government Reform Commission and resigned from that job in 2005
for her successful presidential campaign.  “We are now going into our ninth year of peace, and every
Liberian has contributed to it,” Johnson-Sirleaf told reporters.
“We particularly give this credit to Liberian women, who have
consistently led the struggle for peace, even under conditions
of neglect.”  ‘Great PR’  She’s running for re-election this month and in an Oct. 2
speech posted on her website said that “no one else could have
done a better job than we have,” urging continued development
and peace.  “It’s great PR for Liberia to have recognition for the
gains that they’ve made,’ Ampofo said. ‘‘The fact they’re at
peace and are having their second set of elections in five
years, that’s an achievement.”  Johnson-Sirleaf is also chairwoman of the Mano River Union,
an effort for political stability and economic cooperation
between  Sierra Leone ,  Guinea , Liberia and the  Ivory Coast . She
was a founding member of the International Institute for Women
in Political Leadership, according to her website.  She was born in Monrovia, the capital, and is, according to
her website, the granddaughter of a “traditional chief of
renown” in western Liberia. She is divorced and has four sons
and 11 grandchildren.  Sex Strike  Fellow Liberian, Gbowee, arrived in Monrovia as a 17-year
old and trained as a trauma counselor, working with former child
soldiers from Taylor’s army. A founding member and former
coordinator of the Women in Peacebuilding Program/West African
Network for Peacebuilding, she formed a coalition of Christian
and Muslim women who sought to end the civil war, in part by
encouraging women to go on a sex strike, according to the Oslo
Freedom Forum.  “Leymah is a very humble person, she is not the public
type,” Bertha Amanor, Gbowee’s personal assistant at the Women
Peace and Security Network Africa, said in an interview. “Her
role was paramount in ending the Liberian war.”  Her methods forced men to listen.  “When a man wants sex from you, they are prepared to
listen to you,” Amanor said. “It was during the war. They were
trying everything they could. They didn’t cook for the men.”  As a result of the strike, Taylor agreed to meet Gbowee,
and promised to attend peace talks in  Ghana . Gbowee this year
described the events in her book “Mighty Be Our Powers: How
Sisterhood, Prayer, and Sex Changed a Nation at War.”  Arab Spring  Karman is chairwoman of Women Journalists Without Chains,
and has organized weekly non-violent protests in front of Sanaa
University since 2007. She started a text message service that
sent news on human rights across  Yemen , which was closed by the
Telecommunications Ministry, according to her Facebook page.  “Tawakkul Karman is one of the women who represent the
Arab Spring -- she’s an activist, she’s a journalist and she’s
an expression of a new Yemen, where human rights and democracy
have a much stronger role than women have had in many Arab
countries up until today,” Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg told reporters in Oslo today.  Activists of the Arab Spring emerged as Nobel Peace Prize
favorites after helping reshape the political map starting with
the January revolt that ousted Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. The events then spread to  Egypt  to topple
President Hosni Mubarak, sparked armed conflict in  Libya  to end
Muammar Qaddafi’s rule and are threatening the Assad family’s
hold in  Syria  as well as Saleh in Yemen.  “We will continue our struggle until we end the Saleh
family rule that has destroyed our country for decades,” Karman
said today.  The peace prize is the only award to be given in Oslo. The
other prizes are announced in  Stockholm , including one for
economics established by Sweden’s central bank.  To contact the reports responsible for this story:
Meera Bhatia at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  