-- 
Libyan Forces From Misrata Battle Loyalists In Qaddafi’s Hometown of Sirte

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-07T18:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/libyan-council-forces-from-misrata-battle-qaddafi-loyalists-inside-sirte.html
Supporters of  Muammar Qaddafi  in
Sirte battled Libyan forces seeking control over the former
leader’s hometown as a critical security measure before forming
a new government.  Thousands of fighters gathered today for what they said may
be a final attack on the coastal city of Sirte. Their aim is to
push the loyalists toward the  Mediterranean Sea  or persuade them
to give up, the  BBC  said.  Ten fighters died in the latest clashes and dozens were
injured, according to Al Jazeera television.  The armed forces of  Libya ’s new rulers have been trying to
capture Sirte since talks on its surrender broke down about a
month ago. The National Transitional Council, which took control
of the country in late August when Qaddafi lost Tripoli, the
capital, has said for the past two weeks that the city was close
to falling and that loyalists were determined to hold their
positions because one of Qaddafi’s sons, Mutassim, is there.  ‘No Revenge’  The United Nations special representative in Libya,  Ian
Martin , appealed to all Libyans to respect the calls made by the
NTC “that there should be no revenge even against those
responsible for  war crimes  and other grave violations.”  Those individuals “should be detained and brought to
justice by due process of law,” he said, according to an e-
mailed statement today.  “This will lay the foundation for national reconciliation
and the future unity of the people of Libya,” he said.  The fall of Sirte is a key step in Libya’s transition to
democracy. A new government to see the North African nation
through to elections will be only announced a month after the
transitional council’s forces take full control of the city,
Mahmoud Jibril, the acting prime minister, said on Oct. 3.  The NTC says its fighters have already captured Sirte’s
seaport and airport, and are proceeding slowly with the
operation to minimize civilian casualties. During a lull in
fighting last week, thousands of people fled the city, where aid
agencies say the humanitarian situation is worsening.  For Related News and Information:
Top regional news: {TOP MIDEAST <G0>}.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 