-- 
Illumina Drags Down Rivals After Pulling Forecast on Funding

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-10-07T20:31:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/illumina-shares-fall-after-company-drops-full-year-forecast.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , maker of tools for
genetic analysis, fell the most ever after dropping its profit
forecast because of concerns that research funding will be
reduced, sending shares of rival equipment makers down.  Illumina plunged 32 percent to $27.18 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since the San Diego-based company sold
shares to the public in July 2000.  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  fell
6.5 percent to $36.82, while  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) 
declined 5.9 percent to $50.49.  Purchasers delayed orders in the third quarter because of
“uncertainty” surrounding research funding the U.S. and
Europe, Illumina said in a statement yesterday. The company said
third-quarter revenue is expected to be about $235 million, less
than analysts’ estimates of $278 million. The weakness in demand
may continue as the U.S. government, looking to curtail
spending, mulls the research budget for agencies including the
 National Institutes of Health .  “It’s a pretty safe assumption, given the rhetoric coming
out of Washington, that NIH budgets aren’t going up,” said  Les Funtleyder , a money manager and health-care strategist at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York. “All these companies have run into
similar problems. Illumina is still among the leaders, but it’s
a leader in a slowing industry.”  Sluggishness in the U.S. academic markets may be a frequent
theme for the coming earnings season, said Dan Leonard, an
analyst for Leerink Swann in Boston. It may trigger a spate of
mergers and acquisitions, he said.  Possible Consolidation  “If we’re entering a multiyear period where research
budgets are going to be under pressure, you could see additional
consolidation,” he said in a telephone interview. “These are
high-quality companies that generate a lot of cash and their
business isn’t going away.”  Leonard estimated that 75 percent of Illumina’s problems
stem from internal problems. While the company introduced
powerful new products that have been embraced by consumers, it
hasn’t found ways to utilize capacity, he said.  “It’s like a catch-up stage on the customer side,”
Leonard said. “They have all the new toys, and they need to use
them more optimally.”  On July 26, Illumina had forecast adjusted earnings-per-
share growth of 33 percent to 36 percent from last year’s $1.06.  Diagnostic toolmaker  PerkinElmer Inc. (PKI)  fell 8.3 percent to
$17.93, while  Bruker Corp. (BRKR)  declined 4.4 percent to $13.09.
 Affymetrix Inc. (AFFX)  dropped 4.8 percent to $5.42.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 