-- 
Lilly CEO Urges Extension of Research Tax Credit (Transcript)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 
2011-10-07T22:05:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/lilly-ceo-urges-extension-of-research-tax-credit-transcript-.html
     Oct. 7 (Bloomberg) - Eli Lilly & Co. Chief Executive
Officer John Lechleiter said during a panel discussion in
 Washington  that U.S. lawmakers should renew the research-and-
development tax credit to make it easier for companies to
compete globally. The Oct. 5 event, sponsored by  Harvard
University  and the Business Roundtable and hosted by Bloomberg
News in Washington, centered on ways to spur innovation.  Participants during the day’s meetings included Drew Gilpin
Faust, president of Harvard University; former Michigan Governor
John Engler, president of the Business Roundtable; Albert R.
Hunt, executive editor of Bloomberg News; Bill Green, chairman
of consulting firm Accenture Plc; Tim Solso, CEO of diesel
truck-engine maker Cummins Inc.; Susan Hockfield, president of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Sally Mason,
president of the University of Iowa, Ellen Kullman, CEO of
DuPont Co.; James Goodnight, CEO of SAS Institute Inc.; Freeman
Hrabowski, president of the University of Maryland, Baltimore
County; John Hennessy, president of  Stanford University ; Linda
Katehi, chancellor of the University of California-Davis; John
Lechleiter, CEO of drugmaker Eli Lilly & Co., and Teresa
Sullivan, president of the University of Virginia. Following is
a transcript of the research and development session, moderated
by Norman Pearlstine, chief content officer of Bloomberg News.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  NORMAN PEARLSTINE: Our roundtable is really on research and
development. And I’d like us to start by talking a bit about the
competitive landscape. For much of the last century, the  United
States  was an undisputed leader in innovation, in part because
of our great universities, because of our national labs, because
of policies with regard to R&D, government policies that
encouraged it.  And certainly in the last few years, we’ve seen competition
not only from small markets, such as Canada and  Australia , in
terms of immigration policy, but from large markets and from
countries that are particularly innovative in their approaches
to R&D.  And I thought perhaps we might begin by talking to some of
the representatives here from industry who are given choices in
terms of where to allocate resources. And, John, perhaps you
could talk a little bit about  Eli Lilly  and some of the
countries that are coming at you and what they’re offering you,
in contrast to what the possibilities here are?  JOHN LECHLEITER: Well, thanks, Norman. I think that, first
of all, I’d like to say, I believe we’re still very much the
leader, this country, in terms of global innovation. That’s sort
of the snapshot, but there are too many leading indicators that
look like they’re going in the other direction.  So I think one of the reasons we’re having this dialogue
is, you know, not how do we sort of maintain and tread water,
but how do we do the sorts of things that we know are going to
keep us in this position in 10 or 20 years?  One of the things that’s changed dramatically is the extent
to which we do have global competition today for talent and
ultimately for jobs. Within  Europe , for example, in our
industry, in the last - within the last several years, the
European Union has sponsored this huge innovative medicines
initiative, where, in essence, they’re putting a lot of money on
the table to be matched by company funds to help sponsor and
fund fundamental research in Europe, to keep people employed in
Europe, to attract new talent there, and to ultimately build new
companies.  Individual countries - Ireland, the U.K.,  France ,  China ,
 Singapore  come to mind - are very aggressively pursuing high-end
research-based kinds of opportunities and jobs. They’re offering
tax incentives, tax credits. They’re, you know, willing to
facilitate in various ways companies getting established there.
They’re building up their own university systems to make sure
that that talent pool is there and present.  But I think they’re also making a clear statement that they
value what we do, they welcome what we do, and they’re going to
be there beside us as good partners. We get mixed messages
sometimes in this country in terms of what we hear and then what
we see, whether it’s regulations, tax policy, immigration
policy. The unpredictability of the R&D tax credit is something
very fundamental. We’re going to come to the end of this year -
we’re going to have to - we’re going to go through this whole
thing again. Is that going to be renewed? We need to make that a
permanent part of our policy infrastructure as a start, I
believe.  PEARLSTINE: Jim, you were talking about questions in terms
of the number of people you’d be able to bring in on visas,
preferences to stay U.S.-based. But what kinds of incentives do
you find yourself weighing from outside the U.S. when thinking
about where to put your R&D?  JAMES GOODNIGHT: Well, a lot of it has to do with, I guess,
the long-range cost, the long-range availability of talent. You
know, I have always felt like some of the labor costs in China
and  India  over the years for high-tech people are going to
fairly well equalize other than the cost-of-living difference.
So, you know, we have never made a big rush into India or China.  But yet even as the - we’re listed as one of the best
companies to work for in America, we still have some
difficulties filling some of the high-end jobs, such as our PhDs
and economics and our econometrics and statistical and OR (ph).
And for those, we have made use of the H-1B visa program to help
bring talent in from overseas.  We also very much appreciate the R&D tax credit that we
make use of. The tax credit, just for those of you who are not
aware of it, you take the average of your last three years of
R&D expense and take the average of those three years expenses,
and then you take this year’s expense, and the increment between
the average of the last three and this year is subject then to a
tax credit.  So we’re really only looking to pay for an increase in R&D.
So this is very encouraging for companies who do their R&D here
in the U.S. to want to - you know, to take advantage of that tax
credit. So I think that does help level the playing field a
great deal for those of us here in the U.S., to have that tax
credit.  PEARLSTINE: Bill?  BILL GREEN: Yeah, I think - I mean, the world has become
multipolar. I think you have to start there. It used to be just
us and everyone else. And now there are - political and economic
power has shifted from North to South and from West to East, and
it’s a profound change. And it’s not about tax credits and
incentives and those things. Those are all nibbling around the
edges.  It’s also about the rise of the emerging market
multinational and that the competitors of the future are
companies whose names we can’t pronounce. And that is the
competitive threat. That’s the competitive threat back home
here. You take Huawei, right, a large Chinese - I mean, this
company, you know, came from nowhere to a huge presence,
incredibly competitive, with a mission and a focus that is
profound.  If you look at the economies around the world that have
natural resources, natural resources - and there’s a whole
resource economy building up. That gives you incredible power,
right, to fuel economies.  So I think the incentives and so forth are kind of around
the edges. I think the reality is, all these other countries
want to be like us. And we need to be gone when they get there.
And the challenge to us is, gone where? And what national asset
do we have to leverage to propel us? And I think that’s where
our national research capability and innovative gene pool comes
in.  PEARLSTINE: Well, in addition to trying to bring companies
from - U.S.-based companies overseas with R&D offers, we’ve also
seen some migration of great universities to begin campuses
abroad. Yale is going into Singapore, Duke into China. Qatar has
got a relationship with Northwestern, among others. I know with
Stanford, we’re hoping you’ll come to Governors Island, but -  (LAUGHTER)  But beyond that, John, could you talk a little bit about
what kinds of offers you might be receiving from outside the
U.S. to establish campuses or relationships and how seriously
you take them?  JOHN HENNESSY: Well, I think all of us have had
propositions from various parts of the world, beginning in the
 Middle East , I think, but certainly Singapore, a country that
has a very enlightened vision. And if you look at the R&D
expenditures being made in Singapore and the rate they’re
rising, I think that’s what you see globally in  Asia .  If you look at - one of the most surprising things is to
see what’s happened over the last 10 years in terms of where R&D
is being spent. The U.S. has fallen from 40 percent of the
world’s R&D to 36 percent, and Asia’s risen from 24 percent to
30 percent. And that process is continuing. And that’s what we
need to worry about. Where will the universities be? Who will
invest?  And I think what’s made it attractive in these other parts
of the world is a willingness to invest. So we sit down and say,
can we build something there? Will it work? Will it be
sustainable?  One of the attractions of New York City is that, that’s a
place you can hire faculty, you can recruit students to. It’s a
diverse community. You can provide opportunities. And that’s
what we find attractive about the mayor’s proposition to think
about New York City as a next innovation hub for the U.S.  PEARLSTINE: President Faust, please?  DREW FAUST: I think a part - an important part of this
competitive threat for universities is not necessarily in the
institution as a whole, but the way that we compete for talent
of faculty and students and how we see many individuals who can
identify better research opportunities for themselves, perhaps,
in China or in Singapore than they are able to anticipate in the
United States because of uncertain funding streams, uncertainty
about the commitment of this nation to investing in research and
development.  So even for institutions that are staying exactly where
they are or thinking about their current configuration, we are
facing really competitive offers for our faculty and also a very
competitive environment for students thinking about where they
want to be educated, from places like National University of
Singapore, Tsinghua in China, or institutions like the Max
Planck institutes in Europe that are assuring our faculty that
they will have almost unlimited support for their work.  PEARLSTINE: Susan?  SUSAN HOCKFIELD: Yeah, so I very much like the way Bill put
the problem. The U.S. model that we’ve developed post-World War
II, with this enormous infusion of federal dollars into research
and the decision to put those dollars largely in research
universities, rather than freestanding research institutions, to
set up great policies to encourage the transfer of technology
from, you know, research lab benches into companies and into the
marketplace, the idea post-World War II, again, to invest in
education, with the G.I. Bill and other ideas, these were very
powerful. And the United States became the economic powerhouse
that dominated the world.  Other countries - this is not - there’s no magic to this,
really. And so other countries want to replicate the innovation
economy that America has become. And, I mean, I think all of the
university presidents around the table are in the same position
I am, that, you know, hardly a week goes by when someone doesn’t
come calling, asking MIT to help out as they establish what they
understand to be at the foundation of an innovation-based
economy, which is a great research university.  And I think that’s great. The American model won. But to
Bill’s point, by the time they get here, we’ve got to be at the
next place.  And so we have engaged - MIT has engaged in helping to
build research enterprises around the world because we see that
it’s like the - you know, the major corporations around the
table, this is where the future is. And it doesn’t mean that
we’re abandoning our Cambridge campus, but we see the incredible
opportunity around town, around people, around resources, around
research funding, to John’s point, that it is a global
enterprise. You know, science is no different - you know, in my
world, neuroscience is no different in Cambridge than it is in
 Palo Alto , nor than it is in Beijing or Berlin.  And I think this is all very good. But, you know, the
models that we’re working on that hopefully we will have left
where we currently are when the other countries catch up are
critical important. And I feel that one of the places that we’ve
done well but we can do better is in the collaboration between
the industry and the academy.  You know, we have nibbled at that. Some of us have
participated at that interface more aggressively than others.
And I think, you know, understanding what we can do to smooth
that border will be hugely in this nation’s advantage. Our
students aren’t patient enough now to wait until they leave to
experience the world of business. Our students engage in
internships during the summer, and they come back super-charged
to, you know, engage in the kind of science and engineering
that’s going to power them in the jobs that they’ve had a
glimpse of during the summer.  Our research enterprise, we have depended largely on the
federal government. However, you know, MIT has also engaged with
corporations for research for, you know, decades, and that’s
growing. I think that’s all a very good thing, because, again,
if we want to speed the transition of these innovations, you
know, take out all the valleys of death between, you know,
something that happens between the lab bench and the
marketplace, we’ve got to do it by working even more closely
with industry, and we’ve got to figure out how to make that
industry.  And, you know, making the R&D tax credit something
permanent, absolutely critical. You know, this morning, we
talked a little bit about the PTO. Well, you know, the new
legislation is good. If the funds don’t flow to actually speed
up the patent process and smooth it out, all that legislation is
going to be, frankly, useless.  So there are a lot of things we can do that are kind of
low-hanging fruit, and then there are harder things to do, but,
you know, I think figuring out how to get to the next step has
to be the most important charge for, you know, this group and
our colleagues outside this room.  FREEMAN HRABOWSKI: Building on what Susan was saying, I
think that the notion of collaboration and partnerships, which
we’ve talked about before, will be critical in looking at
companies, universities, national agencies, universities working
across institutions, since faculty do collaborate a lot, looking
at the problems that companies are having right now, challenges
-  PEARLSTINE: Can your students do co-ops with industry?  HRABOWSKI: Oh, very much so. Very much so. And the
Baltimore-Washington corridor is just hot, whether you’re
talking about biotechnology, all the national institutes, but
the biotech companies, but also looking at intelligence and
defense, and so work with NIST and with National Security
Agency, cybersecurity, everybody, so - we’re in the middle of a
cybersecurity competition right now, but it’s not just the
workforce development. It’s in the research.  And so I think this theme of need to share, rather than
need to know, will be more critical than ever. Product
innovation has to deal with, how do we give people more so that
the synergy can build among different kinds of institutions? And
I think faculty have gotten away from thinking we want to keep
this separate, what we’re doing, from companies and
understanding the hottest stuff going on, quite frankly, is
happening in the corporate sector, because you’ve got great
researchers there, too.  And so the collaboration, the partnerships, need to share,
will be themes we’ll hear more and more about.  PEARLSTINE: Chancellor?  LINDA KATEHI: Yes, basic research as part of the R&D I
think is something we all care about. And we worry about how it
has been funded over time.  Today, we’re looking at, in the U.S., about 60 percent of
the funding comes from the federal government, and the next one
are public universities or private universities who are - which
are placing their own funds towards support of basic research.
Industry comes third.  And we need to find a better way to really, over time - and
stable way, to provide funding for basic research. It’s
absolutely critical. We find we have seen difficulties in
getting our researchers to participate in this process early in
their careers. We see NIH having difficulties in terms of
getting researchers before their late 30s into the research
enterprise.  And personally, what I see as a threat in R&D in the U.S.
is our inability over time to create a stable environment in
support of basic research.  PEARLSTINE: Teresa?  TERESA SULLIVAN: Yeah, I’d like to talk a little bit about
basic research, but the first thing I want to say is that a
focus group done last year showed that a cross-section of the
American public believes basic research means unimportant
research, that basic is so fundamental that you really shouldn’t
even be doing it.  And it’s important for people to understand that, when we
speak of basic research, we actually mean the long-term,
patient, curiosity-driven research that might not seem to have
an immediate marketable result, but which often turns out to be
remarkably useful in the long run.  For example, there was some obscure work done by a German
biologist in the late 19th century that found that butterfly
wings were colored because of a metabolic process. Looks like
perfectly useless information, but later led the University of
Texas to the discovery of a vitamin.  So it’s very hard to tell sometimes where the basic
research is going to go and what its result’s going to be. And
yet the pressure on the funding is greatest on that basic
research. And without that basis, we won’t have the know-how or
the skills to be able to go on and do the development-oriented
research, to do the partnerships the companies would like us to
do.  PEARLSTINE: Before getting into the issues of government
funding for basic research, I’d like to just talk about the
corporate side of it for a second. You know, when we think back
to periods of great basic research, I think about Bell Labs, I
think about Xerox PARC.  The corporate landscape has changed in a way where it’s
very difficult for CEOs today to commit to that kind of
expenditure. Have we lost something as a country as a
consequence of, if you will, the corporate structure today, the
emphasis on short-term profitability at the expense of long-term
investment? And is that something that is going to have an
impact in terms of the decline of important basic research?  LECHLEITER: Well, I think the character of research, what
we call R&D within our companies, has certainly changed. I don’t
think - certainly in the life sciences - I see any logic set
that would say to us, we should back off from that investment,
notwithstanding the fact that quite recently Wall Street’s
pressures have been the opposite direction. They look at the
research we’ve invested in the last 10 years, and they say,
where are all the new medicines? And we’re not sure all that
money should have been spent. We want some of it returned to
shareholders. I think that’s a short-term focus, but obviously
it’s a pressure that we all feel.  You know, I think that the distinction - I think Teresa
said it earlier - between R&D gets blurred. For example, if we
seek to discover new medicine to treat Alzheimer’s, we probably
don’t have a lot of research going on within our company that
looks at the fundamental biological targets. We depend on work
done at Harvard and MIT and - and Stanford and Virginia and all
these great places to give us that information. That’s our
substrate. That’s why we’re just as passionate - even though
most of our R&D spending, you might say, is D, about the
importance of maintaining a strong research infrastructure in
this country, to see that the NIH, the National Science
Foundation, other institutions get funded adequately, and in a
consistent way, Norm.  And, you know, this - what we call basic research or
fundamental research, has long time horizons. You can’t - you
can’t do a sine wave-type investment pattern and expect to see
it pay off. There needs to be some consistency and some
certainty over a long period. That’s what’s made this country as
competitive as we are, this pattern that started around World
War II, this ecosystem that’s developed between government
investment, university-based research, and industry.  And we’re in peril if we think we can cut that apart and
still maintain the competitive position that we’ve enjoyed.  PEARLSTINE: Ellen?  ELLEN KULLMAN: You know, we’ve been doing basic research
for 110 years and continue to do it today. I mean, we’re a
science company, 209 years old. When the experimental station
was put into place in like 1902, it fundamentally has fueled -
the DuPont Company has fueled major inventions in material
science, things like Kevlar, things like Nomex, I mean, just
tremendous franchises that have come out of that basic research.
And that’s not a short-term gain.  But research has changed over the last few decades, and
it’s much more distributed today than it ever has been. It’s no
longer what our scientists do in our own laboratories, invent it
and they will come. It is - we work very closely with the
national laboratories, with universities, not only on the R, but
on the D, and on application development, really, to the
connection to the customer.  And so the changing face of research has meant that that
landscape has changed. But fundamental to it all is that the
United States and their position in a very distributed research
world - and it is globally connected today - fundamentally has
to be maintained if we’re going to keep that connection to our
economic engine, because that has been a great connection to our
economic engine.  HENNESSY: Norm, I think there’s an interesting perspective.
You look at the work that went on at Bell Labs and Xerox PARC,
whether it was the invention of the transistor, Unix, the
creation of the modern prototype for personal computers, those
largely became public goods that many companies benefited from.  Well, that’s the kind of long-term research that belongs in
the universities, where it can spread out and benefit - all of
American industry can take advantage of it. And I think that’s a
legitimate long-term basic research investment.  They didn’t start - they didn’t invent the transistor
because they knew there was this device there. They were
studying basic solid-state physics, and they discovered a
phenomenon. And that’s the kind of research that we should have
in the universities, the government should be funding. And then
we should have collaborative working relationships with all of
American industry to try to get that research out into the
marketplace.  PEARLSTINE: Tim?  TIM SOLSO: Yeah, your question about short-term pressures,
I think it - in our case, we invest 3.5 percent to 4 percent of
sales - and the sales are growing, so we’re investing more, and
we won’t compromise on that. If you start compromising on your
research and development, you’re basically going out of
business, which I think is true for the government, as well.  And I would just build on what Ellen said, is that we have
a research model - we call it product-preceding technology -
which is the development side that we know that we’re going to
allocate so much money to every year, regardless of what the
economic conditions are.  And then the second thing is that we partner more now than
we did before. So, for example, right now we’re involved with
the Department of Energy, a couple other companies, two national
labs, and the idea is by 2017 to reduce fuel - or improve fuel
economy by 25 percent for heavy-duty trucks. And so each of us
has a chunk of that, and it breaks down into the systems.  And some of that we’ll never use, but some of it we might
use in a different way. So would we be doing that? The
government put $39 million up; we matched it. So clearly, there
was some incentive. But that distributed technology - and we do
that outside the United States, as well.  SALLY MASON: That consistency that Tim just mentioned that
his company invests in is what Linda was alluding to, we don’t
get on the federal side. And it’s alarming, because then it goes
back to some of the other issues that we’ve talked about this
morning, including, how do you keep young people interested in
the STEM disciplines? Because if they’re constantly looking at
the challenges of, where are the research dollars going to come
from for me to be able to do the work that’s important to me and
important to the country and important to many, many other
people, they’re going to lose interest in staying in those
fields.  And, you know, whether they flee to law or whether they
flee to some other discipline, they’re going to go someplace
else because there isn’t that consistency. There’s too much
uncertainty. And you see generation after generation just kind
of winnow away because of that inability to just provide some
basic consistency in what this country has grown itself on,
which is research.  PEARLSTINE: John, perhaps you could talk a little bit about
that. Basic research seems to be very much under pressure, as
government thinks about tough spending choices with a weak
economy. The America Competes Act is under fire again. Is this
problem as intractable as the problems that we were talking
about with regard to immigration? Or is there a consensus or
constituency that can gather around the importance of basic
research and government funding for it?  JOHN ENGLER : This actually may be harder than immigration,
I hate to say, only in the sense that Congress doesn’t even seem
to be able to pass budgets on an annual basis. I mean, that’s
what we’re talking about here. There isn’t a company or a
university that doesn’t do an annual budget and have, you know,
a multi-year plan that they’re working off of.  And the short-termism up on the Hill today is such that -
and I think it’s a big problem in terms of - I look at basic
research as sort of like the - what I would - it’s in the
intellectual capital budget for the United States. There’s the
physical capital budget. They don’t get that done, either.
That’d be infrastructure, and you can’t do infrastructure either
on this kind of a curve, because you overpay one year and
underfund the next. And it’s - we desperately need that kind of
reform.  There is - and it’s interesting. People like Paul Ryan, for
example, at least have said that one of the reasons he didn’t
want to be part of the committee of 12, he was concentrating on
trying to devise comprehensive budget process reform so we can
get to - I mean, and I think that - that is a worthy goal. It
needs to be done.  And to the consensus about basic research, the debt
problems are real, of course. But, you know, nobody’s used the
metaphor about, you know, eating your seed corn, but, I mean,
that’s your -  Iowa  would understand that.  (LAUGHTER)  MASON: (OFF-MIKE)  ENGLER: You do not do that. And - and so I think this is -
this is really - this is one where probably the collaboration -
if there’s one thing that will come out of this conversation
today, is probably how unified we are on the importance - and
this is a very, very small part of the federal budget. That’s
the other part to be - I mean, we’re - we’re really down into
the rounding errors here.  I mean, you have fraud in some programs that are bigger
than the research effort we’re making as a nation, so you have
to - you have to step back and say, wait a minute, this is - so
we’ve got to get this right. And I think Leader Cantor, who
comes in here, this is a good set of questions to be posing to
him.  But I would hope that in the - and this is against all
hope, maybe, at the - as we get into this next election cycle,
that we would be pressing both presidential candidates on their
- on their support for this. Because this has got to stop at the
top, too, and it’s got to be men and women in the Congress of
both parties who join in. This is the intellectual capital that
you’re -  MASON: It’s tremendous economic impact, too, locally in
particular. I mean, if you just take any one of our universities
and you begin to look at just the economic impact with the
research dollars that are spent, you can see anywhere from
three-, four-, five-to-one returns on the investment that’s
being made. And I challenge you to find investments today that
are giving you that kind of return.  It’s even greater in other areas, in terms of job creation.
You’re creating high-quality, good-paying jobs from those R&D -
most R dollars that you’re getting. And, you know, why are we
quibbling over such a small part of the discretionary budget
that’s doing such a lot of good in - across the country today,
both locally wherever those research universities are, but
across those states where those universities are located, too?  We did an economic impact study in Iowa that showed that
we’re responsible for 1 in 30 jobs in Iowa, just the  University
of Iowa . And that has to do with the research engine and
everything else that we do, but it’s a compelling story in every
state.  ENGLER: In an era where there are at least minimizing of
earmarks, which in some cases provided for some of this funding,
because somebody thought, “I got credit for doing it,” is
there a case to be made for - for peer-reviewed research
investments that - and how do you - how do we make that case
differently? And do we have at the university level - as we
think about intellectual property - you’ve got different models
that you’ve used, in terms of, you know, the faculty by - you
know, the competition for faculty that Drew talked about
earlier, I mean, so you’ve got the brilliant scientists with the
idea.  Do they take it out? Do they keep it in? How do they get
rewarded? How do - are the incentives there to keep - to keep
your researchers, your best? And I don’t know how that works,
but has that changed?  HENNESSY: But I think they - John, I think they largely
stay at the university. They may go out. They may cycle out to
Silicon Valley. We’ve had lots of faculty go out and do their
thing and then come back. Of course, we send out - we export
technology every day. Every year, a bunch of our students
graduate. They go out with great new ideas and they take all the
technology and they take what they’ve done.  I think your key point is, this is a tiny piece of the
federal budget. It’s less than the cost increase of six months
in Medicare, less than just six months cost increase, the entire
federal R&D investment in universities. So to cut that off, to
take their seed corn away, will just result in weaker economic
growth for the country, fewer jobs.  HOCKFIELD; Yeah, and, by the way, John, taking it away, it
takes away any possibility that we’ll reduce those Medicare
costs, because the solution -  (UNKNOWN): Right. Right.  HOCKFIELD: to greater - you know, medical care more
efficient, lower cost is more technology, not less. And we’ve
got to be sure that we’re funding the innovations that will
drive that.  You know, a lot of what we’ve talked about in this session
is about patient, long-term investments, and something that I
think we probably all worry about in the United States, and
getting the kinds of policies that encourage investors and
companies to - you know, to make long-term commitments and for
the nation to make long-term commitments.  The other thing that I hear again and again from our
corporation colleagues is, also, reliable regulation. You know,
this idea that things change year to year makes it impossible.
And I hear this a lot around biopharma and biotech, that it has
become increasingly difficult to actually, you know, move a
product over the 10- or 15-year development period when you
don’t know what the target’s going to be out at the end.  So I think, you know, our government would do the nation a
great favor to have, you know, reliable investments in R&D,
reliable regulation, and reliable tax incentives so that
companies can invest in ways that are good for the nation and
good for themselves.  HRABOWSKI: The American public believes in our
universities. We know that. They continue to send us their kids,
clearly. The people keep coming back to us. So there is a level
of confidence that’s there.  But I think many Americans would say something that’s very
similar to something Teresa was saying when she was talking
about basic science. They would say they don’t know a lot about
some things that we do, and that when we talk, we tend to talk
to each other, and that the language we use is not clear enough
that people become convinced and even passionate about the
issues.  When you think about - you take that with the issues about
the elections and what the American public really cares about,
yeah, they do care about health care costs and making places
safe and all the kinds of IT-related inventions, but they still
don’t connect it to necessarily to what we’re doing.  And so in our state, what has been significant - and it
gets back to the local level - when you talk about what’s going
to happen in the federal level, you’ve got to say, what’s
happening in these states? Well, we’re very fortunate to be in a
place that talks about the knowledge industry, with a governor
and legislators who want to come around, get into the companies.
We’ve got 75 companies on campus. My governor is on our campus,
trying to understand how this relates to the biotech world, to
the cybersecurity world, and then to talk about those things.  We need not only people at the universities talking about
these issues, but elected officials who become comfortable
enough that they will talk about these issues at the local and
state levels as we think about how you get it up, because while
it may be a small percentage of the federal, everything has to
do - and what is it people care about? What are they willing to
fight for? And what do they see as important to their future?  FAUST: It just strikes me that so much of what’s been said
here speaks exactly to your point of what is the constituency
for research, and that we have not created the constituency in a
forceful enough way. And earmarks, as you point out, was one way
to kind of tie it to a constituency, but we’ve seen so many
examples around this table of different ways of building a
constituency.  One would be - and you’ve remarked on this, Terry, and so
did John - that we have to explain why basic research has an
impact on everyone’s life. Transistors, look what that does for
each one of us and where it came from. It came from basic
research, and so to make that connection to people’s daily
lives.  I think another important part of what we’ve talked about
is, really, what Sally said about basic research being an engine
of growth in regions and almost in explicitly identifiable terms
for each of our universities. What is our impact on  Boston ? What
is your impact on Iowa?  And then another part of this, it seems to me, is the
constituency of the future, which is, if we lose a generation of
students because they decide this is too uncertain an area to go
in, they don’t see the rewards in it, that is devastating for
our employing the talent in our nation.  And so I think we need to have youth and a generation be
our constituency, as well, for this, because their future
depends on the appeal to their talent to go into these fields
and believe that they can be meaningful.  PEARLSTINE: If research is so important to universities -
and if we can stipulate that cost pressure is going to be a
reality for all education going forward - are there other places
where restructuring our education system or the universities
themselves, in terms of bringing new technology to teaching and
so forth, where you can get economies that - that at least
enable you to maintain resources for research?  FAUST: I think for all of us, cost control and, really,
examining the model of cost in higher education is at the core
of how we’re thinking about our jobs, if I may be so bold as to
speak for all of you, but that is something we’re all thinking
about, ways of teaching, ways of changing administrative
structures. The whole set of how we do our business and how we
fund our business is, I think, under tremendous examination.  HRABOWSKI: And legislators are looking at that. I mean, the
university system of Maryland has had so much success because
the leadership has pushed the idea of effectiveness and
efficiency for the last seven or eight years. And we’ve been
cutting costs and finding ways of redesigning courses and using
technology and talking about it with legislators. And as a
result, they’ve said, listen, they’ve done the cutting; let’s
see how we can support them.  So we have to find ways of getting people to really give us
that support. And at the state level, Senator Mikulski is a
social worker who can talk about science with anybody. She loves
it. And to have people who are elected officials who are
passionate about science can make a big difference.  PEARLSTINE: Can you say the same about  California ?  KATEHI: Not quite, but I would say - I would say, however,
that - talking about the constituencies, that is an important
discussion to have, because at times it feels that the
universities are trying to make the case for themselves, and at
least that’s how it comes across on the other side. And it is
important, of course, to make the connections between basic
research and the eventual improvement in quality of life that we
have observed over many years in this country.  But I would say, there is a need for that, but also a need
for leadership at the state or the federal level that recognizes
that and then articulates it for the public. It is very hard for
a person who has not received an education higher than high
school to really understand how basic research connects at the
end. Why is it critical that we have creative ideas and a big
pool of them before we can produce anything that is useful to
people?  And somehow, we need to have a leadership that understands
it. Obviously, it happens in some states. It does not happen in
others, for many reasons. But that is absolutely critical.  And I think, at the end, it’s an issue of the wellbeing of
the country and it needs to be presented like that. It’s a major
threat to this country if somehow we reduce and limit our
ability to produce new ideas.  I mean, we spoke about innovation extensively. We spoke
about immigration as part of this, just in the session before.
But all of this is a moot point if the ideas are not in place to
eventually help us go through the innovation process and then
eventually create products and services that will make
everybody’s life better.  Somehow, that is made, the argument, but it’s getting lost
in the noise of a budget, in the noise of other, of course,
priorities that we see. Health care is a major priority.
Pensions are major priorities. And it seems like in our state,
in the state of California, that the importance of higher
education is getting lost in that.  And we are desperate for leadership that is going to really
pull it up and put that, place it right upfront and place with
that the importance of it in the -  HENNESSY: I think Linda’s right, but the higher education
community also has to hold itself accountable. We’ve got - we’re
a people-intensive, high-talent business. So you have to
understand that and understand that that has implications for
our cost. At the same time, we’ve got to be thinking about what
we can do to hold down costs. That means using our community
colleges in a more creative fashion, thinking about how we
collaborate with them, something the UC system has done very
well.  We’ve got to think about, how do we begin to use technology
to at least temper the growth rate in the costs of education? If
we don’t do that, we’re just going to get to a situation where
education becomes more unaffordable, given the dilemma the
states find themselves in, the federal government, and families
find themselves in, affording it. And we have to make sure that
accessibility remains a key goal for young people in this
country. That’s the only way we’ll have a great country.  PEARLSTINE: President Sullivan, do you have -  SULLIVAN: Virginia’s famously efficient in higher
education. But we’re also seeking a good partnership with our
state government so that we can talk about ways that we can
bring added value to the problems the state faces.  For example, we have an underfunded retirement system,
common with a lot of states. I called together our experts at
the university who often consult with Fortune 500 companies
about their pension plans. We wrote an unsolicited white paper
to state government to say, here are some of the ways that you
can solve this based on what we’ve seen happening in the private
sector. There are ways we can volunteer to be out there to be
helpful.  But the other thing I wanted to say is, we don’t save the
money for its own sake, because how we reallocate it is
important. In a research university, it is important that you
start reallocating that money so that students get the
experience of research as early as their first year. That’s how
we produce the next generation of researchers.  It’s not just that the knowledge gets reproduced in the
classroom. It’s that they get to go out and help us co-produce
that knowledge for the future.  PEARLSTINE: Bill and then John?  GREEN: No, you know, our national research machine is a
national asset that we’ve been investing in for 50 years. And
it’s payback time. We’ve got big challenges in this country. Who
are you going to turn to, right? You know, business has not a
whole lot of credibility. Obviously, the Congress and the
government has no credibility. There are very few people left
who have enough credibility to get the confidence of the
American people. And I do think the story has to be merchandized
in a more profound way.  And I think, secondly, taking it to the - I mean,
everyone’s worked very hard within their institutions to raise
their game and deliver more value for money. Collaboration is
the next frontier, because there’s tons of duplication. Everyone
has their own, you know, technology backplane. Everyone has
their own processes. Everyone has their own agenda. There’s
duplication. And I think the opportunity to rationalize across
is where there’s huge potential still.  PEARLSTINE: If I could just pick up on that - and this will
be a declaration against interest, as a history major graduating
from a small liberal arts college who avoided every science
course - one of the things that I note that we might be able to
learn from China is that all of its leaders for the past couple
decades have basically come out of electrical engineering, and
maybe the answer for this is that we need more engineers and
scientists running for Congress and taking political positions,
rather than staying in industry or staying in academia.  And perhaps with that, I might ask John, if you could wrap
up for us, before we go to break.  ENGLER: Well, yeah, actually, Bill Green (inaudible) about
our messaging. And one of the things that - Drew’s comments
really struck me, that - and - and Susan Hockfield made this
same point, I think, a little bit ago about the - you know, the
research. That’s how we actually solve some of the big public
policy questions. It’s, how do we unlock the answers?  And of all people, I was listening on one of the public
radio stations in - and former Speaker Gingrich was giving out
his plan. But one of the points of his plan was interesting. He
was proposing, I think, you know, a $1 trillion effort - you
know, he was saying the $1 trillion cost of Alzheimer’s, you
know, and - and he wanted to have a crash program - one of the -
and he said this will (inaudible) a big, new idea.  I do think that one of our conundrums here is, does it take
- do you have to have these big, new ideas out there, as we did
with the - in defense and space and others - to drive this? Can
you do it just for the good of the order, which I think is
considerable, but non-specific? Is there a - is there a need to
have a rallying cry? Or how does that get defined to - the call
to action versus the - and how specific versus how general?
Because I think that’s important.  I do believe that - that the magnitude that we’re talking
about - and we’re subject to the Golden Fleece Award always,
because they can always find some professor who’s doing
something which sounds - and maybe it’s, you know, perfectly
defensible, but it’s going to sound silly.  (UNKNOWN): Butterflies.  (UNKNOWN): Butterflies, yeah.  ENGLER: Yeah, exactly. And, boom, there goes - and that’s
an assault on the whole thing. But - so I - I throw that out,
but I do think this is one where you leave here today and our
ability to continue to talk about how we would - what that
agenda ought to be.  I do not think we’ve given Congress a clear agenda. I will
say that. I mean, I think we are - we are for more, but I think
- to do is a little bit of a question mark. And -  PEARLSTINE: Great. Well - yes, Jim?  GOODNIGHT: Well, I just want to add that, you know, we’ve
focused a lot in this session on  government spending  at
universities, but, you know, us private companies are doing a
lot of R&D these days -  (UNKNOWN): Two-thirds of it.  GOODNIGHT: especially in - in my area and all the computer
software area. It’s either you research and stay ahead or you’re
lost. So last year, we spent 24 percent of our total revenue on
R&D. We have developed advanced analytics laboratories, advanced
computing laboratories. The advanced computing laboratories are
working on taking all of these statistical routines that we use
and putting them in massively parallel, so that we’re using
thousands of cores simultaneously to solve the big data problems
of the world, doing problems that used to take days and doing
them now in just minutes. Our advanced analytics lab is working
on social network analysis, where we can decide what people are
integrated to create fraud schemes, that we’re doing a lot of
work for local governments and state governments on insurance
fraud. We’re doing a lot of work on Medicaid fraud.  And all of this is new research that we are doing on our
own. So there’s a lot going on in the corporations of the
country.  PEARLSTINE: Well, with that, we have hit a time where we’re
ready for a break, and then we’ll return in a few minutes, where
Susan Goldberg will moderate our third panel. But my thanks to
all of you for a terrific discussion.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 