-- 
IMF Official Says Greece Review Is Making Good Progress

-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-10-07T13:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/imf-s-thomsen-says-greece-made-good-progress-review-continuing.html
A team of inspectors from the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Union and the  European
Central Bank  made progress in completing a review of  Greece ’s
economy that will determine whether the country receives a sixth
loan installment to stave off a default, an IMF official said.  “There has been good progress but there are still
important issues to be discussed,”  Poul Thomsen , head of the
IMF’s team of inspectors in Greece, told reporters in  Athens 
today. “We’re not quite there yet.” The review will
“hopefully” conclude soon, he said.  EU and IMF officials are awaiting a report from the team to
determine approval of the payment of an 8 billion-euro ($10.8
billion) loan to Greece. Concerns about a looming default
mounted around the globe this week when euro-area finance
ministers delayed a decision on the loan.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said Greece has
sufficient cash to meet its needs until mid-November as European
officials turn to ways to fortify their banks and consider how
to ease the country’s debt load.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday that international auditors will probably present
their next report on Greek finances on Oct. 24 and that he
expects them to recommend paying the next tranche of aid.  ‘Full of Hope’  “We need clarity about the sustainability of Greek debt,”
said Juncker, who also heads the group of euro-area finance
ministers. He said he’s “full of hope” that Greece will meet
the aid conditions, allowing “a positive decision” by the euro
area to release the next loan installment.  After the next payout, policy makers will have to look at
whether they can “continue on this program track or have to
think of something else to make Greece’s debt sustainable,”
Juncker said.  Support for Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s ruling party
sank to the lowest level this year after the government proposed
a new property tax and cuts to pensions and wages to qualify for
the payment, according to a Public Issue poll conducted for
 Kathimerini  newspaper and  SKAI TV . Papandreou presented a 2012
budget with 6.6 billion euros of savings this week as the
government struggles to convince international creditors it can
meet targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  