-- 
Sensex Advances to One-Week High on Improving Outlook for Indian Exporters

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-10-07T12:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/indian-stocks-gain-most-in-month-on-better-outlook-for-exporters.html
India’s benchmark stock index rose to
its highest level in a week as the outlook for Indian exporters
improved and after Citigroup Inc. raised the rating for the
country’s equities.  Infosys Ltd., the second-largest software maker, paced
gains among exporters. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., the
country’s largest copper producer, rose 8.6 percent after prices
of the metal rallied on the London Stock Exchange.  State Bank of
India (SBIN)  Ltd., the nation’s largest lender, rebounded 2 percent
from a two-year low after an Economic Times report cited
Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri as saying the bank will cut its
holdings of  government bonds  and boost lending to companies.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 2.8 percent
to 16,232.54 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The volume of
Sensex shares traded was 58 percent higher than the six-month
daily average. The gauge has dropped 13 percent in the three
months to Sept. 30, the worst performance since the last quarter
of 2008, amid concern record interest-rate increases by the
central bank will hurt growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens
and the  U.S. economy  slows.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange of
 India  gained 2.9 percent to 4,888.05. Indian markets were closed
for a holiday yesterday.  India may introduce incentives for exporters to cushion
them from a slowdown in developed markets, the Press Trust of
India reported. Citigroup raised its rating on Indian stocks to
“neutral” based on a decline in global commodity prices, lower
share valuations and a short-term peak in borrowing costs,
according to a report dated yesterday.  Exporter Incentives  “India has underperformed too much relative to developed
markets in the last 20 to 30 days and the wide gap has to
narrow,”  Samir Arora , founder of hedge fund Helios Capital
Management Pte, said in a Bloomberg UTV interview today. “If
the world calms down, India could have a decent rally.”  Global stocks climbed after European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday the ECB will resume covered-
bond purchases and reintroduce yearlong loans for banks. The
European Commission is pushing for a coordinated capital
injection for banks to shield them from the fallout of a
potential Greek default.  India’s economy may expand 7.9 percent in the year ending
March 31, lower than the 8.2 percent growth estimated in April,
the Asian Development Bank said in a report on Sept. 14.  Shares of exporters rallied after the Press Trust of India
cited an unidentified official as saying India may introduce
measures including interest subsidies to protect them from the
impact of faltering markets. Commerce and Industry Minister
 Anand Sharma  will likely announce the steps on Oct. 13, the
report said.  ‘Real Risk’  Infosys jumped 2.5 percent to 2,508.7 rupees.  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,
the third biggest software exporter, rallied 1.8 percent to
333.8 rupees.  “It certainly sounds like policy makers in Europe are
understanding the situation with the banking system and it looks
like they are getting more willing to recapitalize the banks,”
said Belinda Allen, a senior investment analyst at Colonial
First State Global Asset Management in Sydney, which oversees
about $145 billion. “That has been a positive step, but we
haven’t seen that yet. I think it is a real risk until we see an
announcement.”  Sugar Exports  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS)  paced gains among makers of the
sweetener after Food Minister K.V. Thomas said Oct. 5 that the
government may allow 500,000 metric tons of exports by the end
of this month and a similar quantity by Nov. 30. Shree Renuka
jumped 3.3 percent to 52.10 rupees and  Balrampur Chini Mills
Ltd. (BRCM) , the country’s second-biggest maker, climbed 2.7 percent to
45.80 rupees.  Sterlite Industries rose to 113.5 rupees while  Hindalco
Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , the second-biggest copper maker, increased 4.8
percent to 125.9 rupees.  Copper traders and analysts are the most bullish since
August on speculation prices at a one-year low will spur  China ,
the world’s largest buyer, to build stockpiles. Ten of 15
respondents surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper to rise next
week and 5 predicted a drop.  State Bank  of India gained to 1,752.3 rupees. The bank will
also insure trade credit given to exporters, the Economic Times
report said. Moody’s Investors Service cut Mumbai-based State
Bank’s financial-strength rating this week, saying the highest
 interest rates  among Asia’s biggest economies and slowing growth
may make it harder for people to repay loans.  Among other lenders,  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  jumped 5.8 percent to
824.45 rupees while  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  rose 2.6 percent to 450
rupees.  Default Risk  The risk of holding India’s debt is rising the most in two
years amid concern higher borrowing costs will spur an increase
in bad loans, credit-default swaps on bonds of the nation’s
largest state-run bank show.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the country’s biggest mobile services
company, fell 3.1 percent to 354.8 rupees after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s local brokerage unit, in a research note dated Oct.
6, cut its share price estimates by 2 percent, citing
anticipated higher foreign-exchange losses.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has increased the
repurchase rate by a total of 350 basis points starting mid-
March 2010, the fastest round of increases since the central
bank was set up in 1935, to contain prices that are rising the
fastest among the BRICS nations of Brazil, Russia, India, China
and  South Africa .  The  Reserve Bank  of India last raised its repurchase rate
on Sept. 16 to 8.25 percent from 8 percent, after India’s
inflation climbed to a 13-month high of 9.78 percent in August.
The RBI meets Oct. 25 for its next policy review.  Food Inflation  India’s food inflation accelerated to a three-week high,
maintaining pressure on the central bank to raise interest rates
further.  An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products gained 9.41 percent in the week ended Sept. 24 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New
Delhi today. It rose 9.13 percent the previous week.  Manufacturing expanded in September at the slowest pace in
2 1/2 years, a report showed on Oct. 3, a sign that higher
borrowing costs are cooling demand. The Purchasing Managers’
Index was at 50.4 last month from 52.6 in August, HSBC Holdings
and Markit Economics said in the report. That’s the weakest
reading since March 2009. A number above 50 indicates expansion.  The Sensex has retreated 21 percent this year amid concern
the European crisis and slowing U.S. economic growth may
compound the effects of record rate increases on corporate
profits. Companies in the Sensex trade at 13.7 times estimated
profits, down from 21.5 times in March 2010. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index is valued at 9.4 times.  Earnings for 47 percent of Sensex companies lagged behind
analysts’ estimates in the quarter ended June, compared with
about 33 percent in the previous three months.  Overseas investors sold a net 9.66 billion rupees ($196
million) of Indian equities on Oct. 4, taking their outflow this
year to 23.5 billion rupees, according to data on the website of
the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  