-- 
India’s Rising Tide Doesn’t Lift All Rural Boats: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-10-07T17:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/india-s-rising-tide-doesn-t-lift-all-rural-boats-pankaj-mishra.html
Almost 20 years ago, shortly after
India’s protectionist economy was liberalized, I moved to
Mashobra, a small village in the North Indian hill state of
 Himachal Pradesh . The rent on my cottage was low. Food was
cheap; the climate, mostly good; and -- an unexpected bonus in
India -- the air and water were clean.  Then, there was the vastness of the sky, and the immensity
of the Himalayan ranges, ideal for long days of daydreaming and
reading.  The rhythms of life in the village were slow --
revealingly, the big clock in the local post office never
worked. Shops closed for long siestas during summer months. At
night, the lights in the village went out as early as 9 p.m.,
exposing a wide, bright firmament. Occasionally, there were
sightings of a leopard or two in the nearby dense forest, and I
was often woken early in the morning by the screeching of
monkeys.  Mashobra wasn’t the right candidate for the Indian
government’s many “rural uplift” programs. As in the rest of
Himachal, literacy was uncommonly high; the village also scored
well in all the human-development indices. Apart from the
handful of (absentee) owners of British-built villas, most
people belonged to what economic statisticians would call a low-
income group. But there was no destitution or garish signs of
inequality of the kind you saw on the plains.  Small Land Plots  Almost all the people I knew -- running small shops,
working in government jobs or in the tourist trade -- had small
plots of land where they grew some food for themselves (mostly
vegetables, cereals and apples) and had enough left over to sell
in the local market.  Helped by a strong agricultural sector, the state’s economy
had begun to do well in the years before liberalization. After
1991, there was much big talk by local politicians about
industrializing and urbanizing Himachal. But for many years the
explosion of entrepreneurial energies on the plains had no
discernible effect on the village’s long row of houses and small
grocery stores, most still built in the indigenous style with
stone and clay packed into wooden beams, topped by galvanized-
iron roofs.  In the mid-1990s, I travelled around  India  for a book on
small towns stirred into forceful ambition by the nation’s new
politics and economy. These were some deeply unsettling months.
Long exposure to the murderous politics of Hindu nationalism and
the ruthless individualism of the nouveau riche left me with a
profound ambivalence about India’s post-1991 modernity.  New Inequities  While promising liberation from India’s cruel hierarchies
of class, caste and religion, it often seemed to introduce new
forms of violence and inequity. I returned to Mashobra exhausted
from each of these travels and grateful for my village’s
relatively high quality of life, as well as its continuing
immunity to the moral and physical dereliction that had begun to
afflict the plains.  I realize all this sounds a bit romantic, as though I were
wishing that clock in Mashobra’s post office would never work
again. But there were harshly realistic, rather than
sentimental, reasons why a village like Mashobra couldn’t aim to
participate in India’s newly globalized and increasingly urban-
oriented economy.  There were built-in limits even to economic growth in
Himachal, which had been traditionally dependent on agriculture
and tourism. The mountainous terrain made large-scale
industrialization difficult, if not impossible. And higher
education wasn’t of a quality that could push Himachal into the
software and back-office revolution of South Indian states.  Small places like Mashobra had to find their own
equilibrium in the midst of national upheaval: While preserving
much of the old, they had to embrace the new with caution.  Real Estate Bubble  And Mashobra seemed to do so for a long time. Its balance
wasn’t disturbed until the early 2000s, when real-estate
speculators -- among the major contributors to India’s gross
domestic product -- reached Himachal. I began to hear stories
about small farmers in nearby areas. Tempted by amounts of cash
they had barely imagined, much less seen, they sold off
cultivable lands to property developers, and then used up their
capital in either ill-advised business ventures or extravagant
consumption.  One day, Najku, an old woman in the village who made a
living by selling firewood, told me of a realtor who had
expressed interest in her densely forested property. I tried to
warn her to hold off, or at least to drive a hard bargain. But
it seemed already too late when she informed me, proudly, that
the realtor had helped plug the leaks in her roof and bought
some new clothes for her.  Sprouting Condominiums  Not long afterwards, she died, still virtually penniless,
and too early to see a multimillion-dollar condominium rise on
her land. This turned out to be just the beginning of Mashobra’s
transformation. Within a couple of years, concrete apartment
buildings, neat and blank, began to take shape upon the
hillsides systematically denuded of their tree cover.  The owners of these apartments remained invisible. They
were, I heard, respectable judges, politicians and businessmen,
all parking their untaxed income -- part of India’s massive
“black” economy -- in real estate.  Laborers in rags came from places as far as Bihar, Madhya
Pradesh and even  Andhra Pradesh  to help build these unused
playgrounds of the rich. Huddled under tarpaulin shacks, their
children displaying all the signs of chronic malnutrition, they
brought to Mashobra some of the desolation of mass poverty in
the plains.  Water Shortage  As demand for water increased, the village began to
experience shortages. In response, the builders bore
ecologically and geologically unsound wells into the rocky
mountainside. Mounds of trash -- mostly consisting of discarded
construction materials -- grew, until they covered entire
hillsides.  An article on this environmental devastation that I helped
publish in the local daily the Tribune brought a sheepish-
looking government official to my cottage one morning. But the
trees continued to be felled; plastic bags still littered the
hillsides.  Small armies of bewildered monkeys driven out of their
habitats periodically invaded the village in search of food,
announcing their arrival with a staccato drumbeat as they raced
from one galvanized-iron roof to another. Twenty years after
liberalization, the “monkey menace,” as local newspapers call
it, seems an apt metaphor for its effect on Mashobra.  Industrial Zones  Himachal’s own “development” in these years barely
conforms to linear notions of progress. Despite lavish
subsidies, the state’s new industrial zones haven’t worked. In
2010, Lenovo Group Ltd. closed a manufacturing plant after less
than three years in the state. Meanwhile,  food production  has
declined.  Busy erecting dams in the Himalayas -- with all the
environmental hazards and the earthquake-prone zones -- the
state government now profitably makes up North India’s terrible
energy shortfalls. The GDP figures are also boosted well above
the national average by close alliances between the state and
private business, a nationwide trend that recently prompted the
Financial Times to compare India’s oligarch-based economy to
 Russia ’s mafia capitalism.  Politicians haven’t just sold off prime land at dirt-cheap
prices to businessmen; they also now double as realtors
themselves. And, after the moribund industrial sector, building
private universities -- an unfeeling way to exploit the anxiety
of ill-educated parents concerned about their children’s
prospects -- is the latest moneymaking venture.  Private Universities  Sparkling-new and bland, they squat on once-pristine
mountaintops, offering in exchange for high tuition fees mostly
useless degrees, which, needless to say, are far from addressing
the Indian economy’s severe skills shortage. There are many more
incongruities -- borne of the conjunction of easy money with a
culture of aspiration -- yet to come.  In Mashobra last week, I met Monu, the young son of a
grocery owner, whom I have known from the time he used to walk
past my house on his way to school with a heavy bag strapped to
his back. He told me about the extortionate rent paid by the new
Tommy Hilfiger store in Shimla -- the shop was bound to fail in
any case. The flood of real-estate speculators and “black
money” into Himachal, he said, had distorted many people’s idea
of local purchasing power.  Food Inflation  He couldn’t see how he could expand his own grocery-store
business in Mashobra. The apartments of the rich hadn’t helped
at all. Their occasional occupants -- mostly holidaymakers --
denied him even a small bit of business by bringing their own
groceries, as well as servants, from the plains. As for the
locals, tormented by food inflation, most of them could barely
afford their only consumerist vice: mobile phones.  Monu seemed to be saying that the local economy, trapped by
the imperative to grow, could now only chase its own tail. In
his mid-20s now, part of India’s much-vaunted “demographic
dividend,” Monu turned out to have already gone through the
range of options his education -- the best available in Himachal
-- had entitled him to. He had worked for a private bank for two
years before moving back, unsatisfied by his job and salary, to
Mashobra.  He was convinced that he could only make money in real
estate and construction. And that’s what he would do. He already
had enough land; and he could get cheap credit.  And what, I asked, would he build in Mashobra?  His reply, seemingly without irony, was: “A shopping
mall.”  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West:
How to Be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  