-- 
Institutes See ‘Subdued’ Euro-Area Growth Through First Quarter

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-10-07T14:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/institutes-see-subdued-euro-area-growth-through-first-quarter.html
Growth in the euro area will remain
subdued through the first quarter of 2012 as the sovereign debt
crisis and a weaker global economy weigh on investment and
consumer demand, three European economic institutes forecast.  The economy of the 17-nation currency bloc will expand 1.6
percent in 2011,  Germany ’s Ifo Institute,  France ’s Insee and
 Italy ’s Istat said today, revising down a 2 percent growth
forecast from July. The economy will expand just 0.1 percent in
the fourth quarter and the same amount in the first three months
of next year, the institutes said. They had previously predicted
0.4 percent expansion in the fourth quarter.  European leaders are struggling to persuade investors they
can stem sovereign-debt woes as the crisis gnaws at the euro
area’s core, prompting speculation of another government rescue
of Dexia SA, the municipal lender bailed out by France and
 Belgium  in 2008. The European Central Bank yesterday
reintroduced longer-term bank loans to prevent a credit crunch.  “The recent turmoil in the European sovereign  bond market 
should entail a tightening in credit standards, although there
are no such clear indications yet,” the institutes said in a
joint statement published today. “A more restrictive credit
supply would further weigh on private investment.”  The institutes forecast that the inflation rate, which hit
3 percent in September, will drop to 1.8 percent in March. The
predictions are based on the assumption that the oil price will
“hover around $110 a barrel over the forecast horizon” and
that the euro’s exchange rate will fluctuate around $1.37.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  