-- 
IOUs to Long Bonds Slide With Growth Imperiled: Credit Markets

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-10-07T16:24:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ious-to-long-bonds-slide-as-europe-imperils-global-growth-credit-markets.html
Corporate borrowers are pulling back
from markets for everything from overnight commercial paper to
the longest-maturity bonds as global economic growth is
threatened while Europe struggles to contain its fiscal crisis.  The market for short-term IOUs in the U.S. slipped below $1
trillion for the first time since February in the week ended
Oct. 5, Federal Reserve data show. Moline, Illinois-based  Deere
& Co. (DE)  and natural-gas producer BG Energy Holdings Ltd. sold
bonds as issuance worldwide fell 47 percent to $21.5 billion
this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor appetite is waning as the European Central Bank
races to stem spreading contagion, pledging to give banks access
to unlimited cash through January 2013. Failure to manage the
crisis will have “severe” repercussions, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , which cut its forecast for global
economic growth last month to 4 percent from 4.3 percent.  “The European soap opera is going full tilt, and it’s hard
for investors to figure out where it’s headed,”  Scott MacDonald , head of credit and economic research at Aladdin
Capital Management LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “If things continue as they are, bond
issuance is going to be sporadic and it’s going to be much
harder to see a steady environment for new issues.”  Wider Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own bonds from
investment-grade companies worldwide reached 277 basis points,
or 2.77 percentage points, on Oct. 5, the widest since July
2009, before declining to 275 yesterday, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Spreads on high-yield, high-
risk debt globally in the U.S. reached 932 basis points on Oct.
4, the highest since September 2009, before narrowing to 897.  “With spreads having backed up as violently as they have
in the past three months, many issuers which may have been
contemplating debt raisings have elected not to come to
market,” said Edward Marrinan, the head of macro credit
strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford .  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
corporate credit risk rose following three days of declines. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 0.4 basis point to a mid price of 139.3
basis points as of 12:23 p.m. in New York, according to Markit
Group Ltd.  Fannie Mae   The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, had declined from 150.1
on Oct. 3, which was the highest level since May 2009. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Refinancing of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgages with
the lowest  interest rates  soared as prepayments on loans with
the highest rates declined, underscoring how only some
homeowners can take advantage of the best borrowing costs on
record.  The so-called constant prepayment rate, or CPR, for 30-year
Fannie Mae securities with 4 percent coupons, backed by loans
with rates of about 4.5 percent, jumped 140 percent last month
to 17.7, according to data released late yesterday. Speeds for
similar bonds with underlying loan rates averaging about 7
percent fell almost 10 percent to 19.2.  Commercial Paper   The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
outstanding dropped by $22.2 billion to $985.4 billion in the
past week, the 12th consecutive decrease, the Fed said yesterday
on its website. That’s the longest stretch of declines since the
period ended Jan. 19. Commercial paper sold by non-U.S.
financial institutions fell $11.5 billion, the fifth weekly
decline, to $179.2 billion, Fed data show.  On a non-seasonally adjusted basis, U.S. commercial paper
outstanding declined by $10.5 billion to $1.016 trillion, the
least since February 1998, Fed data show.  “Issuers, especially foreign names, are finding a less
receptive market for their paper,” Raymond Stone, who tracks
U.S. money markets as managing director at Stone & McCarthy
Research Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey , said in an e-mail.
“The natural buyers are the money-market funds, and due to the
turmoil in  Europe , the funds are disinclined to have paper
issued by European names on their books.”  The ECB announced plans yesterday to reintroduce year-long
loans to banks and resume purchases of covered bonds to
encourage lending. The European Commission is pushing for a
coordinated capital injection into banks, while German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said policy makers “shouldn’t
hesitate” if it turns out financial institutions are
undercapitalized.  ‘Buying Time’  “Europe is buying time,” Desmond MacIntyre, chief
executive officer of Standish Mellon Asset Management Co. in
 London , said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan. “This move toward shoring
up bank capitalization is really a precursor to a Greek
default.”  Global corporate bond sales fell below the 2011 weekly
average of $62.1 billion for the 13th consecutive period,
Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade corporate bond offerings accounted for all
but $500 million of this week’s $8.1 billion of U.S. issuance,
Bloomberg data show. Split-rated American Tower Corp. sold $500
million of 10-year, 5.9 percent notes that are rated Baa3 by
Moody’s and BB+ by S&P. Sales tumbled 39 percent from a week
earlier and fell 67 percent below the 2011 average of $24.4
billion.  BG Energy  Britain’s BG Energy sold $3 billion of bonds in its second
offering denominated in U.S. dollars, Bloomberg data show. A
$1.35 billion portion of 10-year, 4 percent notes yields 210
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries. Deere, the
biggest farm-equipment maker, sold $1 billion of notes through
its finance arm, split evenly between 10-year, 3.15 percent
notes and floating-rate debt due in October 2013.  The start of the fourth quarter follows the slowest three-
month period for bond sales since Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008, Bloomberg data show. Non-
financial companies in the  S&P 500  amassed $976 billion of cash
as June 30, compared with $842 billion a year earlier, and that
means they can afford to wait for markets to stabilize, said
Aladdin’s MacDonald.  Sales of  junk bonds  have stalled as the lowest-ranked debt,
rated in the CCC tier or below, suffers its worst losses since
credit markets froze after Lehman’s failure. There were no high-
yield offerings in the U.S. this week and issuance of the debt
has fallen short of the 2011 average for 10 consecutive periods,
Bloomberg data show.  “Corporations are sitting on so much cash on their balance
sheets at this point, they’re ready for the storm if it comes,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  