-- 
Iowa Republicans Look at Jan. 3 Caucuses

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-07T16:43:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/iowa-republicans-look-at-jan-3-caucuses.html
Iowa  Republicans are focusing on Jan.
3 as the date for their first-in-the-nation caucuses, part of a
reshuffling of the calendar for the 2012 presidential nomination
race spurred by Florida.  “No final decision has been made on the 3rd, but that is a
date that is certainly being discussed,” said Bill Schickel, a
co-chairman of the  Republican Party of Iowa .  Schickel said he was on a conference call yesterday of the
party’s state central committee where potential dates for the
caucuses were discussed.  “Our preference is that we keep the caucuses in early
January,” he said. “It keeps the caucuses in 2012 and it moves
it past the holidays.”  Feb. 6 had been set as the tentative date for the caucuses.
The potential Jan. 3 date was reported earlier by the  Des Moines
Register . A formal vote on the date will be taken in mid-
October, Schickel said.  A switch from Feb. 6 date is under way because  Florida 
Republicans broke party rules and scheduled their primary for
Jan. 31. In doing so, they face the loss of half of their
convention delegates.  Also in response to Florida, Nevada  shifted its caucuses  to
Jan. 14, and  South Carolina   rescheduled its primary  for Jan. 21.
New Hampshire officials have said they will schedule their
primary, which traditionally is held right after the Iowa
caucuses, to stay ahead of those other states.  New Hampshire Secretary of State William Gardner said last
week that if necessary to maintain the state’s status, the
primary could be held in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 