-- 
Lira Has Longest Winning Streak in Six Months After Bank Battles Decline

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-10-07T15:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/lira-has-longest-winning-streak-in-six-months-on-hawkish-central-bank.html
The lira advanced for a fourth day in
its longest streak of gains in six months after HSBC Holdings
Plc said the currency will appreciate as the central bank took
measures to stem its decline.  The lira rose 0.4 percent at 1.8389 against the dollar at
5:41 p.m. in Istanbul, rallying 3.8 percent since it touched its
historic low at 1.9096 three days ago. Yields on benchmark two-
year debt fell for the third day, dropping one basis point to
8.36 percent, according to a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index. The
yields declined five basis points this week.  The lira may strengthen to 1.70 ’’in the coming months’’
because “the central bank is now actively fighting the currency
weakness,” HSBC currency strategist Murat Toprak said in an e-
mailed report from  London  today.  The central bank has sold $1.64 billion for liras this week
including $350 million today, when it got $1.33 billion of bids.
It has also cut  reserve requirements  for banks’ foreign currency
liabilities, releasing an additional $1.3 billion in liquidity
to the market. The lira has dropped 16 percent against the
dollar this year, making it the worst-performer among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We remain constructive on the lira relative to peers,
with the central bank clearly needing to remain in a more
hawkish mode, given the pass-through of the lira depreciation
into inflation expectations,” Simon Quijano-Evans, a London-
based economist at ING Groep NV, said in an e-mailed report to
clients today.  Expectations for inflation in  Turkey  are climbing as the
effects of the lira’s depreciation impacts prices. Inflation in
12 months time is expected to be 6.78 percent compared with an
estimate of 6.73 percent two weeks ago, the central bank in
Ankara said on its website yesterday, citing a fortnightly
survey of businessmen and economists.  Inflation slowed to 6.2 percent in September from 6.7
percent the previous month. The rate fell to a four-decade low
of 4 percent in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  