-- 
Ireland Aims to Be First to Exit Euro Rescue, Kenny Says

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-10-07T15:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ireland-s-premier-kenny-says-will-beat-2011-deficit-target.html
Ireland aims to be the first of three
bailed-out euro-area countries to exit their rescue program,
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said.  Kenny said the government wants to sell debt in 2012 and
intends to be in the market “as soon as possible.” Ireland
will “in time be upgraded by the rating agencies,” Kenny said.  “Of all the countries in difficulty, Ireland leads by
example,” Kenny said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Dublin today, adding that the nation is best positioned to be
the first to “wave goodbye to the IMF.”  The government, which needed help from the International
Monetary Fund and European Union last year, is planning as much
as 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) in savings next year to cut
its deficit further. Ireland was forced out of credit markets as
debts at its banks became too large for the state to handle.  Kenny said he expects to beat the 2011 budget deficit
target of 10.6 percent of gross domestic product set by the IMF
and EU. Ireland’s shortfall, excluding capital injections into
its banks, declined by more than 3 billion euros in the first
nine months of the year, according to the  finance ministry .  Ireland’s 10-year borrowing cost, which reached 14.22
percent in July, has dropped to about 7.70 percent. It was the
second euro country to need a rescue, getting 67.5 billion
euros, after  Greece ’s 2010 package. Portugal was forced to seek
emergency aid in April.  ‘Right Direction’  “We’re down 5.5 points in the yields which is very good,
and heading in the right direction,” Kenny said.  The government has an investment-grade BBB+ rating from
 Standard & Poor’s , while Moody’s Investors Service has it at
Ba1, the highest non-investment grade. Ireland expects to pass
the next review with its bailout partners this month, Kenny
said.  Credit-default swaps insuring Irish  government bonds  rose
10 basis points to 710 as of 2 p.m. in  London , according to CMA.
That implies a 46 percent probability of defaulting in five
years.  Kenny, who came to power in March, is seeking to reduce the
government’s deficit to 3 percent of GDP by the end of 2015.
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday he expects that a
cut in the interest rate of country’s bailout loans will save
the state about 9 billion euros.  Ireland’s central bank cut its growth forecast to 1.8
percent on Oct. 4 from 2.1 percent as consumer spending falls
and export growth declines. The Dublin-based central bank urged
the government to frontload budget cuts to protect its finances
from “negative shocks.”  ‘Exemplary’  Antonio Borges, the IMF’s European department head, said
Oct. 5 that Ireland’s implementation of its rescue program is
“exemplary.” The state’s steady achievement of its program
goals is “exactly right,” Borges told Dublin-based broadcaster
RTE in an interview, adding that Ireland remains vulnerable to a
global slowing of growth.  The  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 7 in its base
scenario it expects Ireland’s general government debt to peak at
118 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, equivalent to
almost 200 billion euros. That’s up from 25 percent of GDP in
2007.  “We’re going to meet all our targets,” Kenny said. “So
we don’t contemplate default. We want to pay our way fully and
completely and we will do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  