-- 
Irwin and Jova Grow in Pacific, Threatening Mexico’s West Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-10-07T15:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/irwin-and-jova-grow-in-pacific-threatening-mexico-s-west-coast.html
Hurricane Irwin gathered strength in
the eastern Pacific off the Mexican coast, while nearby Tropical
Storm Jova threatens to grow larger by tomorrow, according to
the  U.S. National Hurricane Center .  Both Irwin and Jova are forecast to turn toward  Mexico  and
strike the west coast sometime next week.  Irwin, a Category 1 hurricane, is 925 miles (1,488
kilometers) southwest of the southern tip of  Baja California 
with winds of 85 miles per hour, up from 80 mph earlier today.
Jova, 684 miles east of Irwin, has winds of 60 mph, up from 50.  “Jova is expected to become a hurricane by tomorrow and
could continue to strengthen after that time,” the center said
in  an advisory  at 11 a.m. East Coast time. A storm is classified
a hurricane when top winds reach 74 mph.  Jova may grow into a Category 3 storm with winds of 115 mph
capable of causing “devastating damage” including crushing
poorly built homes, snapping trees and disrupting power and
water supplies for days, according to the hurricane center.
Irwin may reach a weaker Category 2 peak with winds of 105 mph.  Some weather models show Jova reaching Category 4 strength,
according to a hurricane center forecast analysis.  “The one that will have the biggest impact will be Jova,”
said  Jim Rouiller , a meteorologist with Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn,  Pennsylvania . “Landslides and widespread flooding will
be the main concern. Irwin will reinforce the flooding. There
will be some very intense flooding scenarios as we go through
next week.”  Irwin will weaken while moving through cooler water churned
up by Jova, and wind shear will tear at its structure, Rouiller
said.  In the Atlantic, Hurricane Philippe, a Category 1 storm,
weakened as it moved east-northeast at 16 mph, according to the
hurricane center. The system’s top winds dropped to 85 mph, down
from 90 mph earlier, and Philippe poses no threat to land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  