-- 
It’s Romney’s Race to Win, Whatever He Believes: Michael Kinsley

-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 
2011-10-07T00:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/it-s-romney-s-race-to-win-whatever-he-believes-michael-kinsley.html
If  Mitt Romney  ever becomes
president, it will be because his supporters are convinced that
he’s a liar.  The Republican Party elite isn’t convinced by his attempts
to reinvent himself as a right-wing firebrand. The establishment
Republicans, business executives and independents who are
Romney’s natural constituency believe he is lying when he
strikes a conservative posture on social issues such as abortion
and same-sex marriage, and when he engages in fatuous
Washington-bashing.  “Oh, he has to say stuff like that,” they say, attempting
to explain away his various panderings to the  Tea Party  and the
far right. They believe that once in office, his true nature as
an establishment, moderate, pro-business Republican will emerge.
They believe he’s fundamentally sound.  Meanwhile, the right-wingers who will soon be asked to bury
their dreams and support Romney are not under any delusions
about his true nature. But they’ll eventually prove willing to
overlook it in their hunger to defeat President  Barack Obama .
Republicans are basically where Democrats were in 1992, when my
mantra was, “OK, OK, I’m for Clinton. Just don’t tell me
anything about him.”  Republicans smell victory (unless something terrible
happens, like the economy improving). After all that
revolutionary talk, in the end they will make the safe,
conventional choice. No unknown  pizza honcho . No Thatcheresque
right-wing  disciplinarian . No overly principled crank devoted to
dismantling the  Federal Reserve . No has-been on the one hand or
novice on the other. Just a good old-fashioned smart, white,
male, almost laughably presidential-looking former governor and
successful businessman to guide us through the economic storms.
Vetted four years ago, so no surprises.  Last of Breed  There used to be a whole wing of the  Republican Party  full
of people like this. They were called “liberal” or “moderate” or
sometimes “Rockefeller” Republicans. Now Romney is about the
only one left. And he does his best to hide it.  Romney’s campaign is hoping he gets through the primaries
without losing his appeal to independents and moderate Democrats
in the general election. Meantime, his attempts to enlist the
right are like serving haggis (sheep’s stomach stuffed with
oatmeal -- yum!) to your distant cousins from  Scotland  when they
visit. You can’t stand the stuff, but they’re supposed to like
it.  Unlike haggis, Romney doesn’t generate much warmth. Even
the frighteningly austere  Rick Perry  had his Jimmy Stewart
moment when he said that anyone who would deny in-state college
tuition to children of illegal immigrants “has no heart.” There
has been no equivalent moment for Romney (though he’ll have one
scripted if necessary).  If your strategy is, as Romney’s seems to be, appealing to
voters on the grounds that you don’t really believe what you’re
saying, that renders the matter of intellectual coherence moot.
Perry has developed a reputation -- probably unjustified -- as a
dimwit. The  Bloomberg-Washington Post debate  on Oct. 11 is
Perry’s last chance to prove otherwise before the casket is
permanently sealed. (Perhaps he should give his opening
statement in Latin.) Romney, meanwhile, says nonsensical things,
but they are nonsensical on a higher intellectual plane than
Perry’s controversial remarks, so they are considered evidence
of a sharp, smooth-running campaign.  Conservatives seem to believe they can keep Romney on a
tight leash. Having flipped and flopped on so many issues, even
Romney won’t have the nerve to flip again. In this hope, they
may be underestimating their man. As Steve Kornacki  demonstrated 
on Salon.com, Romney has been all over the lot on the otherwise
defining issue of abortion, flipping forward and back several
times, depending on the needs of the moment.  Amend, or Not  Having once said he was pro-choice “and you will not see me
wavering on this,” Romney now says he favors a human life
constitutional amendment and legislation to make clear that
“unborn children” are covered by the 14th amendment. He also
says that he believes abortion is a matter best left to the
states. Of course, applying the 14th amendment to the unborn
would nationalize abortion policy and make it impossible for the
states to have policies of their own. Romney has figured a way
out of the contradiction: The country isn’t ready for a human
life amendment. But when it is ...  Talk about leading from
behind!  More important, if “unborn children” have full 14th
amendment rights, including “equal protection of the law,” you
couldn’t treat a woman who obtains an abortion any differently
than a woman who kills her children. Yet Romney says that the
woman who has an abortion should not be punished at all.  The list of logical contortions goes on. Romney ridicules
Perry’s notion of turning Social Security over to the states (a
ridiculous idea indeed). But he insists that the health-care
plan he enacted in  Massachusetts  was far superior to Obama’s
health-care overhaul precisely because it is on the state level,
not a federal program (which he says he will close down his
first day in office). Romney opposes embryonic stem cell
research but has no objection to fertility clinics that produce
thousands of embryos and throw most of them away.  No one thinks Romney is a dimwit. He’s what the British
call “too clever by half.” Which is worse?  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 