-- 
Jeter’s Long Fly Out Is Memorabilia Man’s $1 Million Postseason Heartbreak

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-10-07T17:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/jeter-s-long-fly-out-is-memorabilia-man-s-1-million-postseason-heartbreak.html
An anemic offense cost the  New York
Yankees  a chance at the  World Series . It cost Steiner Sports
Marketing Inc. at least $1 million in revenue, the company’s
chief executive officer said.  “It’s a seven-figure miss,” Brandon Steiner said in a
telephone interview. “Now I really have to start working for a
living.”  Steiner says the New Rochelle, New York-based company sells
more memorabilia associated with the Yankees and Boston Red Sox
than any other Major League Baseball teams. Boston missed the
postseason after surrendering a nine-game September lead to the
 Tampa Bay Rays .  As for New York, the 27-time World Series champions left 11
men on base in last night’s decisive Game 5, which  Detroit  won,
3-2, at Yankee Stadium. The Tigers advance to the  American
League  Championship Series against the  Texas Rangers , a matchup
that presents significant challenges for Steiner, he said.  Rangers fans have never responded to the collectibles
market, Steiner said, and the economic woes of Detroit might
keep fans from spending money on commemorative items for the
Tigers, even if they win their first World Series since 1984.  On the other hand, had the Yankees, who had the best record
in the American League during the regular season, won the World
Series, Steiner’s company would have been afforded a number of
collectible opportunities.  Usually there’s a team-oriented project, Steiner said.
There are also items generated for players who had a starring
role in the postseason.  While  Alex Rodriguez  struck out to end the game, it wasn’t
the out that Steiner anguished over most.  Heartbreaking Out  That one came in the eighth inning when the Yankees were
trailing 3-2 and had a man on base.  Derek Jeter  hit a long fly
ball to right field that prompted his teammates to come to the
top of the dugout steps and lean over the railing to see what
might be a home run. Instead, it was caught on the warning
track.  Not only would a home run have given the Yankees the lead,
and maybe the series, but a superstar player generating a
memorable moment is an easy sell, Steiner said.  “If Jeter hits that home run, you can’t even imagine what
that would’ve meant to us,” Steiner said.  Thanks to Jeter and closer Mariano Rivera, Steiner still is
having a good season selling Yankees gear.  Jeter generated one of those sellable signature moments
during the regular season when in July he hit a home run off of
 Tampa Bay ’s David Price to become the first player to reach
3,000 hits as a member of the Yankees.  Record Save  Rivera last month collected his 602nd career save, breaking
Trevor Hoffman’s record.  “There’s always a carryover with the great moments,”
Steiner said.  Even though the Yankees lost, Steiner isn’t ready to
declare the postseason a flop. It remains to be seen which team
from the National League will reach the World Series. Still
alive are  Arizona , Milwaukee, Philadelphia and  St. Louis . The
Diamondbacks will face the Brewers and the Cardinals will play
the Phillies in the decisive fifth games of their series
tonight.  From a sales perspective, Steiner is rooting for the
Phillies and Brewers, whose fervent fan bases might buy a
significant amount of merchandise.  “Philadelphia would be OK and Milwaukee might be a
surprise,” Steiner said. “That said, it sure would’ve been
nice if Jeter’s ball had cleared the fence.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  