-- 
Kenya to Restore Confidence After Shilling Drop, Odinga Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-10-07T15:40:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/kenya-to-restore-confidence-after-shilling-slump-odinga-says.html
Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga 
said the East African nation is doing everything possible to
stabilize local financial markets after the shilling lost a
fifth of its value this year.  A task team of central bank and Treasury officials will
meet regularly to review the economy and react more quickly to
“shocks,” especially in the foreign exchange market, Odinga
told reporters in Nairobi, the capital, today.  “We don’t want people to panic during this period,” he
said. “It’s a passing phase.”  The Central Bank of Kenya raised its benchmark  interest
rate  by 4 percentage points to a record 11 percent on Oct. 5 to
bolster the shilling, which has declined 21 percent against the
dollar this year, making it the world’s worst performer.  Kenya  plans to ask for an extra $250 million to $350
million from the  International Monetary Fund , in addition to an
almost $509 million, three-year credit facility agreed to in
January, Joseph Kinyua, the  Finance Ministry ’s permanent
secretary, said. The additional funds will help Kenya deal with
the weaker shilling and surging money market rates, President
Mwai Kibaki said on Sept. 8.  The IMF will consider Kenya’s request for further financing
during a review of the country’s economy between Oct. 13 and
Oct. 31, Ragnar Gudmundsson, the fund’s local representative,
said in an interview yesterday.  Worst Drought  The currency’s weakness, together with the worst regional
drought in six decades, has boosted inflation, which accelerated
for an 11th month in September to 17.3 percent, more than triple
the government’s 5 percent target.  The dry weather also hurt economic output in Kenya, the
world’s largest producer of black tea and a grower of high-
quality coffee beans. Gross domestic product fell 4.6 percent in
the second quarter, compared with a 2 percent expansion in the
previous three months.  The government rejected a proposal by the central bank to
buy and sell foreign currency directly to industries, Kinyua
said. “We have no reason to move away from liberalization,” he
said. “The central bank was just proposing. That would require
a fundamental policy change and it’s the Kenyan government which
would change the policy. And we have no such intention.”  The central bank said on Sept. 27 it plans to deal directly
in foreign exchange trading with businesses, bypassing
commercial lenders which are being watched by the regulator for
possibly misusing their market power in  currency trading .  Central Bank of Kenya Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has blamed
the currency’s depreciation on speculators, the deteriorating
global economy and growing demand for dollar-paid imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  