-- 
Keynes and Hayek, the Great Debate (Part 2): Nicholas Wapshott

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   W a p s h o t t
-- 
2011-10-07T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/keynes-and-hayek-s-great-debate-part-2-commentary-by-nicholas-wapshott.html
Friedrich Hayek arrived in  London  in
January 1931 to take up an invitation to participate in the most
telling duel in the history of economics. His aim, in four
lectures at the  London School  of Economics: Overturn the
theories of John  Maynard Keynes , and prove that recessions were
not caused by a lack of desire from customers to buy goods.  In his second lecture, Hayek addressed an important and, in
light of the world slump, a highly topical subject: Under what
conditions do resources come to be left unused? He declared that
to explain any economic phenomenon it was convenient to assume
that over time an economy would reach a state of equilibrium in
which all resources would be fully employed. But there would be
times in the interim when all available resources were not used.  Of all the ways that production could be increased, Hayek
suggested, the most effective was by employing capital to
satisfy later demand in what he called “roundabout” methods of
production. Hayek drew a diagram on the blackboard in the shape
of a triangle. He argued that to meet future demand,
entrepreneurs over time invest in a succession of intermediate
capital goods -- such as tools and machinery -- that are, in the
main, sold to other producers of capital goods. In due course,
the employment of these roundabout methods of production led to
the provision of more  consumer goods  in the future.
Entrepreneurs were prepared to delay making a profit by
investing in such intermediate production methods because it
would allow them to produce more consumer goods in the future,
thereby fulfilling the desires of consumers, who save today to
have more tomorrow.  Core Question  This brought Hayek to the core question of his lecture: How
did methods of production needing less capital progress to
methods needing more capital? The answer was simple: When people
spent less on consumer goods and saved more, their savings were
invested in capital goods. But there was another way: More
capital goods might be produced when money was made available to
producers by bank loans. This second method, he said, was not
real saving but “forced saving” because the new investment had
come about not because of an increase in savings but simply
because it suited banks to lend. When the money lent to
producers was reduced to its former level, the capital invested
in equipment was lost.  “We shall see in the next lecture,” he said ominously,
“that such a transition to less capitalistic methods of
production necessarily takes the form of an economic crisis.”  Dislocation and Collapse  In the third lecture, with his usual impeccably meticulous,
if forbiddingly desiccated, approach, Hayek described how an
unwarranted increase in borrowing led over time to a dislocation
in the production process of capital goods, which, in turn,
caused a collapse at the bottom of the business cycle. To help
those without a remorselessly analytical bent, Hayek offered an
example.  “The situation would be similar to that of a people of an
isolated island, if, after having partially constructed an
enormous machine which was to provide them with all necessities,
they found out that they had exhausted all their savings and
available free capital before the new machine could turn out its
product,” he said. “They would then have no choice but to
abandon temporarily the work on the new process and to devote
all their labor to producing their daily food without any
capital.”  Persistent Unemployment  In the real world, Hayek suggested, the result was
persistent unemployment. He offered a simple, if unpalatable,
truth to those, like Keynes, who advocated increasing the demand
for consumer goods to increase employment: “The machinery of
capitalistic production will function smoothly only so long as
we are satisfied to consume no more than that part of our total
wealth which under the existing organization of production is
destined for current consumption. Every increase of consumption,
if it is not to disturb production, requires previous new
saving.”  Hayek also confronted another Keynesian remedy, that if an
idle plant was brought into use, it would spur a depressed
economy back to life and increase employment. “What [economists
like Keynes] overlook is that … in order that the existing
durable plants could be used to their full capacity it would be
necessary to invest a great amount of other means of production
in lengthy processes which would bear fruit only in a
comparatively distant future.”  Artificial Demand  He went on, “It should be fairly clear that the granting of
credit to consumers, which has recently been so strongly
advocated as a cure for depression, would in fact have quite the
contrary effect.” Such “artificial demand,” he suggested, would
merely postpone the day of reckoning. “The only way permanently
to ‘mobilize’ all available resources is, therefore, not to use
artificial stimulants -- whether during a crisis or thereafter -
- but to leave it to time to effect a permanent cure.” In brief,
there was no easy way out of a slump. In the long run, the free
market would restore an economy to an equilibrium that allowed
everyone to be employed.  Hayek scored a bull’s-eye with his audience. Here at last
was a cogent, convincing repudiation of Keynesian
interventionist notions. Hayek showed that the remedies coming
from Cambridge, which appeared so plausible, were riddled with
logical flaws. Having the best of intentions wasn’t enough.
Addressing the symptoms of a depressed economy by investing with
borrowed money only made matters worse. Instead, Hayek offered a
sober remedy of his own: Forget about quick fixes, the
uncomfortable truth is that only time will cure an imbalanced
economy. Beware smooth-talking doctors, such as Keynes, who
offered a quick cure, for they are charlatans, snake-oil
salesmen, and quacks. The market has its own logic and contains
its own natural remedy.  (Nicholas Wapshott, a former senior editor at the Times of
London and the New York Sun, is the author of “ Ronald Reagan  and
 Margaret Thatcher : A Political Marriage.” This is the second in
a four-part series excerpted from his new  book , “Keynes Hayek:
The Clash that Defined Modern Economics,” to be published Oct.
11 by W.W. Norton. See  Part 1 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nicholas Wapshott at  wapshott@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  