-- 
Kinetic Plans Biggest Junk Deal Since July as Banks Offload Debt

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-10-07T17:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/kinetic-plans-biggest-junk-deal-since-july-as-banks-offload-debt.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , the wound care
company that’s being bought by Apax Partners Inc., is proposing
the biggest speculative-grade bond offering in 10 weeks as banks
seek to offload acquisition financing promised before credit
markets weakened in August.  Kinetic is offering $2.55 billion of eight-year notes, the
San Antonio-based company said today in a statement distributed
by  Business Wire . The firm, which agreed in July to be taken
private in the largest leveraged buyout since Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. failed, is also planning a $2.2 billion term loan
that may be sold for as little as 95.5 cents on the dollar.  Junk bonds  have lost 8.6 percent since July and relative
yields have soared to the highest in two years amid investor
concern that  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is intensifying and the
economic recovery is faltering. Lenders including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  are also offering debt for Emdeon Inc. which is
being acquired by  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  for $3 billion.  “These deals were all done before the market sell-off,”
said Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in New York,
where he oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds. “They need
to bring them to replace the bridge loans or the banks will have
to fund it themselves.”  Kinetic’s offering, poised to be the biggest since HCA Inc.
issued $5 billion of debt on July 26, and the fifth-largest this
year, will be marketed in Europe next week and then in the U.S.,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  ‘Attractive to Some’  Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Credit Suisse Group AG and
Royal Bank of Canada arranged the bridge financing and are
leading the bond sale, the person said. The notes are split
between $1.65 billion of second-lien senior secured debt in
dollars and euros, and $900 million of senior bonds, the
statement today said.  The second-lien debt “will be attractive to some, but the
unsecured debt is going to have a hard time and could end up
being held by the banks until market conditions improve,” Gross
said.  Kinetic is being purchased by Apax, the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and the Public Sector Pension Investment Board
for $68.50 a share, a transaction valued at $5.7 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is proposing to sell the seven-year  term loan 
at 95.5 cents to 96 cents on the dollar, reducing proceeds for
the company and boosting the yield to investors, said people
familiar with that part of the transaction, who declined be
identified because terms aren’t set.  Relative Yields  Emdeon, the provider of billing systems and software for
health-care companies, that agreed to be bought on Aug. 4, is
marketing $375 million of 8-year notes, a person familiar with
that offering said.  The Nashville, Tennessee-based company is also offering
a $1.2 billion term loan at 96 cents to 97 cents on the dollar,
the person said.  Relative yields on speculative-grade debt, rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s , have expanded 3.14 percentage points since the end of
July to 8.72 percentage points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The securities have erased their 6.2
percent gain through July, losing 2.9 percent for the year.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index declined to 86.96
cents on the dollar on Oct. 5, the lowest level since 2009. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, has dropped from 94.41 cents since July.  Blackstone president  Tony James  said today the pace of
buyouts will slow because of a rise in financing costs.  “The pipeline is skinnier,” Blackstone’s James said today
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Delaware  City,
Delaware. “Financing is expensive, prices are down,” James,
60, said. “If you don’t have to sell your company, you don’t do
it when prices are low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  