-- 
Komeito Party Open to Japan Tobacco Shares Sales to Rebuild

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-10-07T09:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/komeito-party-open-to-selling-japan-tobacco-shares-to-rebuild.html
Japan ’s second-largest opposition
party is open to the government selling some of its stake in
Japan Tobacco Inc. to fund rebuilding from the March earthquake
and nuclear disaster, signaling a willingness to compromise with
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s reconstruction plans.  “We can accept selling some JT stock for reconstruction as
the potential asset value is high,” Natsuo Yamaguchi, head of
the  New Komeito  party, said yesterday in an interview at his
office in Tokyo. “But rapid sales of the entire stake should be
debated cautiously to avoid confusion and damages to tobacco
farmers and retailers.”  Noda’s cabinet today approved the  Democratic Party  of
Japan’s plan to raise 9.2 trillion yen ($120 billion) through
temporary tax increases. It also agreed to “consider” selling
the state’s holding of just over 50 percent in Japan Tobacco,
amending the DPJ’s proposal to do so over the next 10 years.
Yamaguchi, 59, said his party favored reducing the government’s
share to one-third in the former tobacco monopoly.  Noda’s DPJ needs support from New Komeito and the main
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  to get the funding plan and
a 12 trillion yen disaster aid package through the Diet. LDP
lawmakers have expressed reservations about completely
privatizing Japan Tobacco, something the company favors, saying
it would reduce crop demand and hurt farmers.  Japan Tobacco shares fell 1.4 percent to 358,000 yen today
in  Tokyo , trimming this year’s gain to 18 percent. The
government’s stake is worth about 1.8 trillion yen.  Tax Proposals  The DPJ proposal calls for raising corporate taxes next
April for three years, while income taxes will increase as of
January 2013 for 10 years. Tobacco levies will go up next
October, a measure Yamaguchi called “one option.”  He said relations with the ruling party have improved since
Noda succeeded  Naoto Kan  as prime minister on Sept. 2, adding
that the DPJ, LDP and New Komeito should be able to reach an
agreement “soon” on the spending and tax proposals.  “The sooner the better,” Yamaguchi said. New Komeito’s
proposal for the third post-disaster stimulus is 16.5 trillion
yen while the LDP is proposing 17 trillion yen.  “The difference in numbers isn’t that essential, and
compromise is fully possible,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  