-- 
Neediest Mortgage Borrowers Left Behind as Refinancing in U.S. Accelerates

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-10-07T14:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/neediest-mortgage-borrowers-left-behind-prepayment-data-show.html
Refinancing of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  mortgages with the lowest  interest rates  soared as
prepayments on loans with the highest rates declined,
underscoring how only some homeowners can take advantage of the
best borrowing costs on record.  The so-called constant prepayment rate, or CPR, for 30-year
Fannie Mae securities with 4 percent coupons, backed by loans
with rates of about 4.5 percent, jumped 140 percent last month
to 17.7, according to data released late yesterday. Speeds for
similar bonds with underlying loan rates averaging about 7
percent fell almost 10 percent to 19.2.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told lawmakers
yesterday the U.S. would “move forward with a plan in the next
couple of weeks” to allow more refinancing of government-backed
loans for borrowers who owe more than their home’s values.
Prepayment speeds last month on the lowest-rate debt show
lenders may be concentrating on the safer homeowners who got
loans since the housing slump slowed in 2009.  “This report underscores the trend that lenders have
learned to cope with capacity constraints by prioritizing
borrowers” who are the easiest to underwrite,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  analysts led by Brian Ye in New York said in a report,
referring to originators struggling to deal with a surge of
business after a Mortgage Bankers Association index of
refinancing applications more than doubled from this year’s low.  Record Low  The average rate on a typical 30-year mortgage fell to a
record low 3.94 percent in the week ended yesterday, after
averaging 4.26 percent in August and reaching this year’s high
of 5.05 percent in early February, according to McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac. Loans usually close between one and
three months after applications.  Prepayments on all Fannie Mae fixed rate 30-year mortgage
bonds rose 27 percent last month to a CPR of 21.4. The measure
represents the share of debt that would be retired in a year at
the current pace. Speeds were “much faster than Street
expectations for lower coupon” debt, Nomura Securities
International Inc. analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi said in a note
to clients.  For higher-rate loans, whose prepayments are more often
driven by borrower defaults, speeds “did not change materially
and were in line with our expectations,” the analysts said.  Underperforming Treasuries  Prepayment speeds affect how long it takes for mortgage-
bond investors to get their principal back, and can reduce
returns when either faster or slower than expected. Fannie Mae
mortgage bonds in all actively traded coupons underperformed
Treasuries today as of 8:50 a.m. in  New York , led by its 4
percent and 4.5 percent securities, which each suffered relative
losses of 0.15 cents on the dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , told 17 Democrats at a meeting yesterday that he
will fix the Home Affordable Refinance Program, which lets
borrowers take new loans for up to 125 percent of a home’s
value, according to Representatives Elijah Cummings of  Maryland 
and Dennis Cardoza of  California , who led the group.  The changes the regulator for government-supported Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac is contemplating don’t go far enough,
Cummings told reporters after the meeting. DeMarco is seeking to
balance President  Barack Obama ’s promise of aid for homeowners
with refinancing-rule changes in a Sept. 8 speech to Congress
with his duty to conserve the companies’ assets.  Mortgage-bond prepayments are driven by refinancing, home
sales and purchases of delinquent debt out of the securities by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or by servicers from bonds guaranteed
by federal agency Ginnie Mae.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 