-- 
New York Comptroller Hires Obama Fundraiser’s Firm to Manage Pension Cash

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/new-york-comptroller-hires-obama-fundraiser-s-firm-to-manage-pension-cash.html
New York state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  hired an investment firm co-founded by  Penny Pritzker ,
a top fundraiser for President  Barack Obama , to find money
managers owned by women and minorities who’ll invest $300
million of state pension cash.  DiNapoli, a Democrat, chose Artemis Real Estate Partners to
handle the $146.9 billion New York State Common Retirement
Fund’s first investment in “emerging managers” for real
estate, the comptroller said yesterday in a statement. Pritzker,
a Chicago billionaire, helped raise a record $745 million for
Obama’s 2008 campaign.  “With the emerging-manager program now in place across our
asset classes, the fund has affirmed its status as an innovator
in the field and shown once again its commitment to enhancing
diversity and opportunity while improving its bottom line,”
DiNapoli, 57, said.  The comptroller is the sole trustee of the pension fund,
the third-largest in the U.S. Last year, DiNapoli allocated $200
million to the Rock Creek Group, a hedge fund of funds run by
Afsaneh Mashayekhi Beschloss, a former World Bank chief
investment officer who is married to presidential historian
Michael Beschloss.  Pritzker’s political connections and reputation as a
prodigious fundraiser had nothing to do with her firm’s
selection, said Eric Sumberg, a DiNapoli spokesman. State
pension officials received proposals from 25 applicants and
interviewed more than 10, he said.  ‘Competitive Process’  “It was a very competitive process,” Sumberg said by
telephone. He declined to disclose how much Artemis will be
paid.  Pritzker, who is also chairman, president and chief
executive officer of Pritzker Realty Group LLC in  Chicago ,
didn’t immediately respond to a voice mail left with an
assistant.  Following a pay-to-play scandal involving New York’s former
comptroller  Alan Hevesi , DiNapoli in 2009 prohibited the state
pension from doing business with any  investment adviser  who has
made a political contribution to the holder of or a candidate
for his office. Hevesi admitted getting almost $1 million in
payments and favors for himself and his friends from investment
firms in return for hiring them to manage pension assets.  Administration Adviser  Pritzker serves on Obama’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness, which advises his administration on economic
growth and employment. She is also chairman of TransUnion Corp.
in Chicago, a director of  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  and is a trustee of
 Stanford University  and the John F. Kennedy Center for
Performing Arts in the nation’s capital.  Artemis, based in the Washington suburb of  Chevy Chase ,
 Maryland , “seeks to deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns to
investors and manage institutional third-party capital in a
variety of real estate strategies, with its co-founders and
principals investing significantly alongside its investors,”
according to the firm’s  website .  The company’s co-founder and CEO is Deborah Harmon, the
former president and chief investment officer of the J.E. Robert
Cos., a real-estate investment firm. The firm’s founders have
made more than $25 billion in real estate investments during
their careers, according to DiNapoli.  “We are excited to execute this strategic mandate to
create joint-venture partnerships with established and newly
formed emerging managers,” Harmon said in the statement from
DiNapoli’s office.  The state pension fund currently invests about $6 billion
with emerging managers. The goal of the program is to invest
assets with smaller, newer firms with a focus on women and
minority-owned enterprises, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  