-- 
New $1.4 Trillion U.S. Stimulus Is in Sight: Douglas Holtz-Eakin

-- B y   D o u g l a s   H o l t z - E a k i n
-- 
2011-10-07T09:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/new-1-4-trillion-u-s-stimulus-is-in-sight-douglas-holtz-eakin.html
The  U.S. economy  is struggling. More
than two years after the end of the recession, unemployment is
stuck at more than 9 percent. Analysts are lowering their
estimates of growth, which they now forecast will be even slower
than the disappointing pace of 2011’s first half.  President  Barack Obama ’s approach is to double-down on the
failed strategy that brought the U.S. to this point. More
temporary tax breaks, targeted at favored constituencies. More
infrastructure spending, destined to arrive in time for the 2014
midterm elections. More bailout dollars for states. Another
destined-to-fail layer on the labyrinthian federal jobs-training
program. In short, more than $400 billion -- and another
partisan fight in  Washington .  Why not try a new direction in economic policy? There is
bipartisan consensus that the private sector -- not the
government -- is the key to more jobs and faster growth. Obama
is on record saying the private sector needs to be “the main
engine of  job creation .” Similarly, House Speaker  John Boehner 
and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  argue that “we must dedicate
ourselves to pro-growth policies that help create middle-class
jobs, make it easier for existing businesses to thrive and allow
more start-up companies to flourish.”  Force for Growth  So it is mysterious that Congress and the president haven’t
done more to unleash a potent force for faster economic growth:
a reduced tax on repatriated earnings, or the profits U.S.
companies are holding abroad that are exempt from federal income
taxes. One proposal, the House Freedom to Invest Act of 2011,
would reduce the tax on repatriated dollars to a maximum of 5.25
percent (from 35 percent). A similar bill was introduced in the
Senate yesterday by Republican  John McCain  and Democrat  Kay Hagan  that would let companies bring profits back to the U.S. at
an 8.75 percent tax rate, or 5.25 percent if they increase their
payrolls by a specified amount.  Repatriation can be thought of as a private-sector approach
to stimulus. The Obama administration’s proposed stimulus would
be built on using federal-government cash flows to support new
hiring, purchases of investment goods; as well as research and
development. In the same way, a reduced tax on repatriated
earnings would generate cash flows that would put resources in
the hands of workers, their families and companies.  At the same time, some corporations may decide to use the
money to retire debt, pay dividends or repurchase shares -- an
action that is viewed as a fatal flaw by critics of a 2004 tax
repatriation holiday. Research shows that 24 percent of those
funds went to  capital investment , and 23 percent supported job
creation.  Not Good Enough  Not good enough, say critics. But these critics don’t cast
their investigative net wide enough. In analyzing the U.S.
government’s $787 billion  stimulus  of 2009, the Congressional
Budget Office said “estimating the law’s overall effects on
employment requires a more comprehensive analysis than can be
achieved using the recipients’ reports.” In the same way,
focusing narrowly on what individual companies do with their
repatriated earnings misses the larger picture.  A more-thorough analysis recognizes that those financial
transactions have two effects. First, they put resources in the
hands of other businesses, households, pension plans and
investors, who continue the chain of purchases and financial
transfers. Second, actions such as share repurchases tend to
raise stock prices. The increase in valuations provides wealth
that supports household spending and consumer demand.  One approach to quantifying these effects is to use a
formal macroeconomic model that captures the interconnections of
demands and financial flows, just as the CBO did when assessing
the impact of the stimulus bill.  JPMorgan’s Estimate  In short, a repatriation tax policy is desirable from
several perspectives. First, cash otherwise trapped overseas --
perhaps even permanently -- would flow back into the U.S.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated that at least $1.4 trillion in
undistributed foreign earnings is locked up abroad; Moody’s
Investors Service warns that U.S. tech companies might hold as
much as 79 percent of their cash overseas by 2013. I estimate
that the short-run stimulus provided by repatriated dollars
would speed the pace of economic recovery, increasing gross
domestic product by roughly $360 billion and creating about 2.9
million new jobs.  Second, a reduced tax on repatriated earnings is a step
toward a territorial tax system -- one with a permanent zero or
very low tax on repatriation. This is exactly the  tax system 
adopted by our international rivals. For the U.S. to remain out
of step condemns our best workers and companies to a reduced
ability to compete.  Finally, a new repatriation tax policy would contribute to
a lower overall corporate-tax burden at a time when the high
U.S. corporate-tax rate harms economic growth, the amount and
quality of domestic investment, and the wages of American
workers.  More rapid economic growth should be the top national
priority, and the consensus in Washington is that the focus
should be on private-sector initiatives. Repatriation meets
today’s need for more jobs and tomorrow’s demand for a
competitive  tax code .  ( Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who was the director of the
 Congressional Budget Office  from 2003 to 2005, is the president
of the American Action Forum, a public-policy institute. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Douglas Holtz-Eakin at  dholtzeakin@americanactionforum.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  