-- 
New York Yankees’ $200 Million Payroll Comes Up Short in Loss to Tigers

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-07T06:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/new-york-yankees-200-million-payroll-comes-up-short-in-loss-to-tigers.html
Money won’t win a championship for
the  New York Yankees  this season.  The Yankees’ $115 million starting lineup was held to two
runs with the season on the line, losing 3-2 to the  Detroit 
Tigers last night at Yankee Stadium in the decisive fifth game
of their Major League Baseball first-round playoff series.  The Yankees entered the 2011 season with baseball’s
biggest payroll at $202.7 million and their 25-man postseason
roster had about $192 million in combined salary, twice that of
the Tigers.  When Alex Rodriguez -- the sport’s highest-paid player
with a 10-year, $275 million contract -- struck out for the
third time, it ended both the game and the Yankees’ season
while sending Detroit into the American League Championship
Series against the  Texas Rangers .  “Maybe in years past I felt like I put too much pressure
on myself, but I have no regrets,” Rodriguez, who went 2-for-
18 in the series, said in the Yankees’ locker room. “It’s hard
to tip your hat, but you’ve got to do it.”  The Yankees’ nine-man starting lineup, which features
seven players making more than $8 million this year, was held
to two hits in nine at-bats with runners in scoring position by
Detroit pitchers Doug Fister, Max Scherzer, Joaquin Benoit and
Jose Valverde. Fister and Scherzer, who together pitched 6 1/3
innings, have a combined salary of about $1 million this
season.  “Right now it’s tough to handle,” said Yankees
outfielder  Nick Swisher , who went 4-for-19 in the series,
including a bases-loaded strikeout to end the seventh inning
last night. “Collectively, as a team, we couldn’t get it done
and now we have to take that into the offseason.”  Back-to-Back Home Runs  The 27-time World Series-champion Yankees turned to Ivan Nova, the second-lowest paid player on their postseason roster,
to keep their season alive and the rookie allowed home runs to
two of the first three batters he faced last night. Detroit’s
Don Kelly, who has a $423,000 salary, hit a solo homer into the
right-field seats and Delmon Young followed with a shot over
the left-field wall on the next pitch to give Detroit a quick
2-0 lead and quiet the crowd of 50,960, the biggest in the
history of the current Yankee Stadium, which opened in 2009.  Nova was replaced by  Phil Hughes  in the third inning after
experiencing what the Yankees said was a tight right forearm.
Hughes and Boone Logan pitched two scoreless innings of relief
before New York brought in CC Sabathia, whose $24.3 million
salary is the second highest on the team.  In his first relief appearance after 370 career starts in
the regular season and postseason, Sabathia gave up another run
when former Yankee Austin Jackson led off the fifth inning with
a double and scored the Tigers’ third run on a two-out single
by  Victor Martinez .  It proved to be the deciding run, with the Yankees getting
a solo home run from  Robinson Cano  in the bottom of the fifth
inning and a bases-loaded walk in the seventh.  They also had a series of missed opportunities.  Missed Chances  New York  loaded the bases with one out in the fourth
inning before  Russell Martin  and  Brett Gardner  hit pop-ups to
end the threat.  Rodriguez and Swisher both had strikeouts around  Mark Teixeira ’s bases-loaded walk in the seventh inning. In the
eighth, the Yankees put the tying run on base before  Derek Jeter  flew out to the warning track in right field to end the
inning, coming up just short of a go-ahead home run.  “I thought it might have a chance,” said Jeter, the
Yankees’ captain, who is making $14.7 million this season.
“They’re better than us, that’s the bottom line. They’re
moving on.”  In the ninth, Valverde retired  Curtis Granderson , Cano and
Rodriguez -- the Yankees’ 2-3-4 hitters -- to record his 51st
save in as many opportunities this season. The Tigers raced
onto the field to celebrate as Rodriguez, who’s making $32
million this season, swung through a fastball to end the game.  ‘It’s Tough’  “In a short series, sometimes the difference is one at-
bat, one swing, one play,” said Teixeira, who finished 3-for-
18 in the series and is batting .170 in the postseason since
signing an eight-year, $180 million contract with the Yankees
before the 2009 season. “You try to put together good at-bats.
If you don’t get the results, it’s tough.”  While the Tigers move on, the Yankees, who led the AL with
97 wins to earn home-field advantage, now look to next season.  “Whether we underachieved, I couldn’t say that,” Yankees
General Manager Brian Cashman told reporters. “They were
better than us, it’s as simple as that. They were able to find
a way to get three wins to our two. There’s nothing more I can
do about it and it’s our time to look at 2012, unfortunately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  