-- 
News Corp. Settles With U.K. Designer Hoppen in Phone-Hacking Lawsuit

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-10-07T10:55:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/news-corp-settles-with-u-k-designer-hoppen-in-phone-hacking-lawsuit.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  agreed to pay designer
Kelly Hoppen 60,000 pounds ($93,100) to drop her lawsuit against
its now-shuttered News of the World tabloid for hacking into her
mobile-phone messages.  Hoppen, a target for journalists because of her friendships
with film director Guy Ritchie and soccer player  Sol Campbell ,
feels “fully vindicated in respect of her claim,” according to
court papers. New York-based News Corp. also apologized and
promised to pay her legal costs.  Hoppen was one of the lead claimants in a test case
scheduled to be heard in January, when a London judge is to rule
on a fair level of damages for phone-hacking victims. She will
be replaced in the trial by soccer player  Ashley Cole , lawyer
Hugh Tomlinson said at a London court hearing today regarding
the test cases.  News Corp. has agreed to pay more than 4 million pounds in
at least six settlements with celebrities and crime victims --
including Sienna Miller, Andy Gray,  Gordon Taylor  and Max Clifford -- who were the subjects of News of the World stories.
The family of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler was offered 2
million pounds plus a 1 million-pound donation to charity in
September, in the largest settlement to date, according to a
person familiar with the case.  The company was forced to close the News of the World in
July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound bid for full control of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  following revelations
journalists and investigators had attempted to hack into
Dowler’s phone after she went missing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  