-- 
Obama Aide Outlines Ways to Promote Innovation (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-10-07T19:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/obama-aide-outlines-ways-to-promote-innovation-transcript-.html
Five corporate executives and seven
university leaders discussed with John Holdren, President  Barack
Obama ’s science adviser, and David Kappos, head of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, ways to boost the economy through
promoting innovation during an Oct. 5 event in  Washington 
sponsored by  Harvard University  and the  Business Roundtable  and
hosted by Bloomberg News.  Participants during the day’s series of meetings included
Drew Gilpin Faust, president of Harvard University; former
Michigan Governor John Engler, president of the Business
Roundtable; Albert R. Hunt, executive editor of Bloomberg News;
Bill Green, chairman of consulting firm Accenture Plc; Tim
Solso, CEO of diesel truck-engine maker Cummins Inc.; Susan
Hockfield, president of the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ; Sally Mason, president of the University of Iowa;
Ellen Kullman, CEO of DuPont Co.; James Goodnight, CEO of SAS
Institute Inc.; Freeman Hrabowski, president of the  University
of Maryland , Baltimore County; John Hennessy, president of
 Stanford University ; Linda Katehi, chancellor of the University
of California-Davis; John Lechleiter, CEO of drugmaker Eli Lilly
& Co.; and Teresa Sullivan, president of the University of
Virginia. Following is a transcript of the opening breakfast
session.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  ELLEN KULLMAN:  I’m really glad that we could all be here
today, and thank you for joining us at a listening session.  So,
we’re from the President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness
and we’re here to get your input.  I wanted to give a special
thanks to Governor Engler and Harvard President Drew Faust for
helping us gather this group here together for this discussion.  As a member of the Council, I appreciate you joining us and
really look forward to your thoughts and, more importantly,
ideas on how we can grow the  U.S. economy  and drive job growth
through innovation, and how you’re assuring that the new U.S.
graduates that you’re all producing every year remain
competitive for the fully globalized markets that we operate in
today.  And so your ideas will be valuable to the Council as we
prepare our recommendations to the President.  So, I’m pleased to be joined this morning by the
president’s science and technology adviser, John Holdren, who
many of you know, and Head of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Dave Kappos, who I’d like to congratulate once again for
the recent signing of the America Invents Act.  So now, I’d like to turn it over to John for a few remarks
and then we can start the dialogue.  JOHN HOLDREN: Well, thank you, Ellen, and thanks to all of
you around the table and around the room for being here.  This
is really an amazing collection of leaders from academia and
business, and it’s certainly a pleasure for me to be here with
you this morning.  I’m primarily here to listen myself. Ellen says -- you’re
here to listen, I’m here to listen.  I’m not sure who’s going to
be talking, but --.  KULLMAN:  Oh, [I’ve] (inaudible - multiple speakers).
[Don’t worry, John].  HOLDREN: But I do want to say a few words about the
President’s American Innovation Strategy and its relation to all
the things that you’re doing and to solicit your thoughts about
how we can build additional support for these immensely
important initiatives.  I think most of you probably know that the President’s
American Innovation Strategy, which he first rolled out in
September of 2009 and then in expanded and elaborated form in
October of last year, has three major elements.  The first of those elements is investing in the building
blocks of innovation, and he and we consider the building blocks
to be basic research and the institutions that do it -- our
great research universities, our industrial laboratories, our
national laboratories. The education more generally, and
particularly STEM education -- science, technology, engineering,
and math education -- and relevant kinds of infrastructure --
that’s broadband, high speed computing, space infrastructure,
energy infrastructure, communications infrastructure, and more.  And the second major cluster of elements is things we need
to do to create an economic and policy environment that’s
conducive to innovation, particularly, of course, conducive to
innovation in the private sector. And that includes elements
like making the research and experimentation tax credit
permanent; the President’s been trying to do since he came into
office.  It includes measures to ensure that financing is
available for high-tech entrepreneurs and a great deal else.  And the third big cluster of elements is steps that we need
to take to help to focus innovation on key national challenges
in areas such as health and energy where the public goods
dimensions or the externalities dimensions or both, meaning that
the private sector alone is not going to do all that society’s
interests require to meet those kinds of challenges.  In the domain of research funding, of course, the president
initially proposed to double the budgets of several of the most
important science agencies -- the  National Science Foundation ,
the DOE Office of Science, the [NIF] Laboratories over the
period of a decade. We’ve now been knocked off of that
trajectory by the current budget circumstances.  If the president’s FY 2012 budget proposal would actually
be passed by Congress, we’d be back on that trajectory, but I
think we all know that’s now going to happen.  We’re going to be
somewhat below it, but we really would like to get back on it.  The president has made very clear that although he
understands the need to reduce the deficit, to reduce the debt,
he doesn’t want to balance the budget on the backs of research
or education or infrastructure.  And so we are going to do
everything we can to try to get back on that trajectory of
boosting the government’s investments in basic research.  The president also in that 2012 budget proposed big
increases in research in clean energy, big increases in research
and development supporting advanced manufacturing. In June, of
course, he unveiled the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership. It
was actually a recommendation of the President’s Council of
Advisers on Science and Technology, which I have the privilege
of co-chairing with Eric Lander. That partnership is being co-
chaired by Susan Hockfield. Thank you for that, Susan. Among
your many public services, that’s a very important one.  In education, I think everybody knows what a priority the
president has made of STEM education. He has frequently said
that he thinks the single most important thing we can do for the
future of our country is to lift our game in science,
technology, engineering, and math education.  At the same time, we are constantly celebrating the
successes of that system, which we see in the national winners
of the Intel Science Competition, the Google Science
Competition. We had a White House Science Fair just about a year
ago where we had the winners of 36 different national
competitions in science, math, engineering, robotics, city and
regional planning -- an unbelievable event. Eighteen of them
were invited to bring their projects, their posters, their
demonstrations into the Jefferson State Dining Room.  The president was supposed to spend 10 minutes with the
students in the Jefferson State Dining Room. He spent nearly an
hour, to the dismay of his schedulers. The Cabinet members, the
mentors, the parents were all waiting in the East Room and
waiting and waiting and waiting.  The president was on the floor with the kids and their
robots, talking to the 16-year-old who had developed a new
cancer therapy that was light activated and nanoparticle
facilitated. Unbelievable stuff. Harold Varmus came in, spent 10
minutes talking to the 16-year-old young woman and basically
offered her a job at the  National Cancer Institute .  But we really believe it when we talk about the importance
of STEM education. One of the president’s initiatives is a plan
to develop 100,000 new high-caliber science and math teachers
over the next decade. We’ve got over 100 CEOs in the Change the
Equation initiative, which is aimed at scaling up successful
STEM education efforts in 100 different locations.  So that is
an immensely important ingredient of what we’re doing.  The president also supports expanding high skill
immigration as part of wider immigration reform.  He has said as
part of his plan to create a 21st century immigration system
that we ought to be stapling a diploma to every advanced degree
in STEM fields that foreign students get in US universities. I
had heard him say that privately on a number of occasions, but
it is now a part of the public official proposal of the
president. I love it. I think that’s exactly right.  We invest an enormous amount in providing first-class
graduate education in STEM fields to foreign students. Some of
them want to go back to their countries, and that’s fine, too.
That’s a contribution to global well being. But those who want
to stay here, we need to make it easy for them to stay here and
not hard.  In order to create the environment we need for private-
sector investment, I’ve already mentioned the research and
experimentation tax credit. The president has also proposed
eliminating the capital gains tax on long-term investments in
small businesses. Of course, he’s proposed that we try to double
U.S. exports. And we have the Startup America initiative, which
is designed to facilitate high-tech entrepreneurship.  Obviously, a lot of the proposals that the president has
made, that the administration has made, require the support of
the Congress. There’s some things we can do with executive
action, and we’re trying to do those, but we do need support
from the Congress.  And one of the things I’d be interested in hearing from
folks in this group is any thoughts you have about how we can do
better at building bipartisan support for these initiatives,
which really shouldn’t be partisan matters. That is, building
our economy, building our security, improving the health of the
American people. These are really all issues that should not be
partisan at all.  And so I’m hoping that we can figure out how
to do better in building the support in Congress that we’re
going to need.  I will stop with that. Thank you for the opportunity to be
here, and now I’ll be doing some listening.  KULLMAN: Great. Thank you, John.  Connecting science to the marketplace is a critical engine
-- innovation is a critical engine for the economy. And leading
a company like DuPont, I’m really passionate about science. We
spend $1.7 billion a year in research and development. We
partner with universities. We partner around the world in our
own laboratories and with customers to really try to deliver
against that promise.  And STEM education is a critical
component of that.  I’m just a tremendous advocate for getting more and more
young kids today into science.  Actually, I like the E part --
the engineering part -- but that’s probably because of my
background.  Chuck Vest, who heads the National Academy of Engineering,
and I partnered on something called Change the Conversation.
When we do the research, we see that young kids and their
parents today have no idea what careers in engineering or math
and science could really be. And they’re tremendous careers, as
we all know. And here we have gathered just a tremendous force
in the university side that really produced a tremendous amount
of our science and engineering technology and math young people
of today.  So I think your part in this is absolutely critical. And
I’m really looking forward to getting into the conversation
about it, so let’s start with President Faust from Harvard
around, really, that academic institutions, that connection to
the U.S. innovation engine.  DREW FAUST: Thank you, Ellen, and thank you for bringing us
together for this breakfast. We hope today to do something of
what you just described. The Change the Conversation notion is
one that’s at the heart of our gathering because we feel that
universities and business have a link together in the kind of
innovation chain which is at the core of how we are going to
create growth in the American economy, and also, how we project
our nation into the future.  When I think about universities and what they represent, it
seems to me that we are focused on building the future. We build
the educational tools to create the students who are going to
claim the future and shape the future, and we create the
discoveries that also will transform the world in which we live.  So, how do we relate that to other institutions in society
in a more effective way? How do we work together better with
business to make that innovation change, that process smoother?
And how do we explain to a wider public that this is the case
and that we have a bipartisan agenda here, as you said, John, in
trying to move this forward.  In our conversations today we’re going to focus on three
areas of this. The first we have called science-friendly
immigration policy. And by that, we might use another term,
innovation-friendly immigration policy.  John, you spoke about the Intel science contest. Seventy
percent of the winners this year were children of immigrants.
That says a huge amount just in itself. How can we make sure
that we take advantage of the greatest talent available to us
and prepare it to have an impact on our society?  Secondly, we’re going to talk about research and
development and the kinds of policies that will link us better
together -- universities and business. And also, the ways in
which we can explain our common and shared concerns across
sectors of American society, across sectors of the American
economy, and across parties in the political atmosphere.  And then third, we’re going to talk about patent policy,
recent changes, the implications, how we understand our
competitive stance, and how each of our sectors -- business and
universities -- can contribute to that.  So I hope that by the end of today we will have in some
ways changed our own conversation so that we can talk more
forcefully and understand more clearly our mutualities in
business and in universities so that we can be the innovation
lobby that I think America needs in order to articulate these
urgent issues that we confront.  So, thank you for bringing us together this morning to get
us started.  KULLMAN: That’s great. Thank you very much.  Just before we get started opening it up, I’d like to maybe
ask Dave to give maybe a couple of minutes on the importance of
the patent reform and the innovation engine while we have him
here. I think it’s always good to get that view, very exciting,
about the passing of the bill and the signing of the bill.  DAVID KAPPOS:  Well, sure. Thank you very much, Ellen, and
thanks for bringing this group together. It’s quite a pleasure
to be able to talk about intellectual property with a bunch of
folks that run some of our nation’s most successful and
important innovation institutions, whether they be companies or
great universities.  So indeed, just a few weeks ago, culminating an effort that
some would say has stretched back over 150 years and others
would count at least a few decades, the President of the  United
States  signed into law sweeping changes to our nation’s patent
system; changes that I think actually relaunch the United States
as the world’s leader in innovation policy and indeed make us
the only country in the world that has a truly 21st century
patent system.  And on the reason I say that is because our patent system
now has leapfrogged those of all other countries, is the first
and the only one to champion this intersection that Drew is
talking about between universities principally and the business
sector by creating a collaboration-friendly patent system and
innovation-friendly patent system, an inventor-friendly patent
system that will, I believe, really enable science to transfer
quickly and effectively from a laboratory to the marketplace and
create many, many U.S. jobs and really valuable U.S. jobs going
forward.  So I won’t try and go through all of the details, but I
will say I believe that the U.S. has undergone a transformative
change in this overall intellectual property policy, led by this
patent reform legislation. We have lots to do to implement it
now, but we’ll talk about that later in our discussion this
morning.  I believe the implementation is the responsibility of all
of us around this table. We can’t do it alone in the United
States Patent and Trademark Office or even with all of our
partners in the government. We will do it together as an
American people and make this legislation successful in its
implementation. Thanks, Ellen.  KULLMAN: Thanks, Dave. And I know we can always count on
you for a passionate plea for us all to work together [on this].
You’ve made great progress in the office -- the Patent and
Trademark Office has made great progress over the last few
years, and we’ll look forward to seeing that continue.  So that kind of sets up the dialogue. You hear about what
the government is doing and focused on from John in the
connection of innovation to the economy and the importance of
education and innovation.  Now, we’d just like to open it up.  And, as you know, we’re from the Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness, going to put forward a plan to the President,
and love your input into things that you think are important
things that we really can do to help move the ball.  Because
it’s just not a short-term problem, it’s short-term, mid-term,
and long-term.  And I think the education system really has an
important part in that. Freeman?  FREEMAN HRABOWSKI:  All right.  Yes.  I’ve been thinking
about the language we might use to have the public understanding
the issues that we have as we think about the importance of
having people from other countries continuing to come here.  And I’ve said this before, that I really do believe that
being able to document success stories -- people listen to
stories where they’re talking about people who come to this
country and have been able to start companies or looking at the
ways in which kids who have parents from other countries come in
and do so well.  People like hearing those stories because those
stories become American stories.  And so somehow, as we talk about innovation, I think it’s
going to be important to think about the clear language that we
can use that will document what has worked, but that can also
help us to inspire families, American families.  You see, I think it’s not one or the other. We want to make
sure we talk about attracting the best brainpower from anywhere
in the world while working to support and develop brainpower
here.  It’s not one or the other, and we just need to think
about how to develop that language. That’s the one point.  And the other point is I really do want to make sure we
talk a lot about small companies as we think about patent law
and we think about advantages sometimes that large corporations
have and ways that we can connect larger and smaller companies
together.  We’re working with Northrop Grumman and a variety of
startups in cyber security, and Northrop Grumman is giving
considerable support to those companies, wanting to look at how
they use innovation and creativity that can inform what they do,
quite frankly, and as they connect them to customers. And so
there should be ways of collaboration across companies, larger
and smaller companies, with universities, and with national
agencies.  Two points.  SALLY MASON: I’d like to elaborate just a little bit on
what Freeman was saying, particularly with regard to
partnerships, because I think partnerships have become key to
virtually everything we do at universities and I think also true
in the corporate sector as well. And there’s some great
examples.  And again, coming back to the story idea, telling the
stories of some of these wonderful examples, I was just
commenting to John, on my left here, that when I was at Purdue
we had a wonderful opportunity working with Eli Lilly to take
advantage of some of the intellectual property that they had
that they weren’t using and exploiting at that point in time and
that we could use at Purdue to literally build some companies
around, internal companies, but nevertheless, one that would
ultimately benefit, in the drug world, multi-drug resistant
tuberculosis that was rampant in other parts of the world.  Not
something that Lilly could devote a lot of time and effort to,
but something that certainly the university,  Purdue University ,
could at that time, a tremendous partnership.  And I would use another example, in  Iowa , that we’re doing
right now that I’m very excited about because it involves
building a partnership to develop STEM education in quite a
different way. And the partnership is the University of Iowa,
Kirkwood Community College, which is our local community
college, and the Iowa City School District.  These three unlikely partners got together and said, “It’s
time to build a school, a STEM school.  And it’s time to build a
STEM school locally that would allow the talent base locally to
really focus on STEM education, and STEM education in a
different way than was being done in the local high schools and
middle schools in the area.”  It’s an exciting partnership. And, interestingly enough,
politically it was supported across-the-board. Two bond
initiatives in two different communities had to be passed to
allow us to build the facility on our research park, a school
that would, in fact, accomplish this goal for us. And the
bonding issue did pass by 70 percent in one community, 80
percent in another community.  In the political arena these days, to get that kind of
support, especially for a bond initiative, I think, is
phenomenal, but it says from that community what’s important.
And what’s important is first of all trying not to duplicate
expensive infrastructure, but to do it in a way that’s
different, to do it with a partnership that allows us to develop
in new and creative ways, innovative ways.  KULLMAN:  John?  JOHN HENNESSY: I think we’ve touched on the key issue that
innovation is going to play in creating jobs in the U.S. But I
think at the same time we have to realize that the competition
is going up significantly and we’re going to face a competition
for the very best people that’s increasingly global. We’re going
to face a situation where the amount of money being poured into
R&D outside the U.S. goes up quickly.  And we have to get our act together and realize that if the
U.S. is going to continue to be the leader in innovation in
science and technology, we’re going to have to step it up. We’re
going to increase the amount, I think, as John Holdren said. Our
funding of basic research is going to have to be there. And it’s
a long-term commitment and we can’t, in this budget process,
sacrifice long-term economic growth for the country in return
for a short-term fix, and a relatively small piece of the budget
overall.  I think at the same time, trying to address, keeping great
immigrants who come here for graduate degrees, while we also
raise our own sites with respect to our students going into
science and engineering disciplines, encourage them early.  Obviously, we have to address K-12. Too many students
arrive at college not qualified to major in science,
engineering. And we have to address that if we’re going to
continue to be in a leadership position, and I think that ties
to the country’s entire innovation agenda and our future as a
economically great place to be.  KULLMAN: Susan?  SUSAN HOCKFIELD: So just to follow on John’s point with a
little bit of data, nationally we graduate -- 15 percent of our
bachelor’s degrees in the United States are in engineering or
the natural sciences, and that places us 16th, or there are
about 16 countries ahead of us in Europe and  Asia  in terms of
the percentage of 24-year-olds who have a natural science or
engineering degree. This does not position us to win in an
innovation-based economy.  But in terms of changing the conversation and creating a
bipartisan environment, I’ll tell you just a terrifying story
that I heard. A friend of mine had a son who was headed off to
college, and this was a young man who was very good in science
and math.  And my friend asked him whether he might think about
studying engineering or science in college and he said, “Why
would I do that, Dad? Everything’s already been invented.”  And to have that coming out the mouth of an American kid,
where we are the land of innovation and invention, is a
startling comment about how our young people -- some of our
young people -- perceive the world. And the idea of changing
their view from it being okay to be a spectator and a consumer
to really wanting to be the inventor and the innovator, the
people who are going to actually make that future different from
today, I think, is a very important conversation to be had in
America.  And so sometimes I talk about America suffering from a
deficit that we don’t see on the headlines of the newspaper
every morning, but it’s an ambition deficit. It’s an idea that
the kids in America need to pick up those tools that we have
provided in such large number and say, “I’m going to be the
person who invents the next new medical device that’s going to
save lives,” or, “I’m going to be in the person who’s going to
invent the next Google” or whatever the thing is.  And I would just attach that to a startling -- and those of
us in higher education, a tendency to imagine that you can start
a company out of nothing. And I was on a panel -- a different
news organization was sponsoring the panel and the moderate
asked me, “Well, why would any entrepreneur go to college?
Because, you know, of course, you can just start up your company
out of your high school -- the bedroom at your parent’s house
when you’re in high school.”  And I pointed out that many of the innovations in companies
and innovators that spin out of MIT, in their companies and in
their inventions, they’re using chemistry and physics and all
kinds of -- engineering that you just don’t get in a high school
curriculum.  So this sense that the lack of appreciation, [a,] that
there is a fabulous future yet to invent and you can do it.  But
to do that well, you’re going to need the most rigorous
education, and again, building up our base of young people who
have a strong enough background in science, engineering,
mathematics to really take the tools of the world and create
something new for the future.  KULLMAN:  Teresa?  TERESA SULLIVAN: And that young entrepreneur might benefit
from a couple of classes in economics as well.  And, of course,
the advantage of the university is that you have the exposure to
all of this.  I think America’s research universities are changing the
conversation. Many of us now have a kind of a vertically
integrated approach in which even first-year students are
exposed to ideas about entrepreneurship, innovation, and are
encouraged to combine not only traditional science courses but
also the behavioral social sciences, a good background in
economics, and knowledge of business, which they really need, I
think, to be successful.  If you look at many of our universities today, you’ll find
they have an economic ecostructure around them. Individual
students being encouraged to be entrepreneurs, small companies
that have been started up by the faculty and graduate students,
and good partnerships with some of America’s leading
corporations or international corporations.  So that students get an exposure to a whole range of these
things while still being grounded in a broad set of curricular
offerings, which I think is important for them because the
innovations don’t just come in one discipline.  It’s important
for them to have the breadth to see where else it could come
from.  KULLMAN:  Great.  Bill?  BILL GREEN:  Yes. If you stand back and I had a chance to
do the work with the national academies at looking at our
research institutions, we have a crisis in confidence and
credibility in this country. And one of the last sets of
institutions people believe in are the institutions that got us
where we are today, which is our national research institutions.  And I think they’re underutilized; I think they’re under-
merchandised; I don’t think we tell the stories enough; I don’t
think we get out there and tackle some of the tough issues. And
I think there’s a profound opportunity to turn this national
asset that you couldn’t recreate today if you tried to get
better focused on some of the issues of today.  I think secondly, this notion -- I liked Sally’s story
about the community colleges because we do have, in 11.5 million
people in community colleges, many of them first-generation
immigrant populations, we have tremendous assets out there,
tremendous capability just looking for an opportunity to get in
the game.  And so I would really like to see our national research
institutions adopt some part of that ecosystem.  Because at the
end of the day at that stage, it’s not education, it’s
inspiration that changes people’s lives and gets them lined up
to want to have careers in science, technology, and engineering.  And then the last thing, I would just not miss the chance
to ask John, when we say immigration or when we say innovation-
friendly immigration policy and we add the words as part of
broad immigration reform, we get dead on arrival.  And so as the advisor to the president, when you get him in
there, and I don’t know whether it’s a cup of coffee or in a
headlock, do you articulate the imperative -- I think to John’s
point and others -- of --.  Businesses learned in this last
downturn to take smaller bites.  And so I would just ask you if
we could take a smaller bite then look at the things to deal
with this.  HOLDREN: I should say I am aware of that and I probably
shouldn’t have thrown the boilerplate phrase as part of [wider]
immigration reform in there.  I’m aware of it and the President
is aware of it, and we would love to get the high-tech parts
done if we can.  GREEN:  OK.  Because you asked for our help -  GREEN:  Yes.  I appreciate it.  GREEN:  -- and so I think that’s something we could
[normalize].  KULLMAN:  John?  JOHN LECHLEITER:  I think that despite, maybe, some
pessimism and some deep concerns that have been expressed,
there’s tremendous opportunity that really sits in front of us
today. We see it in the life sciences business.  The explosion
of knowledge and the availability of news tools, I think, offers
tremendous promise for new cures, for new prevention strategies,
for new treatments.  They’re not only sort of higher quality but
more cost effective as well.  So the opportunity has never been greater than it is, but I
think we also recognize as one company, we operate in an
ecosystem -- and I’ve talked a lot about this -- for us to be
successful.  These various other factors have to be in place,
and they include the three that we’re focused on today.  Immigration.  It takes us five years on average to get a
green card for somebody we hire, a non-U.S.-born person from
Harvard. We’ve got to fix that.  We need to continue to try to
see that the R&D tax credit becomes permanent, at least
predictable, instead of having this annual year-end dance around
wondering if it’s going to make it through or not.  Tax policy
in general needs to be looked at.  We have to -- with the America Invents Act, we’ve taken a
giant step forward, but patent enforcement for U.S. companies
around the world remains a huge issue and we need to see that
this is reflected in trade agreements, and that the problem of
counterfeiting, the appropriation of intellectual property, is
dealt with as well.  There’s a couple of other things that I would just mention
because you asked for inputs and ideas. I think one is
regulation.  I think we need to have appropriate -- all the
regulation that’s appropriate and no more in terms of enabling
businesses to operate and flourish, partnerships between
businesses and universities to be able to function.  And lastly, we need to make sure that we clear a path for
markets to operate. Investors won’t take the enormous risks that
many of our businesses entail without understanding that there
can be a reward at the end. We need to try to remove whatever we
can that’s artificial about that market setting and enable those
systems to work; that will encourage investment and ultimately
result in innovation.  KULLMAN: Tim?  TIM SOLSO:  I have -- I share some of John’s optimism.
We’re a classic industrial, Midwest company and we’re having the
best year in the history of the company, followed last year,
which was the best year in the history of our company.  There are two reasons.  I think one is that we expanded
into emerging markets --  China ,  India , and  Brazil  -- a long time
ago. Without the business we had there, we wouldn’t be where we
are today.  And even if you think of diesel technology and related
components as old, technology drives our business.  And what
drives that technology is regulation.  And where it’s a nice
thing to bash the EPA, we think they’ve done a good job. They’ve
laid out where they’re going over a 10-year period of time.  While we may argue about how fast we move, the fact is that
we’ve developed technologies that have met emissions
requirements here and has opened markets in other places because
we have that technology and local engine manufacturers don’t.
So, in a sense, we get a competitive advantage from that. So I
argue [with the same way] is that responsible regulation is a
good thing.  We need to hire in the next five years 7,000 engineers -
7,000. And the way we have to do that is to partner with the
universities. We’re particularly close with Purdue because they
happen to have a great engineering program and they’re close by.
But these private/public partnerships, getting the universities
involved, investing that way is a way that I think we can do
well.  The other thing is that now 60 percent of our employees are
outside the United States. We have to be able to move them from
one location to another quickly. We have to be able to hire
high-skilled people from other countries quickly to move. And if
we can’t do that, those - as your point - is those people go
someplace else, OK?  And if they go someplace else, we end up
competing with them.  So I think there’s a lot of good news. I know that it’s
popular to talk about how bad business is right now, but there’s
some manufacturing companies that are doing well [to be
expanded].  KULLMAN:  I think, Tim, your point about the number of
engineers that you’re going to need over the next few years, I
take a look at our -- DuPont’s numbers.  We’ll be hiring
thousands of engineers, agronomists, biologists -- all the
sciences -- with the breadth of our company.  And there is -- a lot of you touched on the -- Susan,
where’s the ambition coming from from our youth? In my
generation, we had the space program.  When I was in grade
school, we used to be very excited about being able to watch the
rocket take off and can we be getting to the moon, right?  That
really launched a large number of us going into sciences back in
the ‘60s and the ‘70s.  And so how can we create that sense of purpose, that sense
of ambition again?  What can universities do to help that K-12
that Sally was talking about? Freeman?  HRABOWSKI:  One of the reasons my state is doing well right
now in many ways and is supporting [public education] in a way
that a lot of states are not is that we’ve been able as a
university system of  Maryland , not just my own campus, to
rethink how we are doing business.  One of the statistics that few Americans appreciate [is
that they don’t really] understand is that, quite frankly, the
majority of Americans who begin in science and engineering do
not graduate in science and engineering.  I just [shared] the
national academy’s report on under-representation, and it goes
well beyond people of color.  In general, only two-thirds -- only one-third of American
students who begin at the bachelor’s level with the intention of
majoring in science and engineering actually graduate in science
and engineering. And the stunning statistic is sometimes the
more prepared -- the better prepared the student is, the less
likely that student will graduate in science and engineering.  And so one of the things we need to be doing -- and it is
happening across the country in different places, I know it is
in my state and at UMBC -- is that we need to use some our
innovative thinking to rethink how we offer science and
engineering, how we teach and learn in the undergraduate
experiences.  Course redesign, professional development, use of
collaboration, more technology -- these things will be more
important than ever.  In other words, there are more students than we may think
who are interested in science and engineering and, in many
cases, who’ve done well in AP courses.  They simply change their
majors.  And we -- I think -- what has happened in our state is
that I think legislators, both Democrats and Republicans, have
seen us saying to ourselves, “Let’s look in the mirror at
ourselves. That it’s not just K through 12.  We don’t want to
just point fingers. What are the things we can do as a
university, as a university system, to improve the way we teach
in order to ensure better learning in our institutions?”  FAUST: I’m struck in this conversation at the word
ecosystem as that’s come up in a number of contexts. And on one
level we’re talking about an international ecosystem of
innovation, but many of you have spoken about individual kinds
of connections -- yours with the community college and the K-12
education near the  University of Iowa , other kinds of ecosystems
that you, [Terri], were talking about, connecting universities
with other kinds of partnerships.  And I wonder if this relates in some ways, Freeman, to what
you began with, which is how do you imagine yourself in a
different place? How do you tell your own story as someone
aspiring to ambition and to having an impact in these realms?
And I think a lot of it happens in those kind of ecosystems that
we as universities create.  John is famous for his ecosystem in the Silicon Valley.  We
have our ecosystem in life sciences and beyond in  Boston .  You
all are creating systems around your particular endeavors, and
isn’t that what gets people to think there are possibilities
here?  “I can be part of this.  I can imagine myself beyond my
own self into a university, a company, into the world.”  And
how can we use those better?  Because we all seem to be focused
on how we operate within them.  KULLMAN:  I tell you, we could go on for hours and we have
another session coming up later, but I want to thank you for the
input you’ve given us.  And I want to ask you to keep focusing
on the challenge, because we in industry do need science,
engineering, math, and technology. Everywhere I go, small
companies, large companies, jobs are open today and it’s really
important we get the kids educated and the immigration policy
and things like that changed so that we can really have a very
robust innovation system here in the United States.  And with that, I’d like to turn it back over to John.  Any
closing comments or thoughts?  HOLDREN: Just to say thank you again. Some of you will have
noticed I took abundant notes on these comments, very useful set
of comments.  I did want to say, in reaction to Freeman’s last point,
that we are very much focused in PCAST on the problem you
mentioned of losing people to science and engineering fields
once they start college. And we have a study that will shortly
coming out, a report for the president on what we can do to
improve science, math, and engineering education in the first
two college years where a lot of that happens.  I also wanted to stress a theme that a number of you
mentioned, that’s one of the president’s major themes in this
domain, which is the crucial importance of partnerships across
sectors, across the branches of government, public, private,
philanthropic.  One I didn’t mention, which has been quite successful, is
Educate to Innovate, which is a partnership among the
government, the philanthropic sector, the private sector, which
is precisely aimed at a point, Ellen, I think you made, which is
that kids in K through 12 typically don’t really recognize the
array of interesting and rewarding careers that are available in
science and math and engineering.  And so part of Educate to Innovate is companies,
universities, national labs having their scientists go into the
classroom with teachers in the middle school and high school
level and not only enrich the experience from the standpoint of
hands-on science and math activities and experiments, but serve
as role models about the amazing careers that out there for kids
who do this. And that is a partnership that has $700 million in
funding that come from the business sector, the academic sector,
the philanthropic sector, not taxpayer money.  So we think the notion of partnerships is absolutely
critical. It’s well represented around this table. So again,
thank you.  KULLMAN: Great. Thank you all very much.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610805.56910.2.1.95.14779.96>#  #<610535.287720.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 