-- 
Why Occupy Wall Street Should Scare Republicans: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-10-07T00:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/occupy-wall-street-should-scare-republicans-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
In  Florida  this week, Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  was asked about the growing
Occupy Wall Street movement. “I think it’s dangerous, this class
warfare,” he said.  Romney’s right. It may be dangerous -- to his chances of
being elected.  Occupy Wall Street, now almost three weeks old, isn’t like
the anti-globalization demonstrations that disrupted summits in
the 1990s or even the street actions at the 2004  Republican
National Convention  in New York, though some of the same
characters are probably in attendance. With unemployed young
protesters planning to camp out all winter in Zuccotti Park
(with bathrooms available only at a nearby McDonald’s), it’s
more like a cross between a Hooverville and Woodstock -- the
middle-class jobless of the 1930s and the hippie protesters of
the 1960s.  With the help of unions and social networking, the movement
has at least some chance of re-energizing Democrats in 2012 and
pushing back against the phenomenal progress Republicans have
made in suppressing voter turnout in several states.  Why? Because the tectonic plates of U.S. politics are
shifting in ways we don’t yet fully understand. We don’t know
whether Occupy  Wall Street  is a carnival party -- a piece of
left-wing street theater that gets old fast -- or a nascent
political party that revives a long-dormant tradition of class-
based politics.  It’s possible that these demonstrations, which have now
 spread  to about 150 cities and campuses, will be hijacked by
extremists or dissipated by obnoxiousness; the American left has
practice in committing suicide. The whole thing could fade as
young people find a better way of hanging out offline.  Something Consequential  But my visits to Zuccotti Park made me think it’s the
beginning of something consequential. So far it looks like a
younger, lefty version of the early days of the  Tea Party  -- a
leaderless, mostly organic movement with a catchy symbolic name
that captures the public imagination by channeling anger against
elites.  Like the Tea Party on the Republican side, Occupy Wall
Street makes the party establishment nervous. It’s not just that
Democratic candidates have done well fundraising on Wall Street
in recent years. The bigger problem is getting the activists to
draw a distinction between bringing specific greedheads to
justice and mocking those parts of Wall Street that are
blameless in the 2008 crash and do plenty to invest in the
future of the country.  Directing Anger  But a healthy rebalancing of the national conversation is
nonetheless under way. The Tea Party directed public anger
against the federal government in general and President  Barack Obama  in particular; Occupy Wall Street directs that ire against
Wall Street in general and -- inevitably -- Romney in
particular.  This will have no effect on Romney in the Republican
primaries, of course, but in a general election it could make
him the poster boy of the big banks that many see as the cause
of their woes. The specifics of his record running Bain Capital
LLC will be subsumed in the image of his rationalizing the
actions (resisting any tax increases) of the “1 percenters.”  The arguments I heard from the often-articulate protesters
in the park were economic, not partisan. None of the posters
depicted Romney, House Speaker  John Boehner  or any other
Republicans. Instead they said things like “Top 1% Want
Everything,” “Listen to the Drumming of the 99% Revolution,”
“Stop Off-Shore Tax Evasion,” and “Protect Medicare, Not
Billionaires.”  It’s easy to denigrate the movement for simplistic
sentiments that lack a clear agenda. But as the Tea Party
demonstrations showed in 2009, that very shapelessness is a huge
asset (to use the Wall Street term). If “We’re the 99
percenters” catches on, and the crazies can be marginalized,
then the challenge will be to move from the streets to the
ballot box, as the Tea Party did in 2010.  Voting Barriers Multiply  Lack of enthusiasm for Obama would be one problem. But the
young people brought into activism by Occupy Wall Street may
face other impediments. Today’s  Republican Party  is not just
anti-Democratic but anti-democratic. The Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York  University just released a  disturbing report 
showing that changes in state laws could make it much harder for
more than 5 million eligible voters to cast ballots in 2012.
Some states are putting barriers in the way of early voting and
student voting, both of which are used heavily by the liberal
base.  The most appalling laws make it almost impossible to vote
without a driver’s license, which 11 percent of U.S. adults
don’t have. College ID cards are not an acceptable substitute in
several states.  Texas  Governor Rick Perry recently signed a bill
saying you can vote with a concealed-handgun permit but not with
identification from the  University of Texas .  Discipline Needed  It isn’t hard to see what Republican-controlled
legislatures are trying to do. They want to make sure that the
kind of free-floating anger expressed by Occupy Wall Street
doesn’t end up helping Obama’s reelection. The claim that the
purpose of the new election laws is to prevent voter fraud is
itself a fraud, given that there’s no widespread evidence of
ballots cast under assumed identities.  To make something lasting of this movement, the left must
move from legitimate moral outrage to a disciplined approach for
electing candidates who want to make Wall Street more answerable
for the mess we’re in. Even as they’re outspent by the Koch
brothers and their corporate ilk, the 99 percenters will make
2012 a helluva lot more compelling.  ( Jonathan Alter , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author
of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 