-- 
Oil Slick From Stricken Container Ship Threatens New Zealand’s Coastline

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-07T03:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/oil-slick-from-stricken-container-ship-threatens-new-zealand-s-coastline.html
New Zealand authorities are working
to contain an  oil slick  heading toward shore from a container
ship that is caught on a reef near the North Island port of
Tauranga.  “In all likelihood the situation with the oil is going to
get worse before it gets better,” Transport Minister Steven Joyce said at a news conference in Tauranga televised by  Sky
News . “We should expect oil to come ashore.”  Oil-soaked birds have been found on the water as the slick
extends 2,000 meters from the ship,  Maritime New Zealand  said in
a statement on its website. Authorities have conducted aerial
and on-water assessments, and are spreading chemicals to help
disperse the fuel.  The 236-meter (774-foot) Rena struck the reef about 12
nautical miles off the coast early on Oct. 5, and remains stable
on the rocks. Two of the ship’s holds have flooded and the ship
is listing.  Fuel oil  has escaped from damaged pipes, although
tanks containing more oil are undamaged, Maritime New Zealand
said.  More than 100 staff are involved in preparation for an
operation to collect the oil, including specialist vessels, an
oil boom, and personnel and equipment from  Australia , Joyce
said. Wildlife rescue staff are also getting ready, he said.  Maritime New Zealand, a government agency, is in contact
with the owner-appointed salvage company, with a priority of
emptying the fuel tanks. The Rena is owned by Liberia-based
Daina Shipping, according to Bloomberg data. Mediterranean
Shipping Company has chartered the vessel, the New Zealand
Herald reported.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, has 89 containers of product destined for customers in
 Asia  and the  Middle East  on the ship, the Auckland-based company
said in an e-mailed statement. The condition of the cargo is
unknown, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  