-- 
Crude Oil Futures Advance Most in Seven Months on U.S. Employment Growth

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-10-07T19:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/oil-rises-after-u-s-employment-gain-eases-economic-concerns.html
Oil rose in  New York , capping the
biggest weekly gain in seven months, as larger-than-forecast
U.S. jobs growth eased concern that the economy is slowing.  Futures rose as the Labor Department said payrolls climbed
by 103,000 workers in September and 57,000 in August. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 60,000
in September. Oil climbed 4.8 percent this week, the most since
March, as U.S. supplies fell and European central banks
announced stimulus plans.  “There have been some really grave concerns that we’re
heading into another recession and this will quell those worries
until the next bad numbers come out,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion. “We were already having a
really good week and these numbers were better than expected.”  Crude oil for November delivery rose 39 cents to settle at
$82.98 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 9.2 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement increased 15 cents to end
the session at $105.88 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark climbed 3 percent this
week, the most since the week ending July 8.  The employment gain included the return to work of 45,000
striking telecommunications employees. The jobless rate held at
9.1 percent. Hours and earnings both increased, the report
showed, and revisions to previous reports added a total of
99,000 jobs to payrolls in July and August.  ‘Biggest Driver’  “The biggest driver of oil markets is economic growth,”
said Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige Economics, an
energy advisory company in Austin,  Texas . “People were
increasingly fretful that we were entering another recession,
and here is a piece of economic news that points to growth.”  Industrial output in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
fell less than forecast in August. Production dropped 1 percent
from July, when it rose 3.9 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. A 2 percent decline was expected, according
to the median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Output
is up 7.7 percent this year when adjusted for working days.  “The oil market is going to continue to move on the latest
economic news,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “We’re looking for
signs of whether the economy will spiral back into recession or
start to improve.”  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it will bring back
yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited cash through
January 2013. The ECB will also resume purchases of covered
bonds to encourage lending. The  Bank of England  announced
yesterday its biggest stimulus since the recession.  Berlin Meeting  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will meet in Berlin on Oct. 9 to discuss
Greece’s debt problems as the nation edges closer to default.  Oil fell as much as 1.5 percent after  Fitch Ratings  reduced
the ratings of Spain and Italy, bolstering concern the European
debt crisis will worsen. Spain had its foreign and local
currency long-term issuer default ratings cut to AA- from AA+,
while Italy had the same set of ratings reduced to A+ from AA-,
the company said in statements today.  “The Fitch downgrades of  Spain  and Italy are a reminder of
the looming European debt crisis and how unsettled the markets
are,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New
York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The jobs numbers
are not as strong as initially thought.”  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude oil inventories fell 4.68 million barrels to
336.3 million last week, the lowest level since January,
according to an Energy Department report on Oct. 5. Gasoline
supplies declined 1.14 million barrels to 213.7 million last
week, the report showed.  “The big draw in supplies this week gave the market a
boost,” Schenker said. “At the end of the day this is about
supply and demand.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 654,535
contracts as of 3:22 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 836,382
contracts yesterday, the highest since Aug. 31 and 25 percent
above than the average of the last three months. Open interest
was 1.44 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  