-- 
Holder Says His Gun Testimony Was Truthful

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-10-07T20:52:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/holder-says-his-congressional-testimony-on-u-s-gun-operation-was-truthful.html
Attorney General Eric Holder rebutted
Republican claims that he gave misleading testimony to Congress
about a program that allowed illegal gun purchases in the U.S.
in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels.  Holder said in a letter to lawmakers today that he didn’t
recall knowing about the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives program, called Fast and Furious, until public
controversy about it earlier this year.  Republicans lawmakers have said newly released Justice
Department documents contradicted Holder’s statement during May
3 testimony before the House Judiciary Committee that he learned
of the program “over the last few weeks.”  Lamar Smith , a Texas
Republican who is chairman of the committee, wrote President
 Barack Obama  requesting that a special prosecutor investigate.  “My testimony was truthful and accurate and I have been
consistent on this point throughout,” Holder wrote. “I have no
recollection of knowing about Fast and Furious or of hearing its
name prior to the public controversy about it.”  Republican lawmakers have said references to the operation
in weekly reports submitted to Holder’s office in 2010 suggest
he was aware of the operation earlier.  In his letter, Holder said “none of these summaries say
anything about the unacceptable tactics employed by ATF.”  Staff Review  He said his staff “review these weekly reports and bring
to my attention only those matters deemed to require my
consideration or action.”  Holder’s letter called Fast and Furious a “flawed response
to a serious problem” on the Southwest border, which he
described as the “front line in the battle against illegal gun
trafficking.”  Holder’s comments in the letter are “factually
questionable, entirely self-serving” and incomplete, said a
statement from Frederick Hill, a spokesman for the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican and chairman of the panel,
has been investigating the Fast and Furious operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Justin Blum  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  