-- 
Olympic Committee to Pursue Doping Bans After Sports Court Overturns Rule

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-07T15:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/olympic-committee-to-pursue-doping-bans-after-sports-court-overturns-rule.html
The  International Olympic Committee 
will continue to attempt to ban athletes caught doping from
future Games even after sport’s top court yesterday said the
suspensions would be illegal.  Yesterday, the Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled that
Olympic organizers can’t ban athletes guilty of doping from
taking part in the next Games because it amounts to double
punishment. The court said the IOC can have anti-doping rules
re-written to include an Olympic suspension, but that current
legislation doesn’t allow the punishment.  “This is not the final word,” Denis Oswald, chairman of
the IOC’s coordination commission, said at a press conference
today in London. “We will work with the  World Anti-Doping
Agency  and see how we can make sure that in the long term we
implement that rule.”  Oswald and the coordination commission today completed
their ninth visit to inspect the  London 2012 Games . Next year’s
event won’t be tarnished by the ruling, and 6,000 athletes will
be tested before and during the Olympics, Oswald said.  “We don’t see any reason to really worry,” he said.
“The best we can do is done in order to get the cleanest
possible Games,” he added.  Sebastian Coe, chairman of the  London  organizing committee,
agreed.  “I have no issue about the reputation of the Games because
we have a zero tolerance to drug abuse in sport and during the
Games,” Coe said at the press conference.  The IOC in 2008 moved to stop those suspended for more than
six months for a doping violation from taking part in the next
Games, even if their ban had ended.  CAS Ruling  The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) found the IOC
decision “is invalid and unenforceable,” according to an e-
mailed  statement  from the Lausanne, Switzerland-based court.  The CAS decision means American 400-meter runner LaShawn
Merritt can participate in the London Games next year. He was
suspended for two years after testing positive for a banned
substance that the athlete says he consumed accidentally. The
ban was later reduced to 21 months.  Oswald also said he supported the British Olympic
Association’s rule that bans athletes who’ve committed a serious
doping offense from taking part in the  Olympic Games  for life.  British sprinter Dwain Chambers and cyclist David Millar --
who have both served drug suspensions in the past -- could start
legal proceedings to get their Olympics bans overturned and
force inclusion into the British team for the London Games.  “It’s stated in the Olympic Charter that each national
Olympic committee has the right to establish the rule of
eligibility on which they will select their athletes,” Oswald
said. “And we fully understand that the BOA has had that rule
for already a number of years, which has been challenged in
different occasions, and it stands. We fully respect this right
of the BOA.”  USOC Challenge  Coe, a double Olympic champion middle-distance runner, said
it is “appropriate for an autonomous sporting organization to
lay down whatever bylaws it thinks it needs in order to maintain
the integrity of sport. My own personal view is that I would of
course go for a life ban.”  The U.S. Olympic Committee challenged Merritt’s suspension
from the Games, saying that it amounted to a three-year ban,
which was a double punishment. The Court agreed, saying the
Olympics can’t have their own suspension program outside the
World Anti-Doping Code, which the Olympic organizers adopted as
part of their own statutes.  CAS said the IOC should move to have the World Anti-Doping
Code amended to include the Olympic ban should the Games
organizers still want to implement the suspension rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  