-- 
London’s Roads Will Get $2.81 Billion Overhaul Through 2020

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-10-07T15:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/london-s-roads-will-receive-2-81-billion-overhaul-through-2020.html
London ’s transport authority and
boroughs will spend as much as 1.81 billion pounds ($2.81
billion) upgrading and maintaining the city’s roads through
2020, according to contract proposals published today.  Transport for London  and the 33 local governments are
likely to ask five to seven contractors to compete for the work,
which will cover the northeast, northwest, center and south of
the city, the state-funded transport provider said in  documents 
posted on a U.K. government procurement  website . The total
amount awarded would range from about 750 million pounds to 1.81
billion pounds, according to the documents.  “We’re looking for the most economically advantageous deal
we can get,” Thomas Canning, a TFL spokesman, said by
telephone. Each contract “would cover a selection of TFL roads
and the boroughs within that area.”  Seeking bids jointly will bring “better efficiencies,” he
said. TFL and each London borough had previously done their
contracting separately.  The U.K. government plans to spend 200 billion pounds on
 infrastructure  using a mix of public and private funding through
2015 as it seeks to boost a flagging economy. TFL is upgrading
the city’s transport network with projects such as Crossrail,
which will connect  Heathrow Airport  with the  West End  and the
Canary Wharf financial district.  The contracts will also cover street lighting and may also
cover “housing estates, green space, schools, bus stations,
garages, car parks, crematoriums, cemeteries” and other sites,
TFL said in the documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  