-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Advance, Erasing Weekly Loss; Hutchison Jumps

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-10-07T08:36:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/hong-kong-stocks-advance-paring-weekly-loss-hutchison-jumps.html
Hong Kong  stocks rose, posting their
first weekly gain in five, as Europe-related shares advanced
amid optimism officials will protect banks from the region’s
debt crisis, and as luxury retailers soared.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , an owner of ports in Germany and
 Spain , jumped 11 percent after saying its operations in Europe
are “very resilient.” BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., a unit of
Bank of  China  Ltd., jumped 7 percent. Luk Fook Holdings
(International) Ltd., a retailer of gold jewelry, surged 10
percent after the chairman of the Hong Kong Tourism Board said
visits from China increased during this week’s national holidays.
Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1 producer of the metal,
advanced 13 percent after metal prices rose.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 3.1 percent to 17,707.01 at the
close, advancing 0.7 percent for the week. All but six stocks
gained in the 46-member gauge. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong advanced 3.7
percent to 8,887.53. China’s markets reopen on Oct. 10 from a
week-long holiday.  There’s “generally a feeling that the policy makers have
started to move in the right direction,”  Sean Darby , global
head of equity strategy at Jefferies Group Inc., said on
Bloomberg television today. “They haven’t necessarily got ahead
of the problem, but the fact that policy makers seem to be doing
something that the markets had wanted has allowed the money to
start to flow back into risk assets.”  This Year  The Hang Seng Index has tumbled 23 percent this year
through yesterday, amid concern the global economy may slip into
a recession as U.S. growth slows and Europe’s debt crisis
worsens. Companies on the index traded at 9.4 times forecast
earnings, compared with 11.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Hutchison Whampoa gained 11 percent to HK$63.15, the
steepest gain in the Hang Seng Index. The company’s European
operations “have proven to be very resilient despite recent
events in Europe,” Hutchison said in a statement. Europe
accounted for 25 percent of the company’s first-half earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, it said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s largest bank by market value,
rose 3.9 percent to HK$61.60, while Standard Chartered Plc, the
U.K.’s second-biggest lender by market value, gained 6.1 percent
to HK$161.10. BOC Hong Kong gained 7 percent to HK$16.76. A
measure of financial shares had the biggest gain among the Hang
Seng Index’s four industry groups.  Coordinated Injection  Banks in Europe rallied after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB will resume purchases
of covered bonds -- assets backed by mortgages or public-sector
loans -- and reintroduce yearlong loans for banks, while defying
calls for an interest-rate cut and acknowledging “downside
risks” to the economy have intensified.  The European Commission is pushing for a coordinated
capital injection for banks to shield them from the fallout of a
potential Greek default.  “It certainly sounds like policy makers in  Europe  are
understanding the situation with the banking system and getting
more willing to recapitalize the banks,” said Belinda Allen, a
senior investment analyst at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management in Sydney, which oversees about $145 billion. “That
has been a positive step, but we haven’t seen that yet. I think
it is a real risk until we see an announcement.”  S&P Futures Rise  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent
today. In  New York , the index advanced 1.8 percent yesterday,
capping its biggest three-day rally since August after Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said U.S. banks have strengthened.  U.S. stocks also rose as a report showed that claims for
U.S. unemployment benefits rose less than forecast last week. A
government release today may show employers added 55,000 workers
to payrolls in September and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of clothes and toys to Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., jumped 7.6 percent to HK$13 while Techtronic
Industries Co., a maker of power tools that counts  North America 
as its largest market, advanced 5.9 percent to HK$5.56.  Luxury retailers gained on speculation sales will increase.
Luk Fook surged 10 percent to HK$25.50. Emperor Watch &
Jewellery Ltd., which gets most of its revenue from Hong Kong,
soared 13 percent to 99 Hong Kong cents. Hengdeli Holdings Ltd.,
the retail partner of Swatch Group AG in China, gained 11
percent to HK$2.61.  Tourism Gains  The number of visitors to Hong Kong from China during the
first five days of the national holidays starting Oct. 1 rose 13
percent from a year earlier, James Tien, chairman of the Hong
Kong Tourism Board, said on Bloomberg television today.  Jiangxi Copper gained 13 percent to HK$14.18, while
 Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , a copper and alumina producer, jumped
16 percent to HK$3.02.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum rose 4.4 percent
yesterday.  Chinese property shares extended gains. Agile Property
Holdings Ltd. jumped 14 percent to HK$6, while China Resources
Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, soared 7.6 percent to
HK$8.88. Property shares surged yesterday after Deutsche Bank AG
said it sees “emerging” value for long-term investment in
developers.  ‘Strong Sales’  “In spite of weak general physical  market sentiment  among
first-/second-tier cities, contracted sales performance for
listed developers during Golden Week remained strong,” Samsung
Securities Co. said in a report dated yesterday. “Listed
developers can still achieve strong sales results by gaining
market share.”  Futures on the Hang Seng Index increased 2.5 percent to
17,643. The HSI Volatility Index sank 7.7 percent to 38.08,
indicating options traders expect a swing of 11 percent in the
Hang Seng Index in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 