-- 
RBS, Lloyds Cut by Moody’s on Declining Government Support

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   E .   F r a z e r
-- 
2011-10-07T16:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/moody-s-cuts-its-senior-debt-ratings-on-12-u-k-banks-building-societies.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut the
senior debt and deposit ratings of 12 British lenders including
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
saying the government would be less likely to provide support in
the event of failure.  Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, Santander UK Plc and Co-Operative Bank
Plc had their ratings lowered one step by Moody’s, while RBS and
 Nationwide Building Society  were cut two levels. Seven smaller
building societies were cut from one to five levels, the rating
company said in a statement today. Clydesdale Bank was confirmed
at A2, with a negative outlook.  “Moody’s has pulled the trigger a little early,” said
Michael Symonds, a credit analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe Ltd. said in a note today. “The escalation of the
sovereign and banking crisis” will “result in a broad
government-backed recapitalization of the continent’s banks,”
he said.  The  Bank of England , the Financial Services Authority and
the Treasury have provided guidance that banks that fail in the
future shouldn’t expect a taxpayer-funded bailout, Moody’s said.
The government-sponsored Independent Commission on Banking’s
report published last month is “credit-negative for bondholders
longer-term as they indicate that new structures, such as ring-
fencing, could be introduced to aid resolution and allow senior
bondholders to share the burden of bank failure,” the service
said.  Future Support  “Moody’s reassessment assumes a decrease in the
probability that the U.K. government would provide future
support to financial institutions if needed,” Moody’s said in
the statement.  RBS, which rose 7.8 percent yesterday, traded down 3
percent to 23.62 pence, while Lloyds was down 3.4 percent to
34.66 pence. The stocks have declined by 40 percent and 47
percent respectively this year.  “The equity market is already ahead of Moody’s as viewing
sovereigns as weak and therefore sovereign support to banks as
being weak,” said  Alex Potter , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in
London. “This is predicated purely on the change of assumptions
from Moody’s on support from the U.K. government; this is
nothing to do with saying RBS itself is weaker.”  Strongly Capitalized  RBS said it has made “significant progress” in
strengthening its credit profile since 2008, and reducing its
loan-to-deposit ratio to 114 percent from 154 percent, in a
separate statement. The bank gained 45.5 billion pounds of
taxpayer aid to lift its capital following the 2008 banking
crisis.  “One of the reasons they’re doing this is they think the
British government is moving in the direction of trying to get
away from guaranteeing the biggest banks in Britain,”
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” program. “In other words, trying to move away from
the too big to fail problem.”  Lloyds said “it is important to note that both the
standalone rating and short-term ratings remain unchanged,” in
an e-mailed statement. “This change will have minimal impact on
our funding costs”.  RBS said it is one of the most strongly capitalized banks
in Europe following a newspaper report saying it might need
extra capital after a new round of European Union stress tests.  “The design of any new application of the EU stress tests
is completely up in the air,” RBS said in an e-mailed statement
following the story in the Financial Times. “Any analysis of
how any bank will be affected is nothing more than
speculation.”  Future Problems  European lenders may need as much as 200 billion euros
($269 billion) of additional capital, according to the
International Monetary Fund’s European head Antonio Borges.  “RBS reported an 11.1 percent Core Tier 1 capital ratio as
at 30 June 2011, which places us among the strongest capitalized
banks in  Europe ,” the bank said.  In Europe and elsewhere “there is a desire to ensure that
if there are problems at banks in the future, that it’s also
debt holders and not just equity holders and subordinated
bondholders that share that pain, and that’s what we’re
reflecting in our ratings here,” Elisabeth Rudman, senior vice
president at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not
that we think they’ll let these banks fall apart in a crisis.”  RBS had a five-grade increase in its ratings because of
implicit government support and Lloyds had a four-level benefit,
which Moody’s has lowered, though not eliminated, she said.  “Three notches is a significant advantage for banks that
otherwise would be on life-support,” wrote  Cornelius Hurley , a
law professor at  Boston University , in an e-mail.  For the customer-owned building societies, “these
institutions are smaller, to resolve and do an orderly wind-
down,” said Rudman. “That’s why we decided with these smaller
institutions, we’re not including any systemic support into the
debt rating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle E. Frazer in London at 
 mfrazer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  