-- 
Moody’s Lowers Its Senior Debt, Deposit Ratings for Nine Portuguese Banks

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 
2011-10-07T08:48:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/moody-s-takes-rate-action-on-portuguese-banks.html
Nine Portuguese banks had their debt
ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service by one or two levels,
which cited concern about funding, bad loans and holdings of
government debt.  Moody’s cut the “standalone” debt ratings of three banks,
 Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and  Banco
BPI SA (BPI) , by two levels, the ratings company said in a statement
today.  The downgrades for BCP and BPI reflected Greek sovereign-
debt holdings, potential lack of access to wholesale debt
markets and “increased asset risk” caused by holdings of
Portuguese government bonds, Moody’s said. The moves conclude a
review begun on July 15, when  Portugal ’s sovereign rating was
cut to Ba2 with a negative outlook from Baa1.  Moody’s cut BES’s standalone rating to Ba3 from D+/Ba1 and
BPI’s to Ba2 from Baa3. “BES has traditionally been the most
active Portuguese bank in the capital markets as well as a
wholesale-oriented bank displaying a high reliance on wholesale
funding,” Moody’s said.  BCP was cut to B1 from D/Ba2, in part because of its Greek
subsidiary, Moody’s said. The ratings company said it cut
standalone ratings one or two notches for six of the nine banks
that had their senior debt ratings reduced today.  Moody’s cut Caixa Geral de Depositos’ debt and deposit
ratings to Ba2 from Baa1 and Banco Santander Totta to Baa2 from
Baa1. Banif SGPS SA was cut to Ba3 from Ba2, Moody’s said. The
outlook on the ratings for all the affected banks is negative,
with the exception of Banco Portugues de Negocios SGPS, which
has a developing outlook, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at   cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Tim Farrand at   tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  