-- 
Morgan Stanley Credit Risk Plunges for Fourth Day, Swaps Show

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-07T20:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/morgan-stanley-credit-swaps-plunge-for-fourth-day-phoenix-says.html
The cost to protect  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
bonds against losses dropped for the fourth day as concern eased
that its balance sheet will be impaired by Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts said investors
should wager on the bank’s creditworthiness.  Credit-default swaps on Morgan Stanley fell 43 basis points
to 431 basis points as of 3:49 p.m. in  New York , according to
prices from London-based data provider CMA. The five-year
contracts have declined from 650 basis points on Oct. 4, the
highest since October 2008, the month after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy.  Creditor confidence in New York-based Morgan Stanley is
rebounding after crumbling for two straight weeks amid
speculation the firm faced losses tied to Europe’s fiscal
imbalances that has sent borrowing costs on governments from
 Greece  to  Italy  to records and triggered drops in the stocks of
the region’s lenders, led by French banks.  “We believe concerns regarding its European swap and loan
exposures appear overdone, as the firm signaled its net
exposures to France and the periphery are modest if not
immaterial,” Goldman Sachs analysts and strategists including
 John Marshall  , Louise Pitt and  Daniel Harris  said in a note
today.  The analysts recommended investors sell protection with
one-year contracts tied to Morgan Stanley debt that were quoted
at about 640 basis points. That’s equivalent to about $640,000
on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The surge in credit swaps doesn’t “reflect actual credit
fundamentals” for a bank a with a $182 billion global liquidity
pool at the end of the second quarter, they said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Cross-Border Exposure  Morgan Stanley had about $28 billion of cross-border
exposure to French banks at the end of June before accounting
for offsetting hedges and collateral, according to a  filing  with
the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission.  Cross-border outstandings include cash deposits,
receivables, loans and securities, as well as short-term
collateralized loans of securities or cash known as  repurchase
agreements  or reverse repurchase agreements.  While Morgan Stanley hasn’t updated those figures, the
total risk to  France  and the country’s lenders is less than $2
billion when collateral and hedges are included, Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York estimated in a
Sept. 23 note to clients. The bank’s current exposure to the
nation and its banks is zero after hedges and collateral, a
person close to the firm said Sept. 30.  Relative to Peers  Disclosures by the company when it announces third-quarter
earnings this month are likely to calm fears, causing credit
swaps to narrow relative to peers, the Goldman Sachs strategists
said.  Morgan Stanley’s credit swaps through yesterday were
trading 164 basis points wider than the average of the six-
biggest U.S. banks, according to prices from London-based data
provider CMA. The gap reached 226 basis points at the close of
trading on Oct. 3, the widest since October 2008.  Swaps on other banks also decreased today. Contracts on
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  fell 10 basis points to a mid-price of 290 basis
points,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  dropped 5 to 394 and swaps on
Goldman Sachs declined 19 to 355, CMA prices show.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit risk snapped three
days of declines as  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Spain and Italy,
overshadowing positive jobs data in the U.S.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index , which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, added 0.7 basis point to a mid-
price of 139.6 basis points as of 3:58 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The measure
had earlier declined as much as 2.6.  Payrolls Data  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has dropped
from 150.1 on Oct. 3 as investor speculation grew that  Europe ’s
leaders are progressing in stemming the debt crisis.  “September’s payrolls data is a light in the middle of the
tunnel for the credit markets,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “It’s not enough to ease investor anxiety
permanently, but it should provide a catalyst for some relief to
these wider spreads.”  Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised 57,000
increase the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department data showed today in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  