-- 
Osborne Stresses Role of Private Assets as BOE Boosts Easing

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-07T10:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/osborne-stresses-role-of-private-assets-as-boe-boosts-easing-2-.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King that
quantitative easing could be used to buy private-sector
securities, hinting at a split over how to aid the economy.  In a letter to King authorizing the extension of the bank’s
bond-buying program to 275 billion pounds ($421 billion) from
200 billion pounds yesterday, Osborne highlighted the credit
scarcity continuing to hamper small and medium-sized businesses.  The Bank of England has focused almost entirely on
 government bonds  since quantitative easing began in March 2009,
shunning the option to buy as much as 50 billion pounds of
riskier private-sector assets despite a Treasury pledge to
indemnify it for any losses. Corporate bonds account for just
over 1 billion pounds of the assets purchased so far.  “The chancellor’s letter clearly betrays that they do not
see eye-to-eye on how to support the economy,” said Danny Gabay, director of Fathom Financial Consulting in  London .
“Osborne repeatedly stresses the private-sector route.”  Speculation about possible tensions between the Treasury
and the central bank grew earlier this week when Osborne used
his speech to the Conservative Party conference to announce
plans for a program of credit easing to channel money directly
to companies struggling to obtain bank loans.  The proposal envisages the Treasury selling bills and using
the proceeds to buy corporate bonds or packages of securitized
loans made to small companies, possibly using the central bank
as an agent.  ‘Implicit Statement’  “The Treasury is now thinking of doing this itself,” said
Jonathan Portes, director of the National Institute of Economic
and Social Research in London. “There is an implicit statement
that the Treasury is saying to the bank that if you are not
going to buy private-sector assets, we are.”  Osborne today told BBC Radio 4 that he doesn’t think King
is dragging his feet, saying he has “good relations” with the
governor and the central bank.  “The chancellor and the governor of the Bank of England
are acting in concert with each other, not in war with each
other,” Osborne said. “That is something I have put a lot of
effort into and so has  Mervyn King . We have the right division
of responsibility. He undertakes the purest form of monetary
action, consistent with an independent Bank of England. I help
channel money to parts of the economy that the elected
government deems necessary.”  Eligible Assets  In his letter to King, Osborne wrote that eligible
purchases “include gilts and eligible private-sector assets”
and that the 50 billion-pound ceiling for private assets remains
unchanged. He then referred to his own plan to tackle the
“continued impairment in the flow of credit to some parts of
the real economy, notably small and medium-sized businesses.”  A Treasury official said Osborne was highlighting how the
program works, as his predecessor  Alistair Darling  had in other
letters. In March 2009, Darling gave King the green light to
“purchase U.K. government debt on the secondary market as well
as the full range of private-sector assets” using newly printed
money.  Darling, who helped design the asset-purchase program as
chancellor in the previous Labour government, told BBC Radio 4
yesterday he had grown “quite frustrated” with King’s
insistence on buying only government debt.  “It has to be done in such a way to make sure the money
leaves the banks’ vaults, otherwise it has no effect,” Darling
said.  Britain has struggled to recover from its worst recession
since at least World War II, with the economy barely growing
over the past year. With gilt yields now close to record lows,
some economists have questioned the effectiveness of pumping
more money into the economy by buying government debt.  Gilts have returned 12 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing the 7.3 percent gain
for German bunds and 8.8 percent increase for U.S. Treasuries.
The 10-year gilt yield gained 1 basis point to 2.4 percent as of
11:30 a.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  