-- 
Toyota Said to Ask Parts-Makers to Cut Prices or Be Replaced

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-10-07T09:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/toyota-said-to-tell-partsmakers-in-japan-to-slash-prices-as-yen-advances.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s biggest
carmaker, is telling parts suppliers in Japan to slash prices or
face being replaced by overseas rivals as the yen’s value
appreciates, four people involved with the discussions said.  Toyota, which loses 34 billion yen ($443 million) in
operating profit for every 1 yen appreciation against the
dollar, told parts-makers it will buy more from emerging markets
if domestic suppliers can’t match overseas prices, according to
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  Toyota Boshoku Corp. (3116)  led declines among the automakers’
suppliers today, dropping 5.8 percent in  Tokyo  to its lowest
close since March 2009. Toyota, based in Aichi prefecture,
Japan, is cutting costs to compensate for the yen’s climb as it
restores output in  Japan  after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami damaged factories and caused parts and power shortages.  “The high yen must be pressuring Toyota to review its
supply chain and to seek cheaper options,” Hiroshi Ataku, an
analyst at IHS automotive in Tokyo said.  The yen rose to postwar high in August, forcing President
Akio Toyoda to focus on cost cuts. He had earlier pledged to
make quality the company’s top priority in response to recalls
of more than 10 million vehicles for problems related to
unintended acceleration.  Nissan’s Ghosn  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of Toyota’s biggest
domestic rival Nissan Motor Co., yesterday said Japan faces a
“hollowing out” of its industries should the government fail
to take steps to counter the yen’s rise.  Toyota made the demand for price cuts at the end of August
to its  219 largest domestic suppliers , including  Denso Corp. (6902)  and
Aisin Seiki Co., at a meeting held in Nagano prefecture, the
people said.  Denso shares dropped 3.4 percent to 2,249 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the lowest since Aug. 24. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1 percent. Toyota rose
0.4 percent to 2,549 yen.  Toyota spokeswoman Amiko Tomita in Tokyo declined to
comment on the automaker’s discussions with parts-makers about
prices.  Nissan’s Ghosn, after taking over as president of the
Japanese automaker in 2000, slashed the number of domestic
suppliers to cut costs and restore the automaker to profit. That
recovery is now threatened by the Japanese currency’s sharp
rise, Ghosn has said.  ‘Keiretsu’ Ties  Toyota has some of the closest ties with suppliers in the
industry, as it shares cost savings, guarantees business and
holds stakes in the biggest members of its parts-makers group.
The automaker has maintained that system even as global rivals
including Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Co. have cut the
number of parts-makers to hold down costs.  Toyota’s suppliers network, or keiretsu, has helped the
company dominate the Japanese market with market share of  about
48 percent  last year. The automaker’s 219 closest suppliers are
members of the Kyohokai, which stands for “a group that
cooperates with Toyota” in Japanese. The group was set up in
December 1943, six years after Toyota was established.  Toyota, committed to manufacturing at least 3 million
vehicles a year in Japan, has “naturally” favored its
affiliated domestic parts suppliers, Ataku of IHS said. The
close ties may not last much longer, he said.  Ghosn’s Way  “Toyota may have to follow what Ghosn did with Nissan’s
parts supply chain 10 years ago, and search for the cheapest
possible options,” he said.  Japan-based suppliers should procure more of their parts
from overseas as one way to reduce their prices, Toyota said,
according to the people involved in the discussions. The company
asked some parts-makers to slash prices by as much as half,
according to one of the people involved in the discussions.  The yen strengthened to a postwar record 75.95 yen versus
the dollar in August and has averaged about 80 yen in the fiscal
year started April 1, compared with almost 90 yen in the same
period a year earlier.  Toyota’s ratio of domestic production is higher than Japan-
based competitors. Nissan built 25 percent of its vehicles in
Japan last fiscal year, while Honda Motor Co., the third-
biggest, produced 26 percent of its cars at home.  Rivals Overtaking  The challenge to achieve lower costs in Japan also comes as
output disruptions from the earthquake and tsunami may cause
Toyota to fall behind GM and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in global sales this
year.  Toyota recovered production to normal levels last month
after the quake, has said it expects global production to rise
5.1 percent from a year earlier to 7.72 million units in the 12
months ending March 31.  The automaker’s global output increased 10.6 percent to
626,817 vehicles in August, the first increase after the
government ended subsidies for fuel-efficient cars in September
2010, the Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker said Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  