-- 
Gain in U.S. Payrolls Probably Too Small to Cut Unemployment

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-07T10:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/payroll-gain-probably-failed-to-cut-u-s-unemployment-as-confidence-waned.html
A projected gain in U.S. payrolls in
September was probably too small to bring down the unemployment
rate as concern mounted that the global recovery was losing
momentum, economists said before a report today.  Employment climbed by 55,000 workers after no change in
August, according to the median forecast of 91 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The jobless rate was 9.1 percent for
a third consecutive month, according to the forecasts.  The debt crisis in  Europe , political gridlock in the U.S.
and plunging stock prices have led to a drop in consumer and
business confidence that may keep hurting spending and hiring.
The risk that the world’s largest economy may fall back into a
recession has prompted the  Federal Reserve  and President Barack Obama to announce further measures to sustain the expansion.  “Businesses remain reluctant to add workers,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester,  Pennsylvania . “Much of the weakness in hiring can be
blamed on uncertainty.”  Unemployment has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009,
the longest stretch of such elevated joblessness since monthly
records began in 1948.  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, rose
90,000 after a gain of 17,000 in the prior month, economists
forecast the employment report will also show.  While a labor dispute at  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
depressed employment in August, its resolution may have added
about 45,000 workers back to payrolls last month, according to
John Herrmann, senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston .  State Workers  Conversely, the return of state government workers in
 Minnesota  lifted the August payroll count by 23,000, a boost
that wasn’t repeated last month.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of 2011, the weakest performance in two years, the Commerce
Department reported last week.  Consumer spending  grew 0.7
percent, the least since the last three months of 2009.  Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
 New York , says the odds of a renewed U.S. recession are rising
as confidence and spending have slumped. This week he said he
saw a 40 percent chance the U.S. would slip back into a
recession over the next year.  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas in New York, forecasts a “mild recession.”  The projected gain in total payrolls would bring the
average from July through September to 47,000, down from 97,000
in the second quarter and 166,000 in the first three months of
the year.  200,000 a Month  Sustained increases of around 200,000 a month are needed to
bring unemployment down about a percentage point over a year,
according to  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD Securities
Inc. in New York.  Through August, the economy had recovered about 1.9 million
of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  “Economic growth remains slow,” Fed policy makers said
Sept. 21 as they announced a plan to bring down longer-term
lending rates. While officials said they “expect some pickup in
the pace of recovery over coming quarters,” they anticipate
“the  unemployment rate  will decline only gradually.”  Obama last month proposed a $447 billion jobs plan that
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast would help avoid a
return to recession by maintaining growth and pushing down the
unemployment rate next year.  Stock Market  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its biggest quarterly
drop from July through September since 2008 on concern the
recovery will falter. It’s climbed 6 percent so far this week.
Futures expiring in December fell 0.2 percent from yesterday to
1,155.2 as of 10:33 a.m. in  London .  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank , is among firms
that have turned more cautious about hiring. It said last month
it will limit hiring to only “critical” jobs as the economic
slowdown continues and revenue slumps.  “We are currently only filling positions we believe are
critical to the line of business or function,” Shannon Bell, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said in an interview
Sept. 15.  Nonetheless, some companies are planning to boost payrolls.
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  this week said it has committed to add 12,000
hourly jobs in its U.S. manufacturing plants by 2015 as part of
an agreement with the United Auto Workers.  Ford said it will be “in-sourcing” jobs from  Mexico ,
 China  and  Japan . Ford said this will be 5,750 hourly jobs more
than a previously announced 7,000 positions to be added by the
end of 2012.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  