-- 
Peephole Tom by Lichtenstein May Fetch $45 Million at Auction

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-10-07T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/peeping-tom-by-lichtenstein-may-sell-for-45-million-christie-s.html
The last time  Roy Lichtenstein ’s
painting of a man peering through a peephole was sold at
auction, in 1988, it fetched $2.1 million, a record for the
artist.  Now the 4-foot-square canvas is the top lot at the big
November sales of  Christie’s International , which expects it to
sell for $35 million to $45 million on Nov. 8.  Painted in 1961, just as Lichtenstein (1923-1997) was
shifting from Abstract Expressionism to  Pop Art , it is one of
the first pieces featuring the artist’s signature speech
bubbles, Ben-Day dots and stark color combinations.  In the center of a solid black field, the square-jawed man
looks intently through a speakeasy-style round opening. Part of
his face is covered with faint, red Ben-Day dots, painted by
hand. Pencil marks appear here and there.  “I can see the whole room ... and there’s nobody in it!”
the speech bubble says. The statement also serves as the
painting’s title.  Based on a picture by William Overgard for a Steve Roper
comic strip crime story, the painting once belonged to  Emily and
Burton Tremaine , major postwar art collectors, who lent it to
exhibitions at the Guggenheim Museum of Art, the Whitney Museum
of American Art and the  Metropolitan Museum of Art . After being
auctioned off in 1988, it has remained in the same undisclosed
American collection.  “It’s a pivotal, iconic painting with great provenance,”
said Brett Gorvy, Christie’s chairman and international head of
postwar and contemporary art.  ‘No Romance’  “There’s no romance, there’s no woman and it’s quite dark,
but it’s a marvelous painting,” said Lucy Mitchell-Innes, co-
owner of  Mitchell-Innes & Nash  gallery in New York, which has
mounted four solo Lichtenstein exhibitions in the past 10 years.
“It epitomizes Roy’s use of irony, which is the most important
theme throughout his work.”  Lichtenstein’s auction record of $42.6 million was achieved
last year at Christie’s for his 1964 painting depicting a pretty
redhead on the phone and titled “Ohhh ... Alright ...” That
sale helped boost the artist’s 2010 auction revenue by 638
percent from the previous year, to $112.5 million, according to
Artprice.com.  “The most visually exciting and sought-after are his
romance and love comics,” said Matthew Armstrong, curator at
Don Marron’s Lightyear Capital. “When people think of
Lichtenstein, that’s what they think of.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 