-- 
Pemex CEO Says Lack of Repsol Collaboration Is ‘Ridiculous’

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-10-07T20:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/pemex-ceo-says-lack-of-collaboration-with-repsol-ridiculous-.html
Petroleos Mexicanos’s chief executive
officer said it’s “ridiculous” 30 years of partnership with
 Repsol YPF SA (REP)  hasn’t paid off, and the oil producer is undaunted
by hostility toward its increased stake in the Spanish company.  Pemex, as the state oil company is known, holds deep-water
deposits and needs help in accessing them, while Repsol has the
expertise and not the reserves,  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  told
reporters in his Mexico City office yesterday. Repsol could
benefit from the companies’ collaboration, the CEO said.  The partnership “wasn’t working for us,” Suarez Coppel
said. “And Pemex would like to have a heavier influence in the
decisions and a stronger voice on the board.”  Repsol is seeking to halt an alliance between Pemex and
 Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , its largest shareholder, after the two
companies agreed to coordinate their combined 29.8 percent
voting stake to restructure the Madrid-based oil producer’s
management. Pemex, a founder of the Spanish company in 1979,
almost doubled its stake in Repsol to nearly 10 percent.  “I never expected such a reaction,” Suarez Coppel said.
“But we’re not going to back off and go back home because
they’re reacting like this.”  Blocking Board Vote  Repsol changed its bylaws on Sept. 28 to preclude rivals
from holding positions on its board, preventing both Pemex and
Sacyr from voting. Repsol also asked  Spain ’s energy and
securities regulators to review the agreement.  Suarez Coppel, 52, said he expects to convince other Repsol
shareholders that Pemex’s goal is to improve Repsol’s value.
Pemex wouldn’t vote in favor of increasing Repsol’s dividends if
doing so would cut profitable investments, he said.  Repsol Chairman and CEO Antonio Brufau is fighting to
retain control of Spain’s biggest oil company after Sacyr and
Pemex said they want the company to split the roles of CEO and
chairman and focus on its oil business to boost returns.  Sacyr and Pemex are filing a lawsuit against Repsol to
regain  voting rights  on the board. Kristian Rix, a spokesman for
Repsol, declined to comment.  Sacyr rose 7.4 percent, the most since Aug. 30, to close at
4.538 euros in  Madrid , while Repsol shares climbed 2.28 percent
to 21.52 euros.  Pemex dollar-denominated perpetual bonds rose 0.11 cents to
98.90 cents per dollar. The yield on the bond issued last year
fell 1 basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.705 percent.  Negotiations  Pemex, whose output fell last month to the lowest since
July 1990, has been talking with  oil companies  to join its first
foreign project to get more experience in deep waters, Suarez
Coppel said. Such talks never moved forward with Repsol, he
said.  “This is another of the reasons why we feel there isn’t
mutual interest,” Suarez Coppel said.  Pemex is accelerating its deep-water exploration activity.
The company, which primarily discovered gas in 15 deep-water
wells drilled since 2005, plans to drill five more deep-water
wells this year and eight to 10 wells in 2012.  Mexico  estimates
it may have 30 billion barrels of oil in deep waters.  The chief executive of the Mexican oil producer said other
missed opportunities between Pemex and Repsol could have been in
refining.  “Both companies may have invested in a U.S. Gulf refinery,
or we could have invested in a European refinery,” he said.  Suarez Coppel said he considers Brufau a friend and he met
with his Repsol counterpart the morning after announcing the
agreement in August to explain his motives behind the alliance
with Sacyr.  “I tried to finish the talks as cordial as possible, but
it ended with him saying ‘then we’ll meet again’,” he said. “I
didn’t know what he meant at the time, and now I know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 