-- 
Peru’s Central Bank Ready to Change Mpnetary Policy Stance on Global Woes

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-07T19:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/peru-ready-to-change-stance-on-global-woes-after-fifth-pause.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a fifth month yesterday as the threat of
recession in  Europe  and the U.S. outweighs concern about above-
target inflation in the commodity-dependent economy.  The seven-member board, led by central bank President
Julio Velarde, kept the overnight rate at 4.25 percent, matching
the estimates of 17 of the 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
One analyst predicted a 0.25-point cut to 4 percent.  “The decision takes into account the slower growth being
observed in some components of spending and production, as well
as a heightening of global financial risks,” the bank said in a
 statement  on its website. “The central bank will change its
monetary policy stance if these trends continue.”  The Andean nation is tapping its first fiscal surplus in
three years to finance what it has called “preventive”
stimulus measures worth about $470 million as it seeks to
reverse a decline in public infrastructure spending in the first
half of 2011.  The government will expand its anti-crisis plan “in
the coming weeks” to step up public works and spur private
investment as the probability the world will enter a recession
has increased, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said today.  Options, Outlook  In its statement, the central bank “pointed out that if
global risks intensify, it will change its monetary policy
stance” and also “mentioned a further slowdown in domestic
activity as an additional driver that could trigger a cut,”
 Roberto Flores , head of research at Inteligo SAB, a Lima-based
brokerage, wrote in a research note e-mailed to investors.  Should global market turmoil continue, policy makers will
lower reserve requirement rates before cutting borrowing costs,
he said. Inteligo expects a rate pause through year-end.  The central bank’s latest  survey  shows companies are less
optimistic about domestic demand and hiring prospects because
the global outlook has darkened, said Carlos Durand, president
of the Lima Chamber of Commerce, in a Sept. 27 interview.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 cut its 2011
growth forecast for Peru to 6.2 percent from 6.6 percent
previously. Growth will slow to 5.6 percent next year, the
Washington-based lender said.  Readiness  Domestic activity remained “dynamic” in the third
quarter,  consumer confidence  was high and business confidence
rose, said Jorge Estrella, the central bank’s monetary policy
manager. Still, the bank is wary of a deterioration of the
global economy, he said in a conference call with reporters
today.  “We’re ready to pull the trigger and unleash all the
instruments we have at our disposal so that any global crisis
won’t affect us like it did” in 2008 following the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, Estrella said.  In the event of a new financial crisis, the central bank
would sell dollars in the  spot market , issue repurchase
agreements and consider lowering deposit requirements to boost
 money supply , Estrella said. The economy is better protected
than in 2008, thanks to the country’s $49 billion of
international reserves, he said.  President  Ollanta Humala  on Oct. 3 confirmed Velarde’s
appointment to serve a second five-year term, which  Pedro Tuesta , a former Peruvian central bank analyst and current
economist at 4Cast Inc. in  Washington , said indicated policy
continuity.  Growth, Demand, Trade  Growth in retail and services helped offset a slowdown in
manufacturing and construction in July and fuelled a 6.5 percent
rise in gross domestic product, beating analysts’ and the
central bank’s expectations.  Cement demand rose for the first time in three months in
August while electricity output climbed at the fastest annual
pace in six months, which suggests growth is accelerating,
Tuesta said.  Peru’s trade surplus will probably fall to $4.3 billion
next year from $7.4 billion this year because of lower copper,
zinc, gold and silver prices, Velarde said Oct. 4.  Gross domestic product growth will slow to 5.7 percent in
2012 from 6.3 percent this year, according to the central bank.  Higher fuel costs pushed Peru’s consumer prices up 0.33
percent in September from 0.27 percent in August, driving the
annual inflation rate to 3.73 percent, a two-year high. The
central bank targets annual inflation in a range of 1 percent to
3 percent.  Monthly inflation may slow to close to zero before year-end
as some prices reverse recent increases, Velarde said Sept. 16.
The annual inflation rate will converge toward the central
bank’s target range next year, he said.  Peru’s sol rose 1.1 percent this week, including a 0.2
percent gain today, to 2.7435 per dollar, from 2.7725 on Sept.
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 