-- 
Peru Sol Posts Biggest Weekly Gain Since May as Copper Rises

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-07T20:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/peru-sol-posts-biggest-weekly-gain-since-may-as-copper-rises.html
Peru ’s sol capped its biggest weekly
advance in more than four months as copper prices climbed amid
optimism  Europe  and the U.S. will avoid recession.  The sol strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.7435 per  U.S. dollar 
today, bringing its advance this week to 1.1 percent. That’s the
sol’s strongest rise since the week ending May 13.  Copper rose for a third day in  New York , heading for its
biggest weekly gain in three months, after a report showing
larger-than-forecast growth in U.S. jobs eased concern that the
economy was slowing. Speculation European policy makers may help
contain the euro region’s debt crisis also boosted the metal.  “The macro data was positive” and spurred local demand
for soles, said Antonio Diaz, a currency trader at Banco
International del Peru in  Lima . “The sol’s rally was a bit
unexpected, given that the underlying issue hasn’t been
resolved. We’ve had a few bullish days, but the global situation
remains very uncertain.”  Peru, the world’s third-largest copper producer after Chile
and China, increased copper exports 74 percent in August
compared with a year earlier. Mining exports, which make up two-
thirds of the country’s shipments overseas, climbed 62 percent
to $2.75 billion, the government’s customs duty collection
agency said yesterday.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, this week to 5.79 percent, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield was down 2 basis points today.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 13 basis points to 258,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Peru’s central bank kept its overnight rate at 4.25 percent
for a fifth month yesterday as the threat of recession in Europe
and the U.S. outweighs above-target inflation. The decision
matched the estimates of 17 of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  