-- 
Polo Hunk Figueras, Rachel Zoe, Veuve Clicquot Help State Park

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/polo-hunk-figueras-rachel-zoe-veuve-clicquot-raise-funds-for-state-park.html
It’s a rare story that can feature
 Veuve Clicquot , polo star/Polo model Nacho Figueras and the
Socrates of Hollywood cowboys, Will Rogers.  The champagne maker approached Figueras about helping to
raise money for the  Will Rogers State Historic Park . The hunky
horseman was happy to learn that the former ranch in Pacific
Palisades, California, surrounds the polo field where Rogers
once competed with Spencer Tracy, Clark Gable and Walt Disney --
real men, real polo shirts.  “Los Angeles used to have 22 polo fields back in the
1930s, and this is the only one left,” Figueras said. “So it
meant a lot to me to be able to raise money to keep these polo
fields open for a long, long time.”  Figueras and his wife, Delfina Balquier, will be at the
storied polo field Sunday with fashion reality star Rachel Zoe
of “The Rachel Zoe Project.” The 186-acre park has seen
cutbacks in its state funding in recent years. The champagne
maker is selling tickets for $15 to the public and also will
make a gift of an undisclosed sum to the park.  “The fundraising from this event will help me with day-to-
day operations, keeping the lights on and the water running,”
Lynette Brody, a  California  State Parks superintendent, said by
phone. More than $500,000 has been cut from her parks budget in
the past two years, she said.  Figueras, the captain of the Black Watch polo team, also
wants to raise his sport’s visibility in nearby Los Angeles and
Hollywood -- reality men, reality Polo shirts.  “Polo was a big sport in the 1920s and 1930s,” he said.
“People had polo in their calendars and people were hooked on
it. After World War II, polo got lost. I want people not to feel
intimidated by the sport.”  Prince of Wales  Figueras has emerged as one of polo’s biggest fundraising
magnets through his charity appearances, beginning with the
Veuve Clicquot Classic in  New York  in 2008. The events have
attracted personalities such as Prince Harry, Madonna,  Hugh Jackman  and  Marc Jacobs .  Born in  Buenos Aires , Figueras started swinging a mallet
when he was 8 and became a professional at 17. He went to  France 
in 1994 to play there for two years.  He became an international star in the sport and then began
modeling for designer  Ralph Lauren  in the past decade, becoming
the face of some of the company’s products.  “My Ralph Lauren connection has done a lot for raising my
profile and that has allowed me to raise the profile of the
sport,” he said.  (The Veuve Cliquot Polo Classic  Los Angeles  is Sunday at
Will Rogers State Historic Park in Pacific Palisades,
California. Tickets and information:
 http://www.vcseason.com/lapolo )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 