-- 
Portugal Faces Strong Restrictions on Financing, Gaspar Says

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-10-07T11:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/portugal-facing-strong-restriction-on-financing-gaspar-says.html
The Portuguese economy is having
trouble obtaining financing, with banks relying on the  European
Central Bank  and the government tapping bailout funds, Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar said.  “The Portuguese economy is facing a very strong
restriction on financing at present,” Gaspar said today at a
conference in Oporto, northern Portugal. “Access to external
private financing was interrupted” and funding “is maybe the
biggest short-term challenge we face.”  Nine Portuguese banks today had their debt ratings cut by
one or two levels by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
concern about funding, bad loans and holdings of government
debt. Moody’s cut the “standalone” ratings of three banks,
 Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and  Banco
BPI SA (BPI) , by two levels, the company said in a statement.  Portugal  in April became the third euro-area country to
seek a bailout after Greece and Ireland. It will receive 78
billion euros ($105 billion) under the agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on April 7 said the central bank
“encouraged” Portugal to seek aid, adding that the country’s
banks needed to reduce their reliance on ECB funding.  ECB Reliance  Portuguese lenders have turned to the ECB because the
government’s struggle to narrow its budget deficit restricted
their ability to borrow. The aid plan earmarks 12 billion euros
for Portugal’s banks.  The ECB’s financing to Portuguese lenders rose for a second
month in August as the debt crisis limited the banks’ ability to
borrow. ECB financing increased to 46 billion euros from 44
billion euros in July, the Bank of Portugal said on Sept. 5. ECB
financing levels peaked at 49.1 billion euros in August 2010.  “The diversification of sources of financing of Portuguese
economic agents is a path we should follow,” Gaspar said today.
“Portugal’s capital market has margin for growth.”  The economy is set to shrink this year and in 2012 as the
government implements austerity measures and banks struggle to
obtain financing. The government forecasts the economy will
contract 2.2 percent this year and between 2.2 percent and 2.3
percent in 2012, before expanding 1.2 percent in 2013.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is cutting spending and
raising taxes to meet the terms of the aid plan from the EU and
the IMF. The government aims to trim the  budget deficit  from 9.8
percent of gross domestic product in 2010 to 5.9 percent in 2011
and to within the EU ceiling of 3 percent in 2013. Debt will
reach 100.8 percent of GDP this year and peak at 106.8 percent
in 2013 before starting to decline, the government predicted on
Aug. 31. Debt was 93.3 percent of GDP in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 