-- 
Pound Gains Most in Three Months as BOE Bond Purchase Plan Boosts Optimism

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-07T15:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/pound-climbs-most-in-week-as-asset-purchase-plans-spurs-economy-optimism.html
The pound strengthened the most in
almost three months against the dollar amid optimism the Bank of
England’s decision to reactivate its bond-purchase program will
help to revive the U.K.’s faltering economy.  Sterling appreciated versus all but one of its 16 major
peers after policy makers yesterday boosted the central bank’s
quantitative-easing program by 75 billion pounds ($117 billion)
and central bank Governor Mervyn King said he was “confident”
the measures would work. The  European Central Bank  reintroduced
12-month loans for banks. The U.K. currency rallied even after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 12 British financial
institutions. Gilts declined.  “The steps that were taken yesterday both in the U.K. and
also the ECB have helped alleviate the  risk aversion  that’s been
in the markets in regard to Europe,” said  Derek Halpenny ,
European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London. Optimism about QE “is not going to provide
a sustainable move to the upside for sterling.”  The pound climbed 1.1 percent to $1.5609 at 4:20 p.m. in
London after rising as much as 1.3 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since July 13. The currency rose 0.7 percent to 86.39 pence
per euro, and appreciated 1.1 percent to 119.81 yen.  Sterling has advanced 2.7 percent in the past month and 3.4
percent in the past quarter, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, which measure the foreign exchange of 10
developed markets.  The U.K. central bank’s decision yesterday represents the
biggest stimulus since the depths of the recession. King said
the move, the first loosening of monetary policy since 2009, was
a response to what may be the worst financial crisis ever.  Europe  Concern  The pound rose for the first time in four days against the
euro on speculation French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  remain divided about how to solve the
region’s debt crisis.  Merkel has cited the need to prepare for the default that
investors see as a sure thing. Sarkozy, whose banks have the
most to lose, is unwilling to gamble on letting  Greece  go. The
two will meet in Berlin on Oct. 9 to discuss the debt crisis.  “Sterling is more and more likely to do well against the
euro going forward,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in  London . “It’s just this sense
of inevitability that the  euro zone  in some way or other is
going to unravel.”  Producer Prices  U.K. producer prices rose more than economists forecast in
September, the  Office for National Statistics  said today. Prices
charged at factory gates rose 0.3 percent from August. The
median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.2 percent increase.  The pound extended its advance against the dollar after a
U.S. report showed employers added more jobs last month than
economists forecast, easing concerns global growth is slowing
and boosting risk appetite.  Sterling advanced even as Moody’s cut the senior debt and
deposit ratings of 12 lenders including Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, concluding the government would be less likely to
provide support for them if they became financially troubled.  Ten-year gilts declined for a third day, pushing the yield
up seven basis points to 2.46 percent. The two-year rate was
little changed at 0.62 percent.  Gilts have returned 12 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing the 7.3 percent gain
for German bunds and 8.8 percent increase for  U.S. Treasuries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 