-- 
Premier Foods Says Profit to Be Below Estimates

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-07T09:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/premier-foods-profit-to-be-below-estimates.html
Premier Foods Plc (PFD) , the owner of the
Hovis bread and Bisto gravy brands, plunged the most in three
years in London trading after saying full-year profit and debt
levels will miss analysts’ estimates.  Premier dropped as much as 44 percent. Third-quarter
results were “significantly below” management forecasts, with
sales falling 3.6 percent to 477 million pounds ($740 million)
the  St. Albans , England-based company said in a statement today.
Premier is in talks with lenders about resetting covenants and
refinancing the business, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Clarke 
said on a conference call today.  Premier is focusing on eight “power brands” -- Hovis,
Batchelor’s, Mr. Kipling, Sharwood’s, Loyd Grossman, Bisto,
Ambrosia and Oxo -- that contribute two thirds of sales, Clarke
said. While market trends improved, the company underperformed
against competitors in the third quarter, the CEO, who took the
post in August, said. Hovis sales dropped 6.2 percent in the
period, with volumes declining 13.5 percent.  “Clearly it is a business with significant challenges,”
Clarke said on the call. “We plan to dispose of businesses
where we add little or no value, and have little strategic
fit.’”  Trading profit had been seen in a range of 214 million
pounds to 232 million pounds for the year, Chief Financial
Officer Jim Smart said on the call. The company wouldn’t make
the range, he said, with the extent of the shortfall determined
by how well it did in the run-up to Christmas.  Premier fell as much as 4.38 pence to 5.62 pence and traded
at 6.3 pence as of 10:25 a.m. in  London , giving the company a
market value of 151.1 million pounds.  ‘Profit Warning’  Premier’s “unscheduled” third-quarter interim statement
“amounts to a significant profit warning,”  Martin Deboo , a
London-based analyst at Investec Securities, said in an e-mailed
note to clients, putting its “hold” recommendation under
review. “Now the question is whether this company can
survive,” he said.  Premier Foods said in February it will sell its canned food
business to Mitsubishi Corp.’s Princes unit for 182 million
pounds ($282 million). Clarke declined to comment today on any
other disposals the company was considering.  Refinancing debt beyond its current maturity of 2013 is an
immediate priority, Clarke said. Asked if Premier will breach
its existing bank covenants, he said he was “pretty
optimistic” about discussions.  Grocery sales were down 5 percent, with branded sales
losing 6 percent. “The business is still suffering the lost
momentum following first-half pricing discussions and following
customer dispute,” Smart said. “We have increased promotional
spending as planned, but the uplift hasn’t reached anticipated
levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  