-- 
Rail Cargo Starts to Peak as Buffett Sees No Recession: Freight

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-10-07T20:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/rail-cargo-starts-to-peak-as-buffett-sees-no-recession-freight.html
Railroads are starting to see signs
of a shipping peak ahead of the Christmas holiday season,
signaling the  U.S. economy  is still expanding and fending off a
repeat recession.  North American rail carloads reached a 2011 high in the
week that ended Oct. 1, as did intermodal units, the containers
that can move by rail, road and sea and usually carry retail
goods, the  Association of American Railroads  said yesterday.
Both cargo categories marked a third straight week of gains.  Traffic is rising from U.S. fall harvests, coal for winter
heating and power, and gifts bound for store shelves, said Jeff Kauffman, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analyst in New York. The
late-arriving peak matches industry forecasts that the pickup in
rail business wouldn’t begin until September, instead of the
usual August, as companies make do with leaner inventory.  “The economy is slower, but it’s not shrinking,” Kauffman
said in an interview. “Christmas will come. So, we’re going to
have a peak season and we’re going to ship stuff.”  That’s welcome news to  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) ,  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and
 Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the three biggest publicly traded
railroads in the U.S. Warren Buffett’s Burlington Northern  Santa
Fe  is second only to Union Pacific in sales.  “Our railroad carried 200,000 carloads last week,”
Buffett said Oct. 4 at a Fortune magazine conference in Laguna
Niguel,  California . “That’s the highest total in three years.
And that’s stuff moving around the country, supplying merchants
and doing all kinds of things.”  Buffett, chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., added: “As
of today, the recovery is still under way.”  Weekly Gains  The industrywide carload total, which includes commodities
as well as finished goods such as autos, was 408,383 last week,
up 4.5 percent from a year earlier, according to the Washington-
based AAR. Intermodal units rose 4.1 percent to 313,026.  Intermodal shipping containers can carry everything from
electronics to clothes to appliances. Union Pacific Chief
Executive Officer Jim Young said in an interview last month he
watches intermodal shipments, along with autos and parts,
because consumer demand was the “wild card” in whether the
U.S. slips back into a recession.  “While the economy has slowed somewhat in the second half,
we remain optimistic that gradual, steady recovery will
continue,” CSX CEO Michael Ward wrote in a Sept. 27 letter to
the  Surface Transportation Board  about the Jacksonville,
Florida-based carrier’s peak-season plans.  ‘Trains Are Moving’  The U.S. economy will grow 1.6 percent in 2011, down from 3
percent last year, said Nathaniel Karp, chief U.S. economist for
 Spain ’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)  Gross domestic
product rose 1.3 percent in the second quarter, according to the
Commerce Department, after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior three
months.  “The trains are moving, the carloads are moving, but not
as strong as you’d like,” Karp said. “It confirms the economy
is expanding. It’s just that the growth rate isn’t that good.”  The risk is that low  consumer confidence  and negative
sentiment surrounding the stock market may hurt spending and
create a “self-fulfilling prophecy” to push the country into
recession, Karp said in an interview.  Karp estimated the chance of a double-dip recession at
about 35 percent. The U.S. recession that ran from December 2007
to June 2009 was the longest contraction since the 43-month
slump of the Great Depression, according to the  National Bureau
of Economic Research .  Jobs Report  While the U.S. jobless rate remained unchanged in September
at 9.1 percent, employers added 103,000 workers, the Labor
Department reported today. That topped the median forecast of
60,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Consumer confidence rose in September to 59.4 on the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index, up from 55.7 in
August. The last time that gauge was below 60 was in March 2009.  “It doesn’t feel like 2008 out there,” Jason Seidl, a New
York-based analyst with Dahlman Rose & Co., said in an
interview. At his firm’s recent transportation conference with
trucking, rail and air carrier executives, “no one thought we
were heading into a recession.”  Railroads have fared better with investors than many
industries. While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little
changed in the past year, an S&P 500 gauge consisting of Omaha,
Nebraska-based Union Pacific, CSX and Norfolk Southern rose 6.9
percent.  The best performer was Norfolk, Virginia-based Norfolk
Southern, which gained 8.8 percent. It’s the biggest carrier of
autos and vehicle parts.  Paring Inventory  Businesses’ preference for smaller inventory delayed the
start of this year’s peak shipping season,  Sterne Agee ’s
Kauffman said. Those stockpiles rose 0.4 percent in July,
trailing analysts’ estimates of 0.5 percent and matching the
lowest rate of growth since May 2010.  Retailers have to decide now whether to amass goods for a
normal holiday season, because waiting until month’s end
wouldn’t allow enough time for intermodal shipments from sources
such as  China  to arrive by Thanksgiving, Kauffman said.  “If you have a semi-reasonable Christmas shopping period,
you’re going to have a lot of stock-outs,” Kauffman said. “For
the in-demand goods, you may end up with high air-freight
bills.”  ‘Fairly Muted’  That’s not likely to happen, said Justin Yagerman, a New
York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. who
recommends buying Union Pacific and CSX. The peak season for
shipments of imported goods has been “fairly muted” and
probably will be over by the early part of this month, he said.  “Right now we don’t see that as a huge sustainable driver
of freight levels looking out into the back half of the year,”
Yagerman said. “That’s going to fade fairly quickly as we move
through October.”  That outlook is in line with the one offered yesterday by
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  CEO  Fred Smith , whose company operates the world’s
largest cargo airline. He told an audience of business
executives yesterday at a conference in Columbus,  Ohio , that he
expects a gain in holiday shipments that won’t be as large as
last year’s, and a slow-growth recovery, not a recession.  Genco ATC , a third-party logistics company that helps
shippers find carriers to move goods, has seen evidence of
recovery and customers’ anxiety, according to Barb Pitroski,
vice president of carrier and freight solutions.  While the Pittsburgh-based company has seen volumes
increase in 2011, caution is the watchword among clients, she
said.  “There’s growth,” she said. “But it’s cautious growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  