-- 
Raj Rajaratnam’s Scheme Included ‘Unknowing’ Participants, Prosecutors Say

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-10-07T21:34:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/rajaratnam-had-unknowing-participants-in-his-fraud-u-s-says.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam deserves a longer prison term because his insider-
trading schemes involved “five or more people,” including
“knowing” and “unknowing” participants, prosecutors said.  At the request of U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
 Manhattan , prosecutors today named the people they said were
either complicit or unknowing participants in the schemes.
Holwell is to sentence Rajaratnam on Oct. 13.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 counts of
 securities fraud  and conspiracy. Prosecutors, saying he made $72
million from his crimes, asked for a prison term of 19 years and
seven months to 24 1/2 years. The defense said Rajaratnam made
just $7 million and should get 6 1/2 to 8 years.  “This court should find that Rajaratnam’s conduct was
‘otherwise extensive’ given the number of knowing participants
and unknowing participants who took actions at Rajaratnam’s
direction that were peculiarly tailored and necessary for the
commission of the crimes,” according to the filing by assistant
U.S. attorneys Jonathan Streeter, Reed Brodsky and Andrew Michaelson.  SEC Request  In a related action, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today filed a request for partial summary judgment
against Rajaratnam and Galleon related to his alleged  insider
trading  in  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ,  Akamai Technologies
Inc. (AKAM) , ATI Technologies Inc. and People Support Inc. The
commission sued Rajaratnam in 2009.  Regulators said that since he was convicted of all 14
counts involving these stocks, “summary judgment is appropriate
because the conduct for which Rajaratnam was found guilty forms
the basis for the commission’s claims against Rajaratnam
involving these five securities,” they said. “Accordingly,
there is no genuine issue of material fact remaining.”  In their sentencing memorandum filed today, prosecutors
cited federal sentences in which a longer prison term was
imposed because the criminal activity involved “five or more
knowing participants.” They said there were at least nine
knowing participants in Rajaratnam’s  crimes, including the
defendant’s brother, Rengan Rajaratnam, who hasn’t been charged
with any wrongdoing.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, declined to comment
on the filing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 