-- 
Rand Poised for Best Week Since July After U.S. Payrolls Data

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-10-07T14:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/rand-set-for-best-week-since-july-after-ecb-acts-to-stem-crisis.html
The rand advanced against the dollar
for a third day, extending its best weekly gain since July, as
stocks and commodities rallied after larger-than-forecast growth
in jobs tempered concern the  U.S. economy  was slowing.  South Africa ’s currency strengthened as much as 1.4 percent
to 7.8653 per dollar and traded 0.6 percent stronger at 7.9256
as of 3:23 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand has gained 2.2 percent
this week, the most since the five days to July 1.  Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised 57,000
increase the prior month, Labor Department data showed. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of
60,000. Emerging-market stocks climbed for a third day and South
Africa’s benchmark equities index surged to its highest level
since Sept. 28 as the jobs data fueled investor appetite for
riskier emerging-market assets. Bond yields fell.  “The big focus was on the payrolls number, with the
headline figure surpassing expectations,” Sean McCalgan, a
Johannesburg-based analyst at Econometrix Treasury Management,
said by phone. “It looks to be the classic risk-on trade coming
back.”  The rand’s advance reversed an earlier decline after nine
Portuguese banks had their debt ratings cut by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited concern about funding, bad loans and
holdings of government debt.  Bonds gained for a fourth day, pushing four-year yields to
the lowest in almost a month, as the rand’s advance fueled
expectations of a central bank interest-rate cut.  Inflation  The yield on 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.76 percent, the lowest on
a closing basis since Sept. 12. The yield has dropped 24 basis
points this week, the most since the five days ending Aug. 19.  “For those that were concerned about inflation, a rand-
appreciative trend will now remove those fears,” Tradition
Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “Longer-term inflation
expectations are being revised lower and investors are now
starting to focus on the weaker structural longer term growth
outlooks.”  Global market turmoil may undermine South Africa’s growth
and force the government to trim its 3.4 percent growth target
for 2011, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Oct. 3 The
central bank will “act appropriately” in the event of a
significant global slowdown, even as inflation accelerates,
Governor Gill Marcus said on Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  