-- 
TransCanada Chief Girling Says Keystone Pipeline Opposition Surprised Him

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-10-07T19:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/transcanada-s-girling-says-he-didn-t-expect-keystone-opposition.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s oil spill in the  Gulf of
Mexico  helped fuel environmentalists’ opposition to  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, the company’s chief executive
officer said.  “I never expected this kind of opposition,” Russ Girling,
president and CEO of the Calgary-based company, said today at a
news conference in Washington where he cited the effect on
public attitudes from BP’s spill last year and pipeline breaks
on land.  Girling spoke as environmentalists wearing blue T-shirts
saying “No  tar sands ” filled most of the seats in a meeting
room in Washington and applauded every opponent testifying
during the final public hearing on TransCanada’s plan to build a
1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) line to transport Canadian oil from
 Alberta  to Texas refineries.  The U.S. State Department, which has jurisdiction because
the project crosses an international border, has heard from more
than 1,000 witnesses during nine hearings, Assistant Secretary
of State Kerri-Ann Jones said during a press conference after
today’s testimony ended.  The proposal poses “no significant impacts to most
resources” along the route, according to a State Department
environmental review released Aug. 26. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said on Aug. 4 that the department would make a
decision by the end of the year. Jones said today that the
department doesn’t have “any particular timeline” now.  Critics say the production of oil from Canadian sands
releases more greenhouse-gas emissions than conventional oil and
threatens the Ogallala aquifer, which supplies 30 percent of the
water used in the U.S. for agriculture.  ‘Yes, You Can’  “This pipeline is a dangerous, deadly, polluting
pipeline,” Erich Pica, president of the U.S. unit of Amsterdam-
based Friends of the Earth International, said during his
testimony. “This pipeline should and must be stopped.”  TransCanada has been harassing Nebraskans to obtain access
to land, doubling and tripling offers that ranchers keep
declining for fear that a spill would taint water and make their
property and cattle worthless, said Susan Luebbe, a third-
generation rancher who traveled from Holt County, Nebraska, to
testify. She told reporters she rejected an offer of $18,600
from TransCanada to let the pipeline cross her land.  Outside the building, hundreds of protesters gathered for a
rally featuring music and speeches by environmentalists urging
President  Barack Obama  to reject the TransCanada project.  “Yes, you can,” opponents shouted in the direction of the
White House. “Stop the pipeline!”  ‘Shovel-Ready Project’  The project won’t create lasting jobs, according to Mike Tidwell, executive director of the Takoma Park, Maryland-based
Chesapeake Climate Action Network, one of the event’s
organizers.  “The biggest job killer on this planet is rapid, global
 climate change ,” he said in an interview. “There is no trade-
off between jobs now and jobs later.”  About 15,000 miles of oil pipelines in seven states already
cross the Ogallala aquifer, Girling, the TransCanada CEO, said
today. “That resource will not be jeopardized,” he said.  The Keystone XL pipeline will create 20,000 jobs
immediately, Girling said. “This is a shovel-ready project, and
we’re ready to go,” he said.  TransCanada and Washington-based industry groups including
the  American Petroleum Institute  have said the pipeline will
ease U.S. dependence on crude shipments from the  Middle East .  Protesters began gathering in  Washington  last night to
voice opposition to the project.  14 Hours Early  “This pipeline is cutting through my state,” Ethan Nuss,
27, said in an interview. He said he is from  Kansas  and now
lives in Washington. The pipeline’s contribution to the “threat
of climate change” concerns him, Nuss said.  He said he arrived 14 hours before the hearing’s start to
ensure he got on the witness list. Nuss said he was arrested in
a protest against the pipeline in front of the White House.  Actress Daryl Hannah and  James Hansen , head of  NASA ’s
Goddard Institute for Space Studies, were also among those
arrested during August sit-ins at the White House.
Environmental-advocacy groups including the  Center for
Biological Diversity  sued the federal government in U.S.
District Court in Omaha,  Nebraska , on Oct. 5, calling the review
a “sham public process” and seeking to block the project
because TransCanada is already clearing grass along the planned
route in that state.  Color War  The opponents in blue in the hearing room at the Ronald Reagan Building were countered by a smaller contingent of
Keystone project supporters, including orange-clad members of
the Laborers’ International Union of  North America  and a group
of people in green shirts emblazoned with the slogan, “Keystone
pipeline means jobs.”  “We too care about” the environment, Terence O’Sullivan,
general president of the Washington-based union, which
represents construction workers, said at a rally in support of
the pipeline in front of the building where the hearing was
under way. “We also care about putting green in workers’
pockets.”  He said officials should take swift action to reduce the
9.1 percent U.S. unemployment rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  