-- 
Treasury 30-Year Bonds Fall for Fourth Day Before Employment Data Release

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-10-07T11:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/treasuries-snap-decline-as-economists-predict-55-000-new-jobs.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell for a
fourth day before a government report that economists said will
show the U.S. created jobs last month, fueling optimism the
country will avoid a recession.  Benchmark 10-year bonds were set for a second weekly drop.
The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index of shares reversed a decline today,
extending gains to 1.9 percent since Sept. 30. The  Federal
Reserve  is scheduled to  buy  $1.5 billion to $2 billion of
Treasuries due from 2021 to 2031 today as part of a plan to
support the economy by keeping long-term borrowing costs down.  “In part it’s a reaction to the firmer tone we’ve seen in
equities for much of the week,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “It
would be foolish not to take some profit and put the money to
work in other asset classes.”  Yields on the 30-year bond rose four basis points to 2.99
percent at 7:52 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. That’s a gain of seven basis points in the week.
The security due August 2041 lost 26/32, or $8.13 per $1,000
face amount, to 114 31/32. Ten-year yields were three basis
points higher at 2.02 percent. The rate fell to 1.6714 percent
on Sept. 23, the least ever based on central bank data.  U.S. employment climbed by 55,000 workers, after no change
in August, according to the median forecast of 91 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Labor Department reports
the figure. The jobless rate probably held at 9.1 percent, a
separate survey shows.  Asset-Purchase Program  Government bonds  declined this week as European officials
expanded their efforts to support financial markets.  The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it would
reintroduce purchases of covered bonds and yearlong loans for
banks to support markets. The  Bank of England  boosted its asset-
purchase program by more than a third to 275 billion pounds
($426 billion) in a bid to avert a recession in the U.K.  “With the slight optimism coming out of Europe, we are
seeing some glimmers of what we could expect in the Treasury
market if we get some type of reasonable policy response,” said
 Kevin Flanagan , chief fixed-income strategist in Purchase, New
York, at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  The Bank of America Treasuries index is down 0.2 percent
this week as of yesterday. The company’s index of bonds around
the world fell by the same amount.  “Money is going out of bonds and into the stock market,”
said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in  Tokyo  at CIBC World
Markets Japan Inc., a unit of  Canada ’s fifth-largest lender.
“Much of the safe-haven investment has been unwound.”  Employment Report  Treasuries surged on Sept. 2, the day of last month’s U.S.
employment report, sending 10-year yields down 14 basis points.
They’ve rallied that much only once since then, when the Fed
began its bond-buying program on Oct. 3.  Losses were limited by concern job gains last month were
not enough to lower the  unemployment rate . Economists estimate
the jobless rate remained at 9.1 percent for a third month. They
may be further capped as confidence that euro-area policy makers
are nearing a resolution to the debt crisis wanes.  Italian 10-year bonds underperformed German peers after the
nation said it plans to sell bonds maturing between 2016 and
2025 on Oct. 13. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy, divided on whether to insist on
greater losses for Greek bondholders, are due to meet in Berlin
on Oct. 9 to discuss the debt crisis.  “The concern for investors is that we are not so close to
a solution,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior interest-rates
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net :
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  