-- 
Treasuries Drop as U.S. Economy Added More Jobs Last Month Than Forecast

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-10-07T21:32:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/treasuries-fall-as-u-s-economy-added-more-jobs-last-month-than-forecast.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year note
yields up this week the most since July, after the U.S.
government’s payrolls report showed the world’s largest economy
added more jobs in September than forecast.  Yields rose for a fourth consecutive day on eased concern
America may be slipping into another recession and on
speculation  Europe  will adopt a coordinated approach to
supporting banks crippled by the sovereign-debt crisis. Yields
pared their gain as  Fitch Ratings  cut the long-term issuer
default ratings of Italy and  Spain .  “The number coming in better than expected adds pressure
to a Treasury market that was already vulnerable to higher
rates,” said  Kevin Flanagan , chief fixed-income strategist in
Purchase, New York, at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, referring to
the U.S. jobs figures. “The data is certainly not indicative of
economic strength, but it helps allay fears that recession is
imminent.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 2.08 percent at 5:28 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 dropped 26/32 point, or $8.13
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 13/32.  The benchmark yields advanced 16 basis points this week,
the most since the five days ended July 1. The yields fell on
Sept. 23 to 1.6714 percent, the lowest in  Federal Reserve 
figures beginning in 1953. The yields rose 13 basis points to
2.12 percent earlier today.  Long-Bond Yields  A more than one-point drop in 30-year bonds pushed yields
up seven basis points, extending their weekly advance to 10
basis points. The yields slid three days ago to 2.69 percent,
the lowest level since January 2009. Two-year note yields rose
three basis points to 0.29 percent today.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised
57,000 increase in the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department data showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of
60,000. The gain reflected the return to work of 45,000 telecom
employees. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  “It’s a step down the right path,” said Richard Schlanger, vice president at Pioneer Investments in  Boston .
“When you peel back the layers of the onion, there are still
concerns.”  August Payrolls  Thirty-year bond yields dropped 20 basis points on Sept. 2,
when the government reported zero job growth in August. Yields
increased 18 basis points on Aug. 5, when the payrolls report
showed the job market had gained traction.  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the U.S. credit rating for the first time after financial
markets closed that day.  Italy’s foreign and local currency long-term issuer default
ratings were cut today by Fitch to A+ from AA-, while Spain’s
were lowered to AA- from AA+. The outlook for both is negative.  “The downgrades are helping the market on the margin,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut . “A lot of the negative
sentiment in Europe has been priced in.”  Bonds slid yesterday as the  European Central Bank  said it
will reintroduce yearlong loans, giving banks access to
unlimited cash through January 2013, and resume purchases of
covered bonds to encourage lending.  The European Commission is pushing for a coordinated
capital injection into banks, and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters yesterday in Berlin that policy makers
“shouldn’t hesitate” if it turns out financial institutions
are undercapitalized.  Quarterly Rally  Treasury yields also rose as the U.S. government prepared
to sell $66 billion in notes and bonds next week, including $32
billion of three-year notes, $21 billion of 10-year securities
and $13 billion of 30-year bonds.  “Supply has been on traders’ minds over the last couple of
days, and this should add pressure to yields,” said Paul Montaquila, head of fixed-income trading in  San Ramon ,
 California , at Bank of the West. “We’ve come such a long way so
fast.”  U.S. government debt securities surged last quarter on
speculation  Greece  was headed for default and as the Fed
announced its plan to replace shorter-term Treasuries in its
portfolio with longer maturities under the program known as
Operation Twist.  Fed Debt Buying  The Fed said on Sept. 21 that it would buy $400 billion of
U.S. debt with maturities of six to 30 years through June while
selling an equal amount of securities due in three years or less
to support the economy by keeping borrowing costs low. The
central bank purchased today $1.72 billion of Treasuries
maturing from November 2021 to February 2031.  Yields on 30-year bonds decreased 146 basis points in the
third quarter, the most since falling 164 basis points in the
last three months of December 2008.  “There was so much priced in about a double dip both here
and in Europe,” said John Fath, a principal at the investment
firm BTG Pactual in  New York .  “The market was expecting such
bad data, it’s sort of a relief event,” he said, referring to
today’s payrolls report.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Bill Gross said
employment gains in September that were almost double analysts’
forecasts aren’t enough to sustain growth in the  U.S. economy .  The economy needs 200,000 to 250,000 new jobs per month to
expand, said Gross, manager in Newport Beach, California, of the
world’s biggest bond fund, in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  