-- 
Regional Shopping Mall Vacancies in U.S. Increase to Highest in a Decade

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/regional-shopping-mall-vacancies-in-u-s-increase-to-highest-in-a-decade.html
Vacancies at U.S. shopping malls
climbed to the highest in at least a decade as feeble employment
growth restrained  consumer spending ,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  Regional and super-regional mall vacancies rose to 9.4
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 8.8 percent a
year earlier and 9.3 percent in the second quarter, according to
the New York-based property-research company. It was the highest
since Reis began publishing the data in 2000.  Store owners’ revenue is falling as the U.S. unemployment
rate hovers above 9 percent, depressing  consumer confidence , and
online stores capture more customers. Retail sales in the U.S.
unexpectedly stagnated in August following a 0.3 percent gain
for July that was smaller than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed Sept. 14.  “The ongoing lack of demand for retail goods and retail
space has not left regional malls unscathed, with tenants
considering other retail formats or scaling back on their space
requirements,” Ryan Severino, senior economist at Reis, said in
today’s report.  Malls are struggling as vacancies by anchor tenants spur
smaller stores to close or shrink space, Reis said. Leasing may
improve this quarter as clothing and electronics retailers add
locations to capture holiday sales, said Jeremy Moller, a retail
real estate broker at  JSH Properties Inc.  in Seattle.  “Certain businesses try to get open before Thanksgiving
for the holiday-shopping rush,” he said.  Rents Little Changed  Landlords’ asking mall rents rose to $38.81 per square foot
in the third quarter from $38.77 in the previous three months
and $38.72 a year earlier, according to Reis.  At neighborhood and community shopping centers, asking
rents averaged $19.02 a square foot, the same as in the second
quarter and down from $19.07 a year earlier. Tenants paid an
average of $16.54 per square foot, including any landlord
concessions, down from $16.58 a year earlier and unchanged from
the second quarter, Reis said. It was the 14th straight period
that so-called effective rents were unchanged or fell.  Vacancies at community and neighborhood centers were 11
percent, unchanged from the second quarter and up from 10.9
percent a year earlier, the research company said. It was the
highest rate since 1990, when it reached 11.1 percent.  Shopping centers, usually anchored by supermarkets,
drugstores or discount retailers, had a net decrease in occupied
space of 17,000 square feet (1,600 square meters) last quarter,
compared with a net gain of 696,000 square feet a year earlier,
Reis said. So-called net absorption improved from the loss of
459,000 square feet in the second quarter.  New Shopping Centers  About 812,000 square feet of new shopping-center space was
added to the market in the second quarter, keeping completions
close to all-time lows, according to Reis.  Vacancies at shopping centers were unchanged or increased
from the second quarter in 55 of the 80 metropolitan areas
surveyed by Reis, while effective rents held steady or fell in
52 markets.  “There’s a lot of subleasing of surplus space” as
retailers reduce average store sizes and close some locations
amid competition from online stores and a shift in consumer
preferences, said Moller, the real estate broker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  