-- 
Republicans Will Pay Price for Opposing Tax Cuts in Jobs Plan, Durbin Says

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/republicans-will-pay-a-price-for-opposing-obama-s-jobs-plan-durbin-says.html
Republicans will “pay a price” if
they don’t support tax breaks they previously embraced that
President  Barack Obama  included in his $447 billion jobs plan,
Senator  Dick Durbin  said.  “If the Republicans take the current position and hold it,
that they’ll do nothing, I think they’ll pay a price for it,”
Durbin of  Illinois , the second-ranking Senate Democrat, said in
an interview airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With Al Hunt.”  The president’s plan would provide local aid to keep
teachers, police and firefighters on the job and would provide
tax incentives Republicans have supported before, including a
payroll tax cut for working families.  Durbin said Republicans may not support saving local
government jobs because “many of them are union members.” Yet
the tax breaks should attract Republican votes because “that’s
their mantra,” he said.  For Obama, seeking re-election at a time of high
unemployment, the plan offers voters a choice between his plans
“to move our economy forward” or returning to former
Republican policies that led to 9.1 percent joblessness, the
senator said.  Obama can replicate  Harry Truman ’s 1948 come-from-behind
victory “if the choice is returning to the old Republican ways
of President Bush that drove us into deeper deficits and higher
unemployment,” Durbin said. He suggested Obama must persuade
voters to ask the Republican nominee, “Why should we repeat
this movie when we already know the sad ending?”  Bush Tax Cuts  Congress should let Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans expire next year even if lawmakers also impose a 5
percent surtax on annual incomes of more than $1 million, Durbin
said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  offered the
millionaire surtax Oct. 5 to win some Democrats’ support as an
alternative to Obama’s proposals to finance the plan. The
president would cap itemized deductions for high-wage earners
and treat carried interest as ordinary income.  “If we don’t bring an end to these Bush tax cuts” then
“the deficit picture gets gloomier and gloomier for the next 10
years,” Durbin said.  He predicted that some elements of the jobs package, such
as a payroll tax cut for wage earners and tax credits to
encourage small-business hiring, will win bipartisan support to
pass the Senate.  Republican Support  “There’s hardly a one of them the Republicans have not
voted for and endorsed,” Durbin said.  Even with the reluctance of some Democratic senators like
 Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska  and  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia  to
support the measure, Durbin said party members “will provide an
overwhelming number of votes in support of the president’s jobs
plan.”  “The votes will be there if we can put together a
bipartisan coalition,” Durbin said. With a 53-47 Senate
majority, Democrats need all their own members’ votes plus seven
Republicans to get the 60 needed to overcome a filibuster.  Durbin also challenged Senate Republicans to allow
confirmation of former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  to
lead the new U.S. consumer financial protection agency created
under last year’s Dodd-Frank law to overhaul banking and credit
regulation. Forty-four Senate Republicans said they will block
Cordray’s confirmation unless Congress changes the agency’s
structure and funding.  ‘They Hate It’  Republicans want to change the agency because they “hate
it, they wish we hadn’t passed it,” Durbin said. “They want to
stop it from coming into being.”  Durbin also defended the Senate’s efforts to pass
legislation letting U.S. companies seek duties to compensate for
an undervalued Chinese yuan, a measure Obama doesn’t support.  “Most presidents don’t want to be told by Congress ‘this
is the agenda we want you to follow,’” the senator said.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  has signaled he won’t
allow a vote on the measure in his Republican-controlled
chamber. Boehner called the legislation “dangerous” and said
it risks triggering a trade war with  China .  China’s currency manipulation “has cost us a dramatic
number of jobs” and “it’s time for us to take a stand,”
Durbin said. He predicted “strong bipartisan support” when the
Senate votes on the measure Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  