-- 
Gina Rinehart’s Children Win Their Bid to Pursue a Lawsuit Over Dispute

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-07T07:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/rinehart-children-seek-to-end-mother-s-control-of-australia-iron-ore-trust.html
Gina Rinehart, Australia’s richest
person, risks losing control over almost a quarter of her mining
company, Hancock Prospecting Pty., as three of her children
challenge her role in running a family trust.  Hope Rinehart Welker, Bianca Rinehart and  John Hancock ,
three of Gina’s four children, sued their mother in Australian
state court seeking to have her removed as trustee of the Hope
Margaret Hancock Trust, New South Wales Supreme Court Judge Paul
Brereton said today in dismissing Rinehart’s request to throw
out the lawsuit.  The trust, created by Lang Hancock for the benefit of his
grandchildren, has an almost 25 percent stake in the company he
founded, holding “no small part” of the family fortune,
Brereton said. Rinehart’s net worth is estimated at about $9
billion by Forbes magazine. Closely held Hancock is a partner in
the Hope Downs iron ore mine in Australia’s Pilbara region with
Rio Tinto Group.  “Her control won’t be affected if she is removed as
trustee,” Brereton said in Sydney today. A trust deed,
guaranteeing Rinehart, who is chairwoman of Hancock, control
over the company “doesn’t mean the ability to control every
single share,” Brereton said.  Hancock Prospecting owns iron ore projects in the Pilbara
region, exporting to  China , the biggest consumer. Iron ore
prices reached record highs in February this year as Chinese
steel production expands, building railways and apartment
blocks.  Crude steel production in the world’s biggest metal
consumer rose 14 percent to 58.8 million metric tons in August
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
Sept. 13.  Support From Daughter  Rinehart’s four children filed the suit against their
mother in New South Wales Supreme court Sept. 5. Rinehart’s
youngest daughter, Ginia, said she was wrongly included as a
plaintiff and withdrew the claim. She is now a defendant in the
case.  Ginia supports her mother to remain as trustee, or would
want someone from outside the family to run the trust, Brereton
said.  Rinehart claims a deed the children signed for the
governance of the trust guarantees that disputes will be settled
in private mediation or arbitration. She sought a ban on the
publication of all details in the case.  She also sought to have the lawsuit thrown out and asked
the judge to order the parties into mediation.  No New Claims  Brereton refused today, saying the deed over the trust
doesn’t deal with new claims, made after the deed was signed in
2007 and the children’s claim could proceed in court.  The judge said he would lift the publication ban, which
doesn’t apply to his decisions. However, he agreed to hear from
lawyers opposed to the lifting of the ban on Oct. 14 before
making the ruling final. As a result, the ban on the publication
of arguments made by the lawyers, remains in place.  Rinehart became the first woman to top Forbes Asia’s list
of  Australia ’s richest people this year as surging iron ore
prices and exports more than quadrupled her fortune to $9
billion from a year earlier.  On Aug. 25, she agreed to sell coal mines in Queensland to
GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. for $2.2 billion.  The case is Hope Rinehart Welker v Gina Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  