-- 
Romney Promises to Boost Defense Spending, Deter Iran’s Nuclear Ambitions

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-10-07T18:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/romney-promises-to-boost-defense-spending-deter-iran.html
Republican presidential hopeful  Mitt Romney  today accused President  Barack Obama  of bowing to global
adversaries and promised, if elected, to boost America’s
military strength by expanding the Navy and missile defenses.  Romney, 64, presented his national security vision in a
speech set against a backdrop of grey-uniformed cadets at The
Citadel, a military academy in Charleston, South Carolina. South
Carolina has a traditionally pro-military Republican base, and
carrying the early primary state is important to winning the
party’s nomination.  “America must lead the world, or someone else will,”
Romney said, reprising the argument from his 2010 book, “No
Apology,” that U.S. military strength and leadership are
essential to deterring tyrants and keeping world peace. “In an
American century, America has the strongest economy and the
strongest military in the world.”  Romney pledged in his first 100 days, if elected, to boost
naval shipbuilding, deploy Navy carriers to deter Iran’s
suspected military ambitions, increase intelligence cooperation
with  Israel , review military and aid spending in Afghanistan and
invest heavily in missile defense and cybersecurity.  Romney’s speech, as well as his remarks yesterday aboard a
World War II aircraft carrier in Mount Pleasant,  South Carolina ,
repeatedly said Obama is slashing defense spending and is
gutting missile defense, assertions that are contradicted by
official data.  Obama Campaign  President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign responded
that Romney failed to address key security goals, such as
defeating al-Qaeda. Romney showed “once again that he is
willing to say anything, regardless of the facts, to get
elected,” said campaign press secretary  Ben LaBolt  in an e-
mail.  According to government figures, military spending has
increased under Obama. Total Defense Department budget authority
for non-war and war spending increased 3.6 percent from fiscal
year 2009 to 2010, according to Pentagon budget data. Obama
requested $708 billion in budget authority for war and non-war
spending in fiscal 2011, an increase of 2.5 percent. Obama’s
fiscal 2012 request was to keep core Pentagon spending about
level, while the cost of the wars in  Afghanistan  and Iraq
decreased.  Congressional Defense Cuts  Two months ago, Congress passed legislation to cut the
Pentagon’s spending request over the next decade as part of the
deficit reduction plan demanded by Republicans in Congress. That
doesn’t mean reducing actual defense spending; rather, increases
may not keep pace with previous plans. Congress hasn’t finished
the spending bill for fiscal 2012, which began Oct. 1.  Romney didn’t acknowledge that Obama has ramped up military
and Central Intelligence Agency attacks against the nation’s top
terrorist threat, al-Qaeda and its affiliates, including the
raid in which American SEALs killed Osama bin Laden in  Pakistan .
He also didn’t mention the role of U.S. military superiority
within the NATO alliance -- providing Tomahawk cruise missiles,
drones, and intelligence-gathering aircraft -- in driving Libyan
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  from power without any American
casualties.  Romney’s biggest applause lines in his half-hour speech
included his pledge to “never apologize” for the U.S. -- a
broadside against Obama, who he said has kowtowed to adversaries
-- and his promise to “reserve the right to act alone to
protect our vital national interests,” another critique of the
president for seeking consensus on deterring global threats.  Bush-Administration Veterans  The former Massachusetts governor, a front-runner in the
race for the Republican nomination, yesterday released a list of
foreign policy advisers, including many who served former
President  George W. Bush  and advocated the invasion of  Iraq .
Several prominent advisers had supported so-called enhanced
interrogation techniques or rendition of terrorism suspects to
third countries, including former State Department counter-
terrorism coordinator Cofer Black, former CIA Director Michael Hayden, and former Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff.  Standing beneath a giant banner emblazoned with his slogan
“Believe in America,” and flanked by the U.S. and South
Carolina flags, Romney promised to “reverse the hollowing of
our Navy” and increase naval shipbuilding from nine to
approximately 15 ships annually and sustain the carrier fleet at
11, while investing more in missile defense systems and
cybersecurity.  Aboard the USS Yorktown yesterday, Romney called for
reinforcing the Navy and  Air Force  and adding 100,000 active
duty troops to reduce battlefield rotations.  Troop Costs  One U.S. service member costs the government $100,000 per
year on average, according to the non-partisan  Congressional
Research Service , meaning Romney’s plan would cost $10 billion
per year, or $100 billion over 10 years. His campaign has said
Romney would pay for such increases by finding and cutting waste
in the budget.  Romney has repeatedly criticized Obama for scrapping a plan
to locate ground-based missile defense systems in Poland the
 Czech Republic , in part because of strident opposition from
 Russia . That plan was replaced by a ship-based system, still in
development, that Defense Department officials said would more
agile.  Obama, at the recommendation of then-Secretary of Defense
 Robert Gates , cut funding for the ground-based U.S. missile
shield in the 2010 budget and instead increased support for sea-
based systems. The  Missile Defense Agency ’s budget declined to
$7.9 billion in fiscal year 2010 from $9 billion the previous
year. It has since grown to $8.5 billion in 2011 and the agency
is seeking $8.6 billion for fiscal 2012 budget.  Watching  Iran   Romney also vowed to position a naval carrier task force in
the eastern  Mediterranean Sea  and the Persian Gulf region as a
deterrent to Iran’s suspected nuclear ambitions. The U.S., its
European allies and Israel say Iran is trying to build a nuclear
weapon. Iran says its program is for civilian energy use and
medical research.  Romney proposed increasing military and intelligence
coordination and assistance with Israel as a hedge against Iran,
and will make a national ballistic-missile defense system a
priority.  “The  United States  will apply the full spectrum of hard
and soft power to influence events before they erupt into
conflict,” he said. “The United States should always retain
military supremacy to deter would-be aggressors and to defend
our allies and ourselves.”  ‘Real Questions’  The Obama campaign said that “Governor Romney raised real
questions about his capacity to lead this country and wage the
fight against terrorism.”  “He didn’t outline a strategy to strengthen America’s
security and promote our interests and didn’t even identify
defeating al-Qaeda as a goal,” said LaBolt. “President Obama
has degraded al-Qaeda and dealt huge blows to its leadership,
including eliminating  Osama Bin Laden , ended the war in Iraq,
promoted our security in Afghanistan while winding down our
commitment in a responsible way and strengthened American
leadership around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  