-- 
Wayne Says Founding Apple Like ‘Having a Tiger by the Tail’

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   E m i l y   C h a n g
-- 
2011-10-07T11:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ron-wayne-says-co-founding-apple-wih-jobs-like-holding-tiger-by-the-tail-.html
Ron Wayne, who gave up his stake in
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  two weeks after founding it with  Steve Jobs  and  Steve Wozniak  in 1976, said he knew the company would be a
rollercoaster, and also very successful.  “They were absolute whirlwinds aside from the fact they
were intellectual giants, which I recognized, and it was like
having a tiger by the tail; you can’t hang on and you can’t let
go,” said Wayne, 77, in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“If I’d stayed with them, I was going to wind up the richest
man in the cemetery, so I figured it was best for me to go off
and do other things.”  Jobs, who passed away Oct. 5 at age 56, started showing off
their computers with Wozniak, now 61, at the informal Homebrew
Computer Club in 1975. Wayne, a colleague of Jobs at games maker
Atari, helped settle an early dispute between the two founders,
prompting the younger Steve to offer him a 10 percent stake in
the venture to lure him aboard as a “tiebreaker” between the
two.  “He had more of a mature, adult mentality and he had
strong formulas of how things go and how companies are run and
how they go right and how they go wrong,” Wozniak said of Wayne
in an Aug. 25 interview with Bloomberg Television after Jobs
resigned as chief executive officer. Jobs had introduced Wayne
“as a person that we could trust as an intermediary,” Wozniak
said.  ‘Thrill and Excitement’  “I was very, very happy to participate with him for the
thrill and excitement of being part of something that was really
possessed of enormous promise and something that I felt was
going to be very, very successful,” Wayne said of Jobs. “I
also felt it was going to be something of a rollercoaster which,
since I was 20 years older than these guys I felt I was perhaps
getting a little too old for.”  It was Wayne who drew up the partnership agreement for
Apple Computer Co., with the larger shareholders getting 45
percent apiece, he wrote in his  autobiography  “Adventures of an
Apple Founder” published in 2010. The typed agreement had the
date April 1, 1976, written by hand with Wozniak’s signature
appearing above Jobs, followed by Wayne’s. It was lodged under
certificate number 20443 at the registry office of  Santa Clara ,
 California  the following day, Wayne wrote.  Pulling Out  On April 12, less than two weeks after the document was
signed with “a totally casually air,” Wayne went back to the
registry office and removed his name from the agreement, he
wrote. Jobs went on to build Apple into the world’s most
valuable technology company, now worth $350 billion.  “They understood why I was pulling out, I had other
interests and there was a modest question of liability, since it
was a company and not a corporation, that if the thing blew up,
I was going to be left to the $15,000 obligation that I had no
idea how I would satisfy,” Wayne said in the Bloomberg
interview. The failure of his own business venture a few years
earlier informed his decision to pull out of Apple, he said.  Jobs himself left Apple in 1985 after a dispute with the
board and then-Chief Executive Officer John Sculley. He returned
to the company in 1996 after the new company he founded, Next
Inc., was bought by Apple.  Upon his return, Jobs unveiled the iMac before introducing
the iPod, iPhone and iPad. Those portable consumer products
combined now contribute more than 70 percent of Apple’s revenue,
prompting it to drop the “Computer” in its name in 2007.  Growth  “I got to watch the whole growth in him,” Wozniak said of
Jobs in an interview after his death. “Coming from a young kid
to starting a company and having success and trying to find ways
to manage things and have his own control and power. Going off
from the company, coming back very learned, knowledgeable about
how to watch the operations.”  Wayne stayed on as an adviser to the company after giving
up his stake, helping design its logo and computer cabinets. He
described the loss of Jobs as “incalculable.”  “With so much potential ahead of him and so much
creativity, we can only imagine what might have come out of his
mind had he had the 20 years extra of life that I’ve had.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in  San Francisco  at 
 echang68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  