-- 
PSA Exams Should End in Men Without Cancer Symptoms, Panel Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-07T17:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/routine-prostate-cancer-screening-risky-u-s-panel.html
Routine prostate-cancer screening
doesn’t save sufficient lives to justify exposing men to risks
of death, incontinence and impotence, a U.S. panel said in a
report drawing criticism from patient advocates.  A  draft report , released today by the Health and Human
Services Department’s  Preventive Services Task Force , recommends
against so-called PSA tests for men who don’t have symptoms that
are “highly suspicious for prostate cancer.”  The recommendation, if adopted after a public-comment
period, may prompt insurers to stop paying for blood tests
measuring PSA, a protein associated with prostate cancer at high
levels. The findings also refocus attention on comparative
effectiveness research, work that assesses the benefits of
various medical treatments. The research drew criticism during
debate over the U.S. health-care law when the same panel in 2009
recommended women should start regular breast cancer screening
at age 50, not 40.  The PSA test “doesn’t distinguish cancer that will never
make a difference in a man’s lifetime from cancers that will
make a difference,” prompting many men to undergo aggressive
treatments they don’t need, Virginia Moyer, the panel’s
chairwoman, said yesterday in an interview.  “So you go from being a guy who feels fine and who
potentially is one of the majority who never would have known
they had this disease, to being a guy who wears adult diapers,”
said Moyer, a professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of
Medicine in Houston. “This is not insignificant.”  Downgraded Recommendation  The draft report would change the panel’s current
inconclusive assessment of PSA screening to a recommendation
that the tests provide no benefit or can do more harm than good
in men without prostate cancer symptoms, “regardless of age,
race or family history.”  The panel didn’t evaluate the use of the PSA test in men
who have symptoms of prostate cancer, or have already been
diagnosed or treated for the disease, according to the report.  The task force’s findings are based on “out-of-date
evidence” and may condemn “thousands of men to die this
year,” Skip Lockwood, chief executive officer of ZERO-the
Project to End Prostate Cancer, a Washington-based patient
advocacy group, said yesterday in a statement.  “A decision on how best to test and treat for prostate
cancer must be made between a man and his doctor,” Lockwood
said. “This decision is coming from a panel that doesn’t even
include a urologist or medical oncologist.”  ‘Disparaging the Test’  The recommendations may do more harm than good for men at
risk for the disease, according to the American Urological
Association in Linthicum,  Maryland .  “Until there is a better widespread test for this
potentially devastating disease, the USPSTF -- by disparaging
the test -- is doing a great disservice to the men worldwide who
may benefit from the PSA test,” Sushil Lacy, president of the
urological association, said today in a statement.  Screening for prostate cancer has been the subject of
controversy for years as the disease is slow growing in most
men. In 2009,  a European study  of 182,000 men found that 48 men
were diagnosed and treated for each prostate cancer death
prevented. Prostate cancer treatment can cause impotence,
incontinence and other side effects.  An estimated 217,730 new cases of  prostate cancer  were
diagnosed in the U.S. in 2010 and the disease will kill about
32,000 patients, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  New Threat  Studies emerging during the past two years have uncovered 
that a small, yet growing percentage of those undergoing 
routine needle biopsy tests become critically ill and die from 
bacterial infections.  Infectious complications including sepsis from prostate
biopsies have more than doubled in less than a decade, studies
from three countries show. Nine in 10,000 men whose tests were
negative died within a month, researchers in Toronto reported in
March 2010 in the Journal of Urology.  “Not only is PSA screening over-diagnosing and over-
treating, it’s now causing these increased infections,” Richard J. Ablin, the scientist who discovered PSA in 1970, said in an
interview in May. “The whole basis of the test is flawed
because there is no level of PSA that is diagnostic of prostate
cancer because it’s not specific for prostate cancer.”  Ablin, a research professor of pathology at the University
of Arizona College of Medicine in Tucson, wrote in a March 2010
opinion piece in the New York Times that “the test’s popularity
has led to a hugely expensive public health disaster.”  ‘Minimal Benefit’  Research on PSA tests indicates there is “minimal benefit
in terms of decreasing cancer death, there’s no benefit in terms
of decreasing overall death, and there are very significant
harms,” Moyer, the U.S. panel’s chairwoman, said.  About 300 of every 1,000 men treated for the disease will
suffer urinary incontinence, impotence, or both, and some
experience bowel complications, she said.  About one in 200 men who get a prostate biopsy because of
their PSA score will develop a serious infection or have trouble
urinating, researchers said in a  scientific review  that prompted
the task force’s recommendations. The review was published
online today in the  Annals of Internal Medicine .  One in eight men will have a “false-positive,” in which
the results suggest a tumor that isn’t there, the researchers
said. Other men will be diagnosed and treated for low-risk
cancers that wouldn’t have impaired their health or shortened
their lives even without treatment or detection.  Erectile Dysfunction  Among those who get treatment, one in three who undergo
surgery and one in seven who get radiation will develop erectile
dysfunction, according to the review.  The panel’s recommendations may dissuade patients from
consulting with doctors to decide whether they would benefit
from PSA tests, said Dan Zenka, a spokesman for the  Prostate
Cancer Foundation  in  Santa Monica ,  California . Zenka said he was
diagnosed with prostate cancer last year, at age 51, after
having annual PSA screenings since age 40.  “I can’t imagine, had I not had that PSA reading, where
I’d be today,” he said. “From my perspective, PSA saved my
life and it will continue to save my life as we measure my
response to treatment and look for recurrence.”  The panel’s recommendation shows doctors need a way to
match the test with patients who may benefit most from
screening, said Christopher Logothetis, chairman of
genitourinary medical oncology at the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center.  “The question is, have we moved from one extreme --
screening everyone with PSA even into advanced ages -- to not
measuring PSA in anybody because we are using the information
incorrectly,” Logothetis said yesterday in an interview.
“We’re trying to thread this needle with incomplete information
on how to use this test and use it wisely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  