-- 
Rupiah Drops for a Fifth Week Before Policy Review Next Week

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-10-07T09:32:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/rupiah-drops-for-a-fifth-week-before-policy-review-next-week.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah completed a fifth
weekly decline, its longest losing streak this year, as
economists forecast the nation’s central bank will leave
borrowing costs unchanged next week. Bonds rose today.  Bank Indonesia will keep its benchmark rate at 6.75 percent
on Oct. 11, according to all 15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
The currency fell today even as official data showed this week
exports rose 37 percent in August from a year earlier, a fifth
consecutive month when growth exceeded 30 percent. The MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index of shares climbed after the  European Central
Bank  reintroduced purchases of covered bonds and year-long loans
for banks.  “The market still remains shaky,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “Data
out of Indonesia was largely positive but did not move the
market at all.”  The rupiah slid 1.2 percent this week to 8,900 per dollar
as of 4 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency, which touched a 15-month
low of 9,115 last week, fell 0.1 percent today.  Consumer prices rose 4.61 percent in September from a year
earlier after having climbed 4.79 percent the prior month,
official data showed on Oct. 3.  Foreign-exchange reserves dropped $10.1 billion last month
from a record $124.6 billion in August, the central bank
reported yesterday. Policy makers will remain in the market to
stabilize the rupiah and purchase government bonds, Hendar,  Bank
Indonesia ’s director of monetary policy who uses only one name,
said on Oct. 3.  The reserves remain above the level considered “safe” as
the central bank is selling dollars when needed to ease
volatility, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in a mobile-
phone text message today.  The yield on the government’s 8.25 percent notes due July
2021 fell 28 basis points today, or 0.28 percentage point, to
6.87 percent, according to the Inter dealer Market Association.
It dropped seven basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  