-- 
Russia Lends Venezuela $4 Billion in Return for Oil Projects

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-10-07T19:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/russia-lends-venezuela-4-billion-in-return-for-oil-projects-1-.html
Russia  agreed to lend  Venezuela  $4
billion through 2013 for defense spending in return for gaining
access to heavy crude and offshore gas fields in the South
American country.  Russia’s OAO Rosneft and OAO Gazprom signed a cooperation
accord with Venezuelan state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela
SA late yesterday at a ceremony in Caracas led by President  Hugo Chavez  and Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin .  “We’re working on large-dimension projects from oil, gas
and petrochemicals to finance, banking and trade,” Chavez said
on state television.  Chavez, who has led the OPEC-member nation since 1999, has
strengthened ties with Russia during his 12-year rule in a bid
to re-equip his military after a U.S. arms embargo in 2006 and
to attract investment in the  energy industry .  The $4 billion defense loan will be disbursed in two equal
parts in 2012 and 2013, Chavez said today. In the last five
years, Chavez has purchased more than $4.4 billion of fighter
jets, air defense systems, helicopters and weapons from Russia
while denying that he was fueling an arms race in  South America .  “We’re not a threat to anyone,” Chavez said yesterday.
“We’re modernizing our armed forces that were totally
defenseless.”  Banking  In a separate agreement, the two countries agreed to commit
$2 billion each to boost the capital of a bi-national bank,
known as  Evrofinance Mosnarbank SA , that will provide lending
for housing projects and a joint-venture oil project in the
Junin 6 block, he said.  Venezuela paid $400 million in February to buy a 49 percent
stake in Evrofinance, according to Moscow-based news agency RIA
Novosti. Evrofinance opened an office in Caracas July 25,
according to the Official Gazette said.  The Junin 6 block is a joint venture between PDVSA and a
group of Russian  oil companies , including OAO Lukoil, TNK-BP and
OAO Gazprom Neft, that expects to begin production in May 2012.  Evrofinance was hired to co-manage a $4.2 billion
Venezuelan government bond sale in August, along with Deutsche
Bank AG. The Moscow-based bank, which has a branch in Caracas,
is 49.9 percent owned by Venezuelan state development bank
 Fonden  with the rest controlled by Russian banks VTB Group and
Gazprombank Group, according to the bank’s website.  Rosneft will develop the Carabobo 2 heavy-crude block in
the Orinoco as a minority partner with PDVSA. Carabobo 2 was the
last block to be assigned under a 2010 bid round.  Venezuela assigned the other two blocks to groups led by
Chevron Corp. and Repsol YPF SA last year.  Natural Gas   State-controlled gas producer Gazprom will explore for
natural gas in the Gulf of Venezuela, close to the Perla field
where Eni SpA and Repsol have 15 trillion cubic feet of
certified gas reserves.  Gazprom and PDVSA agreed to consider a joint venture to
develop the Robalo gas deposit, the Moscow-based gas exporter
said today in an e-mailed statement. The companies will hold
talks to define stakes, it said.  Chavez said yesterday that he plans to travel to Moscow
soon to meet with Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and
President  Dmitry Medvedev  to expand cooperation and finalize
agreements.  Chavez, who has limited his public appearances after having
a cancerous tumor removed in June, said that he received a
religious icon from Sechin to help with his recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in New York at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  