-- 
Rwanda Raises Key Rate First Time in Almost 3 Years to 6.5%

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-10-07T13:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/rwanda-s-central-bank-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-to-6-5-.html
Rwanda ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, the first
increase in almost three years, as inflation accelerates and the
economy expands.  The policy rate was raised to 6.5 percent, National Bank of
Rwanda Governor Claver Gatete told reporters in the capital,
Kigali, today. The rate was last increased by 1 percentage point
in January 2009.  The central bank has kept borrowing costs low to spur
lending and economic growth in the coffee growing nation.
Inflation, which accelerated to 7.5 percent in August, may reach
8.7 percent by the end of the year, Gatete said on Oct. 5. The
central bank expects the economy to expand 8.8 percent in 2011,
higher than the government’s estimate of 7 percent and up from
7.5 percent in 2010.  “We see what is happening in agriculture, what is
happening in the service sector, in the industry sector,”
Gatete said. “All these are contributing to making sure the
economy grows faster than initially projected.”  Rwanda’s action follows that of the central banks of Kenya
and  Uganda , which increased their benchmark  interest rates  by 4
percentage points each to record highs this week. Rwanda’s
central bank manages its currency, which is unchanged this year,
compared with 20 percent declines in the Kenyan and Ugandan
currencies.  Improving Weather  The “firmly” managed currency policy has protected Rwanda
from rising prices in neighbouring countries, said Yvonne Mhango, an economist with  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg.
Inflation in the region may slow if an improvement in weather
conditions continues, she said.  “It is the rainy season” and “in the next six months we
should get a harvest that should ease pressure on the inflation
side,” Mhango said.  Inflation will probably reach 8.2 percent in the end of
December, the central bank said today.  The Rwandan economy, still recovering from the 1994
genocide that left about a million people dead in 100 days,
doubled in size in the nine years through 2010, according to the
 World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali at 
 hmurdock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  