-- 
S&P Puts Three HSBC Asia Insurance Units on Watch for Downgrade

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-10-07T11:45:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/s-p-puts-three-hsbc-asia-insurance-units-on-watch-for-downgrade.html
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
put three Asia-based insurance units of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  on
negative credit watch today after reports that the largest U.K.
bank may sell some insurance assets.  The three units are HSBC Insurance (Asia) Ltd., Hang Seng
General Insurance (Hong Kong) Co. and HSBC Insurance ( Singapore )
Pte., it said in a statement today.  “We placed the ratings on CreditWatch to reflect our
uncertainty over whether HSBC intends to sell some of its Asian
general insurance businesses,” S&P said. “In addition, if the
group does plan to sell, it’s unclear to us whether HSBC would
sell the subsidiaries as books of business or as entire legal
entities.”  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  is reversing HSBC’s
expansion over the past two decades, selling assets and cutting
jobs as the euro-area debt crisis saps profit and regulators
demand thicker capital buffers. HSBC will consider selling
regional units of its non-life insurance business, three people
with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg on Oct. 4.  Should the sales go ahead, S&P could downgrade HSBC
Insurance ( Asia ) and Hang Seng General Insurance by as many as
two notches as a result of reduced group support, it said. A
downgrade is still possible without the sale because general
insurance underwriting will play a “less integral role” in the
HSBC’s Asia strategy, it added.  HSBC Insurance (Singapore) may be cut by one notch as it is
primarily a life insurer, it said.  S&P currently assigns the “AA” long-term local-currency
counterparty credit and insurance financial strength ratings as
well as “cnAAA” Greater China credit scale rating to HSBC
Insurance (Asia) and Hang Seng General Insurance (Hong Kong).  HSBC Insurance (Singapore) has “A+” long-term local-
currency counterparty credit and insurance financial strengthen
rating, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  