-- 
TSA Scraps December Deadline for Screening Non-U.S. Cargo

-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 
2011-10-07T21:26:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/tsa-delays-non-u-s-air-cargo-screening-deadline-group-says.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  told freight-shipping trade groups that it will
no longer require all air cargo bound for the U.S. to be
screened by the end of the year.  The TSA told the Airforwarders Association of the change
this week and didn’t set a new deadline, Brandon Fried,
executive director of the Washington-based group, said in a
telephone interview today.  Non-U.S. air cargo came under added scrutiny after the
October 2010 discovery of explosive material in packages sent
from Yemen to the U.S. The TSA is working with countries that
have flights to the U.S. to obtain screening agreements and as
recently as three weeks ago told the Airforwarders Association
that its Dec. 31 deadline would stand, Fried said.  “TSA continues to work closely with our private-sector and
international partners to further risk-based screening of
international inbound air cargo on passenger and all-cargo
aircraft,” Kristin Lee, a TSA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The agency is working with  U.S. Customs  and  Border
Protection  and the air cargo industry on a pilot program to
process information about cargo and shippers before packages are
sent to the U.S., she said.  That should give the TSA the ability “to focus more
intensive screening resources on cargo we know least about,”
Lee said.  The agency continues to require screening of all cargo on
flights departing U.S. airports and all “high-risk” deliveries
coming into the U.S., Lee said.  Airline Costs  The Airforwarders Association and the International Air
Cargo Association praised TSA’s decision to scrap the
requirement that 100 percent of non-U.S. cargo coming into the
country be screened by the end of the year.  “Airlines most likely would have had to screen cargo from
countries with no agreement in place,” Fried said. “That would
have caused flight delays and added costs.”  Airline executives had warned there would be “significant
global supply-chain disruption” if the TSA enforced the
deadline, the International Air Cargo Association, a Miami-based
group that represents airlines, forwarders and shippers, said in
a  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrea Snyder at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net  