-- 
Sabre Loses Bid to Consolidate American, US Airways Suits

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-10-07T15:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/sabre-loses-bid-to-consolidate-amr-us-airways-antitrust-suits-in-texas.html
Sabre Holdings Corp., the largest
U.S. provider of flight data to travel agents, lost a bid to
consolidate antitrust lawsuits brought by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   Centralizing the complaints in federal court in  Fort Worth ,
Texas, “would not serve the convenience of the parties and
witnesses,” the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multi-District
Litigation ruled yesterday. Under an MDL program, cases with
common factual issues can be consolidated before one judge to
streamline document exchanges and avoid duplication in pretrial
proceedings.  “Sabre is represented in both actions by common counsel,”
the MDL panel said in its ruling. “In these circumstances, we
believe an informal cooperation among the involved attorneys is
both practicable and preferable.”  US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, sued Sabre in federal
court in New York. Fort Worth-based American sued Southlake,
Texas-based Sabre and rival Travelport LLC in  Texas . Both
carriers opposed centralization, according to court documents.  The lawsuits are at the heart of a dispute between U.S.
carriers and so-called global-distribution systems, such as
Sabre, that collect flight and fare data from carriers and
distribute it to travel agents. The airlines want greater
control over how the data is distributed.  90 Percent  Todd Lehmacher, a US Airways spokesman, declined to comment
on the ruling. Nancy St. Pierre, a Sabre spokeswoman, also
declined to comment.  “We believe the panel made the right decision, as our case
is distinct from the case US Air has brought against Sabre,”
Ryan Mikolasik, a spokesman for American with consulting firm
Weber Shandwick, said in an e-mail. “We look forward to
continuing to pursue our claims against Sabre.”  Sabre and Travelport, the second-biggest U.S.-based global
distribution system, control more than 90 percent of the U.S.
data sent to travel agents.  AMR rose 3 cents to $2.48 at 11:11 a.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. US Airways gained 9 cents to $5.44.  The Fort Worth case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport
Ltd., 11-cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Fort Worth). The  Manhattan  case is U.S. Airways Inc. v.
Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 