-- 
Sarasin Sees Polish 2012 Growth at 4% on Consumption, Exports

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-10-07T12:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/sarasin-sees-polish-2012-growth-at-4-on-consumption-exports.html
The Polish economy will meet the
government’s forecast of 4 percent growth next year as
consumption remains strong and exports revive, said Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at Bank Sarasin.  “It was especially impressive that Polish growth didn’t
dip below zero even as the developed economies were suffering
the worst slowdown in 80 years,” Poser told reporters in Warsaw
today. “Even now, when sentiment is going down, this will help
 Poland  remain robust and post a strong growth rate next year.”  The European Union’s largest eastern economy grew 1.7
percent in 2009, the only nation in the 27-member bloc to avoid
a recession. The  International Monetary Fund  last month lowered
its forecast for next year’s expansion to 3 percent on
deteriorating global prospects. Citigroup Inc. revised down its
outlook to as little as 1.9 percent.  The struggle to control Poland’s public finances will be
the greatest challenge for the administration that emerges from
this weekend’s general elections, according to Poser. The
general government deficit soared to 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, exceeding the EU’s 3 percent limit for
a third consecutive year.  “The deficit is still pretty high and will need to be cut
over the next year,” Poser said. “It will be a tough job,
though. There will have to be spending cuts, but I don’t think
tax increases will be avoidable.”  Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski has said several times the
government doesn’t plan to raise taxes after increasing the
value-added levy by 1 percentage point at the beginning of this
year. Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s Civic Platform party is
leading the opposition by 7.6 percentage points, an opinion poll
published today by  Newsweek ’s Polish edition showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  