-- 
Sarkozy Hits Campaign Trail in Georgia 3 Years After Russia War

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-07T15:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/sarkozy-hits-campaign-trail-in-georgia-3-years-after-russia-war.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  took
his reelection drive to Georgia, seeking to enhance his
reputation as a statesman in the Black Sea country where he
brokered a ceasefire to end a 2008 war with Russia.  Sarkozy held talks with his Georgian counterpart, Mikheil Saakashvili, and delivered a speech to several thousand people
in the capital Tbilisi on Freedom Square, where former U.S.
President  George W. Bush  spoke in 2005.  The French leader’s public-relations move may fall flat.
While Sarkozy is credited with helping to end the five-day
conflict in August 2008, he failed to force Russia to withdraw
its troops from two separatist Georgian regions as required
under an initial ceasefire agreement. Russia subsequently
recognized the regions, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, as sovereign
countries and vowed to defend their borders.  “Sarkozy wants to remind us that he’s an influential
leader in the EU,” said  Ghia Nodia , director of the
 International School for Caucasus Studies  at  Georgia ’s Ilia
State University. “Georgia will remind the world that we’re
here, we had this war and were occupied.”  Sarkozy hasn’t said if he’ll run in 2012. In a TNS-Sofres
poll published on Sept. 27, 24 percent of respondents said they
trust him to solve the country’s problems, the lowest such
reading since he took office.  Swing Through the Caucasus  The French leader has recently accentuated his diplomatic
record as his popularity flags. Last month, he stood next to
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  in  Libya  as European troops
helped to oust  Muammar Qaddafi . Five days later he pushed for
the recognition of a Palestinian state at the  United Nations  in
 New York . He arrived in Georgia at the end of a two-day swing
through the South Caucasus, including visits to Armenia and
 Azerbaijan .  In his speech, Sarkozy reaffirmed France’s support for
Georgian sovereignty and territorial integrity and defended its
aspiration to join the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.  Without naming Russia, Sarkozy also said that “against all
strategic logic, and against commitments that were made,
sizeable military forces remain stationed and have been
reinforced at your doors, on the other side of the separation
lines.” He promised “to monitor the implementation of the
accords signed” in 2008.  ‘The Maximum We Could Get’  The ceasefire agreement that ended the war over  South
Ossetia  stipulated that Russia had to remove its forces to their
pre-conflict positions. Russia routed Georgia’s army, causing
about $1 billion in damage to its economy. About 10,000 Russian
troops were deployed in the fighting, according to state-run
news service RIA Novosti.  Under a subsequent deal reached by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Sarkozy, Russia confined its troop pull-out to
“Georgian territory outside South Ossetia and Abkhazia,”
Sarkozy said on Sept. 8, 2008. This was “the maximum we could
get,” he said. European Union countries and the U.S. have
repeatedly called on Russia to honor its obligations under the
original ceasefire, while Russia insists that it has already
done so.  Sarkozy also used his Tbilisi speech to call on  Russia  and
Georgia to “resolutely engage” on the path to reconciliation.
His words were met by silence from the assembled crowd.  “The speech didn’t reflect reality,” said Jemal
Botsvadze, 50, a former miner who attended the speech. “We
can’t be friends with Russia. Russia doesn’t want us. We need to
find a common language with Abkhazia and South Ossetia.”  France’s Image Abroad  Sarkozy’s last state visit before next year’s election is
unlikely to generate much interest among French voters, said
Emmanuel Riviere, a pollster at the Paris-based institute TNS-
Sofres.  “French people aren’t indifferent to their country’s image
abroad or Sarkozy’s actions, but the news in France is filled
with corruption scandals, a crippled economy and the Socialist
Party primary,” Riviere said. “It would take very important
news to lift his popularity, and the Caucasus isn’t on French
voters’ radar.”  From here on, the president will restrict his travel to
domestic trips, visits to  France ’s overseas territories and
working trips abroad, including meetings of European Union
leaders, according to his press office.  Georgian Deputy Foreign Minister  Tornike Gordadze 
acknowledged that some questions would be raised during
Sarkozy’s visit about the implementation of the ceasefire
agreement.  ‘Brutal Force’  “When people say, ‘How can he show his face in Georgia?’
it’s a delicate question,” said Alexander Rondeli, head of the
Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies.
“When he said he achieved the maximum, he meant that he got
Russian troops out of Georgian territory that had been invaded
beyond what they’d already occupied before. He stopped the
war.”  When dealing with the “brutal force” of Russia,
negotiations don’t work, Rondeli said. “Sarkozy certainly
mustn’t be ashamed of what happened. What could he do? Start a
war?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Tbilisi at  hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at  hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  