-- 
HSBC Says North America Chief Booker Departing, Names Dorner as Successor

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-10-07T15:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/hsbc-says-north-america-chief-booker-leaving-names-dorner-ceo.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, said Niall Booker, group managing director and chief
executive officer of HSBC North America Holdings Inc., is
leaving after three decades with the bank to be replaced by
Irene Dorner.  Dorner, group general manager and president and CEO of HSBC
USA will take the new role on Nov. 1, HSBC said in statement
today. Patrick Burke, group general manager and CEO of HSBC
Finance Corp., will report to Dorner.  “I am delighted to have such experienced and talented
Chief Executives in Irene Dorner and Lindsay Gordon in place to
take the region forward,” Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in the statement.  Booker’s career at the lender spans 30 years, including
periods in  India  and the  Middle East , HSBC said. He joined the
North American unit, which included the former Household
International subprime lender, in 2007 amid an overhaul
following soaring bad loan provisions. He also led the unit
during its sale of upstate New York branch network to First
Niagara Financial Group Inc. in August for about $1 billion as
it pared U.S. operations.  Halted Lending  HSBC declined 0.2 percent to 509 pence in  London , valuing
the bank at 90.8 billion pounds ($142 billion).  Dorner and Lindsay Gordon, group general manager, president
and head of HSBC Bank Canada, will report to Gulliver, who
became CEO in January.  The bank acquired Household, now known as HSBC Finance, for
$15.5 billion in 2003. In 2009, HSBC halted consumer-finance
lending at the unit, which has contributed to about $60 billion
of provisions in  North America , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The bank is in talks to sell its U.S. card and retail
services unit. as the lender focuses on growth in emerging
markets. Capital One Financial Corp. will pay a $2.6 billion
premium to the division’s loans to customers, for a total price
of about $32.7 billion, HSBC said on Aug. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  