-- 
Scene Last Night: Bill Ackman, Herzog, de Meuron, Philip Glass

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/scene-last-night-bill-ackman-herzog-de-meuron-philip-glass.html
At the Park Avenue Armory gala, you
could walk off dinner just by circulating between courses.  That’s what  Bill Ackman , chief executive of Pershing Square
Capital LP, did Thursday night in the armory’s 55,000-square-
foot hall, where 520 guests, including Iac/InterActiveCorp.’s
 Barry Diller  and musician and artist David Byrne, had assembled.  Ackman, chairman of the gala with his wife, Karen, and a
Park Avenue Armory board member, crossed the hall’s springy
wooden floorboards many times, greeting employees, friends and
colleagues as they tucked into their lamb navarin at tables
covered in silver cloths.  Ackman also had a turn on stage, before Nico Muhly, Philip Glass and the Brooklyn Youth Chorus performed there. What he
called his “last unscripted remark” was the most memorable.  “A good friend of mine was just telling me that the last
time he was at the Armory was for Schwarzman’s birthday party,”
Ackman said.  (That party took place in 2007, thrown by Steve Schwarzman,
the Blackstone Group CEO, to celebrate his 60th.)  “We’ve come a long way,” Ackman quipped.  A good punch line and true enough. The Park Avenue Armory
has gone from hosting art fairs and birthday parties to mounting
art exhibitions and accommodating a replica of the Royal
Shakespeare Company’s theater in Stratford-Upon-Avon for six
weeks of performances.  Citi Private Bank  It has also recruited board members like Ackman and
corporate donors. Citi Private Bank will be supporting
programming at the Armory in 2012 and 2013, the bank’s CEO in
 North America , Peter Charrington, disclosed in an interview.  “We’re excited to bring clients here,” said Charrington.
He plans to invite them to performances and private dinners in
the Armory’s restored period rooms.  This week the Armory announced a $200 million renovation by
the Swiss architecture firm Herzog & de Meuron.  “The space is so flexible, you can have anything in here,
from opera to tennis,” said Jacques Herzog, who like Ackman
spent a lot of time walking the room in his black mesh shoes
(one stop: the  Parrish Art Museum  table occupied by Dorothy
Lichtenstein; the firm designed the museum’s new building, which
is opening in Water Mill, New York, in the fall of 2012.)  In what were likely his scripted remarks, Ackman said he
has been a particular supporter of the Armory’s educational
programs for underprivileged children.  Potter Palace  “Kids love coming here. It’s like a Harry Potter palace to
them,” Ackman said.  At her dinner seat, art historian Natasha Schlesinger
described what it is like to take children on tours of
exhibitions at the Armory.  “Kids walk into this space and they feel so free,” said
Schlesinger. “They’re living in a city where everything is
confined and narrow, and this gives them an amazing opportunity
to explore.”  She had a programming suggestion, too. “I was saying to
Bill they should do a haunted house,” she said. “Staying here
with the lights out would be scary even to adults.”  The gala raised $1.26 million, said the Armory’s president
and executive producer, Rebecca Robertson.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 