-- 
SEC Asks U.S. Judge to Order Deloitte Shanghai Unit to Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/sec-asks-judge-to-order-deloitte-unit-to-court-in-dispute.html
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd.
should be ordered to appear in a U.S. Court for rejecting a
Securities and Exchange Commission demand for documents related
to an investigation of its former client Longtop Financial
Technologies Ltd., an SEC lawyer said.  In a hearing yesterday in  Washington , SEC lawyer Mark
Lanpher said the Shanghai-based unit of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu
Ltd. has refused to respond to a court filing seeking documents
that the regulator claims are “critical” to its probe of
possible fraud at Longtop, a financial software maker based in
 Hong Kong .  “We have an ongoing fraud. Time is of the essence,”
Lanpher said, asking U.S. Magistrate Judge Deborah Robinson to
approve a “show cause” order requiring D&T Shanghai to appear
in court to explain why it hasn’t complied with a subpoena
issued in May.  Robinson responded that she needed more information from
the SEC regarding her authority to require a foreign company to
appear in a U.S. court. She gave the SEC until Oct. 14 to make
that argument in a court filing.  Michael Warden, a lawyer for D&T  Shanghai , was in the
courtroom yesterday. He didn’t address the judge and declined to
comment after the proceeding. In a July 8 letter to the SEC,
Warden said  China  law prevented his client from turning over
documents.  Financial Errors  Longtop said in May that D&T Shanghai quit because of
errors in the company’s financial records. The SEC also began an
investigation. In July, the SEC and the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board  met with counterparts in China to
discuss cross-border oversight.  D&T Shanghai resigned as Longtop’s auditor after
discovering numerous improprieties during the year ended March
31, 2011, according to the SEC. The SEC issued a subpoena for
documents it said may contain basic information necessary to
determine whether there was a fraud, who was behind it and how
it was conducted, according to the court filing.  The New York Stock Exchange delisted Longtop’s American
Depositary Shares in August.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., 11-mc-00512, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 