-- 
Sour Second Mortgages May Cost U.S. Lenders $23 Billion, Nomura Estimates

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-10-07T20:29:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/second-mortgages-may-cost-u-s-banks-23-billion-nomura-says.html
Losses on home-equity and other
second mortgages may cost the four biggest U.S. banks $22.6
billion more than budgeted, with  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  most at risk,
according to Glenn Schorr, an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc.  The tally for Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender,
may reach $8.79 billion after accounting for taxes and existing
provisions, followed by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  at $6.2 billion,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  at $5.51 billion and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at
$2.12 billion, Schorr told clients in a report today. Before
taxes and reserves, losses could total $73 billion, he wrote.  While the losses may be large, “we don’t see this as a
ticking time bomb” for banks because of reserves and the damage
will be spread over a long period, Schorr wrote. “They will be
given time to address any shortfalls.”  Regulators are examining whether banks accurately valued
home-equity and other second-lien mortgages and if they’ve put
enough aside to cover losses, seven people with knowledge of the
matter have said. Investors are skeptical about the true worth
of assets held by U.S. lenders, pushing the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  down
about 32 percent this year to 65 percent of stated book value
for the 24 companies represented.  Measured by gross losses, the tally for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America could exceed $24 billion, while
Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, may lose as much as $20
billion, Schorr estimated. New York-based JPMorgan’s liability
could be $19.5 billion, while New York-based Citigroup could see
as much as $8.96 billion, he said.  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan, Natalie Brown at
Wells Fargo,  Dan Frahm  at Bank of America and Citigroup’s
 Shannon Bell  declined to comment.  Underwater Loans  The loss estimates depend on how much equity is left in the
house. For Citigroup, 44 percent of its second mortgages show
the homeowner’s overall debt including first mortgages is
greater than the price of the home, “which would suggest little
to no recovery of value if a default occurs,” according to
Nomura.  Debt exceeds the home’s value in 40 percent of Wells
Fargo’s second mortgages, 36 percent at Bank of America and 27
percent for JPMorgan, Nomura said.  Holders of second liens can see their investment wiped out
when a homeowner defaults because a lender with a primary
mortgage gets first claim on the house in a  foreclosure sale . If
the value drops too far, nothing is left to pay the second lien.  Schorr said losses may not be as severe as they appear at
first glance because some home-equity lines of credit are first
mortgages. Bankers have said borrowers tend to keep making
payments as long as they’re able, even if the home’s value is
“underwater,” because they want to keep access to their line
of credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  