-- 
Second Mass Slaying of 30 People in Veracruz Linked to Mexican Drug Gang

-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-10-07T19:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/second-mass-slaying-of-30-people-in-veracruz-linked-to-mexican-drug-gang.html
The Mexican navy blamed a drug gang
for killing 32 people discovered yesterday in three safe houses
in Veracruz, the second mass killing in the Gulf Coast city in
less than three weeks.  The killings came just days after the government ordered
army reinforcements be sent to the state, a major tourist
destination and home to crude oil production facilities.  New Generation, a gang from the state of Jalisco, may be
behind the spree of killings in the state, said Jose Luis
Vergara, a spokesman for the navy, which has played a major role
in President Felipe Calderon’s crackdown on organized crime. On
Sept. 20, the bodies of 35 people were dumped near a shopping
mall in the port city, Vergara said in a  Mexico  City press
conference.  Those killings prompted the federal government to announce
the deployment of troops and stepped-up air, land and sea
patrols in the state.  The navy has captured eight New Generation members
allegedly responsible for the recent killings, and 12 members of
the Zetas drug gang, Vergara said. The groups are locked in a
battle for drug territory in the state, with New Generation
dubbing itself the Mata Zetas, or Zeta Killers, he said.  The suspects were detained thanks to increased federal
security operations in Veracruz and efforts to work in
coordination with local authorities, Vergara told  W Radio , a
Mexico City radio station. The interview took place after the
press conference.  Prosecutor Quits  The state’s attorney general, Reynaldo Escobar Perez,
resigned today for personal reasons, state government
spokeswoman Gina Dominguez told  Milenio TV . Marco Antonio
Lezama, a deputy attorney general, will temporarily take the
post, she said.  Veracruz, the country’s second largest crude oil producer,
registered 106 drug-related killings in September, the third
highest of any of Mexico’s 32 electoral districts and more than
double the 51 drug-related killings the previous month,
according to an Oct. 1 report by Milenio, a Mexico City-based
daily.  Mexico’s government estimates that drug-related violence
shaves 1.2 percentage points off output annually in  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 