-- 
Sina Drops Most in Six Days on Report of Microblog Rules

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-10-07T20:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/sina-drops-most-in-six-days-on-report-of-microblog-rules-1-.html
Sina Corp., the owner of the Twitter-
like Weibo service in  China , declined the most in six trading
sessions after a media report said China may introduce new
regulations targeting social media.  Sina’s shares declined 6.3 percent to $73.81 at the close
in  New York , the most since Sept. 29.  China is likely to roll out measures soon that would step
up management of social media, which may include forcing users
of microblogs to register using their real names, the Hong Kong-
based  South China Morning Post   reported , citing Song Jianwu,
dean of the School of Journalism and Communication at China
University of Political Science and Law.  “Regulation risk will always be the biggest risk for
Weibo,” Fawne Jiang, a New York-based equity analyst at Brean
Murray Carret & Co. LLC, responded to questions in an e-mail.
“That said, the immediate enforcement on real-name will be
challenging.”  Beijing City’s Communist Party chief Liu Qi asked websites
to strengthen management and eliminate the spread of fake and
misleading information on microblogs after a visit to Sina on
Aug. 22. The company pledged to ensure that information it
provides online is authentic in a Sept. 9 proposal on its
website.  Accounting Irregularities  Sina has tumbled 48 percent from a record $142.83 on April
20 as investors were concerned about accounting irregularities
at smaller Chinese companies traded in the U.S. and their
variable-interest entity, or VIE listing structure for selling
shares in the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement Director
 Robert Khuzami  said last month the  U.S. Department of Justice  is
reviewing allegations of accounting fraud at companies with
China operations.  China’s Commerce Ministry is studying ways to regulate
foreign investments through VIE structures, ministry spokesman
Shen Danyang said Sept. 20. In a VIE arrangement, a Chinese
entity holds the license needed to operate a website, and
international investors exert control over it through a set of
contracts, rather than a direct ownership stake.  At least 42 percent of Chinese businesses listed on the New
York Stock Exchange or  Nasdaq , including Sina, use the VIE
structure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  