-- 
Slovak Coalition to Debate EFSF Plan Oct. 10, Minister Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-10-07T13:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/slovak-coalition-to-debate-efsf-proposal-oct-10-minister-says.html
The Slovak ruling coalition will
debate a proposal to unlock the stalemate over enhancing
Europe’s bailout fund on Oct. 10, a day before lawmakers vote on
the issue, a government official said.  The ruling  Freedom and Solidarity  party yesterday presented
its three coalition partners a compromise proposal that would
allow it to back the overhaul of the European Financial
Stability Facility, the temporary bailout fund. Without the
party, known also as SaS, the package probably will be rejected
during an Oct. 11 parliamentary vote as the opposition has
pledged it won’t back it.  “We have submitted a proposal, which is negotiable,” said
Defense Minister Lubomir Galko, who is also SaS’s vice chairman,
told reporters in Bratislava, Slovakia today. The other
coalition parties need time to study the plan, he said.  Slovakia and Malta are the only two countries that haven’t
ratified the overhaul, the key element in  Europe ’s plan to fight
the region’s debt crisis. The EFSF needs to backed by all 17
countries sharing the euro.  Bela Bugar, the leader of the governing Most-Hid party,
said the proposal “gives hope” the coalition may agree on
supporting the bailout fund’s enhancement. Speaking on Sme.TV,
Bugar said his party still has some reservations about the plan.  The SaS plan envisages creating a committee consisting from
representatives of all parliamentary parties, of which each
would have a right to veto EFSF disbursements. It also calls for
Slovakia’s rejection of participation in the European Stability
Mechanism, a permanent rescue fund set to replace the EFSF in
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  