-- 
Solyndra Investigations Likely to Hurt ‘Green Jobs’ Not Obama

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/solyndra-investigations-likely-to-hurt-green-jobs-not-obama.html
President  Barack Obama  is fighting
for his “green energy” initiatives as Republicans in Congress
criticize the programs after solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC
collapsed.  While the programs are under scrutiny, the political damage
to the president is likely to be less severe as long as no other
companies that benefited from the federal program collapse --
including at least five others with ties to Obama donors and
advisers, said crisis management specialists.  “It’s not going to be Obama’s undoing,” said Eric
Dezenhall, a crisis-management strategist who heads Washington-
based Dezenhall Resources Ltd. and served as a White House aide
under former President Ronald Reagan. “For ‘green jobs’ there’s
some risk. A legitimate question can be raised to say this is
not the time to be spending money in initiatives that go
nowhere.”  Jonathan Silver, the executive director of the program that
granted the Solyndra loan guarantee, is stepping down, the
Energy Department said yesterday. The loan guarantee was awarded
before Silver joined the Energy Department. Silver was
criticized by Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida
Republican, for his management of the contract after he arrived.  Jason Grumet, who advised Obama on energy policy during his
2008 campaign and is president of the Bipartisan Policy Center
in Washington, said, “It’s entirely predictable that some of
these loans will fail. What is surprising is that the
administration appears to have done little to prepare the
Congress and public for this inevitability.”  Competing With China  Obama made that case during a White House news conference
yesterday, as he defended the decision to grant a $535 million
loan guarantee to Solyndra as a risk worth taking to help U.S.
companies that are developing new technologies.  China ,  Europe 
and other countries are also subsidizing cutting edge energy
companies, he said.  “If we are going to compete, then we have got to dominate
in cutting edge technology and dominate in cutting edge
manufacturing,” Obama said. “Clean energy is part of that
cutting edge package of the future.”  The president added that the administration “knew from the
start that the loan guarantee program was going to entail some
risk, by definition. But overall the portfolio has been
successful.”  Last month,  House Republicans  said they wanted to cut $1.5
billion from a loan guarantee program for green automobile
technologies to offset increases in spending on natural disaster
recovery.  Republican Probe  In addition, Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce
Committee have been searching White House e-mails and records to
determine if Obama or his senior advisers pressured the Energy
Department to provide the loan. The White House denies it did.  Solyndra filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 6 and
fired about 1,100 workers without notice. The company in January
completed construction on a $733 million factory in Fremont,
 California , financed in part with a $535 million loan backed by
the U.S. Department of Energy. When construction started, the
company said it had a $2 billion backlog in orders for its
cylindrical solar modules for commercial rooftops.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation raided Solyndra’s
offices on Sept. 8. The agency is examining possible accounting
fraud and the accuracy of financial representations the company
made to the government, said an FBI official, who requested
anonymity because the investigation is continuing.  Company Statement  “The company is not aware of any wrongdoing by Solyndra
officers, directors or employees” related to the Energy
Department loan guarantees or other actions and “is cooperating
fully” with the U.S. Attorney in  San Francisco , according to a
Sept. 20 statement from Solyndra.  The collapse is an embarrassment for Obama, who visited
Solyndra in May 2010 to highlight his green energy initiatives.
The company has connections to George Kaiser, an Obama campaign
fundraiser.  The George Kaiser Family Foundation , a charitable
organization based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , holds about 37 percent of
the company, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Kaiser is the major benefactor of the
foundation.  Of the  28 projects  that were awarded Energy Department loan
guarantees, five went to companies whose executives, employees
and investors made significant donations to Obama and Democratic
campaign committees, according to a Bloomberg search of records
compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics. None of those
companies appear to be at risk of default as Solyndra was,
according to analysts.  Colorado Fundraiser  Abound Solar Inc., a solar panel manufacturer that received
a $400 million loan guarantee to build a new plant in Indiana,
counts Colorado medical device company heiress Pat Stryker among
its major investors. Stryker, a Democratic fundraiser, has given
$459,000 to Democratic candidates and committees since 2007,
including $9,600 to Obama’s campaigns, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics. She also donated to Obama’s rivals for
the Democratic nomination in 2008,  Hillary Clinton  and John Edwards.  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are among the major
investors in Caithness Energy’s 32,000-acre wind power project
in central Oregon that received a $13 billion guarantee. GE
Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt is an adviser to Obama on
jobs and competitiveness and Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  is an
adviser on science and technology.  Bipartisan Donor  Employees of  Sempra Energy (SRE) , California’s third-largest
utility, gave $24,200 to Obama’s campaigns, according to
campaign disclosure reports. Company officials also donated to
both Democratic and Republican committees. The company received
a guarantee for a $398 million loan to build a 150-megawatt
solar project in  Arizona  which will generate electricity for
 PG&E Corp. (PCG) , California’s largest utility.  SunPower Corp. (SPWRA)  won a guarantee for $1.24 billion to build a
250-megawatt solar generation project in San Luis Obispo County
that it sold last week to  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  The project, known as
the California Valley Solar Ranch, also has an agreement to sell
its electricity to PG&E.  “These purchase agreements with the California utilities
are like building a factory where you already have a customer
lined up to buy all the widgets you make,” said Robert Stone,
managing director of equity research at Cowen & Co. in  Boston .  Stone said the loan guarantees for established companies
reduce borrowing costs by about 1.9 percentage points. “It’s
nice but it’s not a show-stopper,” he said.  Democratic Defense  In addition to publicly defending the decision to lend to
Solyndra and the “green jobs” program, Democrats are using the
congressional inquiry to release e-mails they say show the
Solyndra application did not receive special treatment.  On the same day Obama defended the programs in an ABC News
interview, Democrats on the Energy and Commerce Committee
released internal  e-mail  showing the White House raised concerns
about the Energy Department’s oversight of Solyndra and
acknowledged that by investing in new technology, they run the
risk of losing some money. The correspondence also showed debate
within the administration about the viability of Solyndra  “There were going to be some companies that did not work
out; Solyndra was one of them,” Obama said yesterday. “But the
process by which the decision was made was on the merits. It was
straightforward. And of course there were going to be debates
internally when you’re dealing with something as complicated as
this.”  FBI Probe  The prompt response by the FBI and Energy Department after
Solyndra abruptly shutdown, could allow Obama to argue that his
administration is being as tough on the company as Congress --or
more so.  Still, the mere existence of investigations, especially by
the FBI, could taint the entire loan program, said Dezenhall and
Ari Fleischer, a former spokesman for President George W. Bush
and now a crisis communication consultant.  “The fact that the FBI is investigating sends a neutral
signal to everyone regardless of party that there’s something
wrong there,” Fleischer said.  “It has the potential to tarnish a whole industry
independent of whether or not that industry has the same problem
that one company does,” Dezenhall added. “Whenever you’re
dealing with an investigation, it has the whiff of broader
implications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in  Washington  at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  