-- 
Sony Shares Decline After Report Company May Buy Out Venture With Ericsson

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-10-07T15:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/sony-falls-after-report-company-close-to-buying-stake-in-ericsson-venture.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  fell in Tokyo trading
after the Wall Street Journal reported the company is nearing an
agreement to buy Ericsson AB’s stake in their 10-year-old
mobile-phone venture.  The shares dropped 3.7 percent to close at 1,415 yen, the
second-biggest decliner in  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average, which gained 1 percent. Ericsson fell 1 percent to
68.50 kronor at 5:04 p.m. in  Stockholm .  Sony is reviewing the 50-50 partnership because the
business has become more important for Japan’s largest exporter
of consumer electronics with demand for smartphones and
computers surging, said a person with knowledge of the matter,
asking not to be named because the matter is private. The
parents held regular discussions in recent years about the
ownership structure of  Sony Ericsson  Mobile Communications AB,
and they may fail to reach a pact, the Wall Street Journal said.  A deal “could amount to a huge financial burden on Sony,”
said Hideki Yasuda, a Tokyo-based analyst at Ace Securities Co.
with a “neutral” rating on the stock. “There could be a
costly fee for using patents reserved by Ericsson.”  Haakan Wranne, a Stockholm-based analyst at Swedbank
Markets, said Ericsson’s 50 percent stake may be valued at as
much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion). “The venture doesn’t
maximize the potential of Sony’s presence and assets in gaming,
and is diluting what could be a bigger profile Sony offering,”
he said.  Full Control  “We’re not the source of the information for the report,”
Tokyo-based Sony said in a statement. Ola Rembe at Stockholm-
based Ericsson and Holly Rossetti at London-based Sony Ericsson
declined to comment.  Sony Ericsson has more than 4,000 of its own telecom
patents and has a license to all the Nortel Networks Corp.
patents that were auctioned this year,  Gustaf Brusewitz , a
spokesman for the venture, said in August. Both Ericsson and
Sony were part of a group, which included Apple Inc. and
Microsoft Corp., that agreed in July to pay $4.5 billion for a
portfolio of patents from the breakup of Nortel.  Full control of the venture would add smartphones using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system to Sony’s device business, while
freeing Ericsson to concentrate on sales of wireless
transmission equipment and services. Sony Ericsson already makes
a smartphone with a slideout gaming keyboard that works like the
Japanese company’s Playstation game system and runs many of the
same titles.  Funding Risks  Ericsson carried its share of the venture at 2.4 billion
Swedish kronor ($353 million) as of the end of last year,
declining from 6.7 million kronor in 2008, according to its
 annual report .  “‘There is no point” for Ericsson to “remain involved
and bear the risk of having to pay additional funds,” said
 Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Sale of the venture would be positive for Ericsson since it
would reduce the risk of additional funding obligations,  Fitch
Ratings  said in a statement. Ericsson’s debt is rated BBB+, the
third lowest of 10 investment-grade ratings. The Swedish company
has guaranteed 2.1 billion kronor of Sony Ericsson’s debt, Fitch
said.  Falling Market Share  Ericsson and Sony set up the venture on Oct. 1, 2001,
giving themselves five years to dethrone  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as the
world’s biggest mobile-phone maker. Sony Ericsson’s market share
slid to 1.7 percent in the second quarter, giving it a ranking
of No. 10 among handset manufacturers, slipping from 3 percent a
year earlier. It shipped 7.6 million handsets in the second
quarter.  Sony Ericsson reported its first quarterly loss in more
than a year on July 15. Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg
said at the time the company was ramping down its feature phone
business as the worldwide market for handsets without smartphone
software was “collapsing.”  The venture agreement is up for renewal this month,
according to London-based CCS analyst  Ben Wood . Ericsson hasn’t
disclosed the duration of the partnership, spokesman Tobias
Gyhlenius said.  Sony Ericsson’s efforts to replace its aging smartphone
portfolio with updated models such as the  Xperia Arc  were
delayed by supply-chain disruptions following the Japanese
earthquake and tsunami in March.  “This is really the time to divest if Sony is willing to
do so,” said Mats Nystroem, a Stockholm-based analyst with SEB
Enskilda. “Sony Ericsson’s product portfolio is the best it’s
ever had so for a couple of quarters they should show good
profitability but in the long run they’re at a disadvantage
because of their small scale and would continue to burden
Ericsson.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 