-- 
Italy, Spain Ratings Cut by Fitch; Belgium Is Put Under Review by Moody’s

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-10-07T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/spain-italy-credit-ratings-are-lowered-by-fitch-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Fitch Ratings  downgraded Italy and
Spain on concern they will struggle to improve their finances as
 Europe ’s debt crisis intensifies, while Moody’s Investors
Service put  Belgium  on review for a possible cut.  Spain had its foreign and local currency long-term issuer
default ratings cut to AA- from AA+, while Italy had the same
set of ratings lowered to A+ from AA-, Fitch said in
statements yesterday. The outlook for both countries is negative.
Fitch also maintained  Portugal ’s rating at BBB-, saying it would
complete a review of that ranking in the fourth quarter.  Belgium’s Aa1 local- and foreign-currency ratings were
placed under review for a downgrade by Moody’s because of rising
funding risks for euro region nations with high levels of debt
and additional bank support measures which are likely to be
needed.  The downgrades for  Spain  and Italy reflect “the
intensification of the euro zone crisis,” Fitch said, citing
risks to Spain’s “fiscal-consolidation” efforts. “A credible
and comprehensive solution to the crisis is politically and
technically complex and will take time to put in place and to
earn the trust of investors,” Fitch said of Spain.  Italy and Spain, the third- and fourth-largest economies
respectively in the 17-nation euro area, are scrambling to avoid
the fallout from the debt crisis as  Greece  moves closer to
default. Borrowing costs for both nations surged to euro-era
record highs in August, prompting the  European Central Bank  to
prop up their bonds on the secondary market.  International Credibility  “There are two things Italy needs to do. One is to work on
reacquiring a sufficient level of international credibility to
maintain its financial house in order,”  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said after a speech in
 Montreal  yesterday. “The other thing that you need is to
increase the purchasing capability of the Italian public.”  Fitch’s cut of Italy was its first since October 2006. It
follows downgrades of Italy by Moody’s on Oct. 4 and Standard &
Poor’s on Sept. 19, which both cited concerns that the country’s
weak economic growth means it will struggle to reduce Europe’s
second-largest debt, at about 120 percent of gross domestic
product.  Spain’s rating, which was AAA until 2010, has now been
lowered twice by Fitch as the deepest austerity measures in
three decades fail to convince investors the nation can stem the
surge in its debt burden. Moody’s also warned “all but the
strongest euro-area sovereigns” are likely to see further
downgrades, when it cut  Italy ’s rating for the first time in
almost two decades.  Spanish Growth  Fitch said it expects Spanish growth to remain below 2
percent a year through 2015. Still, the nation’s debt burden
will peak at 72 percent of GDP in 2013, below the forecast for
the euro area on average, the company said.  Italy gave final approval last month to a 54 billion-euro
($72 billion) austerity plan aimed at balancing the budget in
2013 that convinced the ECB to start buying the nation’s and
Spanish bonds on Aug. 8. Italy’s 10-year borrowing costs, which
fell as low as 4.87 percent on Aug. 18, were at 5.52 percent
yesterday. Spain’s 10-year bond yield was at 4.99 percent.  “The crisis has adversely impacted financial stability and
growth prospects across the region,” Fitch said. “However, the
high level of public debt and fiscal financing requirement along
with the low rate of potential growth rendered Italy especially
vulnerable to such an external shock.”  U.S. Rating  The decision also comes after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped
the U.S. of its AAA credit rating for the first time. While the
Aug. 5 move roiled global markets, bond investors ignored S&P’s
warnings about U.S. creditworthiness and piled into Treasuries.
The yield on the benchmark U.S. government bond fell to a record
1.6714 on Sept. 23.  Spain’s Socialist government, which faces a general
election on Nov. 20, has said the country may miss its 2011
growth forecast of 1.3 percent as the recovery slows.
Unemployment remains above 21 percent and the manufacturing
industry contracted the most in more than two years in September.
Regional governments, which are responsible for health and
education and hire half of Spain’s public workers, are behind
schedule to meet their deficit targets, preliminary data showed
on Sept. 8.  The  People’s Party , which polls indicate may win an
outright majority in the vote, has pledged a stricter budget law,
spending limits for the regional governments, and tax breaks to
encourage companies to hire workers and become more competitive.
PP leader  Mariano Rajoy  said on Sept. 15 he would send a
“strong signal” to markets and wouldn’t deviate from the
budget-deficit goal of 4.4 percent of gross domestic product in
2012 “under any circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  