-- 
Sprint, Cellular South Ask AT&T Judge Not to Dismiss Their Lawsuits

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-07T20:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/sprint-cellular-south-ask-at-t-judge-not-to-dismiss-cases.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Cellular
South Inc. asked a federal judge to reject AT&T Inc.’s bid to
dismiss their lawsuits opposing its purchase of wireless carrier
T-Mobile USA Inc., arguing antitrust law allows them to
challenge the merger because of its effects on competition.  The companies filed their opposition to AT&T’s motion to
dismiss today in federal court in  Washington . AT&T argued that
since companies are competitors, not consumers, they lack the
right to bring an antitrust case.  “Those injuries to competitors, which align with harm to
consumers, are ‘antitrust injuries,’ and create standing for a
competitor,” Sprint and Cellular South responded in their
filing. The merger could “injure competitors in ways that also
injure consumers through higher prices, diminished service and
reduced innovation,” the companies said.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , brought its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, less than a week after the U.S.
sued to block the deal. As the third-biggest wireless carrier,
Sprint said the proposed merger would weaken its ability to
compete with AT&T, the second biggest, and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader. The combination of AT&T
and T-Mobile would form the country’s largest mobile phone
company.  Competitors’ Right  “Competitors have the right to bring an antitrust
complaint to stop AT&T’s proposed takeover of T-Mobile if they
allege that the proposed transaction is likely to harm their
ability to compete,” Sprint’s Vice President for Litigation
Susan Haller said in a statement.  Sprint isn’t “trying to protect consumers -- who would
clearly benefit from our merger with T-Mobile,” said AT&T’s
Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel  Wayne Watts ,
in an e-mailed statement. “Instead, they are trying to protect
themselves.”  Cellular South sued on Sept. 19 claiming the merger
threatened to “substantially” cut competition. Cellular South,
based in Ridgeland, Mississippi, changed its name to C Spire
Wireless on Sept. 26, according to its website.  Cellular South filed a separate motion to remove from the
record e-mails it said were improperly submitted by AT&T while
misrepresenting what Cellular South had proposed in
communications with AT&T.  E-Mail Evidence  AT&T said in the earlier filing that the competitive
concerns raised by Cellular South weren’t legitimate, offering
as evidence a March 21 e-mail from Cellular South’s Chief
Executive Officer Hu Meena that proposed an agreement between
the two companies on issues such as spectrum and roaming access.  “Such extraneous evidentiary material and related argument
is procedurally improper,” Cellular South said.  Cellular South also refuted AT&T’s interpretation of
Meena’s e-mail in the motion to dismiss.  “Mr. Meena was responding to AT&T’s request that Cellular
South allow AT&T the opportunity to address Cellular South’s
concerns about the merger before Cellular South took a public
position on the merger,” Cellular South said in its filing.
Cellular South never suggested that AT&T not engage in
“facilities-based competition” with Cellular South in
 Mississippi , the company said.  ‘Inappropriate Proposal’  Cellular South suggested in the e-mails that it “would not
oppose the merger if AT&T would not engage in facilities-based
competition in Mississippi,” said AT&T spokesman Mike Balmoris
in an e-mail. “Such an extraordinary and inappropriate proposal
simply confirms that what C Spire fears is competition, not an
alleged lack of competition.”  The  Justice Department  sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, arguing a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states and  Puerto Rico  joined the
government’s case.  Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-cv-
01600, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).
Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc., 11-
cv-01690, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). The government’s case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-
01560, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 