-- 
Banking Delusion Brings Crisis to Europe’s Core: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-07T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/summer-of-banking-delusion-brings-financial-crisis-to-europe-s-core-view.html
(Corrects EFSF name in eighth paragraph.)  Once upon a time, like this summer,
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian bank, was stable. By the measures
global regulators deem important, its capital ratio stood at
11.4 percent of risk-weighted assets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s well above the 10 percent regulators plan
to require of the world’s largest banks under new international
rules.  What a difference a summer makes. The Belgian and French
governments now have a complicated mess on their hands. Dexia,
which had received a government bailout in 2008, saw its shares
plummet after Moody’s Investors Service put its main units on
review for a downgrade on Oct. 3. Within days, Belgium and
 France  said that they would stand behind the bank’s deposits and
suggested a “bad bank” structure could be used to wind down
its toxic assets.  How this will be resolved is unclear. But Dexia
crystallizes the need for smarter capital rules, credible stress
tests and an aggressive plan to recapitalize Europe’s banks
quickly should financial calamity strike.  The first problem is that some risk-weighting methods can
make banks look stronger than they really are. Global capital
rules, for example, allow placing zero weight on government
debt. Using equal weights for all assets (and excluding
intangible assets such as goodwill), Dexia’s tangible common-
equity ratio -- a simpler measure of capital -- amounted to less
than 1 percent as of June 30, according to Bloomberg data.
That’s less than half what  Lehman Brothers  had as of May 2008.  Stressed Out  The stress tests conducted by European banking regulators
shared the same blind spot: they didn’t consider the prospect
that banks could suffer losses as a result of sovereign
defaults. In such a scenario, a mere 10 percent loss on Dexia’s
50-billion-euro net holdings of sovereign debt would wipe out
its tangible equity. Instead, Dexia passed the second round of
stress tests in July with flying colors. Even under the test’s
worst-case scenario, Dexia’s capital ratio didn’t fall below 10
percent.  These flaws help explain why new measures to backstop
Europe’s banking system will inspire little faith unless they
are combined with an honest accounting of how much banks stand
to lose if Greece and other struggling governments default. New
stress tests, done honestly, will help determine how much a
recapitalization of  Europe ’s banks is likely to cost.  Recapitalization Plan  Such a program would be legally complicated, potentially
ineffectual and spectacularly unpopular. Policy makers must be
prepared to undertake it anyway. To date, Europe’s leaders have
shown little urgency or unity in confronting their debt
problems. That needs to change. A recapitalization plan should
be coordinated continent-wide. It should acknowledge potential
writedowns of the sovereign debt of weak countries other than
Greece. And it should be large enough to meet banks’ needs with
overwhelming force -- about $200 billion by most estimates.  The structure of the plan will provoke intense debate.
We’ve argued before that the European Financial Stability
Facility should be leveraged with the help of the  European
Central Bank  to create a bailout fund akin to the Troubled Asset
Relief Program that the U.S. instituted in 2008. A proposal
offered by German officials -- in which shareholders, national
governments and the EFSF provide a system of rolling backstops,
in that order -- also could be the basis of a credible plan.  In the best case, an authoritative recapitalization
proposal would signal to markets that European officials were
coming to grips with the scope of their problems -- thereby
buying time to bring  Greece  to an orderly default and further
protect solvent countries’ debt. In the worst case, it could be
activated quickly to try to forestall a calamitous credit
crunch.  Dexia’s most immediate problem has been a crisis of
liquidity, and not capital. But the reason lending dried up was
because markets recognized the bank’s precarious capital
structure and vulnerability to deteriorating sovereign debt. One
can’t be blamed for feeling Dexia isn’t alone.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 