-- 
Supercommittee Members Urge Obama to Expand Airwaves Auctions

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-10-07T20:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/supercommittee-members-urge-obama-to-expand-airwaves-auctions.html
Four members of the congressional
supercommittee charged with cutting the U.S. deficit urged
President  Barack Obama  to expand a proposal to auction airwaves
controlled by the federal government to raise revenue.  The lawmakers said reallocating some spectrum used by
federal agencies may also help meet commercial demand for
airwaves driven by increasing consumer adoption of smartphones
and tablet computers, according to a letter to Obama.  The letter was signed by Representatives  Fred Upton , a
Michigan Republican, and Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat,
and Senators  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, and Patrick Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican. The 12-member bipartisan
supercommittee is tasked with finding $1.5 trillion in budget
savings by Nov. 23.  The Obama administration in February proposed freeing up
500 megahertz of government and commercial spectrum in the next
decade, almost doubling the airwaves that would be available for
wireless Internet use.  The Obama plan would draw on airwaves the administration
considers underutilized. Revenue from auctioning spectrum
voluntarily relinquished by television broadcasters and U.S.
agencies would contribute to deficit reduction and help build an
emergency communications network for public-safety workers.  The four supercommittee members said the voluntary auctions
envisioned by the administration “will not produce all the
spectrum we need to meet our country’s growing demand for
broadband” and called on the White House to consider expanding
its proposal to reallocate federal government airwaves. The
lawmakers requested a response by Oct. 14.  Emergency Network  The Senate Commerce Committee in June approved a measure to
set auctions of television airwaves. Under the bill, S.911, the
U.S. would sell airwaves voluntarily surrendered by TV station
owners, with proceeds going to pay for the emergency network and
compensate station owners, with surplus funds going toward
deficit reduction.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said in July that the
measure, sponsored by Senators  Jay Rockefeller  and  Kay Bailey Hutchison , would raise $6.5 billion toward deficit reduction,
down from the lawmakers’ earlier estimate of $10 billion.
Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, is chairman of the
committee and Hutchison, of  Texas , is the committee’s senior
Republican member.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  