-- 
Superheroes Rise From Camp to Art: Virginia Postrel

-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 
2011-10-07T00:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/superheroes-already-commerce-grow-up-as-art-virginia-postrel.html
The newest banner in the window of
the  Andy Warhol Museum  in Pittsburgh features a strikingly
realistic portrait of Superman. Unfazed as bullets bounce from
his chest, neck and forehead, the Man of Steel wears a calm,
resolute expression, made all the more convincing by the creases
and fine lines of early middle age.  To comic book fans, it’s an instantly recognizable image:
Superman as imagined by  Alex Ross , one of the contemporary comic
world’s star artists. And the Warhol Museum  exhibit  “Heroes and
Villains: The Comic Book Art of Alex Ross,” which opened Oct.
1, marks a significant cultural moment.  Displaying more than 130 of Ross’s paintings, drawings and
sculptures, from his early childhood to recent works, it’s the
first museum show devoted to a single artist’s renderings of
superheroes, treating the works not as cultural history but as
art.  It’s a very Warholian gesture, honoring commercial art
whose subject matter is beloved by the public but traditionally
scorned by critics. “Warhol was a big comic book fan, and we’re
the pop culture museum,” says Jesse Kowalski, the museum’s
director of exhibitions, explaining why he conceived and
organized the Ross show. “What art is more pop culture than
comic book art?”  Unlike some of the museum’s more esoteric shows, such as a
current exhibit of Warhol’s films (“This is boring!” a
disgusted visitor declared), this one is a crowd-pleaser.  Attitudes Shifting  More important, it also captures a significant shift in
public attitudes, one with big economic consequences.
Contemporary adult audiences simultaneously recognize the
artifice and fantasy of the superhero world and appreciate its
imaginative pleasures. Straightforward escapism has replaced
scorn, embarrassment and defensive irony.  As a result, superheroes have become cultural staples --the
subjects of billions of dollars in merchandise, video games,
television shows and, of course, blockbuster movies, including
four of this year’s  top 20  box office hits so far.  It wasn’t always this way. Back in 1966, a  Newsweek feature 
on the then-cutting-edge Pop movement declared that “not only
is it permissible for adults to read pulp comics, it is a
sociological necessity.” Far from making superhero comics
legitimate adult fare, however, the Pop moment left them
stigmatized as camp -- the Zap! Pow! Holy Ridicule! of the
short-lived “Batman” TV series. Comic fans generally loathe
that show.  “They made people laugh at Batman. And that just killed
me,” writes  Michael E. Uslan , the executive producer of the
contemporary Batman movies, in his  memoir  “The Boy Who Loved
Batman.” As a child, Uslan writes, he vowed “to restore Batman
to his true and rightful identity as the  Dark Knight  ... a
creature of the night stalking criminals from the shadows.”  As a producer, he fulfilled that vow with Tim Burton’s 1989
“Batman,” demonstrating that superhero stories, if done with
conviction, could be enormously lucrative. That first Batman
film  grossed  $411 million worldwide. Uslan’s most successful
production,  Christopher Nolan ’s “The Dark Knight,” released in
2008, has taken in more than  $1 billion  worldwide.  These triumphs depended on taking a more direct, less
ironic approach to superheroes -- one that could acknowledge the
fantasy while nonetheless creating a world in which superheroes
seemed real. The Warhol Museum exhibit suggests why this
approach has such an enduring appeal.  There is, first of all, the pure aesthetic pleasure. Like
 Andy Warhol ’s portraits of Marilyn and Jackie (or, indeed, of
Superman), the Ross paintings offer new and beautiful ways of
seeing familiar, emotionally resonant icons. The exhibit may be
Pop, but it definitely isn’t camp.  “I want to convince the viewer that this is legitimate,
that this is something inspiring, not something comical,” Ross
tells me. “I’m on the side of the material. I’m trying to win
you over.”  Fantastic Made Realistic  Like  Norman Rockwell , some of whose works also appear in
the exhibit, Ross works from live models and he paints (in
gouache, as opposed to Rockwell’s oils) rather than, in the
traditional comic-book style, drawing and coloring his figures.
The result is a seemingly realistic rendering of the fantastic.  “It almost looks like history,” says  Larry Levine , a
graphic designer who was touring the opening with a friend.
Another visitor,  Stephen A. Glassman , the president and chief
executive officer of the Community Design Center of Pittsburgh,
marveled at the paintings’ vibrant colors and vivid forms. “I’m
just knocked over by how absolutely gorgeous these images are,”
he says.  Beyond the pleasures of color and form is, of course, the
inspirational allure of the heroes themselves. “They’re
everyone’s dream of how to solve problems and resolve all the
conflicts in the world,” Glassman says. “It’s not realistic,
but it makes you feel good.”  Such unapologetic, frank escapism accounts not just for the
broad appeal but also for the versatility of superhero stories.
Embracing the artifice of superheroes means accepting that there
is no single correct approach to the genre. If you don’t treat
superheroes as a joke but nonetheless admit (to yourself and
your audience) that they’re obvious fiction, you can experiment
-- fool around with different styles of art, different
assumptions about the setting, different sorts of plots.  Stories can be grim or joyful, philosophical or silly,
revisionist or traditional, family-friendly or adults-only. It
is this approach, with its ample space for reinvention and
reinterpretation, that has allowed superheroes not only to
satisfy generations of hard-core fans but also to become such
profitable mass-market properties.  With their plenitude of possible incarnations, superheroes
can be deployed in nostalgic war pictures (“Captain America:
The First Avenger”), mythic family dramas (“Thor”), action
comedies (“The  Green Hornet ”), New Frontier science fiction
(“X-Men: First Class”) or alien-filled space opera (“ Green
Lantern ”) -- to stick only to this year’s Hollywood movies.
(Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, meanwhile, has his own
superhero movie,  “Ra.One,”  premiering on Oct. 26.)  Room for Camp  Nolan’s Batman trilogy, whose final installment, “The Dark
Knight Rises,” will come out next year, is as dark as “The
Incredibles” was sunny. In an agapic moment, the utterly
unironic Ross even allows a place for that hated Batman show.
“There’s perfectly well a need for camp in comics as well as
realism,” he says. “There’s no reason not to have both.”  Outside the museum, the Superman banner flanks the front
door on the right, while to the left is another banner,
headlined “It’s All About Andy.” Warhol would have enjoyed the
juxtaposition. He really was a fan.  Along with prints from Warhol’s 1981  Myths series ,
including a Superman glimmering with diamond dust, the exhibit
has examples from his personal stash of comic books, including
not only Batman and Lois Lane (“Superman’s Girlfriend”) comics
but also the classic Fantastic Four issue  “The Coming of
Galactus.”  Warhol gave his nephew  Jules Feiffer’s  lively 1965
defense of the genre, “The Great Comic Book Heroes,” and he
owned superhero memorabilia (the display features a Wonder Woman
pop-up book and Wonder Woman shoelaces, still in their original
package!).  Seated once next to Warhol, Michael Uslan brought up his
favorite subject. “Oh,” responded the artist in his affectless
way. “I love the comic books.”  Born the late 1920s, Warhol knew comics in their heyday
(comic book sales peaked in the 1940s). These days, the books
themselves are like runway couture: niche creations that support
a host of more-profitable mass merchandise. But America loves
their super-powered progeny, all the way to the bank -- and now
the museum.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 