-- 
Swiss Stocks Pare Their Gains; SMI Is Little Changed in Zurich

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-10-07T15:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/swiss-stocks-decline-before-u-s-jobs-data-holcim-tecan-drop.html
Swiss stocks pared their gains,
leaving the benchmark index little changed, as  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and
 UBS AG (UBSN)  declined.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, gained less than 0.1 percent to
5,635.81 at 5:14 p.m. in Zurich, after earlier climbing as much
as 0.8 percent. The gauge has tumbled 12 percent this year as
disappointing European and U.S. economic reports added to
concern that the global recovery is faltering. The broader Swiss
Performance Index rose 0.2 percent today.  U.S. employers added more jobs than forecast in September,
payroll gains were revised up in the prior two months and hours
and earnings increased, helping ease concerns the U.S. labor
market is deteriorating.  Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised 57,000
increase the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department data showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of
60,000. The gain reflected the return to work of 45,000
telecommunications employees. The jobless rate held at 9.1
percent.  “The jobs report does slightly exceed expectations,”
Viola Stork, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen
in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mail. “The  unemployment rate 
remains on a high level, as for a sustained decline, the
employment trend is not robust enough.”  ECB Assistance  The  European Central Bank ’s move to keep euro-area banks
afloat is buying governments time to recapitalize them as Greece
edges closer to a default. The ECB said yesterday it will
reintroduce yearlong loans, giving banks access to unlimited
cash through January 2013, and resume purchases of covered bonds
to encourage lending.  At the same time, the European Commission is pushing for a
coordinated capital injection into banks. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said policy makers “shouldn’t hesitate” if it
turns out financial institutions are under-capitalized.  Swiss unemployment remained at the lowest in more than 2
1/2 years in September, suggesting the labor market is still
robust even as economic growth cools.  The jobless rate held at 3 percent compared with August,
when adjusted for seasonal swings, the State Secretariat for
Economic Affairs in Bern said in a statement today. That’s the
lowest since January 2009 and in line with the median forecast
of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Holcim dropped 5.5 percent to 51.25 Swiss francs. UBS lost
3.4 percent to 10.6 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  