-- 
Swiss Fund Piggybacks on Directors’ Sale of Financial Stocks

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-07T10:53:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/swiss-fund-piggybacks-on-directors-sale-of-financial-stocks.html
Swiss Investment Managers GmbH , which
picks stocks by mimicking the trades of company directors,
boosted its short positions in European financial companies this
week after executives sold shares.  The Directors Dealings Fund, launched at the start of
September, previously had 20 percent of its assets invested in
financial stocks, said Athanasios Ladopoulos, senior portfolio
manager at the Zug, Switzerland-based firm. He declined to give
individual stock positions.  “We increased shorts in financials in the first days of
October,” said Ladopoulos in an interview in Geneva.
“Directors buy if the future of the company is getting better
and they sell if it is getting worse.”  The Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and Financial Services Index
declined 26 percent since July 1. Moody’s Investors Service
today cut the senior debt and deposit ratings of 12 U.K.
financial institutions including Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, concluding the government would be less likely to provide
support for them if they became financially troubled.  The Directors Dealing fund, which aims for a risk-adjusted
return of 15 percent annually, rose 1.28 percent in September.
The fund is targeting assets of 50 million euros ($67 million)
in its first year of operation, said Ladopoulos, who declined to
disclose its current size. The fund will be capped at 2 billion
euros.  Swiss Investment Managers’ eight-strong team invests in
large- and mid-cap European and U.S. stocks using a strategy
based exclusively on tracking directors buying and selling
shares in their own company.  “We have a very good understanding of the degree of
confidence or fear that a director has,” Ladopoulos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  