-- 
Syria Opposition Slams ‘Hostility’ of Russia, China in UN Vote

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-10-07T10:35:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/syria-opposition-slams-hostility-of-russia-china-in-un-vote.html
A Syrian opposition leader accused
Russia and  China  of putting their economic interests first and
showing “hostility” toward the Syrian people by blocking a
United Nations resolution demanding an end to violence.  The stance of Russia and China, which on Oct. 4 scuppered a
U.S. and Europe-backed motion condemning President Bashar al- Assad’s crackdown on protests, will be reciprocated across the
Arab world, Faruk Tayfur, deputy chairman of the Syrian National
Council formed in Istanbul this month, told Turkey’s state-run
Anatolia news agency. Russia sells weapons to Syria and
maintains a naval base there.  Syrian opposition leaders will travel to  Egypt  this
weekend, and there are plans to visit other countries to gain
recognition as Syria’s representatives, said Tayfur, who fled
the country in 1975 and said he hasn’t returned since.  Activists estimate that at least 3,600 people have died and
tens of thousands have been detained during seven months of
protests in  Syria . Opposition leaders have been meeting in
Turkey and on Oct. 2 said they created a council, including the
Muslim Brotherhood, to coordinate efforts to end Assad’s rule.  The United Nations Human Rights Council is meeting in
Geneva today for a quadrennial discussion of Syria’s record. A
coalition of activists and rights groups sent a draft resolution
to all UN member states calling for the creation of a special UN
monitor of human rights in the country, said Geneva-based UN
Watch, a non-government organization coordinating the effort.  ‘Fictional’ Submission  The Syrian government’s submission to the UN council on the
country’s human rights record is “fictional” and “insulting
to the memory” of Syrians killed in Assad’s crackdown, Hillel
Neuer, executive director of UN Watch, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Syrian government has blamed the violence on terrorists
encouraged by its foreign enemies.  Tayfur praised  Turkey ’s decision to press ahead with more
sanctions against Assad’s government even after the failure of
the UN measure. A former Syrian colonel, Riad al As’ad, fled to
Turkey after forming the opposition Free Syria Army, according
to Anatolia.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  called the veto
of the Security Council resolution “unfortunate.” The premier
canceled a trip to Turkey’s southeastern province of Hatay,
where more than 7,600 Syrian refugees are staying, after his
mother died today, Anatolia reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  