-- 
U.K. Trade-Clearing Suit, JICA Probe, EnBW Deal: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-07T12:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-k-trade-clearing-suit-jica-probe-loreley-suit-enbw-deal-compliance.html
The U.K. sued the  European Central
Bank  over plans to block trades in some euro-denominated
securities from being cleared outside of the 17 countries that
share the currency.  In the first such move by a government, the U.K.’s lawsuit
against the ECB over its location policy for clearinghouses was
registered at the  EU General Court  in Luxembourg. A hearing
could come within two years and a ruling may take as long as
three years.  The case was registered at the EU court, the region’s
second-highest, on Sept. 15, according to the tribunal’s press
service, the same day the  U.K. Treasury  said it would take
action. In parallel with the court case, the U.K. is seeking
safeguards in a draft EU law on over-the-counter derivatives
that would protect clearinghouses from pressure to relocate.  EU finance ministers this week agreed to stipulate in the
law that “no member state or a group of member states” should
be discriminated against as a venue for clearing services. The
final version of the rules must be hammered out in negotiations
between governments and lawmakers in the  European Parliament .  The case is: T-496/11 pending case,  United Kingdom  v. ECB.  Compliance Policy  Brazil Antitrust Review of M&A Deals to Last Up to 240 Days  Brazil’s antitrust reviews of merger and acquisition
transactions will be limited to 240 days, Vinicius Carvalho,
head of the Justice Ministry’s antitrust arm, told reporters in
Brasilia.  Congress approved a bill yesterday allowing Cade, the
country’s antitrust regulator, to analyze transactions before
they are concluded.  EU Rules on Markets, Insider Trading Set for Oct. 20  The  European Commission  will present proposals on Oct. 20
to toughen rules for trading on financial markets in the 27-
nation region.  It will also present measures to better tackle market
manipulation and insider dealing, the commission said on its
website today.  The commission  said  high-frequency trading will be included
the proposals, which are known as the Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive.  The proposals will “ensure that the legislation is fully
up-to-date concerning the latest technological developments and
market developments, such as the emergence of new trading
platforms and high frequency trading, in the interests of fair
competition and efficient markets,” the commission said on its
website.  Compliance Action  JICA to Ask Underwriter SMBC Nikko About Insider-Trading Probe  Japan  International Cooperation Agency, a government body
providing development assistance, said it asked SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., the lead underwriter for its bond sale, to
explain its insider-trading probe.  JICA , as the agency is known, will invite bankers from SMBC
Nikko as early as this week to account for the investigation by
Japan’s securities watchdog over possible insider-trading
violation, said Yoshifumi Omura, director of capital markets
division at the Tokyo-based body. The decision on whether to
exclude the brokerage as an underwriter for its 20 billion yen
($261 million) bond sale in December will be made based on the
findings, he said.  Omura said yesterday in an interview in  Tokyo  that JICA is
“examining the situation” and will not make decisions until it
conducts hearings.  JICA has hired SMBC Nikko,  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  and
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. to underwrite the
planned bond sale for individual investors.  SMBC Nikko is being investigated by Japan’s  Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission  for a possible insider trading
violation by an executive that allegedly related to Enoteca Co.,
a Japanese wine importer, the brokerage said in an e-mailed
statement.  Deutsche Boerse, NYSE May Need Concessions to Appease EU  Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  may need to offer
concessions to quell formal European Union concerns over their
plan to create the world’s largest exchange, lawyers said.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext yesterday received a
statement of objections listing the  European Commission ’s
“provisional position” on the combination, the companies said.
The statement lays out possible competition problems.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said last
month that he’s “concerned” the deal maymonopolize the
derivatives market. Regulators have also cited fears of reduced
innovation in derivatives products and technology and less
competition for post-trade clearing services.  Robert Rendine, a spokesman for NYSE in  New York  declined
to comment.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse
didn’t respond to calls seeking comment. Almunia also declined
to comment on the details of the EU’s complaint yesterday.  Almunia’s comments suggest that the EU may seek remedies
such as “product licenses to third parties, allowing third
parties to use the Deutsche Boerse clearinghouse and fees
concessions,” said Suzanne Rab, a lawyer at King & Spalding in
 London .  The EU can require companies to change their behavior or to
sell off units to eliminate possible competition concerns. It
currently has a deadline of Dec. 13 to rule on the deal, which
it can extend if required.  Courts  Loreley Sues Deutsche Bank Over CDOs ‘Designed’ to Fail  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, was sued by
Loreley Financing over $440 million worth of collateralized debt
obligations purchased from 2005 to 2007.  The bank is accused of defrauding the plaintiffs into
purchasing CDOs that were “destined -- and indeed, designed --
to fail,” Loreley Financing said in a complaint filed Oct. 5 in
New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Loreley Financing is a group of special purpose entities
based in Jersey, the largest of the Channel Islands, a
dependency of the U.K. with its own legislative assembly and
known as a tax haven. The entities were formed for long-term
investing in CDOs, Loreley Financing said in the complaint.  “We believe these claims are unfounded and will vigorously
defend against them,” Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said in a
statement.  The case is Loreley Financing (Jersey) No. 3 Ltd. v.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., 652737/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  EnBW Deal Guarantees Violated State Constitution, Court Says  The government of Baden-Wuerttemberg violated the state
constitution when it authorized 4.7 billion euros in guarantees
as part of the purchase of a 45 percent stake in  EnBW Energie
Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , a court ruled.  The Baden-Wuerttemberg constitutional court ruled the
government shouldn’t have authorized the guarantees without
asking the state legislature for approval beforehand. The case
was brought by the Green party and the Social Democrats, the
court said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Both parties
formed the opposition when they filed the suit and are now the
ruling coalition in the German state.  Electricite de France SA,  Europe ’s biggest power generator,
sold the stake in the utility on Dec. 6.  Northern Rock Share-Value Appeal Dismissed by U.K. Tribunal  A U.K. tribunal rejected an appeal of a decision that
Northern Rock Plc shares had no value following a government
bailout, reasoning that there was no evidence the government had
damaged the bank.  Shareholders challenged the valuation of Northern Rock’s
shares at zero when the lender was nationalized during the
financial crisis in 2008, according  the ruling  dated Oct. 4.  The Bank of England provided emergency liquidity to
Northern Rock in 2007 when money markets froze, leaving the bank
unable to gain funding by securitizing its mortgages. The
government took ownership of all Northern Rock shares in
February 2008.  A call and e-mail seeking comment from the Northern Rock
shareholder action group wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Northern Rock v. Andrew Caldwell and HM
Treasury, Upper Tribunal (Tax and Chancery Chamber),
NR/001/2010.  Interviews/Speeches  McCain Says Corporate Repatriation Bill ‘Makes Sense’  U.S. Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican, talked
about President Barack Obama’s jobs bill and legislation that
would let U.S. businesses bring home offshore profits at an 8.75
percent tax rate.  McCain, who spoke with Peter Cook and Pimm Fox on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday,” also discussed a measure
in Congress that would retaliate against  China  for undervaluing
its currency.  For the video, click here.  Silva Says Some Banks in Europe May Be Allowed to ‘Die’  Ralph Silva, an analyst at  Silva Research Network , talked
about the outlook for European banks. Silva described a “mood
change” among Europe’s central banks that indicates “we are at
that precipice” where they will let banks in their nations “go
belly up.”  He also discussed European Central Bank interest rates and
monetary policy. Silva spoke with Owen Thomas on Bloomberg
Television’s “On The Move.”  For the video, click here.  Geithner Says Obama Doesn’t Believe in Limits on Profitability  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, responding to
criticism of President Barack Obama’s remarks about bank fees,
said the administration doesn’t think government should
determine corporate profitability.  “The president believes, as I believe, that it’s not the
role of government to determine how profitable firms are,”
Geithner told the  House Financial Services Committee  yesterday.
Geithner was answering a question by Alabama Republican Spencer
Bachus, the panel’s chairman, about comments Obama made in an
Oct. 3 interview with ABC News.  “If you say to the banks, ‘You don’t have some inherent
right just to, you know, get a certain amount of profit if your
customers are being mistreated, that you have to treat them
fairly and transparently,’” Obama told ABC. “And my hope is,
is that you’re going to see a bunch of the banks who say to
themselves, you know what, this is actually not good business
practice.”  Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. lender, is joining
rivals including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  in rolling out new charges for debit-card
users as Dodd-Frank Act rules imposed by the  Federal Reserve 
take effect this month. The limits may reduce annual revenue at
the biggest U.S. banks by $8 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
Government show.  For the video, click here.  Almunia Calls for Tougher Bank Stress Tests, Bank Probes  Joaquin Almunia, the European Union’s antitrust
commissioner, said the bloc urgently needs a solution to its
sovereign debt woes. He was speaking at a conference in Brussels
yesterday.  Almunia said he sees an urgent need for a reassessment of
banks’ assets. Public support for lenders should be a last
resort, according to Almunia, who added that a Greek exit from
the euro currency would be a tragedy.  The European Banking Authority hasn’t received an official
request to conduct additional bank stress tests, while it is
aware of discussions on the matter, a spokeswoman for the agency
said. The EBA is a technical body and isn’t taking any position
on whether further stress tests are needed, she said.  Almunia also addressed the need for the European Union to
examine any “huge” state recapitalizations of banks in the
region as part of its oversight of government subsidies.  The commissioner, who is responsible for checking that
state handouts don’t distort competition in the 27-nation
region, said governments should stand by to act “as the last
resort” to help banks if the market won’t provide the level of
capital they need.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Canada’s Dickson Supports Carney as Choice for Next FSB Leader  Canada’s top banking regulator, Julie Dickson, says she
supports the idea of Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  being
named the next head of the Financial Stability Board.  Dickson, who spoke in an interview on Toronto-based BNN
television, said Carney’s chances of succeeding Mario Draghi in
the role are “very high.”  Separately, the Financial Stability Board published draft
plans setting out how systemically important banks should report
data to supervisors on the risks that they face. Yesterday’s
 plan  calls for “better, homogeneous and consistent data” at
the national and international level to help in monitoring
risks. The plan calls for the development of a “data template”
that will close gaps in information gathering.  Consumer Bureau Nominee Approved by Senate Banking Committee  Richard Cordray ’s selection to lead the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau was approved by the Senate  Banking
Committee  in a move that sets up a showdown with Republicans
vowing to block any nominee for the post.  Yesterday’s 12-10 vote sends the nomination to the full
Senate, where 44 Republicans have pledged to deny confirmation
for anyone to serve as director until changes are made in the
structure and funding of the new agency created by the Dodd-
Frank Act. That opposition would block confirmation by the 100-
member Senate, which would require at least 60 votes.  Cordray, the former Ohio attorney general now serving as
the consumer bureau’s enforcement chief, was nominated by
President Barack Obama in July. Republican lawmakers are seeking
changes including replacing the director position with a five-
member board and making the bureau’s budget subject to the
congressional appropriations process.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 