-- 
U.K. Output Prices Rise More Than Forecast on Petroleum Goods

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 1 1 2 0 ]   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-07T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-k-output-prices-rise-more-than-forecast-on-petroleum-goods.html
U.K. factory output prices increased
more than economists forecast in September, led by petroleum
products and electrical equipment, suggesting firms are finding
room to protect profit margins as the economic outlook darkens.  Prices charged at factory gates rose 0.3 percent from
August, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .
The median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 0.2 percent increase. Input prices rose 1.7 percent as
crude oil costs climbed.  A purchasing managers survey this week showed manufacturers
unexpectedly returned to growth last month. Nevertheless, with
economic growth slowing to a virtual standstill in the second
quarter and  Europe ’s debt crisis casting doubts over the
recovery, the  Bank of England  increased emergency stimulus for
the economy yesterday, saying inflation will undershoot its 2
percent target in the medium term.  “Input prices are still elevated,”  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in London, said before
the report was released. Still, “an easing back in oil and
commodity prices from their peak levels earlier this year has
reduced the pressure on manufacturers to raise their prices.”  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, rose 0.3 percent in September from the
previous month and were up 3.8 percent from a year earlier.  The main drivers behind output prices last month were
petroleum products, which rose 0.7 percent, computer, electrical
and optical equipment and as well as food and clothing.  Input prices were boosted by a 5.1 percent increase in the
cost of crude oil.  IMI Plc said Aug. 25 net income in the first half rose to
100.9 million pounds from 99.3 million pounds, while sales
advanced to 1.03 billion pounds, and predicted “good progress”
for the second half as most customers retain a positive outlook
and the order book holds up. 