-- 
U.K. Factory Output Prices Rise More Than Forecast on Petroleum Products

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 1 1 2 0 ]   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n   [ ]
-- 
2011-10-07T08:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-k-factory-output-prices-rise-more-than-forecast-on-petroleum-products.html
U.K. factory output prices rose more
than economists forecast in September, led by petroleum products
and electrical equipment, as firms sought to protect profit
margins after a surge in raw material costs over the past year.  Prices charged at factory gates rose 0.3 percent from
August, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in London.
The median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 0.2 percent increase. Input prices rose 1.7 percent as
crude oil costs climbed.  Manufacturers may find their scope to increase prices
limited by a darkening economic outlook as  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensifies, economists say. The  Bank of England  increased
emergency stimulus for the economy yesterday, saying inflation
will undershoot its 2 percent target in the medium term.  “While price pressures remain, there seems to be
some evidence that they are easing a little,” said  George
Buckley , an  economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “If you
see a weakening in Europe it’s going to translate into one in
the U.K.”  The pound was little changed after the report and was
trading at $1.5509 as 9:50 a.m. in  London , up 0.4 percent on the
day.  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, rose 0.3 percent in September from the
previous month and were up 3.8 percent from a year earlier.  The main drivers behind output prices last month were
petroleum products, which rose 0.7 percent, computer, electrical
and optical equipment and as well as food and clothing.  Commodity Costs  Input prices were boosted by a 5.1 percent increase in the
cost of crude oil. Pipeline price pressures may ease as
commodity costs retreat amid concern the global economy is
tipping back into recession. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of 19 raw materials has fallen about 13 percent since the
start of September.  Birmingham, England-based IMI Plc, a maker of fluid
controls and retail displays, said said Aug. 25 net income in
the first half rose to 100.9 million pounds from 99.3 million
pounds, while sales advanced to 1.03 billion pounds, and
predicted “good progress” for the second half as most
customers retain a positive outlook and the order book holds up. 