-- 
Pound Rises Most in Three Months as BOE Asset Purchases Fan Risk Appetite

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-07T13:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-k-s-pound-strengthens-as-boe-asset-purchases-plan-boosts-risk-appetite.html
The pound strengthened the most in
almost three months against the dollar amid optimism the Bank of
England’s decision to reactivate its bond-purchase program will
help to revive the U.K.’s faltering economy.  The pound appreciated versus most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg, reversing yesterday’s drop. Policy makers
yesterday boosted the central bank’s quantitative-easing program
by 75 billion pounds ($115 billion) to 275 billion pounds. The
 European Central Bank  reintroduced 12-month loans for banks. The
pound gained even after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded a
dozen British financial institutions.  “The steps that were taken yesterday both in the U.K. and
also the ECB have helped alleviate the  risk aversion  that’s been
in the markets in regard to  Europe ,” said  Derek Halpenny ,
London-based European head of currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. Optimism about QE “is not going to
provide a sustainable move to the upside for sterling,” he
said.  Sterling traded 0.8 percent stronger at $1.5563 as of 2:48
p.m. in London, trimming its weekly drop to 0.1 percent. It
slumped as low as $1.5272 after yesterday’s announcement, the
least since July 23, 2010. The pound appreciated 0.6 percent to
86.51 pence per euro and rose 0.8 percent to 119.48 yen.  The pound has strengthened 2.4 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
measure a basket of 10 developed-market currencies.  Euro-Area Contagion  The U.K. central bank cited “vulnerabilities” related to
the euro-area turmoil as bolstering the case for loosening U.K.
monetary policy for the first time since 2009.  Still, the pound headed for a 0.7 weekly decline against
the euro, against which it is down 0.9 this year.  Data today showed U.K. factory output prices increased more
than economists forecast in September, suggesting firms are
finding room to protect profit margins as the economic outlook
darkens.  Prices charged at factory gates rose 0.3 percent from
August, the  Office for National Statistics  said today. The
median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.2 percent increase. Input prices rose 1.7 percent as
crude oil costs climbed.  The pound extended its advance against the greenback after
data showed U.S. employers added more jobs than forecast last
month, easing concerns about the strength of the labor market
and boosting risk appetite.  Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers after a revised 57,000
increase the prior month that was more than originally
estimated, Labor Department figures showed. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of 60,000. The
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  Bank Ratings Cut  Moody’s cut the senior debt and deposit ratings of lenders
including Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, concluding the
government would be less likely to provide support for them if
they became financially troubled.  U.K. government bonds slid, pushing the 10-year gilt yield
six basis points higher to 2.45 percent. The two-year note yield
was little changed at 0.61 percent.  Gilts have returned 12 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing the 7.3 percent gain
for German bunds and 8.8 percent increase for U.S. Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 