-- 
U.S. Asks for Bar to Enforcement of Alabama Immigration Laws During Appeal

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-07T17:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-s-asks-for-bar-to-alabama-immigration-laws-during-appeal.html
The U.S. government asked a federal
appellate court to block enforcement of parts of  Alabama ’s new
immigration law while it seeks review of sections of the ruling
in the state’s favor.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in
Birmingham, Alabama, last week rejected parts of a federal
challenge to legislation signed by Governor Robert Bentley in
June. The state created new police powers, including the
authority to examine the immigration status of people stopped if
there is “reasonable suspicion” they are unlawfully in the
country.  Blackburn on Oct. 5 denied the federal government’s request
for a stay of enforcement while the decision is appealed.  “The state regime contravenes the federal government’s
exclusive authority over immigration,” lawyers for the U.S.
government said today in papers filed with the Court of Appeals
in Atlanta.  The Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection
Act includes provisions requiring public schools to collect data
on the enrollment of children of unlawful residents and
criminalizing the failure of illegal immigrants to complete or
carry alien registration documents.  Blackburn’s Sept. 28 rulings allowed enforcement of those
provisions as well as one making it a felony for illegal aliens
to do business with the state or its political subdivisions.  The judge, who was nominated for the bench by President
 George H.W. Bush  in 1991, blocked parts of the measure that
criminalized the transportation and harboring of those illegally
in the U.S. and their applying for jobs or being hired.  “The fact that the  Department of Justice  has appealed,
comes as no surprise,” Bentley said today in an e-mailed
statement. “I remain committed to seeing that this law is fully
implemented. We will continue to defend this law against any and
all challenges.”  The  American Civil Liberties Union , Southern Poverty Law
Center and other civil rights groups have filed a separate
lawsuit challenging the legislation.  The case is U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, U.S. 11th
Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 