-- 
U.S. REIT Shares ‘Cheap’ as Stock Slump Creates Discount Buying

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-10-07T20:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-s-reit-shares-cheap-as-stock-slump-creates-discount-buying.html
U.S. real estate investment trusts
are trading at the biggest discount to the underlying value of
their properties in more than two years, signaling it may be a
good time for investors to buy shares in the companies.  REITs traded at about a 12 percent discount to net asset
value as of Oct. 5, the largest since early 2009, according to
Jim Sullivan, a managing director at Green Street Advisors in
 Newport Beach ,  California . Net asset value is an estimate of the
fair market price of the real estate owned, minus liabilities.
When the discount reaches at least 10 percent, REITs generally
offer better returns over a two-year period than a portfolio of
equal parts equities and corporate bonds, he said.  The 129-member Bloomberg REIT index has dropped 21 percent
from the year’s high point on July 22, compared with a 14
percent loss for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Stocks have
declined amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen and
the U.S. may slip into another recession.  “It’s a great time to step in,”  Rich Moore , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Solon,  Ohio , said in a telephone
interview. “If you want to buy stocks that are cheap and
they’re quality names, quality companies, then there’s a whole
bunch of those in the REIT space.”  REITs are yielding more than some other investments and the
property income that supports their dividends is solid,
according to Moore. The dividend yield for the Bloomberg REIT
Index is 4.1 percent, compared with the 10-year Treasury yield
of about 2.1 percent.  Office Rents  U.S. office rents climbed in the third quarter as leasing
extended a rebound following almost three years of declines,
Reis Inc. said Oct. 5. The average effective rent, or what
tenants paid after any landlord concessions, rose to $22.39 per
square foot, the highest since 2009’s fourth quarter, the New
York-based real estate research company said. Office space is
the largest part of the commercial real estate market.  U.S. commercial property values were unchanged in September
from the previous month, according to a Green Street index.
While values are still 9 percent below their August 2007 peak,
they’ve gained 48 from the bottom reached two years ago.  REITs should do well even in a slow-growing economy because
the companies own high-quality real estate in good locations,
and a lack of new supply should help boost occupancy rates,
Moore said.  U.S. employers added 103,000 workers in September after a
57,000 gain in August, Labor Department data showed today. The
pace of job growth was still too slow to reduce the  unemployment
rate , which held at held at 9.1 percent. The economy expanded at
a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter following a 0.4 percent
gain in the previous three months, the weakest performance in
two years, the Commerce Department said last week.  The 26 office and industrial REITs followed by Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. are trading at 20 percent to 30 percent below the
firm’s net asset value estimate, analysts led by John Guinee
wrote in a report today. Stifel Nicolaus rates eight of the
companies “buy,” 17 “hold,” and one “sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  