-- 
U.S. Consumer Credit Fell $9.5 Billion in August, Biggest Drop in a Year

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-10-07T19:38:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-s-consumer-credit-fell-9-5-billion-in-august-biggest-drop-in-a-year.html
Consumer credit  in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped in August by the most in over a year.  The $9.5 billion decrease followed an $11.9 billion
increase the previous month, the  Federal Reserve  said today in
Washington. Non-revolving credit, which includes  student loans 
and financing for automobile purchases, slumped by the most in
three years.  Decreasing credit shows American households are either
continuing to pay down debt or lack the confidence to boost
spending on non-essential goods. A thawing of credit and a
faster pace of purchases may require bigger gains in income and
payrolls.  “Consumers were cautious over taking on additional debt at
the end of the summer after the volatility in the stock markets
and the uncertainty caused by the failure of Congress to work
together to bring down these trillion-dollar deficits,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York, said before today’s report.  The median forecast of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for an $8 billion increase in consumer credit in
August. Estimates ranged from gains of $2 billion to $10.9
billion.  Employers added more jobs than forecast in September,
another report today showed. Payrolls climbed by 103,000 workers
after a revised 57,000 gain the prior month that was more than
initially estimated, the Labor Department said.  Shares Drop  U.S. stocks rose, weathering a midday selloff triggered by
credit downgrades of Italy and  Spain , as stronger-than-forecast
jobs growth tempered concerns that the world’s largest economy
will relapse into a recession. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 0.3 percent to 1,167.87 at 3:37 p.m. in  New York .  Non-revolving debt, including educational loans and loans
for autos and mobile homes, dropped by $7.23 billion in August,
the biggest decrease since Aug. 2008. Revolving debt, which
includes credit cards, fell by $2.27 billion. The report doesn’t
track debt secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of
credit and home mortgages.  The drop in lending may not have been repeated last month.
Auto purchases ran at a 13.04 million annual rate in September,
up from a 12.1 million pace the prior month, according to
industry statistics. August was down from a 12.2 million pace a
month earlier.  Auto Sales  General Motors Co., Chrysler Group LLC and Nissan Motor Co.
increased sales. GM deliveries rose 18 percent from a year
earlier to 218,479 cars and light trucks, Detroit-based GM said
Sept. 1. Chrysler sales advanced 31 percent and Nissan increased
19 percent.  “Weak economy or not, non-revolving credit is going to
bounce back in September,” said Rupkey.  Consumer spending  rose at a slower pace in August as income
dropped for the first time in almost two years, according to
Commerce Department statistics issued Sept. 30. Purchases
climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.7 percent increase the prior
month. A 0.2 percent advance in prices wiped out the gain in so-
called nominal, or unadjusted, spending.  Americans are making progress mending their balance sheets.  David Nelms, chairman and chief executive officer at
Discover Financial Services, said on a Sept. 22 conference call
that there is “continuing improvement in credit, as our
delinquency rate in card reached a 25-year low at 2.43 percent.
And for the first time since 2007, our card net charge-off rate
dropped below 4 percent.”  The credit-card issuer and payments network reported its
third-quarter profit advanced as loan-loss provisions declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  