-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance on European Debt Optimism, Economic Data

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-s-stocks-advance-on-european-debt-optimism-economic-data.html
U.S. stocks rose this week, driving
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up from the threshold of a  bear
market , amid optimism European leaders will tame the region’s
debt crisis and after American economic data improved.  Equities fell yesterday after  Fitch Ratings  cut  Italy  and
 Spain ’s debt ratings, overshadowing faster-than-estimated U.S.
job growth. Raw-material producers in the S&P 500 surged 6.2
percent this week, the most among 10 groups, while energy stocks
and companies reliant on discretionary  consumer spending  climbed
more than 3.4 percent.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  jumped at least 7.4 percent, leading gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  The S&P 500 advanced 2.1 percent to 1,155.46, breaking a
two-week losing streak. It surged 6 percent between Oct. 3 and
Oct. 6, the biggest three-day rally since August. The Dow rose
189.74 points, or 1.7 percent, to 11,103.12 this week.  “Improved clarity and certainty that the Europeans are
moving towards a solution was the main driver of markets for the
week,” Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based
money manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about
$110 billion in client assets, said in a telephone interview.
“Even with the better-than-expected jobs number, the focus is
entirely on European policy makers making the correct decisions
over the next several weeks.”  20% Drop  Stocks rebounded as European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet announced a bond-purchase program to tackle the
debt crisis and European Commissioner Olli Rehn said there is an
“increasingly shared view” that the region needs a coordinated
approach. The  S&P 500  closed under 1,100 on Oct. 3 for the first
time in more than a year, leaving the gauge within 1 percent of
a 20 percent decline since April.  Stocks halted a three-day rally yesterday after Italy and
Spain, the euro region’s third- and fourth-largest economies,
were downgraded by Fitch Ratings on concern they will struggle
to improve their finances as Europe’s debt crisis intensifies.  The S&P 500 fell 0.8 percent yesterday. It had risen as
much as 0.6 percent after American payrolls rose by 103,000 in
September, beating the median economist projection of 60,000 in
a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate stayed at 9.1 percent.  “The jobs numbers were not spectacular by any stretch of
the imagination, but they offered a little relief that we aren’t
slipping back into recession,” Bruce Bittles, chief investment
strategist at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co., which
oversees $85 billion, said in a telephone interview. “Unless
the economy moves above 1 percent growth rate, earnings are
going to come under pressure next year.”  Economic Reports  Reports this week showed manufacturing in the U.S.
unexpectedly accelerated in September as production picked up.
The Commerce Department said construction spending in the U.S.
rebounded in August, propelled by the biggest jump in state and
local government outlays in more than two years.  Companies most-tied to the economy rallied this week, with
the Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index advancing 4.4 percent. Raw-
material producers rallied after the S&P GSCI Index of 24
commodities jumped 2.6 percent, rebounding from a 10-month low.  Hewlett-Packard surged 11 percent to $24.88, its biggest
one-week rally since March 2009. Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said the company aims to decide whether to spin off its
personal-computer division by the end of October and won’t look
for big takeover targets in the  software industry . Cisco, the
largest maker of networking gear, climbed 7.5 percent to $16.66.  F5, Yahoo  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  gained the most in the S&P 500, adding 20
percent to $85.01. Jason Ader, an analyst at William Blair &
Co., said he expects the software maker to report improved
fourth-quarter earnings as demand for its website-performance
products increases.  Yahoo! Inc. surged 17 percent to $15.47, the biggest weekly
increase since November 2008, amid takeover speculation.
Microsoft Corp. isn’t anywhere close to making an offer for
Yahoo and senior executives of the software maker aren’t
involved in discussions, two people familiar with the matter
said. The shares rose 10 percent on Oct. 5 after Reuters said
Microsoft may make an offer.  Monsanto Co. (MON)  rose 18 percent, the second-biggest S&P 500
gain, to $70.93. The world’s largest seed company reported a
smaller loss in the fiscal fourth quarter than analysts
estimated and said 2012 earnings will rise as much as 16
percent. It was boosted to “overweight” from “neutral” by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which said the company has “a high
probability of reporting sharply improved earnings” next year.  Apple, Alcoa  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  slipped 3 percent to $369.80 as co-founder and
former Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  died a day after the
company’s iPhone 4S was introduced. The world’s most valuable
technology company declined for seven straight days through Oct.
4, its longest losing streak since January 2009.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, added 1.5
percent to $9.71. It will become the first Dow company to report
quarterly results on Oct. 11. Third-quarter profits for S&P 500
companies are projected to have grown 12 percent, according to
average analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, also
known as VIX, slumped 16 percent to 36.20 after advancing the
prior two weeks. The gauge of S&P 500 options prices jumped a
record 160 percent in the third quarter.  “We have the macroeconomic overhang from  Europe , but the
data from the U.S. is coming in a little better, so that’s the
battle ground,”  Donald Selkin , New York-based chief market
strategist at National Securities Corp., which manages about $3
billion, said in a telephone interview. “We’re going to muddle
along until we get the third-quarter earnings reports for more
insight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in  New York  at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  