-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall as Concern Over Europe Outweighs Jobs Report

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-07T20:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/u-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-illumina-oracle-shares-slide.html
U.S. stocks fell, trimming a weekly
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen overshadowed faster-than forecast growth
in American employment.  The S&P 500 retreated 0.8 percent to 1,155.53 at 4 p.m. New
York time, according to preliminary closing data. The index fell
as much as 1.3 percent and rose 0.6 percent.  “Investors are understandably nervous,”  Russ Koesterich ,
the San Francisco-based global chief investment strategist for
the IShares unit of BlackRock Inc., said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $3.66 trillion as the world’s
largest asset manager. “You don’t know what’s going to happen
in Europe. The  U.S. economy  is growing sufficiently slowly that
it’s unlikely to bring the  unemployment rate  down, but it
doesn’t appear to be sliding back into a recession. If Europe
can stabilize, chances are we’ve made a bottom in stocks.”  The  S&P 500  this week came within 1 percent of extending
its decline from its April peak to 20 percent, the common
definition of a  bear market . The gauge rallied 8.4 percent from
its Oct. 4 intraday low through yesterday, and is up 2.1 percent
for the week.  Jobs Data  Stocks initially rose today as Labor Department data showed
employers added more payrolls than forecast in September, job
gains were revised up in the prior two months and hours and
earnings increased. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  The rate by which data on the economy has been trailing
forecasts has been decreasing since June, according to the
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index. The U.S. gauge, which fell
below zero on April 29 as the S&P 500 was peaking, has climbed
from a low of minus-117.2 on June 3 to minus-7.5.  “We’re not in recession, but the jobs report is not a
robust number,” said Brad Sorensen, director of market and
sector analysis at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp.,
which has $1.65 trillion in client assets. “Unemployment is
still 9.1 percent and these numbers aren’t enough to bring it
down to any great degree. Slow growth is probably the most
likely path over the next three to six months.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said job
gains in September aren’t enough to sustain growth in the U.S.
economy and that neither political party understands what’s
needed to boost employment. The economy needs 200,000 to 250,000
new jobs per month to expand, Gross, manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  