-- 
Jackman Teaches Robot to Box; Sheen’s Religious Journey: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-10-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/hugh-jackman-teaches-robot-to-box-sheen-s-religious-journey-rick-warner.html
In “ Real Steel ,” a futuristic tale
about boxing robots, the scrappy underdog uses  Muhammad Ali ’s
rope-a-dope strategy to tire out its bigger, stronger opponent
in a championship bout.  An exhausted robot? The notion is as silly as the film.  Though the story takes place nine years from now, almost
everything looks the same as it does today. Granted, we’re not
leaping centuries ahead. Still, do you really think cars and
mobile phones won’t change dramatically over the next decade?  “Real Steel” should be called “Real Steal” because of
all the other movies it rips off, including “Rocky,”
“Transformers” and “Rollerball.” Director Shawn Levy and
screenwriter John Gatins borrow liberally from so many sources
that their work should contain footnotes.  Charlie, played with raffish charm by  Hugh Jackman , is a
down-and-out former boxer who now operates fighting robots at
county fairs and other minor-league venues. He hangs out at a
dusty old gym run by his late trainer’s daughter, Bailey
(Evangeline Lilly), his lifelong friend and one-time lover.  After his ex-wife dies, Charlie agrees to let her sister
raise his 11-year-old son in exchange for a $100,000 payment
from her rich husband. Before that happens, though, he gives the
curious boy (Dakota Goyo) a tour of the robot-boxing circuit,
where the fighting machines are operated like video games by
remote control.  While rummaging through a scrap metal yard for spare parts,
they find an antiquated robot buried in the ground. The kid
discovers that the machine can mimic human behavior, and Charlie
teaches it his old boxing moves.  Apparently no one has thought of this before, since the
robot starts beating up on newer, fancier models and heading
toward a showdown with the invincible champion Zeus. You can
figure out the rest.  “Real Steel,” from  Walt Disney Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ‘The Way’  After his adventurous son dies in the Pyrenees while hiking
along the Camino de Santiago trail, California ophthalmologist
Tom flies overseas to claim the body.  Tom’s idea of adventure is playing golf with his buddies,
but he decides to make the famous 500-mile pilgrimage in
northern  Spain  as a tribute to the son he never understood.  “ The Way ,” from the father-son team of  Martin Sheen  and
Emilio Estevez, is a casual, free-spirited chronicle of that
mountainous trip to a medieval cathedral where the remains of
the apostle St. James are supposedly buried.  The movie, written and directed by Estevez, is a religious
travelogue that tries to make its points without preaching. It
mostly succeeds.  Porky Dutchman  Along the way, Tom (an engaging Sheen) encounters fellow
hikers with varying motives: a Canadian (Deborah Kara Unger) who
wants to quit smoking; a porky Dutchman (Yorick van Wageningen)
who is attempting to lose weight; and a chatty Irish author
(James Nesbitt) seeking to overcome writer’s block.  At first, Tom wants to be left alone. As the group wanders
through the scenic villages along the trail, he loosens up and
starts to enjoy the communal experience.  A road movie with a message, “The Way” is sure to inspire
even more people to lace up their hiking boots and take the
Camino de Santiago challenge.  “The Way,” from Arc Entertainment and Producers
Distribution Agency, is playing in major U.S. cities. Rating:
**1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 