-- 
Ukrainian Lawmakers Vote to Scrap Corn, Wheat Export Duties

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-07T14:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ukrainian-lawmakers-vote-to-scrap-corn-wheat-export-duties-1-.html
Ukrainian legislators voted to scrap
export duties for corn and wheat, while maintaining a 14 percent
levy on barley shipments. Corn for December delivery dropped as
much as 1.5 percent on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.  Grain exports may amount to 23.4 million metric tons in the
marketing year that started July 1, a bill published on the
parliamentary website today showed, including 11.1 million tons
of wheat and 9.1 million tons of corn. Ukraine will become the
third-largest corn exporter this year after the U.S. and
 Argentina , U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  The grain harvest this year may match 2008’s record of 53
million tons as favorable weather helps to improve yields,
according to the  Agriculture Ministry . Stockpiles of wheat may
surge 31 percent to 4.4 million tons and corn inventories may
jump 61 percent to 1.61 million tons, USDA data show. Ending the
duties reduced the risk for Ukraine’s government of losing
potential export markets.  “Given they have adequate domestic supply, this is not
entirely unexpected,” said Kieran Walsh, a broker at GFI
Securities in London. “This could be a reaction to the upward
revisions to yields in the U.S. crop and subsequent potential
erosion of market share.”  Grain Prices  The announcement may cause grain prices to fall,  William Adams , a portfolio manager for Resilience AG in Zurich, said by
e-mail. December-delivery wheat declined as much as 1.6 percent
in Chicago today before erasing the retreat.  Corn has dropped 4.1 percent this year after a 23 percent
plunge in September, the biggest monthly decline since at least
1959. The USDA said last week U.S. stockpiles totaled 1.13
billion bushels as of Sept. 1, 20 percent above analysts’
expectations.  Wheat also slid 23 percent in September on speculation
 Europe ’s debt crisis would hurt demand and as  Egypt , the top
global buyer of the grain, shunned U.S. supplies and instead
bought Russian inventories. Ukrainian exporters will now be able
to ship grain duty-free, potentially weighing on prices.  The bill must be signed by President  Viktor Yanukovych 
before taking effect. Lawmakers also voted to impose a 3 percent
tax on exports of soybeans, rapeseed and sunflower oil,
according to the website.  Ukraine imposed its first taxes on grain exports as of July
1, replacing quotas on shipments put in place last year to
ensure domestic supply after dry weather cut wheat output by 19
percent.  Russia , which barred grain exports last year amid its
worst drought in a half-century, allowed the ban to expire July
1 as scheduled.  The USDA last month forecast Ukrainian corn exports at 10
million tons in the current marketing year, up from 5.5 million
in the prior 12 months, and wheat shipments at 9 million tons,
more than double deliveries in 2010-11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  