-- 
Ukraine Foreign Reserves Decline, Raising Hryvnia Concern

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-10-07T11:55:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/ukraine-september-foreign-reserves-fell-to-34-95-billion-1-.html
Ukraine’s international reserves fell
last month, raising concerns that the central bank will face
difficulties managing the hryvnia.  Reserves fell to $34.95 billion from $38.2 billion a month
earlier, the Natsionalnyi Bank Ukrainy, based in the capital
Kiev, said today in a  statement  on its website. The NBU spent
about $1.1 billion last month to satisfy increasing public
demand for foreign currency, according to Olena Bilan, chief
economist at Kiev-based Dragon Capital.  “This figure causes concern because it means the NBU has
less capacity to withstand hryvnia devaluation pressure in the
future,” she said in a telephone interview today. The currency
has lost 0.4 percent against the dollar in the past six months.
It gained 0.1 percent to 8.0011 today.  The central bank controls the  exchange rate  by buying and
selling dollars on the  interbank market . Ukraine’s $15.6 billion
stand-by program with  International Monetary Fund  has been on
hold since March after the country received $3.4 billion. The
Washington-based lender froze payments over the government’s
failure to raise natural-gas rates for households.  The IMF delayed a visit scheduled for August to late this
month. Ukraine, which said last month it would seek to sell $2.5
billion in Eurobonds before year-end, needs the funds because
 Europe ’s debt crisis is roiling financial markets, Deputy Prime
Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said on Sept. 26.  Under Pressure  Unless IMF financing is secured, the hryvnia will be under
pressure, Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note
to client today.  “The NBU is likely to be forced to allow the currency to
weaken,” Ash said adding that the hryvnia may trade at 9 to 10
hryvnia per a dollar by year-end.  The Ukrainian government started selling domestic bonds
linked to the hryvnia’s rate against the dollar this week. It
raised 861 million hryvnia ($107.7 million) on Oct. 4. The
 Finance Ministry  announced an unscheduled auction for dollar-
nominated treasury bills today.  “Ukraine’s fundamental credit profile has undoubtedly
become more challenging over the past months without the
prospects of near-term IMF financing and in light of a
challenging global economic backdrop,” Andreas Kolbe and  Koon
Chow , analysts at  Barclays Capital , said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday. “Its reserves and debt-redemption
profile make a near-term debt default very unlikely.”  Ukraine’s credit-default swaps fell 13 basis points to 933
basis points today, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  