-- 
OTP Leads BUX to Biggest Loss in 2 Weeks on Hungary Rating Worry

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-10-07T15:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/hungary-shares-rise-fourth-day-head-for-best-week-in-15-months.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. fell amid concern the
government won’t meet its deficit targets and may face a ratings
cut to below investment grade, leading the benchmark index to
the biggest slide in two weeks.  The country’s biggest lender fell 3.6 percent to 3,154
forint by the 5 p.m. end of trading in Budapest, extending its
weekly drop to 2.9 percent. Oil refiner Mol Nyrt. fell 1.9
percent to 15,800 forint. The BUX equity gauge, where OTP and
Mol have a combined 58 percent weighting, slid 2.5 percent to
16,289.14, the biggest slump on a closing basis since Sept. 22.  Hungary had a budget deficit of 1.57 trillion forint ($7.2
billion) in the first nine months of the year, 229 percent of
the original annual target, the  Economy Ministry  said today. The
country, which aims to cut the deficit to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product next year from 4.2 percent in 2010, is rated at
the lowest investment-grade ranking by Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “There are increasing fears about the sustainability of
the budget,” Zoltan Reczey, an equity analyst at Buda-Cash
Brokerhaz Zrt, said in a telephone interview today. “The
possibility of a downgrade coming in the next one to two months
is in the air.”  The forint appreciated 0.5 percent to 295.3 per euro,
paring its loss in the second half of 2011 to 10 percent.  Teams from Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service will visit the country in October to review its rating,
Gyula Pleschinger, chief executive officer of the state’s Debt
Management Agency, told a conference last week. The outlook on
Hungary’s rating is negative at S&P and Moody’s and stable at
Fitch.  ‘Imminent Rating Action’  “There is market talk today of an imminent rating action
on Hungary following a forthcoming visit to Budapest by one of
the major rating agencies,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-
markets strategy at  Societe Generale  in  London , wrote by e-mail.
“The risk of a sovereign rating downgrade is quite elevated, in
my view.”  OTP’s shares have slid 25 percent since Hungary’s governing
party proposed on Sept. 9 to allow the repayment of foreign-
currency mortgages at below market rates, forcing banks to
swallow the cost, which has now been enshrined in law.  “The domestic policy-making has deteriorated sharply in
recent weeks, and investor confidence has been badly damaged,”
Anne said.  Seven Hungarian banks including OTP were placed on review
for a downgrade at Moody’s this week on concern that exchange-
rate losses from the government mortgage plan may erode their
profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  