-- 
Turkcell Minority Shareholder Calls for Independent Board

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-10-07T10:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/turkcell-minority-shareholder-calls-for-independent-board-1-.html
Murat Vargi, a founder and minority
shareholder in Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, called for an
independent board to be appointed at  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-
phone operator to prevent an ongoing shareholder dispute from
harming minority shareholders.  Turkey’s market and telecoms regulators should protect the
rights of minority shareholders by appointing four independent
board members to the Turkcell board, Vargi said in a phone
interview in Istanbul today. He also called for the resignation
of Turkcell’s seven current members in a  letter  to the board,
published on the website of MV Holding AS, founded and chaired
by Vargi.  Turkcell will hold an extraordinary meeting on Oct. 12, to
discuss replacement of board members and a dividend-approval
measure, after a demand by statutory auditors on Sept. 13.
Turkey’s Cukurova Holding AS, one of the three shareholders,
asked an Istanbul court on Sept. 26 to cancel the meeting or the
item for board changes.  Shareholders  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and Altimo blocked the payment
of 1.33 billion liras ($720 million) in gross dividends at
Turkcell’s April 21 annual meeting, after failing to oust
Chairman  Colin Williams . The Swedish and Russian partners argue
that Williams hampers Turkcell’s growth by favoring its founding
shareholder, Cukurova Chairman Mehmet Emin Karamehmet.  “Structural changes are vital to amend the current
deteriorating situation,” as minority shareholders are
“receiving the ultimate damage” caused by falls in Turkcell
share prices and uncertainty over dividends, Vargi said in the
letter.  Turkcell’s excess cash is “suppressing its return on
equity” and could be used to pay higher dividends, make an
acquisition or buy back shares from the market, he said. MV
Holding holds a 3.86 percent stake in Turkcell, including some
from the free-float, according to MV Holding website. Free float
represents 34.7 percent of Turkcell’s capital, according to data
on the Istanbul Stock Exchange website.  Turkcell fell 14 kurus, or 1.7 percent, to 8.18 liras at
the 12:30 midday close in Istanbul, the lowest since Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  