-- 
Hutchison Whampoa Shares Climb on ‘Resilient’ Europe Assets

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-10-07T09:39:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/hutchison-whampoa-shares-rise-most-in-a-year-in-hong-kong.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  rose the most
in almost three years in Hong Kong trading after the company,
billionaire Li Ka-shing’s biggest unit, said its operations in
Europe are weathering the region’s financial crisis.  The shares climbed 11 percent, the most since October 2008,
to HK$63.15 at the 4 p.m. local time close, making the stock the
best performer in Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  Before
today, the stock had declined 29 percent this year,
underperforming the  Hang Seng .  The Hong Kong company -- with investments in industries
spanning telecommunications, retail and utilities in more than
50 countries -- said yesterday its operations in Europe are
“very resilient.” Global stocks and commodities markets
plunged last quarter amid concerns that European financial
companies will have to write down their holdings of Greek,
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese government bonds.  “We believe Hutch’s share price has been over-penalized
due to its exposure to  Europe ,” Credit Suisse Group AG analyst
 Cusson Leung  wrote in a report today. “The risk of its European
operations being dragged down by the economy is quite limited
except for port operations.” Leung lowered his price estimate
for the stock to HK$103.50 from HK$111.80, and kept his
“outperform” recommendation.  Hutchison shares are rated the equivalent of “buy” by 13
out of 15 analysts tracked by Bloomberg. Only one analyst has a
sell recommendation on the stock, according to Bloomberg data.  Net Asset Value  Europe accounted for 25 percent of Hutchison’s earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the first
half, the company said in a filing to the  Hong Kong  stock
exchange yesterday. Hutchison has a net asset value of HK$119 a
share, according to the filing, which cited an average of
estimates from brokerages including Bank of America Corp. and
Morgan Stanley.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., controlled by
Hutchison, said in August it offered 2.4 billion pounds ($3.7
billion) to buy  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  in the U.K. Europe
accounts for 45 percent of the company’s assets, according to
Hutchison, which also owns mobile-phone businesses operating
under the ‘3’ brand in the U.K. and Italy, in addition to
European retailers Superdrug and Marionnaud.  Li is Hong Kong’s richest man, and the world’s 11th
wealthiest individual with a net worth of $26 billion, Forbes
magazine estimated in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  