-- 
Veolia May Add to Write-Downs, Struggle to Sell Assets, UBS Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-10-07T10:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/veolia-may-add-to-write-downs-struggle-to-sell-assets-ubs-says.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water company, may add to write-downs it booked in the
first half as management struggles with plans to cut losses by
selling assets as economic growth weakens, UBS AG said.  “While we believe the largest write-downs on individual
assets happened in the first half, it is likely that there is
more to come,” UBS analysts including Per Lekander wrote in a
report. “Selling underperforming assets, often with goodwill
attached to them, in a  bear market  may prove challenging.”  Veolia fell 3.8 percent to 10.495 euros by 11:34 a.m. in
Paris trading. UBS cut its rating on the stock to “sell” from
“neutral,” saying the company was too risky for the price.  Veolia Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot
plans to halt operations in at least 37 countries and sell 1.3
billion euros ($1.75 billion) of assets this year to restore
profit. The company, which lost half its value this year, posted
a first-half loss on write-downs on operations in  Italy ,  Morocco 
and the U.S. and said it uncovered fraud at a U.S. business.  Third-quarter results, due Nov. 10, aren’t expected to be
strong, UBS said. Veolia plans an investor day on around Dec. 6.  Veolia, based in Paris, faces price pressure on water and
waste contracts with cash-strapped municipalities and may also
suffer difficulties with labor relations, the bank said.  Suez Environnement, a smaller rival also based in the city,
sold 70 percent of the regulated business of Bristol Water to
Capstone Infrastructure Corp. for 152 million euros, 20 times
net income, according to an Oct. 5 statement.  Suez Environnement, 34 percent-held by GDF Suez SA, says
2011 will be a year of growth and in August kept its estimate
for higher earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for 2011 through 2013. CEO Jean-Louis Chaussade
plans to cut its debt ratio this year after buying Sociedad
General de Aguas de Barcelona SA, a Spanish water supplier.  Marie-Claire Camus, a spokeswoman for Veolia, declined to
comment on how the company’s restructuring is progressing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 