-- 
Wall Street Protesters Gorge on ‘OccuPie’ Pizza, Veggies

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-10-07T12:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/wall-street-protesters-gorge-on-15-occupie-pizza-free-canned-veggies.html
Three weeks into the  Wall Street 
demonstrations in Zuccotti Park, one admiring citizen has
brought socks and vegetables.  “I complain all the time,” Amy Evans, 36, a playwright
and adjunct Fordham University professor, said Wednesday
afternoon. “To see people who are turning complaints into
action, I feel I have to assist in some way.”  Liberatos Pizza , a few blocks south, has been taking orders
from supporters around the world to have its $15 “OccuPie”
delivered to the protesters. Owner Telly Liberatos said since
Sept. 18 he’s sold hundreds of the 18-inch pies, lined with
pepperoni around the perimeter and through the diameter.  “I have nothing to do with the protest,” Liberatos said.
“I don’t take sides. It was a very slow summer. I’m trying to
run my business.”  Evans, who’s donated 30 cans of vegetables and three-dozen
white cotton socks, said she wouldn’t be staying overnight. “I
applaud them,” she said, “but I’m not much of a camper.”  This budding movement -- of sleepovers and drop-ins,
youngsters and oldsters, radicals and liberals, placard holders
and Om-hummers -- appears to represent a big tent. Based on a
dozen interviews and the protest’s  web site  and free broadsheet
paper, “The Occupied Wall Street Journal,” participants
believe the economy and U.S. government are failing most
Americans and that large U.S. corporations, particularly in
finance, are too powerful.  Displaying a sign that asked, “How’s the best congress $$$
can buy doing?” Paul Derose, a 56-year-old Queens landscaper,
said he felt betrayed by President  Barack Obama . “I thought he
had to be different and he may be the greatest shill there’s
ever been.”  ‘Driven to Craziness’  “I’ve been loving politics and policy since I was a child
and I’ve been driven to craziness by what I see now,” said
Derose, who also works part-time in a clothing store. He
supports public financing of elections.  “It’s the typical wish list -- you probably know what it
is,” he said of his goals for change. “And the global warming
thing is freaking me out.”  There’s media aplenty -- journalists literally collide with
each other -- and free food dispensed by volunteers. Pizza,
fruit, sandwiches were on offer this week, depending on time of
day. Most of it is donated.  “What they’ve done here is create a radical democratic
non-commodified public space,” said Arun Gupta, co-founder of
“The Occupied Wall Street Journal,” who also helps run the
newspaper “ The Indypendent .” “There is no exchange of money
going on here at all. This is a powerful symbol, in the sanctum
of global capitalism.”  $51,123 in Donations  By early Thursday afternoon, 1,169 people had submitted
credit card numbers, donating $51,123 to the four-page, full-
color “Journal” through the Internet site  Kickstarter . In his
lead story in the first issue, Gupta wrote that “the
dispossessed have liberated territory from the financial
overlords and their police army.”  “This is not the revolution,” Gupta said in the
interview. “But it is changing people’s consciousness about
what is possible.”  As a personal influence, Gupta, 46, cited “The Long
Twentieth Century: Money, Power and the Origins of Our Time,”
by  Giovanni Arrighi , a Johns Hopkins University sociologist who
died in 2009.  Simon & Garfunkel  Kanaska Carter, a 26-year-old singer-songwriter and tattoo
artist, said she was inspired to participate by  Paul Simon ’s
“The Sound of Silence.”  “We’re all breaking the silence of the society,” said
Carter, a Canadian who moved to  New York  weeks earlier and has
been sleeping in the park. “My mom is so supportive. My dad
tells me to go to school, but then I’d be in so much debt.”  Carter could be heard quietly performing John Fogerty’s
1970 song “Who’ll Stop the Rain” on acoustic guitar on
Wednesday, one of countless musicians scattered in the park.  “When you come down here, there’s joy,” said Bill Dobbs,
who identified himself as a member of the “Occupy Wall Street”
PR working group. “Joy and anger are the most important
ingredients of great activism, because it’s not a job. No one
gets paid.”  Surveying thousands rallying in nearby  Foley Square  on
Wednesday afternoon, Aaron Brenner, a researcher with the  United
Food and Commercial Workers Union  with a Ph.D. in labor history
from  Columbia University , declared himself encouraged.  “Is this the beginning of a movement? I hope so,” he
said. “The  labor movement  has struggled for lots of reasons.
Because of that, workers’ wages have been stagnating for 30
years and the gains have gone to people at the top. How long can
that continue?”  To contact the writer of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 