-- 
Demonstrations on Wall Street Risk Harm to City’s Economy, Bloomberg Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-10-07T17:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/wall-street-protests-risk-harm-to-nyc-economy-mayor-says.html
Demonstrators protesting bank
bailouts and calling for increased  Wall Street  regulation may
harm New York City’s economy, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  “What they’re trying to do is take the jobs away from
people working in this city,” Bloomberg said today during his
weekly appearance on WOR radio. “They’re trying to take away
the tax base we have. None of this is good for tourism.”  The mayor’s comments are his first addressing the economic
impact of the protests, which began Sept. 17. The demonstrations
have cost the city about $1.9 million in officers’ overtime,
Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  said today.  Wall Street contributed about 7 percent of city tax revenue
in fiscal 2010, according to a November report by state
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . DiNapoli, who described the
securities industry as the city’s “economic engine,” said one
in seven jobs in the city, and one in 13 in the state, is
associated with Wall Street.  The  Occupy Wall Street  movement that began in Lower
Manhattan’s Zuccotti Park has spread to more than 45 U.S. states
and to cities including Washington, Boston, Seattle, Chicago and
Denver. U.S. labor unions support the demonstrations, AFL-CIO
President  Richard Trumka  has said.  At least 723 demonstrators have been arrested in Manhattan.
Police department spokesman  Paul Browne  has said officers used
pepper spray and batons on some to keep order.  Under Investigation  Allegations of excessive force are being investigated,
Kelly told reporters today at police headquarters in  Manhattan .  “Complaints have been made and those complaints have been
referred to the Civilian Complaint board,” he said.  Bloomberg’s remarks came in response to a woman who lives
near the protest site. She telephoned the radio program to
complain about noise from the demonstrators.  “I couldn’t agree with you more; you have a right, too,”
the mayor told the woman. “We are trying to deal with this in a
way that doesn’t make the problem grow and protects everybody’s
rights.”  Some demonstrators have “legitimate complaints,” the
mayor said. At the same time, he said, if financial jobs are
jeopardized, “we’re not going to have any money to pay our
municipal employees or clean the parks or anything else.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  