-- 
Weaker Brazil Currency Jeopardizes World’s Cheapest Wind Energy

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-10-07T16:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/weaker-brazil-currency-jeopardizes-world-s-cheapest-wind-energy.html
Energy developers in  Brazil  that have
agreed to deliver some of the world’s cheapest wind power may
have trouble building new projects as a plunging real drives up
their costs.  About 40 percent of the turbines and other components
needed for wind farms are imported into Brazil, said Eduardo
Tabbush, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s London
office. The country’s currency has dropped more than 10 percent,
to 1.77 reais a dollar, since developers offered Aug. 18 to sell
 wind-energy  at record low rates.  Wind became one of the cheapest sources of power in Brazil
as a strong currency and slowing global demand for turbines
drove down costs, Tabbush said. With the reversal in the real,
developers will have to rethink some projects.  “This is bound to lower margins, especially on the
development side,” Tabbush said yesterday in an interview. “It
could render some projects unviable.”  Developers agreed to deliver electricity generated by new
wind farms at an average price of 99.54 reais ($55.99) a
megawatt-hour in a government-organized auction Aug. 18, the
lowest nationwide rate for wind energy, according to New Energy
Finance.  That was cheaper than two natural-gas thermal electric
plants and a hydroelectric plant expansion that participated in
an energy auction a day earlier, and 33 percent lower than
contracts awarded in the country’s first auction for wind power,
in December 2009.  The strong real was one reason developers could afford to
sell power at those rates, Tabbush said. Brazil’s currency
climbed 9 percent, to 1.60 reais a dollar, between the 2009
auction and the August one.  Existing Contracts Unaffected  Renova Energia SA (RNEW11) , a Sao Paulo-based developer, has already
signed real-denominated deals with turbine suppliers and won’t
be affected by currency fluctuations, Pedro Pileggi, the
company’s investor relations officer, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. The company received contracts to sell
power from nine wind farms at 98.53 reais a megawatt-hour in the
August auction.  Brazilian developers may be unable to match their record-
low prices for future wind farms, Marcos Severine, an analyst at
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, the Sao Paulo-based commercial bank,
said in a telephone interview. “My concern is that for the next
auction,” on Dec. 20, “the weaker real will mean projects
become more expensive.”  Prices for power contracts may rise to as much as 120 reais
a megawatt-hour, assuming the currency finishes the year at 1.85
reais a dollar, in line with Itau’s forecasts, he said.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the French maker of power equipment that’s
building a turbine factory in Brazil, is close to signing its
third turbine contract there, said Philippe Delleur, president
of the company’s Brazil unit. The shifting value of the real has
little impact on sales.  “It doesn’t make sense to keep looking at the change in
exchange rates from one day to another,” he said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  