-- 
White House Holds Back LightSquared Records, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-10-07T22:33:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/white-house-fails-to-share-lightsquared-records-lawmaker-says.html
The Obama administration failed to
produce records of contacts with billionaire  Philip Falcone  and
his LightSquared wireless venture by today as requested by House
Republicans, the chairman of the House Science Committee said.  Seven House Republicans on the committee asked the
administration in a Sept. 20 letter for records of contacts
between the White House and Falcone, citing concerns about
possible political pressure on U.S. agencies over LightSquared.  Ralph Hall, a Texas Republican who chairs the science
committee, said the White House responded to the letter but
“has not yet provided documents related to our inquiry.”  “We will continue to press for more transparency in how
the Administration is treating the LightSquared proposal,” Hall
said in an e-mailed statement.  LightSquared, backed by $3 billion from Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, wants to offer wholesale service
through a network of base stations using airwaves previously
reserved mainly for satellites. Makers and users of global-
positioning system devices say LightSquared’s signals will
disrupt navigation by planes, boats, tractors and automobiles.  To proceed with its plan to offer service to 260 million
people, the Reston, Virginia-based company needs clearance from
the Federal Communications Commission. Some U.S. officials have
been reluctant to testify on GPS interference and agencies
haven’t provided information, the  House Republicans  wrote in
their letter last month.  Solyndra Cited  Events surrounding solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, which
filed for  bankruptcy protection  after receiving U.S. loan
guarantees, “further emphasize our concern about a pattern by
this administration to grant preferential treatment toward
donors,” Hall and his colleagues wrote.  Falcone, his wife Lisa Falcone, and LightSquared Chief
Executive Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  have each made a $30,400
political contribution to Democratic campaign organizations, the
lawmakers said.  Chris Stern, a LightSquared spokesman, said the matter is
between the White House and Congress and that the company would
not get involved. The White House press office did not
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Senator  Charles Grassley , the senior Republican on the
Judiciary Committee, asked Falcone and LightSquared on Oct. 5
for records of contacts with the White House and U.S.
regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  