-- 
Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Increased 0.4%, Sales Climbed 1%

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-10-07T14:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-increased-0-4-sales-climbed-1-.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
less than forecast in August as distributors kept stockpiles in
line with sales.  The 0.4 percent increase in stockpiles followed a 0.8
percent rise in July, Commerce Department data showed today in
Washington. The median projection in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.6 percent gain. Sales rose 1 percent, the most in five
months.  Wholesalers kept enough goods on hand to last 1.16 months at
the current pace of sales in August, matching the level of the
previous three months. Restrained  consumer spending  and slower
overseas demand may encourage companies to keep stockpiles lean,
limiting bigger gains in manufacturing, a pillar of the recovery.  “Manufacturers are keeping a very tight rein on inventory
levels,”  Steven Wood , president of Insight Economics LLC in
Danville,  California , said before the report. “The manufacturing
sector is growing only modestly.”  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 31 economists. Estimates ranged from
increases of 0.2 percent to 1 percent.  Employers added more jobs than forecast in September,
another report today showed. Payrolls climbed by 103,000 after a
revised 57,000 gain the prior month that was more than initially
estimated, the Labor Department said.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1.1 percent in August, boosted by a
4.5 percent jump in imports of automobiles that reflected the
easing of supply chain constraints linked to  Japan ’s earthquake
earlier this year, today’s report showed.  The value of unsold non-durable goods fell 0.6 percent and
sales dropped 0.1 percent.  Propelled Manufacturing  Inventory rebuilding, which in the early stages of the
recovery helped propel manufacturing to the forefront, may play a
smaller role as sales growth slows.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a 0.4 percent pace in the first three months
of this year, the weakest six-month period of the recovery that
began in June 2009. Stockpiles subtracted 0.28 percentage point
from gross domestic product, while in the prior quarter they
added 0.32 point, Commerce Department figures showed on Sept. 29.  Kennametal Inc. (KMT) , a Latrobe, Pennsylvania-based producer of
metal-cutting tools, is among companies seeing leaner stockpiles
at its distributors.  “Every time we have a recession, if you go back and study,
companies become more efficient,” Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso said on a conference call on Sept. 28. “They learn how
to operate at a higher level with less inventory, and that’s true
for this recession as well. So we find ourselves in a way that
our customers have very little inventory.”  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.4 percent in August, Commerce Department
data showed on Oct. 4. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest,
will be included in the business inventories report due on Oct.
14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  