-- 
Woman’s Murder Photo Sparks Outrage, Turkish Violence Debate

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-10-07T09:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/woman-s-murder-photo-sparks-outrage-turkish-violence-debate.html
A graphic photo of a stabbed woman on
the front page of a leading Turkish newspaper caused uproar on
social media websites and intensified the debate about the
portrayal of domestic violence, amid campaigns to stop the abuse
and killings of women.  The photo, which ran as the top item on the front page of
 Haberturk ’s print edition today, shows a shirtless, bloodstained
woman on a stretcher with an upside-down kitchen knife planted
deep into her back. The photo was heavily criticized by readers,
including prominent celebrities, on social media including
Twitter.  Turkey has pledged to bolster human rights, including the
protection of women, as it seeks membership of the European
Union. Accession talks with Brussels began in 2005.  The 38-year-old mother of two was murdered in the town of
Manisa by her 45-year-old husband after leaving him for
committing domestic abuse, Haberturk said.  “Turkey’s flawed family violence protection system leaves
women and girls across the country unprotected against domestic
abuse,”  Human Rights Watch  said in a  report  on May 4. The 58-
page report said  Turkey  had strong protection laws in place, yet
“gaps in the law and implementation failures by police,
prosecutors, judges, and other officials” made the system “at
times downright dangerous.”  The number of women murders reported in Turkey increased
1,400 percent in the past seven years and more than 85 percent
of all applications for divorce in Istanbul are related to
violence, the Istanbul Bar Association for Women’s Rights said,
news portal  Bianet  reported on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  