-- 
Money Fund Managers Can’t Catch a Break

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   J o s h   F r i e d m a n
-- 
2011-10-07T14:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-07/worst-time-for-money-funds.html
Kevin Kennedy says it’s tougher now
to be a money-fund manager than at any point in his three
decades in the business.  The industry’s annual revenue has fallen 62 percent since
2008 to $4.5 billion, according to Crane Data LLC in
Westborough, Massachusetts. Funds charge half as much per dollar
invested, and assets have shrunk 23 percent.  Europe ’s debt
crisis is squeezing the supply of securities available for
purchase.  “I haven’t seen an environment like this in my lifetime,”
said Kennedy, who helps manage $114 billion in cash funds for
the Western Asset Management unit of Baltimore’s  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)   Money-market mutual funds, with $2.64 trillion in assets in
the U.S., are confronting their biggest challenges since they
first appeared in 1971. Having survived mass withdrawals of
assets by investors following the September 2008 collapse of the
$63 billion Reserve Primary Fund, they now face Treasury yields
near record lows, a shrinking supply of available debt and
potential new restrictions from regulators. Most managers have
been forced to cut fees to keep customer returns above zero, and
some have abandoned the business.  The number of U.S. money-fund companies reporting data to
research firm iMoneyNet, also based in Westborough, has fallen
by 25 percent to 104 since Sept. 30, 2008.  Exiting the Business  “Some people will review the business and determine if
it’s something they want to stay in,” said John Donohue, chief
investment officer for the global liquidity business at New
York-based J.P. Morgan Asset Management’s global and fixed-
income currency group.  Firms that have sold or shuttered funds include Atlanta-
based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , which dealt assets run by its
RidgeWorth Capital Management unit to Pittsburgh’s  Federated
Investors Inc. (FII)  last year, and San Jose, California-based  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal, which closed its money fund in July. The number
was also reduced by mergers and acquisitions such as San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s 2009 takeover of Wachovia
Corp.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the largest independent brokerage by
client assets, closed its $23.7 billion U.S. Treasury Money Fund
as a sweep option for new account holders. A sweep automatically
deposits excess cash into a fund, often on a daily basis.  Fee Waivers  It  eliminated the option  “due to historically low yields
and the tight supply of U.S. Treasuries,” Schwab said in a
statement on its website Sept. 26. Additional deposits could
lower yields for existing customers, the company said.  Funds have struggled with low yields on their investments
since the  Federal Reserve  began lowering its benchmark  interest
rate  in 2007 to spur lending and economic growth. When short-
term rates neared zero in December 2008, they initially affected
only fund customers by reducing returns. Eventually, fund yields
fell so far that most providers were forced to cut fees to
prevent negative returns.  The average annual fee charged by money funds tracked by
Crane Data fell to 0.18 percent in August from 0.37 percent
three years earlier.  The Fed has pledged to keep short-term rates near zero
until at least mid-2013 in an effort to support the economy.  European bank debt, which money funds turned to in order to
lift their yield, has become too risky for many providers as the
region struggles to keep the Greek sovereign debt crisis from
spreading.  ‘Shareholders Are Unsettled’  Funds reduced securities from the Euro area by $50 billion
in August, bringing their holdings tied to institutions in the
region to $316 billion, said  Alex Roever , head of short-term
fixed-income strategy at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “There is headline risk and shareholders are unsettled by
what they hear,” Roever said.  The European sovereign crisis has worsened a supply
shortage of safe, short-term debt that money funds can invest
in. The amount of securities money funds can buy fell from a
peak of $12 trillion in 2008 to $9.1 trillion, according to a
September report by the  International Monetary Fund . Much of the
reduction has come in segments that gave money funds their
highest-yielding holdings.  In addition, mortgage financiers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
are issuing fewer notes, Roever said.  SEC Proposals  Banks and other companies have reduced their reliance on
short-term securities for financing as they build cash. Issuance
of commercial paper fell to $1 trillion as of Sept. 28 from $1.8
trillion in August 2008, before the bankruptcy of  Lehman
Brothers  Holdings Inc. paralyzed credit markets, according to
Fed data.  Where supply has fallen or funds have pulled back, managers
have turned to Treasuries or other U.S. government-backed
securities. David Glocke, head of money funds at Vanguard Group
Inc. in Valley Forge,  Pennsylvania , said the portion of his
funds in Treasury and agency paper has risen to about 50 percent
from about 10 percent in 2008.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff is
expected to propose changes by early 2012 that providers say
will increase costs and may spoil the appeal of money funds.  The agency favors a plan that would force funds to create
capital buffers equaling 1 percent to 3 percent of assets to
protect against losses, three people familiar with the
regulator’s deliberations said in July. The extra expense would
be borne by fund companies or passed on to investors.  Lehman Fallout  Staff may also propose that funds abandon their fixed share
price in favor of one that fluctuates with the daily market
value of holdings, a move industry leaders have said would
destroy the appeal of money funds. Any proposal would be
followed by a public comment period and then require approval by
SEC commissioners.  The regulatory environment has been overhauled since the
collapse of Reserve Primary, which owned $785 million in debt
issued by Lehman Brothers.  The fund wrote down its holding a day after the bank
declared bankruptcy, pushing its net assets per share below $1,
a rare event known as breaking the buck. Worse than losses that
ultimately amounted to about 1 cent on the dollar, clients lost
access to most of their cash for months as the fund was unwound.  Investors, concerned that other firms might hold Lehman
debt, fled prime funds, forcing them to sell assets and helping
to freeze global credit markets. The run abated only after the
 U.S. Treasury  guaranteed money-fund holdings against default and
the Fed began financing purchases of asset-backed commercial
paper from funds at full value.  ‘Troubled Product’  Eager to prevent another exodus, the SEC approved new rules
in January 2010. Funds were forced to shorten their maximum
average maturity to 60 days from 90 days, and to keep 30 percent
of assets in securities convertible to cash within seven days,
with 10 percent convertible in one day. The SEC also lowered to
3 percent from 5 percent the portion of assets that could be
invested in lower-rated, or tier 2, securities.  Declining yields and falling revenue won’t deter investment
firms focused on staying in the business long-term, said Joseph Lynagh, head of retail money funds at Baltimore’s T. Rowe Price
Group Inc.  “It’s a troubled product at this point, and we’re not
making much money on it,” Lynagh said. “But if you take a
longer-term perspective, this, like all cycles, will change.”  Robert Brown , who oversees money-market funds at Boston-
based  Fidelity Investments , the largest U.S. provider, said
lower profit won’t make his firm change the way it runs the
business.  Yield of 0.01%  “It is an impediment to revenues, but for us, principal
preservation is the most important thing,” Brown said.  “We’re
not going to reach for yield.”  The annualized seven-day net yield for the $119 billion
Fidelity Cash Reserves, the firm’s biggest money fund, was 0.01
percent as of Sept. 28, according to Fidelity’s website. A one-
year investment of $10,000 at that rate would return $1.  The fund’s expense ratio dropped to 31 basis points, or
0.31 percent, after fee waivers, as of Oct. 4, according to
Fidelity. It was 45 basis points five years ago, filings with
the SEC show.  Industry assets are down almost a third from a peak of
about $3.9 trillion in 2009, when investors sought the safety of
cash as stocks fell to a 12-year low. A decision by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. in 2008 to increase its insured limit
for bank customers to $250,000 from the $100,000 helped funnel
assets from money funds into bank accounts.  $143 Million  Assets ballooned in the financial crisis “because
investors were using money-market funds as a flight-to-quality
vehicle,” said  Deborah Cunningham , head of money-market funds
for Federated. Assets are “fairly steady” again, with the
funds serving investors looking to park their money in a liquid
asset class, Cunningham said.  Federated, the third-largest U.S. provider, has been
waiving some of its fees since the fourth quarter of 2008,
including $143 million in the first half of this year, according
to regulatory filings. The company generated $460 million in
revenue in that period, Bloomberg data show.  Schwab, the sixth-biggest provider, waived $240 million in
fees in this year’s first half and said, in a July presentation
to investors, waivers may reach $150 million a quarter later
this year. Schwab reported revenue of $2.4 billion in the first
half.  Fund providers are bracing for the next round of
regulation. Clients who rely on a stable net asset value when
they invest in cash products could be driven away, according to
Cunningham.  “The next phase of regulatory change weighs heavily on the
industry,” she said. “The disruption would be bigger than what
is trying to be prevented.” 