-- 
La Polar Extends Record Drop Before Share Sale Vote to Shore up Finances

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-21T21:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/la-polar-abuses-show-chile-regulatory-defects-central-bank-says.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR)  extended a
decline that has wiped out about $1 billion of market value in
less than two weeks as the Chilean department-store chain seeks
shareholder consent for the sale of new stock.  La Polar fell 12 percent to 467.26 pesos in Santiago after
a record 63 percent tumble yesterday when trading resumed from a
weeklong halt.  The stock has plummeted 80 percent and bond yields have
soared since the company unveiled on June 9 consumer-lending
irregularities that require additional provisions, triggering
regulatory and criminal investigations. Shareholders will vote
tomorrow on a proposal to raise $400 million in new shares.  “Pension funds are expected to ask for tough conditions to
approve the share sale,” said Jose Hassi, who helps manage $500
million as chief executive officer of  Penta Administradora
General de Fondos SA  in Santiago. “The capital increase is
extremely important for the company and even more important is
that it will be the way for somebody, hopefully a strong
retailer, to acquire control.”  La Polar said executives restructured 475 billion pesos ($1
billion) of overdue credit without getting the consent of the
more than 400,000 customers involved or informing the board.
Responding to a regulatory request, La Polar said June 17 that
it faces additional provisions of 420 billion pesos, compared
with an initial 200 billion-peso forecast.  Pension Conditions  Chilean pension funds, known as AFPs, requested a freeze of
La Polar’s expansion plans, an end to executive  stock options 
and clarification on what the money will be used for as
conditions to approving the share sale, financial daily Diario
Financiero reported today, citing people familiar with the
negotiations that it did not identify.  Public relations executives at AFP Planvital SA and the
Chilean AFP association didn’t respond to telephone messages
seeking comment. AFP Cuprum SA declined to comment in an e-
mailed response to questions. AFP Capital SA, a unit of ING
Groep NV, said it had no information on the subject in an e-
mailed response to questions.  La Polar said it may have to set aside a total of 538
billion pesos, including previously recorded charges. The
revised total is more than 10 times last year’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, according to
Bloomberg data.  Heriberto Urzua, who replaced Pablo Alcalde as chairman
last week after the irregularities were unveiled, stepped down
from the position, he said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Urzua was replaced by Cesar Barros, who as head of  Chile ’s
salmon exporters association led negotiations to restructure
farmers’ bank debt after a virus outbreak decimated fish stocks.  No State Rescue  Chile’s President Sebastian Pinera vowed to pursue those
responsible at La Polar “in an unrelenting way,” according to
a government statement distributed June 18. The government won’t
use state funds to “rescue” La Polar, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said yesterday in an interview with Radio Infinita.
Authorities are studying changes to credit card rules, he said.  “The fundamental impact of La Polar’s financial event and
disaster is relatively internalized in the economy in the sense
that it caused damage to clients, it caused damage to
investors,” central bank President Jose De Gregorio told
reporters today in Santiago. “There was an impact on overall
confidence.”  De Gregorio called for better consumer and investor
protection after the case exposed shortcomings in regulations
and oversight.  Devising Plan  La Polar hired Larrain Vial SA to devise a plan for
extending maturities on bank loans and waiving bond covenants.
The company will meet with bondholders July 29.  Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu  is auditing the credit portfolio and may have a final
provisions figure in three months, the company said June 13.  The Chilean unit of Fitch Ratings Ltd and Feller Rate, an
affiliate of  Standard & Poor’s , cut their ratings June 17 for La
Polar’s debt to “C” from “BB” and “BB+,” respectively.  The yield on La Polar’s 2017 inflation-indexed bond surged
to an average 26.6 percent yesterday, from 4.1 percent on June
2, while the yield for its 2016 inflation bond jumped to an
average 37.6 percent from 3.87 percent in the same period,
according to data from the Santiago stock exchange. No bonds had
traded earlier today, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  