-- 
AAA Plans Electric-Vehicle Charger Trucks

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-06-21T20:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/aaa-plans-electric-vehicle-charger-trucks.html
AAA, the largest U.S. motorist
group, plans to deploy fast-charging trucks to aid drivers of
electric vehicles such as Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf when their
batteries run down.  The organization will test the trucks starting in August,
Christie Hyde, a spokeswoman for  Orlando , Florida-based  AAA ,
said today. Initially, the group will have at least six “mobile
charging units,” including in states such as  California ,
Oregon,  Washington ,  Florida , Tennessee and Georgia, she said.  “We know electric vehicles are coming and we’ve got to be
ready for them,” Hyde said. She declined to provide details on
the cost or makers of the units and said AAA will test chargers
from multiple suppliers.  Models such as the Leaf and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s Roadster
are already available and major automakers are preparing to
offer more electric vehicles, prompting development of charging
infrastructure. Governments are pushing carmakers to boost fuel
efficiency and trim emissions of carbon dioxide and pollutants.  With the prospect of more electric cars, power companies
are upgrading their networks with so-called smart meters and new
transformers to ensure customers can recharge their vehicles at
home without difficulty. Companies such as General Electric Co.
are developing charging stations.  AAA will unveil its first “mobile charging unit” at an
electric vehicle conference in Raleigh,  North Carolina , in July,
Hyde said. Edmunds.com’s Auto Observer blog reported AAA’s plans
earlier today.  Following Japan  The U.S. plans come after  Nissan and the Japan Automobile
Federation  this month said they’d also test charger trucks to
repower stalled electric cars on that nation’s roads.  Nissan’s Leaf travels about 70 miles in combined city and
highway driving per charge, while Tesla’s $109,000 Roadster is
rated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as getting
more than 200 miles per charge.  Nissan, which aims to be the world’s largest seller of
electric cars, is aware of at least two incidents in which Leaf
drivers drained their lithium-ion batteries and needed
assistance, Katherine Zachary, a spokeswoman for the Yokohama,
Japan-based company, said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  