-- 
ABN Amro Wants Clarity on Greece Debt Aid Before Turning Bullish on Stocks

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-21T08:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/abn-amro-wants-clarity-on-greece-debt-aid-before-turning-bullish-on-stocks.html
ABN Amro  Private Banking’s chief
investment officer said it’s too early to become bullish on
equities as there’s not yet a clear proposal for how emergency
aid for Greece will affect bondholders.  “The detail of the plans are far from sufficient to relax
the market,” Didier Duret, who manages about $240 billion from
Geneva, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Confidence is
still fragile. We don’t know what will be the value of these
bonds if there is a voluntary rollover.”  The investment manager has maintained a “neutral” stance
on stocks over the past three months while the MSCI All-Country
World Index of developed and emerging markets slumped 7.5
percent from its May 2 high amid concern the economic recovery
is faltering and that  Greece  will fail to repay all of its debt.
Still, in the first six month of the year assets under
management rose 2.4 percent to the equivalent of $240 billion.  Key to a second aid package for Greece may be a pledge by
banks, insurance companies and asset managers to buy new Greek
bonds to replace maturing ones, instead of European governments
stepping in with taxpayers’ money. While Germany bowed to
European Central Bank and French demands not to compel investors
to buy new Greek bonds as the old ones expire, the lines are
blurry between a “voluntary” and “compulsory” rollover that
would lead rating companies to declare Greece in default.  “Still, we are more confident than many about the prospect
of the euro zone resolving its debt woes,” Duret said.  Greek Riots  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  overhauled his
cabinet last week as rioters protested his austerity measures,
while financial-market jitters sent yields on two-year Greek
notes to more than 30 percent and drove prices on 30-year bonds
to less than 40 percent of face value.  Papandreou’s government faces a confidence vote tonight
after fending off a revolt from the ranks of his ruling
socialist Pasok party in parliament last week and opposition
parties rejected his call for a national unity government. The
 International Monetary Fund , contributor of a third of the
bailout money for Greece, Ireland and Portugal, has warned
European leaders that failure to take decisive action on the
debt crisis risks triggering “large global spillovers.”  Duret recommended buying shares of companies that have
strong pricing power -- where customer demand remains high
without companies needing to cut prices -- including  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) ,  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Swatch Group AG. (UHR)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  