-- 
Absa Bankers Target Smaller Companies to Climb South Africa M&A Rankings

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 
2011-06-21T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/absa-bankers-target-smaller-companies-to-climb-south-africa-m-a-rankings.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  is tapping the
international expertise of its parent  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in a bid to
scale South Africa’s rankings for mergers and acquisitions.  Absa Capital , the investment banking unit of the
Johannesburg-based lender, headed the country’s debt
underwriting league table last year by focusing on the nation’s
100 largest companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bank doesn’t feature in the M&A rankings.  The bank plans to close the gap on Standard Bank Group
Ltd., South Africa’s leading M&A adviser, by targeting the
“next layer” of companies, said Absa Capital Chief Executive
Officer Stephen van Coller. Absa will combine its South African
transactions with the U.K.’s second-biggest bank to give local
companies access to deals and investors outside the country.  “The Barclays alliance is a key differentiator if they can
use that effectively,” said Faizal Moolla, an analyst at Avior
Research Ltd. in  Cape Town . “It allows them to compete locally
and internationally.”  Absa will focus on about 650 local companies with annual
sales of more than 750 million rand ($111 million), compared
with the bank’s previous threshold of about 2 billion rand, Van Coller said. That has the potential to generate revenue of about
1.5 billion rand for Absa, he said.  “We’ve pitched up to play,” Van Coller said in a June 14
interview in Johannesburg. “There is a big gap there that Absa
hasn’t covered.”  Absa Capital may add another two people this year to its
20-strong cash-equity team with the potential for another four
hires in 2012, Van Coller said. A seven-member M&A team will be
built slowly up as the bank wins more mandates, he said.  M&A Push  “We’ve been criticized in the past because we didn’t do
 equity capital markets  and M&A,” he said. “We haven’t tried to
be in those businesses, because we didn’t have the ability to
compete. Now we can.”  Absa Capital is advising on three transactions involving
commodity companies and another relating to a consumer goods
company, Van Coller said, declining to provide details because
the deals are still private.  “We see Absa Capital becoming a more important component
of Absa’s earnings,” said Moolla, who has a “sell”
recommendation on the stock because of a slowdown at the bank’s
retail unit. “The corporate side will benefit the business.”  The investment bank will also step up lending and risk
management services, such as currency swaps and hedging, to
state-owned companies, such as power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd.
and ports and freight rail operator Transnet SOC Ltd.  Infrastructure Spending  Eskom plans to spend 550 billion rand through to March 2017
and Transnet 110 billion rand over the next five years and part
of the funding needs to come from outside  South Africa , Van
Coller said.  Absa and Barclays, along with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch, in January advised Eskom on
the sale of $1.75 billion of bonds.  By bulking up its business, Absa Capital can “bite both
ends of the cookie” by advising and executing transactions, Van
Coller said.  “Advising is the entry point that helps you sew up the
back-end,” he said. “That’s where the juice is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net  