-- 
Adobe Falls After Reporting Lower-Than-Expected Europe Sales

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-22T20:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/adobe-s-sales-exceed-estimates-as-japanese-demand-bounces-back-after-quake.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest
maker of graphic-design software, declined the most in nine
months after reporting that second-quarter sales in  Europe  were
$10 million to $15 million less than it had anticipated.  The stock fell $2, or 6.3 percent, to $30.01 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, for the biggest drop
since Sept. 22, 2010. The shares have lost 2.5 percent this year.  San Jose , California-based Adobe dealt with uneven overseas
sales in the second quarter while readying a new version of its
flagship Creative Suite software. Europe was weaker than
anticipated primarily because customers in Scandinavia and the
U.K. held back purchases, Chief Financial Officer Mark Garrett
said on a conference call yesterday.  “Adobe reported subpar fiscal second-quarter performance
due to weaker than expected European business, which offset
better than expected Japanese business,” said Yun Kim, an
analyst with Gleacher & Co. in  New York , in a report today.  The company yesterday reiterated its forecast that sales
this year will grow by 10 percent, including the slowdown in
Europe.  The earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , Adobe’s second-largest
market, shaved $10 million from sales in the quarter, less than
the $50 million the company projected in March, Garrett said.  Profit Tops Estimates  Profit excluding certain costs in the second quarter, which
ended June 3, rose to 55 cents a share, Adobe said in a
statement yesterday. That compared with the 51-cent average
analyst projection in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue increased 8.5
percent from a year earlier to $1.02 billion, topping analysts’
estimates for $995.7 million.  In the current quarter, profit before some expenses will be
50 cents to 56 cents a share, Adobe said. That compares with a
54-cent average analyst prediction. Revenue will be $1 billion
to $1.05 billion, the company said, while analysts had estimated
$1.02 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen has been seeking
ways to generate more recurring revenue and make Adobe a bigger
provider in software development for smartphones and tablet
computers. The company also is adding tools that help developers
write code for websites and applications that run on mobile
devices, lessening dependence on its mainstay Flash programs,
installed in virtually all personal computers.  Creative Suite  Adobe last month released Creative Suite 5.5, a collection
of Photoshop, Dreamweaver, InDesign and other software to help
designers lay out documents and publications, adjust photographs
and create digital drawings. The new version lets users pay for
the products monthly or yearly at prices much lower than for
unlimited use of the full suite.  Creative Suite 6 is scheduled to be released next year, and
will include a new version of Photoshop, which wasn’t updated in
version 5.5, Narayen told analysts. Adobe will eventually
release applications from the suite to run on tablet computers,
Garrett said in an interview yesterday.  Adobe is trying to encourage developers to use its Flash
Internet video and animation software to build mobile
applications, and has been clashing with Apple Inc. over access
to its iPhone and iPad devices, which don’t run Flash.  Adobe updated its Flash tools on June 20 to  make it easier 
for developers to write code that runs on Apple’s iOS mobile
operating system. It plans to start testing an HTML-creation
tool called Edge next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  