-- 
Pentagon Crosses $1 Trillion Threshold in War on Terror Spending

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-21T21:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/afghanistan-pushes-pentagon-over-1-trillion-mark-for-war-on-terror-costs.html
The Pentagon says it has spent at
least $1 trillion prosecuting the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan 
and defending the U.S. homeland, according to newly released
Defense Department figures through April 30.  Spending growth on Afghanistan operations helped push the
Pentagon over the $1 trillion mark, increasing to $6.2 billion
per month in April from $4.3 billion in the first two months of
fiscal 2011 that began Oct. 1. Afghanistan spending in fiscal
2009, as  Barack Obama  became president, averaged $3.9 billion
per month.  The spending total includes war-related operations,
transportation, special combat pay and benefits, food, medical
services, maintenance, replacement of lost combat equipment and
building the Iraq and Afghanistan security forces.  Still, the $1 trillion does not include about $95 billion
in funds appropriated but still to put on contract or paid to
personnel to cover operational costs over the rest of the fiscal
year as well as procurement of replacement weapons systems and
construction that take years to spend, said Amy Belasco, a
Congressional Research Service budget expert.  It also does not include about $100 billion the Pentagon
excludes as not ‘war-related,’ such as intelligence, Belasco
said. Nor does it include long-term costs for Veterans
Administration care, disability costs for wounded  Iraq  and
Afghanistan veterans, or all reconstruction funding for the war-
damaged countries.  “This figure represents how much we have actually spent on
the wars up to this point,” said  Todd Harrison , a defense
budget expert with the non-partisan Center for Strategic and
Budgetary Assessments in  Washington . “What it doesn’t tell you
is how much money has been appropriated by Congress, which is
$1.2 trillion. The difference between these two figures is how
much money is already in the pipeline waiting to be spent.”  Spending Pipeline  The Pentagon through April 30 said it has spent $691.4
billion on Iraq and $288.5 billion on Afghanistan operations.
Operation Noble Eagle, aerial patrols over the continental U.S.,
have cost an additional $26.9 billion.  “We will likely spend another $300 billion to $500 billion
on top of what is already in the pipeline,” Harrison said.
“The exact amount depends on the pace at which we pull out of
Afghanistan and whether or not we keep any troops in Iraq after
the December 31st” withdrawal deadline, he said.  Still, “passing the trillion dollar mark stands out to
people,” Harrison said.  “It draws a natural comparison to the other big budget
numbers we keep hearing: a $1.6 trillion deficit this year, a
proposal to raise the debt limit by $2 trillion. The cost of the
wars is a hot topic given the pressure on the president to bring
down troops in Afghanistan more quickly,” Harrison said.  Deployment Costs  The Office of Management and Budget estimates that the U.S.
spends $10 billion annually for every 10,000 troops it has in
Afghanistan.  The budget for the 2011 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30,
includes $113.5 billion for Afghanistan operations and $45.8
billion for Iraq. The fiscal year 2012 request of $117.8 billion
in war spending allocates $107.3 billion for Afghanistan and
$10.8 billion for Iraq, where the pullout is scheduled to be
completed in December.  The Afghanistan price tag is up from $56.1 billion in
fiscal 2009, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen told
reporters June 2 Afghanistan war costs are “right in the
middle” of discussions on how quickly U.S. troops should be
pulled out.  “Cost is right in the middle of the decision and has been
for a significant” amount of time, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  