-- 
Agile Architecture Means Happier People, Fewer Cars: Interview

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/agile-architecture-means-happier-people-fewer-cars-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Visiting a yoga retreat, James S.
Russell, Bloomberg’s architecture critic since 2005, approvingly
contemplates the natural sewage filtration system.  It’s a typically engaging moment. His new book, “ The Agile
City : Building Well-being and Wealth in an Era of  Climate
Change ,” also takes us to a recycled shopping mall, sky trains,
a window factory in the Empire State Building, and Hamburg’s
Hafencity for examples of smart money investing in green.  We talked at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  City.  Hoelterhoff: Buildings, I was surprised to read, account
for 40 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. That’s a big
number.  Russell: Conservation gets treated condescendingly in the
climate change debate, lumped in with solar and wind, which are
more expensive.  But reducing lighting, heating and cooling can bring the
energy number down by 50 percent or more with today’s
technology.  Hoelterhoff:  Dockside Green  on  Vancouver  Island sounds
great. I might want to move.  Russell: It shows what you can do on the community level.
It not only has low-energy buildings, but it connects to bus
lines, to a little ferry line. There’s a bike route, a car-
sharing program. People can walk to things they want to do.  This is how people save huge amounts of energy yet get to
have a very nice life.  Not Free  Hoelterhoff: Why is a place like Dockside so hard to
reproduce?  Russell: Because of the habitual way we finance real
estate, the brain-dead way we do transportation -- autos only --
and the dysfunctional way we provide and deal with water. We
pretend it’s free and it isn’t.  Hoelterhoff: Speaking of water, I liked those pictures of
grass and narrow garden strips lining streets.  Russell: That’s the future: not letting rain and runoff
flow into overburdened sewage-treatment plants. It’s a less
expensive way of dealing with all the floods we’re having.  Hoelterhoff: And yet, it seems anything that isn’t an
outsized house with a yard near a highway remains pretty hard to
finance. That hasn’t changed since the mortgage meltdown?  Russell: All the perverse incentives that caused the
mortgage meltdown remain in place, along with most of the
crooks.  Multifamily housing, for example, is harder to finance.  Hoelterhoff: You write about what you call the “megaburbs,”
with those highway strips that seem designed to kill pedestrians
on sight.  Insane  Russell: They can be redesigned so that kids can bike to
school and sports. A lot of moms in the suburbs drive 100-plus
miles a week chauffeuring kids. That’s insane.  Hoelterhoff:  Canada , especially Vancouver with those sky
trains comes out really well. Seattle doesn’t, a surprise to me.  Russell: U.S. projects tend to be under-engineered. The
Seattle line goes a pathetic 30 miles per hour and carries some
20,000 people a day.  Compare that to Vancouver’s line, which is faster and moves
100,000, the equivalent of a four-lane highway.  A huge transportation bill languishes in Congress. It could
have been transforming.  Hoelterhoff: Can you explain why conservatives have so
little interest in conservation?  Russell: Too many, not all, don’t look hard enough at the
power of conservation and see transit as a boondoggle. In fact,
beltway boondoggles induce the most inefficient growth by any
measure.  Hoelterhoff: Reading about  New Orleans  was disappointing:
It seems even  Brad Pitt  with his clever little houses couldn’t
get much traction.  How to be Agile  Russell: The city made green innovation part of its
rebuilding plan. But it can’t be financed in a conventional way,
and the incentives and disincentives in the tax codes don’t
help.  Then, people get scared. They don’t want to innovate in a
disaster. They want to get back what they lost.  Hoelterhoff:  Europe  is more enlightened. Hamburg really
seems to have confronted climate change head-on.  Russell: The new reclaimed docklands district takes steps
to actually accept flooding. They also have escape routes for
people. And all the buildings feature low energy systems and
natural ventilation. The  subway system  was extended for easy
access.  The greatest cities have always been agile as they adapted
to change.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 