-- 
Thai Vote May Test Economic Resilience That Lured Dow, Ford

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   T o n y   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-06-22T10:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/thai-election-may-test-economic-resilience-that-lured-dow-ford.html
The economic resilience that saw
companies from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  invest in
Thailand even amid its worst political violence in two decades
may be tested next month as polls indicate a win for the party
removed from power twice in the past five years.  Pheu Thai, backed by exiled former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , led the ruling Democrats by 13 percentage points in
a poll released June 18 by the National Institute of Development
and Administration. The army, which deposed Thaksin in 2006, has
warned voters to avoid picking the “same thing” as previous
times; disputes over the last election led to airport seizures,
arson attacks and protests that killed more than 100 people.  Clashes between rural and urban voters in the country of 67
million people didn’t stop successive governments embracing
trade and foreign investment or deter tourist arrivals, which
jumped to a record in 2010. The economy last year grew the
fastest since at least 1995, and Thai stocks were among the
world’s 10 best performers.  “Our companies have endured coups over the last few
decades and survived,”  Hugh Young , who helps manage $70 billion
in Asian equities at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., said
by e-mail. “We’re just watching and hoping for the best” from
the July 3 vote, he said.  The ability of the world’s top exporter of rice and rubber
to also attract manufacturers that account for 40 percent of
gross domestic product makes the economy more vulnerable to
global setbacks than domestic troubles. Thai GDP fell 2.3
percent in 2009 amid a global recession, then jumped 7.8 percent
last year. The government’s planning agency sees growth between
3.5 percent and 4.5 percent this year as global demand slows.  Firing Zones  Exports rose to an 18-year high in June 2010, a month after
the military set up live firing zones in Bangkok to end a two-
month protest that killed 91 people.  Dow Chemical, the largest U.S. chemical maker, has been
operating in  Thailand  for 45 years and its venture with local
partner Siam Cement Pcl “is one of our best in the world,”
country manager Molly Zhang said. Midland, Michigan-based Dow
plans to open a plant later this year that’s part of a $3
billion investment, she said.  “We have been growing through Thailand’s recent history
and remain optimistic about the economic and business
opportunities moving forward,” Zhang wrote in an e-mail.  Automaker Hub  Most industrial firms are situated around Rayong, an area
about 100 miles (161 kilometers) southeast of Bangkok.
Automakers such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Ford Motor Co. have used Thailand as a global production hub due
to tax incentives and trade arrangements that grant access to
Southeast Asia’s 592 million consumers.  “The success of Thailand’s  auto industry  is the result of
nearly two decades of commitment by the government to establish
and build a globally competitive auto industry and supporting
infrastructure,” said Peter Fleet, president of Southeast Asian
operations at Ford, which has invested $1.3 billion in Thailand
over the past three years.  More than 7,000 Japanese companies making products like
automobiles, televisions and air conditioners are now in
Thailand and more are coming, said Yoichi Yajima, who works with
 Japan ’s External Trade Organization in Bangkok.  “Politics and the economy are completely separated, and
history proves that,” he said. “Even with many changes in
administrations in the past, the policy of preferential
treatment for foreign companies and the manufacturing sector has
remained intact.”  Less Than Potential  While its favorable investment laws, scenic beaches and
abundant natural resources have helped it emerge as  Southeast
Asia ’s second-biggest economy, Thailand may still be failing to
live up to its potential. The conflict is an extension of
political upheaval that has seen nine coups and more than 20
prime ministers since  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  took the throne as
an 18-year-old in 1946.  “Unfortunately Thailand is slipping,” said Nandor von der
Luehe, chairman of the Joint Foreign Chambers of Commerce in
Thailand. “It’s not that Thailand becomes worse as such, but
the other ones are lifting the bar.”  Thailand attracted less foreign direct investment than
Indonesia and  Vietnam  over the past three years after outpacing
them from 2005 to 2007, Asian Development Bank statistics show.
Government and policy instability were cited as the  biggest
concerns  for doing business in Thailand among 13,000 executives
surveyed in the  World Economic Forum ’s  2010-2011 Global
Competitiveness Report  released last year.  Price of Unrest  The  tourism industry  has also expressed concern, even after
arrivals rose 13 percent last year to a record 15.9 million. In
the first five months of 2011, arrivals climbed 24 percent to
8.2 million compared with the same period last year, according
to the Department of Tourism.  “Though the number of tourist arrivals is improving, it
would have been better without the unrest,” said Kongkrit
Hiranyakit, president of the Tourism Council of Thailand. “We
are stepping backward and can’t grow in line with our potential
because of politics.”  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party is
trailing in polls against Pheu Thai, which is led by Thaksin’s
sister, Yingluck Shinawatra. Thaksin retains support in
Thailand’s poorer northern areas for his programs of cheap
health care and micro-credit even after he was ousted and fled a
jail sentence for abuse of power, a verdict he says is unfair.  Poll Numbers  Of the 500 parliamentary seats up for grabs, 375 are chosen
in districts and 125 through proportional representation. About
30 percent of the 1,247 people surveyed in a June 13 poll by the
National Institute of Development and Administration will choose
Pheu Thai candidates in their constituencies, while 17 percent
favor the Democrats. For the party list, 30 percent backed Pheu
Thai and 17 percent supported the Democrat party, it said.  An Assumption University poll published today showed the
party-list contest may be tightening, with 30 percent of the
5,349 people surveyed still undecided. Some 44 percent of
respondents will choose Pheu Thai and 39 percent will vote for
the Democrats. The poll, conducted in 28 provinces between June
1 and June 21, has a 7 percent margin of error, the university
said today in an e-mailed statement.  The prospect of Thaksin’s allies winning the most seats in
an election for the fifth straight time has prompted overseas
investors to withdraw more than $1 billion from Thai stocks over
the past month on concerns it would provoke a backlash among a
royalist elite that has used the military and court rulings to
overturn his last three victories. The SET Index has fallen 0.9
percent this year, lagging behind Southeast Asian markets, after
a 41 percent advance in 2010 that was among the world’s best.  Wealth Gap  A wealth gap in Thailand has helped fuel the conflict, with
Thaksin’s base in the north and northeast earning an average
income about one third that in Bangkok, according to data from
the National Statistical Office.  “The nation’s economic development plan has been focused
on the top-down model for a decade,” Olarn Chaipravat, the head
of Pheu Thai’s economic team, said today in Bangkok. “It’s time
to change. In the next decade it should be a bottom-up model,
focusing on  income distribution .”  Both major parties have promised handouts to the poor and a
 minimum wage  increase of between 25 percent to 99 percent in
some areas, a move that manufacturers fear may erode their
competitiveness.  “There is general acknowledgement that the current minimum
wage is insufficient given the higher cost of living,” Finance
Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said. “There’s a question of social
justice and equal distribution of economic gains that needs to
be addressed.”  ‘Thailand Always Survives’  As Thais seek to reconcile their economic and political
divide with  King Bhumibol , 83, hospitalized for the past 21
months, long-term residents like David Lyman seek to keep things
in perspective. All the governments since absolute monarchy
ended in 1932 have been pro-business, said Lyman, the chairman
of law firm Tilleke and Gibbins and a governor of the American
Chamber of Commerce.  “In spite of its inept governments and its continued
chaotic political situation, Thailand always survives,” Lyman
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  