-- 
Airlines Rank Worst of 47 Industries With U.S. Fliers ‘Vastly’ Unsatisfied

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/airlines-rank-worst-in-study-as-u-s-fliers-vastly-unsatisfied.html
U.S. airlines fell to last place
among 47 industries in a study of customer satisfaction, dragged
down by consumers’ “pervasive” discontent with service,
baggage fees and ticket prices.  The score of 65 on a 100-point scale compared with an
average of 76.5 for all industries, according to the University
of Michigan’s American Customer Satisfaction Index released
today. Airlines were tied at the bottom with newspapers, the
worst performers in 2010.  “Fliers were vastly less satisfied overall with the
experience,” said David VanAmburg, managing director of the
study. Extra charges to check luggage irritate travelers who
already feel that fares are too high, he said.  The industry’s tally fell 1.5 points from a year earlier as
carriers extended their use of fees for checking luggage and
other services. Airlines collected $5.69 billion in  bag  and
 reservation-change fees  in 2010, 12 percent more than in 2009,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  The  index team  surveyed about 1,750 recent airline
passengers among approximately 9,000 consumers reached by e-mail
and telephone from January through March. Airlines logged their
highest rating, 72, in 1994, the baseline year for the study.  U.S. carriers returned to a collective profit in 2010 after
two years of losses when the recession ravaged  travel demand .
 AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines , the third-largest in the U.S., is
the only one of its peers projected to report a 2011 loss, based
on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Lowest Score  The lowest score among major carriers was a 56 for  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s second-largest by traffic. The only
worse result among more than 225 companies covered in the index
was a 54 for energy delivery company  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM)   Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the last major carrier that doesn’t
charge fliers for two checked bags, led the U.S. industry with a
score of 81. United and Continental airlines, which merged in
October to form  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s
biggest carrier, earned ratings of 61 and 64.  Passengers who paid for checked bags had an average
customer satisfaction score of 58, 10 points lower than for
travelers who didn’t pay those fees. About 50 percent of
consumers now pay these charges, the study found, helping
contribute to “a very low score” for the industry.  The findings echo the results of a survey of 1,059
passengers conducted in March by online travel agent
Travelocity.com, a unit of Sabre Holdings Corp. Travelocity
found that 28 percent of fliers rated bag fees as the greatest
travel annoyance and 27 percent said high airfares were worst.  “In a down economy, customers are focusing much more of
their attention on price,” VanAmburg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner   edufner@bloomberg.net  