-- 
Aluminum’s Premium Gains Being Fueled by LME Warehouse Rules, Harbor Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-06-22T19:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/aluminum-s-premium-gains-being-fueled-by-lme-warehouse-rules-harbor-says.html
London Metal Exchange rules are
creating delivery bottlenecks for aluminum that are boosting
prices and causing seven-month delays at  Detroit  warehouses,
commodity researcher  Harbor Intelligence  said.  Warehouses monitored by the LME, the world’s largest metals
exchange, are obliged to deliver a minimum of 800 metric tons to
1,500 tons daily, even as global stockpiles of aluminum rose
almost fivefold to 4.57 million tons since the end of 2007.
Detroit’s warehouses hold 25 percent of LME-monitored inventory.
The premium paid in the Midwest to get the metal on top of its
cash price surged to a 16-year high last month.  The LME’s minimum-delivery rule “is one of the factors
that, without a doubt, is behind record high Midwest premiums,”
Jorge Vazquez, a senior vice president at Harbor Intelligence,
said yesterday in an interview in  Chicago . The higher premium
“implies consumers paying a higher price for aluminum.”  Aluminum for delivery in three months has climbed 30
percent in the past year, and in May rose to the highest level
since August 2008. The metal advanced $9, or 0.4 percent, to
$2,550 a ton today on the London Metal Exchange.  Bottlenecks in the U.S. warehousing system combined with
the use of aluminum for financing deals may have cut the amount
that’s available even as total LME stockpiles remain near a
record. Detroit, a city associated with the  auto industry , is
the only site holding more than 900,000 tons of the metal,
according to exchange figures.  Cash Rates  “Notionally, metal is not in short supply, but a lot of
it’s not available for immediate consumption because of the way
the warehouses are taking advantage of the LME rules, especially
Detroit,”  David Wilson , a director of metals research at
Societe Generale SA, said in an interview in Chicago today.
“That’s keeping premiums high.”  The premium that buyers pay over cash rates to get supplies
surged 37 percent this year and touched 9.5 cents a pound on May
6, the highest since February 1995. The premium averaged 5.7
cents in the past three years.  Global aluminum stockpiles monitored by the LME surged to a
record 4.71 million tons on May 18.  Starting April 1, minimum daily delivery sizes will
increase to 2,000 tons for sites holding between 300,000 tons
and 600,000 tons, and 2,500 tons for sites with 600,000 tons to
900,000 tons, the LME said last week in a notice to members. The
board “will give further consideration” to the proposal to
raise minimum delivery rates for stockpiles above 900,000 tons.  Pressure to Change  “There’s a lot of pressure on the LME to change the rules
in a way that at the end of the day more metal is available and
faster,” Vazquez said. “The bulk of the problem is Detroit,
and right now, the LME is debating how much they should increase
the outload rate specifically for Detroit.”  The LME, which handled $11.6 trillion worth of contracts
last year, hired  Europe  Economics to study deliveries and
announced the report results in May. According to the proposal,
warehouses storing at least 900,000 tons of metal would be
required to release at least 3,000 tons a day.  An increase in metal deliveries required of warehouses with
very large stocks should produce a more balanced distribution of
inventories, reduced premiums, shorter lines and a “more
rational” set of prices, Europe Economics said. Its study
included 46 interviews and visits to 12 warehouses in Europe,
 Asia  and  North America .  Premium Outlook  The LME is going to change the rule and will probably
revise the requirement to 3,000 tons, and it likely won’t go
into effect until April, Vazquez said. Once that is approved,
that will only help the premium “a little bit,” he said.  “Premiums in 2012 could still reach a new high given the
tightness in the Americas that comes from growing demand in the
entire continent, while Brazil and  Venezuela  are producing at
lower run rates than last year and as no new capacity will hit
the market soon,” Vazquez said. He also cited “booming
demand” in the Americas.  Midwest premiums may rise as high as 13 cents next year,
Vazquez said during a question-and-answer session at the
conference today.  High diesel prices, a shortage of trucks and the tightness
in the aluminum market also are contributing to the premium
gains, Vazquez said.  “People are mostly buying hand-to-mouth,” he said. “That
implies when they want metal immediately, they’re really
struggling to get it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  