-- 
Villas-Boas Pays to Quit Porto as Chelsea Confirms Interest in Hiring Him

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-21T21:59:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/andre-villas-boas-quits-as-porto-coach-amid-reports-he-ll-join-chelsea.html
Portuguese soccer champion Porto
said coach Andre Villas-Boas can leave the club after he paid up
a break clause in his contract. English Premier League runner-up
Chelsea said it’s interested in hiring him.  Porto made the announcement in a statement to  Portugal ’s
stock-market regulator. Porto said in an earlier release to the
regulator that the 33-year-old’s contract would be canceled once
the get-out fee was paid.  Chelsea, which ousted  Carlo Ancelotti  after the London team
finished behind league champion  Manchester United  last season,
said it’s discussing personal terms with Villas-Boas after his
release clause was activated.  “We can at this time confirm our interest in him and hope
to reach agreement with him on personal terms and make a further
announcement in the near future,” Chelsea said in a  statement 
on its website.  The get-out fee is 15 million euros ($21.5 million),
according to Lusa news agency, which reported earlier that
Villas-Boas resigned in a fax message.  Porto said the termination of Villas-Boas’s contract will
be completed once it has completed the required paperwork. Vitor
Pereira was named as new coach on a two-year contract.  Villas-Boas led Porto to the Europa League as well as the
Portuguese league and cup last season. After training to become
a coach as a teenager, he worked at hometown team Porto under
 Jose Mourinho , moving with him to Chelsea and  Inter Milan .  In 2009, he left Mourinho’s staff to coach Academica de
Coimbra in Portugal. He became the youngest coach to win a
European soccer title when Porto beat Braga 1-0 to win the
Europa League final in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  