-- 
Marathon Man Isner Feels Relief After Quick Defeat of Mahut at Wimbledon

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-21T23:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/marathon-man-isner-feels-relief-after-quick-defeat-of-mahut-at-wimbledon.html
The sequel rarely matches the
original, and  John Isner ’s not upset about that.  Isner took little more than two hours to beat Nicolas Mahut
in straight sets yesterday to advance to the second round of
Wimbledon. Last year, Isner beat the Frenchman in a record-
breaking meeting that lasted three days and took 183 games.  “Nothing’s going to live up to that match,” Isner said
yesterday. “It wasn’t going to go that long. The conditions
were probably a little bit slower because of the weather. After
the first set, I felt actually really comfortable.”  The American defeated Mahut, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2, 7-6 (8-6) on a
windy Court No. 3 at the All England Club as dusk fell. The
entire match lasted two hours, 3 minutes. That’s more than nine
hours less than last year’s encounter.  “It’s a huge relief,” Isner said in a court-side
interview after the match. “I’m happy to put this behind me.”  As happened last year, the two had embraced at the net
after the 6-foot-9 Isner secured his second victory over Mahut
in three meetings. That’s where the comparisons end.  “Everything was different,” Mahut said in a news
conference. “The conditions were different. It’s another year,
another match, another tournament.”  In action today, five-time champion  Venus Williams  plays
 Japan ’s Kimiko Date-Krumm, while men’s defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain faces Ryan Sweeting of the U.S. Britain’s  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed, meets  Germany ’s Tobias Kamke.  138-Game Set  In last year’s opening round, Isner needed a record 11
hours and 5 minutes over three days in warm weather to overcome
Mahut. Isner had collapsed on the grass of Court 18 when his
backhand passing shot secured a record-packed 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (7-
9), 7-6 (7-3), 70-68 win.  Isner and Mahut’s 138-game fifth set alone had lasted 8
hours and 11 minutes. That itself was longer than the previous
record for a tennis match, a 6 hour, 33-minute first-round
contest at the 2004 French Open between Frenchmen Fabrice Santoro and Arnaud Clement. The All England Club has mounted an
oval-shaped plaque on Court 18 to commemorate their effort.  “My career changed after losing that match,” Mahut said.
“There was more attention, and more expectation.”  Isner and Mahut produced a total of 216 aces last year.
Both broke Ivo Karlovic’s record of 78 in a Davis Cup match for
Croatia against the  Czech Republic  in 2009.  Although the record encounter left both men drained, Isner
had to play the following day. He lost in the second round to
Thiemo de Bakker of the Netherlands because he could barely
move.  Fewer Aces  This year, Isner and Mahut each hit eight aces. The
American produced 41 winners, 10 more than his opponent.  Isner won the first set in a tiebreaker as Mahut hit a
backhand long. The American quickly secured the second as Mahut
struggled with his serve.  The momentum shifted early in the third set, as the
Frenchman broke Isner to love for a 2-1 lead. The American broke
back to even the score at 4-4. In the third-set tiebreaker,
Isner squandered one match point as he netted a backhand volley.
He won with his second match point as Mahut hit a ground stroke
wide in front of a half-empty arena.  Even without the media buildup, the rerun would never meet
the standards set last year, Mahut and Isner said.  “What we did last year was more than a tennis match, but
this was last year,” Mahut said. “He just played better than
me, that’s it.”  Friends  Although he’s now twice lost in the opening round of
Wimbledon to Isner, the 94th-ranked Mahut is taking some
positives out of their encounter.  “We became close friends, which is the most important
thing for me,” he said.  Isner said he’s now looking forward to his playing second-
round match, against No. 16 seed Nicolas Almagro of  Spain ,
feeling well-prepared physically and mentally.  “I’m going to be fresh,” the 47th-ranked player said. “I
was not that last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  