-- 
Fernandez Invokes Late Husband’s Legacy in Seeking Argentine Re-election

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-22T20:15:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/argentina-president-fernandez-says-to-run-for-reelection-one-more-time-.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said she will honor her late husband’s
legacy by running for re-election in October, ending weeks of
speculation about whether she would enter a race she’s favored
to win by a landslide in polls.  Fernandez, 58, said yesterday that while she waited until
four days before a filing deadline to announce her candidacy,
she knew she’d seek a second, four-year term the day after her
husband, former President  Nestor Kirchner , died of a heart
attack last October.  “I always knew what I had to do and what I should do,”
Fernandez, dressed in black, said in a nationally televised
address from the presidential palace in Buenos Aires. “We will
submit ourselves to this one more time. My decision is
irrevocable.”  Since Fernandez succeeded her husband in 2007,  Argentina 
nationalized its $24 billion pension fund industry, took over
the flagship airline and fined analysts who criticized the
government’s inflation index. While foreign investment has
trailed its regional peers, a surge in prices for soybeans
helped South America’s second-biggest economy recover from the
global financial crisis and is expected to fuel growth of 7.7
percent this year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Bond Yields  The yield on benchmark dollar Argentine bonds that mature
in October 2015 rose 4 basis points to 8.21 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand
to hold Argentine dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries
remained unchanged at 614, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Argentina’s benchmark stock exchange rose 0.1 percent to
3,333.58. The peso was little changed at 4.0980 per dollar.  Polls show that Fernandez, a lawyer, may have enough
support to win re-election in the first-round vote on Oct. 23
over lawmaker Ricardo Alfonsin of the Radical Civic Union party.
Fernandez had 48 percent support, compared with 13 percent for
Alfonsin, according to a June 3-11 survey of 1,500 people by
Buenos Aires-based pollster CEOP Opinion Publica. About 8.4
percent of the people surveyed said they haven’t decided whom
they will vote for or refused to answer, according to the poll,
which has a 2.6 percentage point margin of error.  Avoid Runoff  Under Argentine law, a candidate can win the election and
avoid a runoff by garnering more than 45 percent of the vote or
40 percent and a 10 percentage point lead over the nearest
competitor. A second-round runoff, if needed, will take place
Nov. 20.  Argentines will put their faith “in the hands of those who
know how to take care of people’s pocketbooks and the only
person for that is Cristina,” Cabinet Chief Anibal Fernandez,
no relation to the president, said in comments posted to the
government’s web page.  Fernandez didn’t say who she’d ask to be her running mate.
She cut ties with Vice President Julio Cobos in 2008 after he
voted against her proposal to raise agricultural export taxes.
Some names mentioned by analysts and local press include Chaco
province Governor Jorge Capitanich, Senator Nicolas Fernandez
and Economy Minister Amado Boudou.  Fernandez or her successor will have to tackle problems
ranging from accelerating inflation to a lack of foreign direct
investment compared with regional peers.  Inflation, running anywhere between 25 percent and 30
percent according to private estimates, is accelerating toward
the fastest in the world. The government says prices are rising
at an annual rate of 9.7 percent and has fined researchers who
say otherwise as much as 500,000 pesos ($120,000).  Lagging Investment  Foreign direct investment in Argentina totaled $6.2 billion
last year, according to the Santiago-based United Nations
Economic Commission for Latin America. That compares with
investment of $48.5 billion in  Brazil , $15.1 billion in  Chile ,
$7.3 billion in  Peru  and $6.8 billion in  Colombia .  Fernandez faced her biggest political setback in 2008, when
her agricultural tax plan provoked four months of nationwide
protests, road blockades and food shortages in Buenos Aires. Her
proposal was defeated in Congress after Cobos cast the tie-
breaking vote against the measure in the Senate.  A year after the dispute, the government’s ruling coalition
lost control of Congress for the first time since 2005.  Still, a global commodities boom, which boosted prices for
exports including soybeans and corn, has buoyed  government
spending  that’s helped boost economic growth.  Gross domestic product expanded an average 5.6 percent per
year from 2008-2010, following annual growth of 8.8 percent from
2003-2007 during Kirchner’s administration. Unemployment fell
from a peak of 9.1 percent in the third quarter of 2009 to 7.4
percent this year.  ‘Political Liability’  “Cristina has high popularity due to good economic
conditions,”  Boris Segura , a  Latin America  economist at Nomura
Securities International, said in an interview from  New York .
“Inflation isn’t a lethal political liability.”  Fernandez has also taken steps to restore Argentina’s
credit-worthiness. In 2010, she led a restructuring of $12.9
billion in defaulted debt remaining from the 2001 financial
crisis. The restructuring helped Argentine dollar bonds soar 36
percent last year, the best performance among major emerging
markets in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  Segura said Fernandez is likely to win re-election in the
first round. Her main opponent is the 59-year-old son of former
President Raul Alfonsin, who led Argentina out of its military
dictatorship in which an estimated 30,000 people were killed.
Also running is fellow Peronist Eduardo Duhalde, named by
Congress in 2002 to be Argentina’s fifth caretaker president in
about two weeks following the country’s default on $95 billion
on bonds.  Military Junta  Fernandez, a mother of two, graduated from the  National
University  of  La Plata , where she met her future husband while
protesting against the military junta that toppled President
Isabel Peron in 1976.  She began her political career in 1985 in Kirchner’s native
province of  Santa Cruz , holding several positions in the local
legislature. From 1995 to 2007, she served as a congresswoman
and senator, first from Santa Cruz and later  Buenos Aires .  When her husband took office in May 2003, Fernandez
championed his human rights prosecutions of dictatorship
officials and helped shepherd his legislative priorities through
the congress in the aftermath of the country’s financial crisis.  The president said yesterday one reason she is running is
to serve as a “bridge between the new and old generations,”
citing the “rebuilding of the country” she and her husband
undertook following the debt default.  Kirchner died last October at the age of 60, leaving
Fernandez to run her first political campaign in 26 years
without her spouse and closest adviser. She never doubted she
would run again, she said.  “I knew it when thousands and thousands passed before here
to say goodbye to him and cried out ‘be strong Cristina,’” she
said last night. “We will continue ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  