-- 
Arizona Jobless-Benefit Cutoff Turns Lemon Tree Into Safety Net

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/arizona-jobless-benefit-cutoff-turns-lemon-tree-into-safety-net.html
Two days after  Arizona  lawmakers
refused to authorize federally paid jobless aid for the long-
time unemployed, Joan Miller turned to one of the only safety
nets she had: her friend’s lemon tree.  Miller, among about 15,000 people whose benefits ended last
week, woke early, donned gardening gloves and climbed a ladder
to harvest 45 lemons, which she sold for $15 to buy food. Next,
she plans to go through boxes of her dead mother’s china and
collectibles looking for something to sell.  “I’m appalled to find myself in this situation,” said
Miller, 58, who’s lived with a friend in Phoenix since losing
her $55,000-a-year fundraising job in August 2009. She estimates
she’s applied to 20 jobs a week since then. “I don’t know what
I am going to do.”  Thousands of Arizonans face the same challenge after
lawmakers allowed the jobless aid to lapse last week. Over the
last three years, Governor Jan Brewer and the Republican-
controlled Legislature have also slashed social-services
spending to confront annual budget deficits that peaked at about
$3 billion last year.  The decision on June 13 not to authorize the jobless aid,
even though it would have cost the state nothing, followed
reductions in funds for child care, homeless shelters, food
banks and other programs. The state gained national attention
for eliminating some organ-transplant coverage, and it  plans to
shrink  Medicaid rolls by more than 100,000 this year.  The cuts have outpaced the rest of the nation, said Liz
Schott, a senior fellow at the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a Washington-based research group that follows
policies affecting low- and moderate-income families.  Lifetime Limits  As social-service programs in many states swelled during
the recession, Arizona imposed lifetime limits and other
restrictions  that cut the population  receiving help in half,
Schott said.  “They’ve got nothing for people, really,” she said. “It
is not a good state to be poor in.”  In May , about 18,000 families were enrolled in the state’s
Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program, down from about
35,000  a year ago , according to the Economic Security
Department. More will be cut off as new rules take effect next
month.  Arizona’s pace of safety-net cuts surpassed other states
because its economy was one of “the hardest hit” by the
collapse of the real estate market, said Byron Schlomach, chief
economist for the Phoenix-based  Goldwater Institute , a private
advocate of limited government.  ‘Took a Stand’  “Our Legislature did what it had to do,” he said. They
“took a stand” against  government spending  and economic
interference by rejecting the federally backed aid.  Arizona’s unemployment rate was higher than the national
average for more than three years, peaking at 10.4 percent in
November 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In May,
it equaled the U.S. at 9.1 percent. The state’s home-mortgage
foreclosure rate was the second-highest in the nation in April,
according to RealtyTrac Inc.  Arizona is the only state that didn’t act to accept the
extended U.S. benefits after the issue came to the forefront,
said Michael Evangelist, a policy analyst for the National
Employment Law Project, a New York-based supporter of low-income
workers. The benefits lapsed without government action in only
two other states, Wisconsin and  Alaska .  Cost to Economy  Brewer had pushed for the state to accept the aid, saying
rejection would hurt the economy. On June 10, she  called
lawmakers  into session to make a one-word change to state law
that would have authorized 20 more weeks of assistance, to 99
weeks.  Though Brewer  pointed out  that other “conservative
strongholds” had made similar moves, lawmakers ended the
session on the second day without considering a bill.  By year-end, about 45,000 people could be affected at a
loss to the economy of almost $90 million in federal aid,
according to the Economic Security Department.  Senator Ron Gould, a Republican from Lake Havasu City, said
people are more driven to find work when benefits are cut off.  “You have to get back to where everybody is responsible
for themselves, instead of everyone depending on government to
take care of them,” he said in a telephone interview.  Miller, the unemployed fundraiser, qualified for $200 a
month in  food stamps  and Medicaid after her jobless benefits of
$216 a week ended. To get them, she stood in line outside a
North Phoenix office for two hours as temperatures exceeded 90
degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius).  Across town, after sending an angry e-mail to lawmakers,
Michael Renz began posting computer equipment and furniture for
sale on Craigslist. Renz, 49, lost his job as a graphic designer
last year and his jobless benefits were also cut off.  He and his wife gave up their $200,000 Phoenix home in a
bank-approved sale last month for less than they owed to avoid
foreclosure. He has applied to work at McDonald’s and for
janitorial jobs.  “We are not lazy,” he said in a telephone interview. “We
really just can’t find work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 