-- 
Las Vegas Monorail Wins Permission to Seek Vote on Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-21T21:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/las-vegas-monorail-wins-bankruptcy-court-permission-to-seek-vote-on-plan.html
Las Vegas Monorail Co. , the bankrupt
nonprofit company that proposed paying bondholders about 9
percent of the $500 million they are owed, won court permission
to send its reorganization plan to creditors for a vote.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell agreed to approve a
disclosure statement for the plan yesterday after asking lawyers
for the company and creditors to modify the wording, Susan
Freeman, an attorney for bond trustee Wells Fargo Bank NA, said
in an interview.  “The parties are supposed to work out the tweaks to the
disclosure statement the court had requested,” Freeman said.
Should they fail to agree they will return to court next week,
Freeman said.  Under the company’s reorganization plan, bondholders owed
$207.3 million would get nothing, while higher-ranking creditors
owed $500 million would be given $44.5 million in new debt.  Markell will take the vote of creditors into consideration
when he deciding whether to approve the plan. The judge set
aside Sept. 14 and Sept. 16 for a final hearing on the
reorganization proposal, Freeman said.  The 3.9-mile (6.3-kilometer) driverless transportation
system runs from near the  Las Vegas  Strip to the convention
center and carries passengers between gambling resorts.  New Stations  The plan is designed put the company into position to get
grants, or new loans of about $12 million by 2019. That money is
needed to build two new stations “so that the monorail does not
cease to operate sometime in the next 8 years,” it said in
court papers filed June 6.  Ambac Assurance Corp. insured at least $451 million in tax-
exempt bonds issued in 2000 by the Nevada Department of Business
and Industry that were backed by a pledge of revenue from the
monorail, according to court papers.  After Las Vegas Monorail filed for bankruptcy last year,
Ambac said the case might cost the New York-based bond insurer
almost $1.2 billion. Ambac’s holding company,  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , filed for bankruptcy in November in  Manhattan .  Las Vegas Monorail said in its bankruptcy petition that its
assets were $10 million to $50 million.  The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail, 10-10464,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  