-- 
Asian Stocks Rise, Treasuries Drop on EU Support for Greece; Oil Rebounds

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-24T02:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/asia-stocks-snap-four-day-drop-euro-gains-as-juncker-eases-greek-concerns.html
Asian stocks climbed, driving the
region’s benchmark index to its first weekly advance in eight,
and Treasuries snapped a two-day gain as European leaders voiced
support for  Greece  and a slump in energy prices eased concern
the global recovery will falter. Oil prices rallied.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.5 percent as of 11:25
a.m. in  Tokyo , taking its weekly gain to 1.4 percent. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures rose 0.4 percent and 10-year Treasury
yields gained two basis points. The Dollar Index climbed for a
third day while the euro was little changed as it headed for a
third weekly drop. Oil advanced in New York, recouping some of
yesterday’s 4.6 percent plunge.  European Union officials pledged yesterday to stabilize the
euro-area economy and provide aid to Greece as long as Prime
Minister George Papandreou pushes through a package of budget
cuts next week.  China ’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said efforts to stem
inflation have worked, which may be aided by the slump in energy
prices. U.S. data today will likely to show durable goods orders
climbed.  “The high oil price was a massive constraint on a fragile
recovery, so anything that takes the froth off the energy market
is positive for growth,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based
strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100
billion under management. “With Greece, they’ve managed to kick
the can further down the road, but any progress in avoiding
contagion to the rest of  Europe  is going to be welcomed.”  Prada IPO  About five shares advanced for every three that fell on
MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index. The measure is snapping seven
straight weeks of losses, the longest slump since 2004.  Japan ’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.3 percent and  South Korea ’s
Kospi index climbed 1.1 percent. The  Hang Seng Index  added 1.3
percent in  Hong Kong , where Prada SpA increased 0.4 percent
after raising $2.1 billion in an initial public offering.  Airlines advanced on speculation the drop in oil will help
cut fuel costs.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  rallied 3.1 percent and
Korean Air Lines Co. gained 2.2 percent. Jet kerosene in
Singapore has fallen 1.4 percent to $124 a barrel in the week to
June 23.  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  climbed 1.9 percent in  Kuala Lumpur  after
the discount carrier placed a record order with Airbus SAS for
the A320neo jetliner.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.6 percent, taking
its gain this week to 2.3 percent. Premier Wen said in an
opinion piece in the Financial Times that the pace of consumer-
price increases will slow.  Oil, Gold  Crude for August delivery rose 1.1 percent to $92.02 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, rebounding from
yesterday’s plunge. Brent crude oil tumbled 6 percent yesterday
to $107.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the lowest price since Feb. 22. The  International
Energy Agency  agreed to release 60 million barrels to buyers.  Immediate-delivery gold rose 0.1 percent to $1,522.38 an
ounce, paring yesterday’s 1.8 percent slump. Copper for three-
month delivery climbed 0.7 percent to $9,020 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange, halting a two-day, 1.3 percent drop.
Soybean futures rose 0.8 percent and corn gained 0.3 percent,
also snapping two days of losses.  U.S. stocks fell for a second day yesterday, driving the
S&P 500 0.3 percent lower.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  plunged in
extended trading after the largest U.S. maker of computer-memory
chips reported third-quarter sales and profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates.  Greek Budget Cuts  Treasuries eroded this week’s gains, with 10-year notes
yielding 2.94 percent. Orders for goods meant to last at least
three years increased 1.5 percent in May, following a 3.6
percent decline in April, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce Department report. The
Dollar Index rose 0.2 percent.  The euro traded at $1.4265 from $1.4256 in New York
yesterday, having lost 0.3 percent against the U.S. currency
this week. It bought 114.78 yen, compared with 114.78.  EU leaders urged Greece to pass a package of budget cuts
and vowed to do what’s needed to meet the country’s financing
needs, the group said in a statement in Brussels yesterday.  European finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
Greece has met conditions for its next aid payment. Greek
lawmakers must approve the 78 billion-euro ($111 billion)
package in a vote next week, a condition for receiving a fifth
loan payment under an existing bailout and for future financing.  “On a six-month view I’m looking for much lower levels in
the euro,” said Michael McCarthy, the Sydney-based chief market
strategist at CMC Markets. “On the Greek situation, one of the
problems for markets is that the solution is going to take
months and years to come through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 