-- 
Dentsply to Buy AstraZeneca Dental Unit

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-06-22T08:47:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/astrazeneca-said-near-sale-of-unit-to-dentsply-for-1-8-billion.html
Dentsply International Inc. (XRAY)  agreed
to buy  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Astra Tech unit, a Swedish manufacturer
of dental prosthetics and medical devices, for $1.8 billion to
become the world’s third-biggest maker of teeth implants.  The cash transaction will be completed in the second half,
London-based AstraZeneca said today in a statement. Dentsply of
York,  Pennsylvania , said the purchase will double its position
in dental implants, a market whose annual growth rate will
accelerate to 13 percent from 6 percent within two years,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. estimates.  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker after
GlaxoSmithKline Plc, is selling the business to focus on
developing patented pharmaceuticals to replace sales that will
be lost to generics. It sought about $2 billion for Astra Tech,
three people with knowledge of the matter said in November.  “Obviously $2 billion would’ve been a good price, but in
this market they should take a price close to it,” said Navid Malik, an analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in  London .
“It seems like a good deal to me.”  Astra Tech , based in Moelndal,  Sweden , has 2,200 employees
and owns subsidiaries in 16 markets and had sales of $535
million last year. The dental unit attracted interest from
implant makers, including  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , while
private-equity firms looked at the operation that produces
devices for urology and surgery as well as the whole unit.  Cash and Debt  Dentsply, which makes prosthetics as well as equipment and
supplies used in dentistry, had cash of $575.3 million at the
end of the first quarter. It will finance the acquisition with
cash, commercial paper and long-term debt. The company said the
transaction will add $0.12 to $0.17 to adjusted earnings per
share in the first year after closing.  “The combination more than doubles our position in dental
implants while expanding the breadth of our portfolio in this
growing segment of dentistry,” Chief Executive Officer Bret Wise said in a statement.  Dentsply will become the No. 3 manufacturer of dental
implants behind Straumann Holding AG and Nobel Biocare of
 Switzerland , according to Lisa Bedell Clive, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein in London.  Nobel Biocare rose as much as 3.2 percent in Zurich trading
as the Dentsply agreement pointed to optimism about global
demand for implants and kindled speculation that bidders who
didn’t succeed in getting Astra Tech may turn to other targets,
Clive said.  “If Dentsply is willing to pay that for Astra Tech that
means they are bullish about the dental implant market,” Clive
said in a telephone interview today.  Dentsply rose almost 3 percent yesterday to $37.61 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, giving the company a market value
of $5.3 billion.  ‘Excellent Outcome’  The sale will have no impact on AstraZeneca’s profit target
for this year, because the gain will be excluded from what the
company calls core financial measures, the company said.
AstraZeneca in April said it expects core earnings of $6.95 to
$7.25 this year.  “We believe this transaction represents an excellent
outcome for AstraZeneca shareholders,” CEO  David Brennan  said
in today’s statement. The sale needs approval from regulators,
the company said.  AstraZeneca was little changed in London trading, rising 1
penny to 3,026 at 9:24 a.m. The stock has returned 4.5 percent
this year including reinvested dividends, compared with a 9
percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Nexium Patent  Patents expire in the U.S. on two of AstraZeneca’s biggest-
selling drugs, the Seroquel antipsychotic and Nexium for
heartburn, in 2012 and 2014, respectively, according to
Bloomberg data. Sales will be $28 billion to $34 billion a year
through 2014, the company said in January. AstraZeneca’s revenue
last year totaled $33.3 billion.  Buyers have announced 83 acquisitions of medical-products
companies this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, up
from 70 in the same period a year earlier. Johnson & Johnson
agreed to purchase Synthes Inc. for $21.3 billion in this year’s
biggest announced deal.  AstraZeneca said Nov. 19 it was considering options for the
dental business and had hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. Morgan
Stanley acted as Dentsply’s financial adviser and Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom served as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 