-- 
Maurel Rises on Plan for Caroil Sale, Tuscany Stake Purchase

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-21T09:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/maurel-rises-on-plan-for-caroil-sale-tuscany-stake-purchase.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA, a
French oil explorer, jumped after announcing a plan to buy a 29
percent stake in  Tuscany International Drilling Inc. (TID)  as part of
the Canadian company’s purchase of its rig unit Caroil SAS.  Maurel rose as much as 3.5 percent and was trading 43 cents
higher to 16.85 euros at 11:38 a.m. in Paris. The stock has
risen about 60 percent since the start of the year.  The agreement is “another clear sign that management is
seeking to sell all Maurel and Prom’s assets excluding Nigeria
activities,” Kepler Capital Markets analyst Bertrand Hodee
wrote in a report today. He has a ‘buy’ rating on the shares and
a target price of 21.60 euros.  Maurel and Tuscany, which is based in Calgary, announced
today an agreement for Tuscany’s wholly-owned subsidiary Tuscany
Rig Leasing to acquire all of Caroil. The deal follows the
unveiling last month of a plan by the French explorer to spin
off a Nigerian unit that acquired production licenses from Royal
Dutch Shell Plc. Maurel is 24 percent owned by Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Francois Henin.  Tuscany will pay Maurel $120 million in cash, 82.5 million
Tuscany shares and 27.5 million zero cost, non-transferable,
non-voting common share purchase warrants, giving Caroil an
enterprise value of $202 million. After the sale, Maurel will
own about 29 percent of Tuscany.  Caroil and Tuscany will operate in  Latin America  and
 Africa , according to statements from the two companies. Caroil
owns 13 land-based drilling rigs and operates two workover rigs
currently located in Colombia and Congo, Gabon, Cameroon and
Tanzania.  Operating Margins  Following the deal, Tuscany, whose fleet will rise to 41,
expects run rate revenues of about $350 million and operating
margins of about 34 percent, according to the company’s
statement.  Following Maurel’s announcement of plans for its Nigerian
business, Kepler analyst Hodee said the company was being
“groomed for sale.”  Henin told reporters in April he has failed to attract a
reasonable offer for the entire company, which has also tried to
list in  London . The  oil company  enlisted Citigroup Inc. and BNP
Paribas about a year ago to search for partners for exploration
permits held by the company, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Tara Patel} in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  