-- 
Aussie Fluctuates as Reserve Bank of Australia Cites European Debt Turmoil

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-06-21T16:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/aussie-falls-as-minutes-show-rba-was-prudent-to-hold-rates.html
The Australian dollar fluctuated
after the  Reserve Bank  said in minutes of this month’s meeting
it was “prudent” to keep  interest rates  unchanged on concern
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  “The RBA highlights risks in the global economy and the
euro-zone debt crisis, but at the same time, they note fairly
firm growth in terms of domestic wages and further tightening
needed at some point,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole SA in Hong Kong.  Australia’s dollar was little changed at $1.0594 at 12:49
p.m. in  New York , compared with $1.0582 yesterday. The Aussie
traded at 84.86 yen, compared with 84.93. New Zealand’s dollar
gained 0.3 percent to 81.24 U.S. cents. The kiwi traded at 65.08
yen, compared with 65.02 yen.  “Members judged that it would be prudent to leave the
stance of policy unchanged, pending further data on
international developments,” according to  minutes  of the RBA’s
June 7 meeting. A likely acceleration in inflation from
commodities-led growth “suggested that further tightening in
monetary policy would be necessary at some point,” the central
bank’s minutes said.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has paused at 4.75 percent after
seven increases in the overnight cash rate target from October
2009 to November.  Spain’s efforts to repair its economy are “incomplete” and
risks are “considerable,” the International Monetary Fund said
in a report.  While Spain’s government has implemented a “wide-ranging
policy response” over the past year, “there can be no letup in
the reform momentum,” the IMF said.  If Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  survives
today’s confidence vote, he will seek approval in parliament
next week for a five-year economic plan to help persuade
international officials to lend additional financial support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  