-- 
Australia Ash Clears After Flight Halt Prompts A$2,100 Cab Ride

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T07:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/australians-take-a-2-100-car-rides-as-ash-grounds-qantas-planes.html
Flights resumed in  Australia  as
Volcanic ash dispersed, easing disruptions that had prompted
travelers to swamp hotels, take A$2,100 ($2,225) cab rides or
cancel trips across the nation’s south-east.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , the nation’s biggest carrier, resumed
 Melbourne  flights from 11 a.m. and Sydney services from 2 p.m.,
according to a statement on its website. New Zealand and
Tasmania flights remain halted. The airline yesterday canceled
at least 200 flights, affecting more than 20,000 passengers.  “It’s massively significant and we do apologize to our
consumers,” Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce told the
 National Press Club  in Canberra. “This is unprecedented.”  Virgin Australia and  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  also plan
to ease cuts as carriers work to clear backlogs of passengers
stranded by the ash from a volcano in  Chile . The cloud is
disrupting operations in Australia for a second week after being
blown one-and-a-half times around the world.  Flight cancellations yesterday forced some Qantas
executives to drive about 290 kilometers (180 miles) to Canberra
from the carrier’s Sydney head office,  Olivia Wirth , a
spokeswoman, said in a televised briefing in the capital. The
airline’s shares rose 0.3 percent after it forecast an increase
of as much as 46 percent in full-year earnings.  A$2,100 Taxis  Aerial Capital Group Pty., which has 300 taxis and
limousines, sent five silver-service cabs to Melbourne yesterday
from Canberra, a journey of about 650 kilometers. The fares,
negotiated with drivers, cost as much as A$2,100, Operations
Manager Shane Stephens said by phone.  “I’d never had anyone who wanted us to drive them to
Melbourne,” said Stephens, who has worked for the Canberra-
based company for 10 years. “We are completely booked out.”  Virgin Australia, the nation’s second-biggest carrier,
resumed Melbourne flights from noon, and Canberra and Sydney
services from 3 p.m., according to a  statement  on its website.
The airline canceled about 170 flights yesterday.  Tiger Air operated some domestic Australia flights today
after canceling all of its services yesterday.  Air New Zealand
Ltd. (AIR)  will operate a full timetable, according to a  statement .  ‘Quite Eerie’  A full shutdown of the Sydney and Melbourne airports, the
nation’s two biggest, would cost the  tourism industry  at least
A$10 million a day, said John Lee, chief executive officer of
the Tourism & Transport Forum, a lobby group representing 200
tour companies.  “There are real impacts now to the wider business
community,” he said. Sydney Airport yesterday was “quite
eerie” because “what is normally bustling is just idle.”  The airport handled 35.6 million passengers last year,
according to its  annual report .  The ash came from the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic
complex in southern Chile, which erupted on June 4. It last week
caused flight cancellations in Australia,  New Zealand  and in
 South America . Disruptions in Australia eased over the weekend
before resuming again yesterday after the ash circumnavigated
the globe, according to air-traffic controller Airservices
Australia.  The ash-cloud cancellations follow earthquakes in Japan and
Christchurch, as well as floods in Queensland, which have also
disrupted operations and demand for Australian and New Zealand
carriers. Qantas last week curtailed growth plans because of a
slowdown in demand. The airline said yesterday it was too early
to estimate the cost impact of the ash-cloud cancellations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  