-- 
Australia Ranchers Seek End of Cattle Export Ban to Indonesia

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-21T03:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/australia-ranchers-seek-end-of-cattle-export-ban-to-indonesia.html
Australian ranchers urged the
government to lift its ban on live cattle exports to  Indonesia 
as Agriculture Minister Joe Ludwig held talks aimed at
restarting trade of the animals to the nation’s biggest market.  Northern Territory Chief Minister Paul Henderson and
ranchers met today with government ministers to urge the
resumption of trade. Australia on June 8 banned live cattle
exports to Indonesia for as long as six months after a
 television program showed  animals being mistreated.  “We don’t want to lay off staff but it may come to that,”
Emily Brett, who runs 10,000 head of cattle in the Northern
Territory, told reporters in Canberra. “We’re hoping live
exports will resume as soon as possible so we can get some
income.”  The government banned live cattle exports to Indonesia,
which buys about 60 percent of  Australia ’s shipments, after the
program caused a public outcry over the treatment of the
animals. Indonesian exports contributed A$319 million ($338
million) to the economy in 2010, according to  Meat & Livestock
Australia .  Ludwig yesterday gave the Indonesian government a draft set
of rules on welfare standards, including encouraging but not
insisting upon stunning animals before they are killed, a
spokesman from his office said.  “I would encourage all participants to put in place supply
chain arrangements so we can keep this industry for the longer
term,” Ludwig told reporters in Jakarta last night after
meeting Indonesia’s agriculture and trade ministers, according
to a transcript.  Legislation Submitted  The Greens Party last night introduced a law to parliament
banning all live animal exports immediately. That motion has not
yet been debated.  Television footage aired May 30 showed cattle in Indonesian
slaughterhouses being kicked and whipped. One cow, which broke
its leg on the abattoir’s floor, had its tail broken, eyes
gouged and water poured in its nostrils. Some cattle were
slaughtered with blunt knives, the footage showed.  Organizations including  Animals Australia , which provided
the abattoir footage to the Australian Broadcasting Corp., and
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
called for an immediate stop to the cattle trade to Indonesia
and a  ban  on all live exports, according to a  statement  on the
RSPCA website. Facilities in the video breached international
standards, the  RSPCA  said.  An independent reviewer will be appointed to investigate
the export of live cattle and the conditions under which they’re
slaughtered, Ludwig has said. The country shipped 148,000 live
cattle overseas in the three months to March 31, according to
the  Australian Bureau of Statistics .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  