-- 
Ban Ki-Moon Easily Wins Second Term as UN Secretary-General

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-21T20:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ban-ki-moon-is-appointed-to-second-five-year-term-as-un-secretary-general.html
South Korea ’s Ban Ki-moon pledged
“results that change lives” after being appointed today to a
second five-year term as secretary-general of the  United Nations 
by the world body’s 192 member governments.  The General Assembly, acting on the recommendation of the
UN  Security Council , adopted by acclamation a resolution giving
the former South Korean foreign minister a term that will begin
on Jan. 12, 2012. Ban, 67, faced no opposition.  “I will work as a harmonizer and bridge builder,” Ban
said after taking the oath of office with his left hand on the
original UN Charter, on loan from the U.S. Archives. “We must
deliver results. Mere statistics will not do. We need results
that people can see and touch, results that changes lives, make
a difference.”  U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice told the General Assembly that
the Obama administration “renews its pledge of friendship and
support” for the UN. She called on Ban in his second term to
“reduce bureaucracy, update its business practices, ensure
budget discipline, promote transparency, and create a culture of
economy, ethics and excellence.”  Ban said his first term put the issue of  climate change 
“squarely on the global agenda” and “shielded the poor and
vulnerable against the greatest economic upheaval in
generations.” He took credit for delivering aid to Haiti,
Pakistan and Myanmar following natural disasters, for protecting
civilians amid conflicts in the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Somalia and Sudan, and for pressing for democracy in North
Africa and the  Middle East .  Human Rights  His first term was also marked by criticism from human
rights groups for failing to condemn abuses in powerful nations
such as China and  Russia , and from Republicans in the  U.S.
Congress , frustrated with the pace of his efforts to improve UN
management.  “Although we’ve criticized Ban for his handling of human
rights issues in the past, especially in places like  Burma ,
 China , and Sri Lanka, we’ve recognized a positive change in his
approach over recent months,” Philippe Bolopion of New York-
based Human Rights Watch said in a statement. “He’s had a much
stronger public voice in Ivory Coast,  Egypt ,  Libya , and Syria.
We hope that, without the question of a second term looming over
his head, Ban will do more to further the human rights of people
around the world over the next five years.”  No Ruffled Feathers  General Assembly President Joseph Deiss of  Switzerland 
praised Ban’s “loyalty, discretion and conscience,” attributes
that won him support from all of the UN’s regional groups.  “He does not ruffle feathers and, in that sense, in
contrast to some of his predecessors, he has had a serene
term,” Jeff Laurenti, UN analyst at the New York-based Century
Foundation research group, said in an interview. “It is hard to
see an outstanding accomplishment of the UN in the past five
years that reflects unusual executive leadership, but there is
virtually no blunder to fault him on. In the eyes of the key
member governments he has been a perfectly serviceable leader of
the organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  