-- 
U.S. Banks May Accelerate Job Cuts After Firings Jump 21%, Challenger Says

-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 
2011-06-21T19:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/banks-in-u-s-may-speed-job-cuts-after-firings-jump-21-challenger-says.html
U.S. banks may accelerate job cuts
after reducing 11,400 positions in the first five months of the
year, a 21 percent increase over 2010, because of falling
profits and government regulation, according to Challenger, Gray
& Christmas Inc.  “Firms are under tremendous pressure,” said  John Challenger ,
chief executive officer of the Chicago-based company that advises
companies on workplace reductions. “Shareholders are bailing out
of them, and their stock prices are reflecting that these
businesses may not be the profit-generating entities that they
once were.”  Job cuts at financial firms are climbing after falling to a
14-year low of about 24,000 announced last year, according to
data compiled by Challenger. This year’s reduction “might very
well” be more than double 2010’s number, CEO Challenger said
today in a phone interview.  Net revenue at the six biggest U.S. banks --  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- fell 13.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which tracks 23
of the biggest U.S. lenders, is down 8.8 percent so far this
year.  Cuts are continuing as global regulators impose new rules
on Wall Street, such as those required under the Dodd-Frank Act
passed by Congress last year, Challenger said.  “You hear both sides saying jobs is the No. 1 issue in
this country and in the upcoming elections, unemployment is high
and yet the regulation that is going on with Dodd-Frank is going
to mean fewer jobs,” he said. “The companies have no choice
because they’re not going to be as profitable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 Lrupp1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  