-- 
Barnes & Noble Quarterly Loss Widens on Digital Investments

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-06-21T20:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/barnes-noble-quarterly-loss-widens-on-digital-investments-1-.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the target of a
$1 billion bid from Liberty Media Corp., posted a wider fourth-
quarter loss from a year earlier, hurt by bankruptcy liquidation
sales at Borders Group Inc. and investments in digital books.  The net loss totaled $59.4 million, or $1.04 a share, in
the quarter ended April 30, the New York-based company said
today in a statement. That missed the projected loss of 87 cents
of  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  The bookseller, which suspended its dividend this year to
conserve cash, has been using its profits to invest in e-books
and its Nook digital reading devices as sales of paper books
falter. That helped attract interest from  John Malone ’s Liberty
Media, which offered $17 a share for the bookseller last month.  “They’re spending a huge amount of money developing a
reader that people are afraid is going to go the way of the VHS
tape or the CD,” Bill Kavaler, an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son
Inc. in New York, said in an interview. Kavaler recommends
investors sell the shares.  Barnes & Noble fell $1.20, or 6 percent, to $18.94 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
gained 34 percent since Liberty’s bid was announced on May 19.  Amazon Competition  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 2.9 percent in
the quarter, hurt by the liquidation of more than 200 Borders
locations in the period, according to the statement.  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan-based Borders filed for bankruptcy in February.  Barnes & Noble said today it is reviewing Liberty Media’s
offer, the first bid disclosed publicly since the company put
itself up for sale in August. While the offer is being
considered, earnings projections for fiscal 2012 won’t be
announced, Barnes & Noble said.  Fourth-quarter revenue rose 4 percent to $1.37 billion,
while sales in its college unit increased 3.5 percent to $211
million.  The company has had to ramp up spending on marketing on
product development to stay competitive with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
whose Kindle is the top selling e-reader, according to  Michael Souers , an analyst for  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York .  The Nook is “the only driver of long-term growth and they
have to establish that niche,” said Souers, who recommends
holding Barnes & Noble shares.  Last month, the largest U.S. bookstore chain unveiled a
smaller, lower-cost Nook in an effort to boost its share of the
growing e-book market. Barnes & Noble has about 25 percent of
the e-book market in the U.S. and trails only Amazon.com, which
introduced the Kindle e-reader in 2007.  The fourth-quarter loss a year earlier totaled $32 million,
or 58 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  