-- 
Basel Committee Liquidity Rules May Overshadow Tougher Capital Thresholds

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-06-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/basel-liquidity-rules-may-bite-harder-than-capital-thresholds.html
Banks may face greater difficulty
complying with minimum liquidity rules drawn up by global
regulators than they will meeting higher  capital requirements .  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which meets in
the Swiss city tomorrow, plans to discuss how to implement rules
designed to ensure banks hold enough easy-to-sell assets to
survive a 30-day credit squeeze and can back up long-term
lending with stable sources of funds.  “The way the liquidity ratios are designed at the moment
is going to cause a lot of banks a lot of problems,” said
Monika Mars, a PricewaterhouseCoopers AG director in Zurich.
“Liquidity is a much bigger challenge” for banks than meeting
Basel capital rules, especially for smaller lenders and those in
emerging markets, she said.  The liquidity rules are part of the last year’s Basel III
deal to bolster the defenses of the world’s financial system by
more than tripling the amount of core capital that banks have to
hold. This week’s talks will also examine capital surcharges for
banks whose failure would create turmoil across the globe.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among
lenders facing the highest levy,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts said in
a June 19 note.  Regulators at the Basel meeting are set to discuss how to
fulfil a commitment made last year to review and possibly adjust
the two liquidity standards before they enter into force.  The ratios have triggered unease among some banks and
regulators for risking unintended consequences for some lenders
that have to work hard to meet Basel III’s demands.  ‘Greater Struggle’  “If you struggle with the capital rules you risk a much
greater struggle with the liquidity requirements,” said Jesper
Berg, senior vice president at  Denmark ’s biggest mortgage bank,
Nykredit A/S.  The Basel capital and liquidity requirements may combine to
form a vicious circle, Berg said, as banks that sail too close
to minimum permissible levels of capital might appear weak to
the market, and so struggle to attract the depositors and
investors they need to meet the liquidity rules.  The liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, is the first one
scheduled to be implemented. The measure, to be phased in by
2015, requires banks to hold enough assets that can be sold
under stressed market conditions. The idea is to enable a lender
to survive a crisis situation in which credit lines are
withdrawn and the bank faces a sudden outflow of deposits.  Too Restrictive  Lenders including HSBC and Deutsche Bank have warned that
the list of assets that banks are allowed to count toward
meeting the LCR is too restrictive, and overly concentrated on
 government bonds .  Banks’ ability to meet the LCR may be hampered by
difficulties they are likely to face over the next two years in
refinancing senior debt that falls due, Berg said.  As a result the impact could be that banks have to cash in
liquid assets to make up their shortfall in funds that arises
from their inability to replace maturing bonds.  “One thing is how the liquidity numbers look now, the
other is how they will look over the next two years when the
funding falls due,” Berg said. Banks have “a lot of funding”
coming to maturity over this period.  The second liquidity rule, known as the net stable funding
ratio, or NSFR, may be even more challenging.  ‘Greatest Difficulties’  Assessing the impact that the NSFR will have on banks
margins is “one of the greatest difficulties in forecasting
bank returns going forward,” Jonathan Tyce, senior analyst for
Bloomberg Industries European banking team, said in a telephone
interview.  Stable funds are resources that banks can expect to have
for at least a year even in stressed market conditions, for
example term deposits and long-standing retail deposits.  The measure, scheduled to become binding at the start of
2018, will set a minimum amount of stable funds that banks will
have to use to finance different types of lending.  The NSFR was designed to prevent a repeat of events such as
the near-collapse of Northern Rock Plc. The British lender was
nationalized in 2008 following the first bank run in the U.K for
140 years, caused when the lender’s model of using short-term
borrowing to finance mortgage lending left the bank vulnerable
in the credit crunch.  “Removing the ability to mismatch assets and liabilities
will squeeze margins, and coupled with lower leverage, the
cumulative result is undoubtedly negative, but it’s still
unclear to what extent,” Tyce said.  ‘Very Crude’  The NSFR is “very crude,” Mars said. It will penalize
banks that “have a big loan book, do lots of lending supporting
the real economy, and do not have an inordinate amount of retail
deposits.”  A mismatch in maturities between lending and borrowing
activities is “inherent in banking systems,” she said.  Regulators are split over the practicality of the liquidity
rules. Nout Wellink, the outgoing chairman of the Basel
committee, last week criticized the lack of a clear commitment
by the European Union to implement the standards.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
last month that he would delay making a decision on whether to
implement the NSFR as a binding rule in the 27-nation region.  U.S. Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo told lawmakers
last week that revisions are inevitable at least for the stable
funding rule.  Banking ‘DNA’  “I don’t believe the NSFR is going to be implemented as a
binding requirement,” Berg said. It “is sort of running
against the DNA of banking.”  The Basel committee last year published an  impact  study
showing that a total of 263 banks would have faced a shortfall
of 2.89 trillion euros ($4.16 trillion) in stable funds had the
NSFR been in place at the end of 2009.  They would have faced a 1.73 trillion-euro shortfall in the
assets needed to satisfy the LCR. The Basel committee has said
it is working on a follow-up study, to be completed by August,
which will be based on end-2010 data.  This week’s Basel meetings, which run until June 25, will
also seek agreements on rules for banks’ disclosure of pay and
bonuses, two people familiar with the talks said. The committee
sought views on a draft of the rules last year.  The regulators also intend to endorse draft proposals for
the orderly winding down of failing banks and for imposing
losses on bondholders at crisis-hit lenders, according to the
people, who couldn’t be named because the discussions aren’t
public. The Basel group will then seek opinions on the possible
rules, they said.  Systemically Important  The Basel committee has said all banks should hold core
Tier 1 Capital of 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, and
is considering additional requirements for those banks it
considers systemically important financial institutions, those
firms whose collapse would harm the global economy.  HSBC, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and  BNP Paribas (BNP) , are among
lenders who may be subject to a surcharge of about 2.5 percent,
Morgan Stanley said in its June 19 note.  The Basel group may require the biggest banks to hold as
much as 3.5 percentage points in extra capital if they grow, two
people familiar with the talks said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  