-- 
Bernanke May Try Spurring Economy by Prolonging Stimulus

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-06-21T10:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/bernanke-may-try-to-spur-u-s-economic-growth-by-extending-record-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably delay the central bank’s exit from record
stimulus, economists said in a survey, giving the flagging
economy a boost without resorting to additional asset purchases.  Seventy-nine percent of 58 economists expect Bernanke to
sustain the Fed balance sheet at current levels until October or
later, compared with 52 percent who held that view before the
Fed’s last policy meeting in April, according to a Bloomberg
News survey conducted last week. Ninety percent of those
surveyed predict the Fed will wait until the fourth quarter
before dropping its pledge to hold interest rates low for an
“extended period.”  Bernanke and his fellow policy makers have given no
indication they’ll tighten policy anytime soon. With
manufacturing slowing and unemployment increasing during May to
9.1 percent, the Fed chief said this month growth is
“frustratingly slow,” and Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the economy could be “stuck below trend for some
time.”  “The longer they signal they will be on hold for an
extended period, they are de facto easing,” said  Carl Riccadonna , senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. in New York. Expectations the central bank will delay a
policy reversal help reduce long-term interest rates and spur
growth, he said.  Congressional Mandate  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will begin a two-day
meeting today in Washington and issue a statement tomorrow at
about 12:30 p.m. Bernanke is scheduled to meet the press at 2:15
p.m. tomorrow, and the central bank will also release economic
projections by policy makers.  By prompting expectations it will postpone a reduction in
stimulus, the Fed can draw closer to meeting its congressional
mandate to achieve maximum employment, Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said in February.  “Such a shift in policy expectations would be associated
with a lower trajectory for the  unemployment rate ,” Yellen said
in a speech in New York. “Financial conditions would become
significantly more accommodative, even in the absence of any
change in the current level of the funds rate.”  Weaknesses in employment and housing eroded optimism among
U.S. chief executive officers in the second quarter, a survey by
Business Roundtable showed June 14. Eighty-seven percent of the
135 CEOs surveyed said they expected a gain in sales in the next
six months, down from 92 percent in the first quarter, a sign
that hiring and business investment may be slow to accelerate.  ‘Significant Challenges’  “The weak economy continues to present significant
challenges for most households,” David Dillon, chief executive
officer of Cincinnati-based  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery
chain, said on an investor conference call last week. “The
promising signs of the improvement we saw earlier this year
seems to have stagnated.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in
the first quarter, down from 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter,
and recent data have shown manufacturing and consumer and
business sentiment weakening.  “This soft patch further delays any moves to tightening,”
said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in
 Chicago . Policy makers “have made it clear they were in no
hurry” to scale back the central bank’s $2.8 trillion balance
sheet.  ‘Extended Period’  Swonk predicts the Fed will stop reinvesting proceeds from
maturing assets and drop its “extended period” pledge in the
fourth quarter of this year and hold off on raising interest
rates until March 2012.  Since the last FOMC meeting in April, stock prices and bond
yields have fallen. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 6.3
percent to 1,278.36 yesterday from its 2011 peak on April 29.
S&P 500 futures expiring in September traded at 1,277.9 at 11:20
a.m. in  London  today. The yield on the 10-year Treasury has
fallen to 2.96 percent from its 2011 high of 3.74 percent in
February.  “The soft patch would have to turn to a double-dip
recession before the Fed would feel comfortable in enlarging its
balance sheet and extending purchases” of  Treasury securities 
through a third round of so-called quantitative easing, said
 Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .  Bond Purchases  The central bank has said it will complete $600 billion in
bond purchases, known as QE2 for the second round of
quantitative easing, by the end of this month. Sixty-nine
percent of economists in the survey say that a third round of
bond buying is “very unlikely,” and an additional 24 percent
say it is “somewhat unlikely.”  “Their hands are pretty much tied,” Rupkey said.
Accelerating inflation poses “some urgency” for policy makers
and also argues against more asset purchases, he said.  The  consumer price index  climbed 3.6 percent in May from a
year earlier, the fastest pace since October 2008. Prices
excluding food and energy rose 1.5 percent, the most since
January 2010, the Labor Department said last week.  Economists expect little change in the FOMC statement
tomorrow. In a separate survey, 72 out of 73 economists said the
Fed will keep the main interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent, its level since December 2008.  Only eight of 73 economists expect the Fed to change
interest rates before the end of this year, with the remainder
expecting the central bank to remain on hold until at least next
year.  Slow economic growth may help Bernanke “justify keeping
interest rates low,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist
at Unicredit Group in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  