-- 
Best IPO Coal India Gains 67% Among Initial Sales of $1 Billion

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-06-21T21:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/best-ipo-coal-india-gains-67-among-initial-sales-of-1-billion.html
Money manager William Fries went to
 India  in the summer of 2010 in search of investments for his
Thornburg International Value Fund. Visiting companies in Mumbai
and Delhi, he found they kept diesel backup generators on hand
for the power interruptions that are common as the country
struggles with an inadequate electricity supply.  That led Fries, four months later, to buy shares in the
$3.5 billion initial public offering of  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the
state-owned coal producer. He reasoned that sales of India’s
main power-plant fuel would grow as more generation is added,
helping the company’s earnings.  The bet has paid off. Coal India shares soared 67 percent
through May 31 from their price in the IPO on Oct. 25. That’s
the best performance for any initial share sale that raised $1
billion or more in the fourth quarter of 2010, the busiest
quarter ever for new share issuance.  Returns were positive for 11 of the 14 sales in this
ranking, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue.
The average gain was 15 percent.  Fries, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , continued buying  Coal
India  as the shares climbed after the IPO. “The demand for their
product is going to be there,” he says. “India has a big
shortage of electricity, and they’re going to be building lots
of  power plants  over the next decade.”  Commodities Companies  The most successful IPOs from the fourth quarter were
primarily old-line commodities businesses -- sold by governments
rather than venture capitalists. More recently, Internet
companies have garnered the most attention in  equity capital
markets . LinkedIn Corp. shares doubled on May 19, their first
day of trading.  A total of $127 billion was raised globally in IPOs in the
fourth quarter, more than in all of 2009, helped by a stock
market rally that lifted the MSCI World Index as much as 86
percent above its March 2009 low.  The third-best performer, after Coal India, was Malaysia’s
 Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM) , which was spun off by the state-
owned oil exploration and production company. Its shares gained
39 percent through May. In fourth place,  Australia ’s  QR National
Ltd. (QRN) , a coal-train operator that was sold by the Queensland
state government, returned 35 percent.  AIG and GM  Two companies that are partly owned by the U.S. government
conducted IPOs in the fourth quarter:  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Asian unit and  General Motors Co. (GM)  AIG’s sale in
 Hong Kong  of $20.5 billion of  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  shares performed
well, gaining almost 40 percent and claiming the second slot in
the ranking. General Motors shares fell 3.6 percent, making it
one of just three companies in the ranking whose stock was below
its IPO price as of the end of May.  The Coal India IPO was the biggest in Indian history. Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s government took advantage of rising
equity markets to sell the world’s largest coal producer, part
of a campaign to shed state-owned assets.  “There was no doubt Coal India would be the star deal of
the disinvestment program,” says Sumit Bose, secretary of the
Department of Disinvestment, which runs the government
privatizations. “But we hadn’t anticipated the response to it
would be so strong.”  The IPO has been a bonanza for buyers compared with the
benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, which lost 8.9
percent during the same period amid concern that accelerating
inflation might derail the country’s growth. Coal India stock
outperformed the MSCI World Index almost sevenfold.  Sold at a Discount  The shares were offered at a discount to other publicly
traded coal producers such as  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  in the U.S.
or  China  Shenhua Energy Co., based on price-earnings ratios.
Investors bid for at least $48.7 billion of Coal India shares,
or 14 times what was offered.  Aside from the Indian government, Thornburg Investment was
the biggest holder of Coal India stock in late May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from regulatory filings. Fries’s $30
billion International Value Fund returned 7.4 percent through
the first five months of this year.  Share sales of Asian companies dominated the equity capital
markets last year, and that fact is mirrored in the ranking, in
which half are Asian. U.S. companies’ portion of the world’s
IPOs fell to an all-time low last year.  Where companies are choosing to sell their shares has also
shifted east. In 2010, Hong Kong and mainland Chinese listings
accounted for 45 percent of all IPOs by dollar value compared
with just 16 percent for the U.S. As recently as 2006, the U.S.
and U.K. were the most popular locales for new share sales, with
a combined 34 percent of the market, versus 21 percent for Hong
Kong and China.  Malaysian Privatization  Petronas Chemicals, the largest IPO in Malaysia’s history,
was part of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s plan to attract more
overseas investment by selling state-owned assets. The
petrochemicals unit of the state oil company priced its shares
at the top of its projected range.  The shares were added to the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index
three days after their market debut, making them a must-own for
some funds. The parent, state-owned Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,
known as Petronas, manages the country’s oil and gas reserves.  The IPO of QR National raised $4.2 billion for the
Queensland government as part of a program to generate A$15
billion ($16 billion) through asset sales. Queensland Premier
Anna Bligh is trying to make up for revenue lost during the
global recession and strengthen the state’s finances. The state
lost its top credit ratings in downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s 
and Moody’s Investors Service in 2009.  Norway, Italy  Three European companies in the ranking managed double-
digit returns. Norwegian insurer  Gjensidige Forsikring ASA (GJF) 
raised $1.9 billion in the country’s biggest initial share sale
in nine years. Its shares rose 17 percent through May.  Enel SpA, Italy’s largest utility, raised $3.4 billion by
spinning off its renewable energy unit, and those shares gained
21 percent.  In  Europe , the Middle East and Africa, the fourth quarter
was the busiest since mid-2008, Bloomberg data show. Deals got
done even amid concern that Greece, Ireland, Portugal and other
countries might not be able to make good on their sovereign
debt. The region this year may top the $165 billion that was
raised in IPOs in all of 2010, Ernst & Young LLP said in
January.  The rush of deals in the fourth quarter came partly because
of pent-up supply as companies waited for stronger markets to
support their sales, says Raj Dhanda, head of global capital
markets at Morgan Stanley.  No Waiting  “There was a lot of cash that was ready to be put to work,
and the investors felt comfortable that the volatility had
subsided for the near term, that they could focus on new
issues,” he says. “The companies raising capital were very aware
of the fact they’d been shut out of the markets for a prolonged
period of time, so they weren’t going to wait if they could go.”  While the IPO volume in the fourth quarter of last year was
good for bankers such as Dhanda, government ties restrained
investment-banking fees in several transactions.  Underwriters of the Coal India share sale, including
Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp.,
earned a fee that was a fraction of 1 percent for their work --
much lower than the average of 3 percent issuers paid for IPOs
worldwide last year. General Motors paid its underwriters 0.75
percent.  Government Jobs  Banks were competing to curry favor with governments and
associate themselves with landmark share sales, says Steven Kaplan, a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business. “The banks appear to have given substantial discounts
to companies that were owned by the government,” he says. “Doing
the very large, very public deals gets you higher in the league
tables and allows you to advertise for future deals.”  Of course, poorly performing deals may have the opposite
effect. Shares of Denmark’s Pandora A/S, which makes and markets
silver and gold jewelry, charm bracelets and beads, dropped 16
percent through May.  Pandora, the biggest Danish IPO in 16 years, surged 25
percent on its first day of trading in Copenhagen and then slid
when its 2011 sales forecast was less than analysts expected.  With  Facebook  Inc., Groupon Inc. and other Internet
companies queued up to sell shares, investors might be reassured
that Mail.ru Group Ltd. came in fifth in the ranking.  The Russian operator of social-networking sites, which is
also an investor in Facebook, was the biggest Internet stock to
go public during the fourth quarter, and it gained 24 percent
through May 31.  Still, its shares at that point were already down more than
20 percent from the high they touched 10 weeks after going
public. The winning performance of the government-backed
commodities companies at the top of the ranking was more
lasting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  