-- 
Members of Biden Group Oppose Short-Term Extension of U.S. Debt Ceiling

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-22T23:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/biden-s-debt-reduction-talks-with-republicans-turn-to-entitlements-taxes.html
Negotiators seeking a bipartisan
plan to reduce federal deficits are focused on finding a way to
agree on a long-term boost in the U.S. debt limit rather than
temporary increases, a top Senate Democrat said.  A short-term fix is “quite unlikely,” said Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , of  Montana . “Nobody wants
that,” Baucus, who’s participating in the talks led by Vice
President  Joe Biden , said after a negotiating session today.  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the Senate’s No. 2 Democratic
leader, disagreed, saying he believes a two-step approach is
needed to get past an Aug. 2 deadline to raise the debt ceiling.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  says failure to meet that
deadline would risk a U.S. default on its obligations to
bondholders.  Durbin said he would support a deal with an initial
“serious down payment” on deficit reduction, combined with a
short-term debt-limit increase. He said that could be followed
by a larger package to curb deficits that would reach at least
$4 trillion and include a bigger boost in borrowing authority.  “We’re just not going to be able to accomplish that by
Aug. 2,” Durbin said of a broad debt-reduction plan.  Talks Continue  Six lawmakers -- four Democrats and two Republicans --
appointed by congressional leaders are working with Biden, and
their meetings continue tomorrow.  President Barack Obama and Biden are scheduled to meet
tomorrow in the Oval Office with House Democratic leaders,
including Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , to discuss the status of
the talks, according to the White House. The two Democratic
House lawmakers in the talks --  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland  and
James Clyburn of  South Carolina  -- also will take part,
according to Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman.  Van Hollen said negotiators will discuss tomorrow budget-
process changes that could help enforce a final deficit-
reduction plan. He said it still isn’t clear whether the group
will reach a deal.  “The good news is that we’re still around the table -- no
one has bolted out of the room,” he said. “The question is
whether we can bridge our differences.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican
who’s also part of the group, said yesterday he favors a long-
term extension even though lawmakers are divided over whether to
increase  tax revenue  as part of a deficit-cutting plan.  No Multiple Votes  “I don’t see how multiple votes on a debt ceiling increase
can help get us to where we want to go,” Cantor said. “If we
can’t make the tough decisions now, why would we be making those
tough decisions later.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said June 19 that if
all sides couldn’t agree on “something really significant,”
Congress might have to approve a short-term increase in the debt
limit to let talks continue.  Today, McConnell sought to minimize any tactical
differences between himself and Cantor, telling reporters, “You
are reading an awful lot into a discussion about what might
happen if we can’t get a grand agreement.”  “My preference is the same as Leader Cantor’s, I hope we
have a big, comprehensive, no blue-smoke-and-mirrors solution,”
the Kentucky Republican said at a Christian Science Monitor
breakfast.  “I don’t know anybody talking about default,” McConnell
said.  Fallback Plan  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, said if a deficit-cutting plan isn’t big enough
to “credibly deal with the long-term debt threat, then it would
be better to have a short-term extension and have sufficient
time to put together a plan that really does deal with the
threat.”  The issues that have divided lawmakers most are Democrats’
bid to increase tax revenue and Republicans’ effort to cut
entitlement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Earlier
talks have focused on areas of easier agreement, including cuts
to  farm subsidies  and possible reductions in retirement benefits
to federal workers.  Van Hollen  said Democrats are continuing to press for
higher tax revenue, which he said should include an end to some
corporate tax breaks as well as a boost in levies on higher-
income Americans. Cantor said talk of tax increases is more
about politics than getting a deal that can pass a Republican-
controlled House.  ‘All About Politics’  “If it becomes all about politics, you’re not going to get
what you need to get done,” Cantor said.  Van Hollen said if the group doesn’t reach a framework
later this week, negotiators will be “in touch, one way or
another” next week during a week-long House recess. Biden’s
group first met on May 5.  Geithner, one of the participants in the meetings, said
yesterday he’s seeing “a lot of progress” in the discussions
and that a default is unthinkable.  Republicans insist that spending cuts must exceed any
increase in the debt ceiling. Many members of their party were
elected last year on a pledge to force dramatic spending cuts.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said June 20 that President  Barack Obama  wants about
a $2.2 trillion increase in the debt limit, about enough to last
through the next presidential election in November 2012.  “We see the debt limit as our only opportunity to get some
real fiscal responsibility,” Ryan said in an interview on
CNBC’s “Squawk Box.”  ‘Not Our Strategy’  “Default is not our strategy,” Ryan said. “But we don’t
want to see both political parties show the world and the credit
markets that we just can’t do anything about spending.”  Meanwhile, Senate Democratic leaders said today they want
added spending for infrastructure, clean energy and other areas
to help create jobs as part of a deficit-cutting plan. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said he directed
committee chairmen to offer proposals by Aug. 1.  “There are things we need to invest in to get America back
to work -- education, training and research,” Durbin said.  Biden said last month he was aiming for a $1 trillion
“down payment” on spending cuts, along with a series of
longer-term benchmarks that could be enforced to reduce the debt
by $4 trillion.  Republicans have insisted they won’t approve any tax
increases. Still, Democrats say there is increased hope for a
deal on revenue after a June 16 Senate vote in which 33
Republicans voted with Democrats in favor of eliminating a tax
credit and a tariff that subsidize ethanol production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  