-- 
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK TO LAUNCH NEW EDITION IN POLAND

-- B y  
-- 
2011-06-21T18:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/bloomberg-businessweek-to-launch-new-edition-in-poland.html

Press Release  Bloomberg Businessweek Polska is the first new foreign license
for the magazine since it was acquired by Bloomberg  Warsaw, Poland, -- Point Group Business Unit and Bloomberg
Businessweek announced plans today to publish a Polish-
language edition of the magazine starting in the autumn of
2011. The new publishing agreement will allow Bloomberg
Businessweek to expand its reach in one of the fastest growing
economies in  Europe .  Bloomberg Businessweek Polska will be published every two
weeks and will feature content from Bloomberg’s 2,300
journalists worldwide, including its Warsaw, Poland bureau. It
will include locally-focused business and financial content
produced by Point Group Business Unit, a subsidiary of
Platforma Mediowa Point Group SA. Michal Kobosko, project
manager at Point Group Business Unit, will serve as editor-in-
chief of Bloomberg Businessweek Polska.  This partnership further demonstrates Bloomberg’s commitment
to global reach and continued growth.  The global edition of
Bloomberg Businessweek posted a 49% increase in advertising
pages year-over-year in the first quarter of 2011 (according
to the Publishers Information Bureau) and the addition of
37,000 individually paid subscribers in the second half of
2010, which was up 7% versus the prior year (according to the
Audit Bureau of Circulation).  In April 2011, the magazine
launched its first iPad app to positive reviews from
influential business and technology media outlets such as Tech
Crunch and Business Insider and from users, who give the app
an average of 4.5 out of 5 stars in reviews on the iTunes
store. This kind of momentum supports research that readers
and advertisers around the world are embracing the relaunched
Bloomberg Businessweek.  “The magazine will extend Point Group’s portfolio to include a
creative business magazine that fits perfectly with the
development strategy of PMPG as a publisher,” said Michal M.
Lisiecki, Platforma Mediowa Point Group SA president. “By
launching Bloomberg Businessweek Polska, we are going to
provide our readers with business information of the highest
quality and our partners with an attractive channel through
which to communicate with the market.”  “By working with Point Group, we will produce a Polish edition
that will provide readers insight into the local and global
marketplace and provide advertisers a way to reach an
influential audience of business and financial professionals
in  Poland ,” said Bloomberg Businessweek President Paul
Bascobert. “We are pleased to be working with a dynamic
publisher like Point Group.”  “Our goal is to combine Bloomberg Businessweek’s global
influence with the local analysis offered by our Polish
journalists and editors,” said Kobosko. “We believe that the
Polish market will welcome a magazine that delivers insight
and analysis of developments and trends in the larger global
economy as well as in Poland.”  “Bloomberg is committed to growing the Bloomberg Businessweek
brand in Poland and in other key business centers in order to
extend our reach to the most influential audiences,” said
Jonathan Foster Kenny, Vice President and International Sales
Director for Bloomberg Businessweek. “This agreement with
Point Group Business Unit will allow us to build an
outstanding localized product for the growing business and
financial sector in Poland.”  About POINT GROUP BUSINESS UNIT:  POINT GROUP BUSINESS UNIT is subsidiary of Platforma Mediowa
Point Group with a view to become a professional player in the
market for developing, managing and publishing business-
related content. One of the aspects of the project involved
the launch of a new business title. The project is managed by
Michał Kobosko.  About Platforma Mediowa Point Group:  Platforma Mediowa Point Group was set up in 1997 by a student,
Michał Lisiecki, who currently acts as the President of the
Management Board and one of company’s major shareholders. From
that year on, the company has been consistently implementing
its development strategy, investing in new projects and
extending its media portfolio. PMPG SA Group members include
an Internet broker,  advertising agency  and press distribution
network. Since 2006, PMPG SA (WSE: POINTGROUP, PGM) has been
listed on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange . Publications released by
PMPG SA and its subsidiaries include WPROST, one of top Polish
opinion weeklies, FILM - the oldest Polish movie magazine,
“Machina” - top trendy music magazine and “?dlaczego”  -
student magazine.  About Bloomberg Businessweek:  Named one of the most successful and influential magazines of
2011 by Adweek, Bloomberg Businessweek is a trusted source of
essential, comprehensive insight that business leaders depend
on to get ahead. Bloomberg Businessweek offers a global
perspective to help senior executives profit from smarter,
faster, and more informed decisions. Founded in 1929, the
magazine is a market leader, with more than 4.7 million
readers each week in 140 countries. Drawing on more than 2,300
journalists in 146 bureaus across 72 countries, Bloomberg
Businessweek covers the business world like no one else can.  About Bloomberg:  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength-delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and
accurately - is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional
service, which provides real time financial information to
more than 300,000 subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise
solutions build on the company’s core strength, leveraging
technology to allow customers to access, integrate, distribute
and manage data and information across organizations more
efficiently and effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg
Government and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company
provides data, news and analytics to decision makers in
industries beyond finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered
through the Bloomberg Professional service, television, radio,
mobile, the Internet and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek
and Bloomberg Markets, covers the world with more than 2,300
news and multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72
countries. Headquartered in  New York , Bloomberg employs more
than 13,000 people in 185 locations around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg Business week:
Patti Straus, +1 212-617-3279,  pstraus@bloomberg.net   Contact for Point Group:
Anna Pawlowska-Pojawa, +48 22 347 51 17,
 a.pawlowska@point-group.pl 
