-- 
Brazilians Buy Miami Condos at Bargain Prices as Real Gains 45%

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-06-21T16:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/brazilians-buy-miami-condos-at-bargain-prices-after-45-surge-in-currency.html
Frederico Azevedo went to Florida
looking for a second home. He left with three, paying $300,000
and $500,000 for condos in two Miami towers, and $1 million for
a unit at the Trump International resort in nearby Sunny Isles.  “I bought one to use as a vacation home and the other two
as investments,” Azevedo, 39, president of Construtora Altana
Ltda, a housing-development company, said in a telephone
interview from his office in  Sao Paulo . “It’s actually very
cheap in Miami compared to here.”  Surging real estate prices in Brazil and the currency’s 45
percent gain against the  U.S. dollar  since 2008 are sending
Brazilians to South Florida in search of bargain vacation homes
and property investments. That’s helping bolster Miami’s condo
market, with total sales increasing 79 percent in the first five
months of 2011 from a year earlier, according to data from the
Florida Association of Realtors released today.  In the Miami area, Brazilians bought 9 percent of homes and
apartments sold to international buyers in the 12 months through
March 2010, behind only Canadians and Venezuelans, according to
the  Miami Association of Realtors . Since then, “anecdotal
evidence certainly points to a significant increase,” said
Lynda Fernandez, a spokeswoman for the group. In May,
international clients bought about 60 percent of existing houses
and condos and 90 percent of newly built homes, the association
reported today.  Million-Dollar Sales  As many as half of the downtown Miami condos that have been
sold to foreigners for more than $500,000 since January were
purchased by Brazilians, said Craig Studnicky, president of
 International Sales Group LLC , an Aventura, Florida, property-
marketing firm. Buyers from  Brazil  also accounted for about half
of sales of more than $1 million in  Miami Beach .  Demand from Brazilians is “growing geometrically,” he
said. “Next year, it’s clearly going to be the dominating
force.”  The Brazilian real’s 45 percent increase against the dollar
from the end of 2008 through yesterday is the best performance
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
nation’s economy,  Latin America ’s biggest, grew 4.2 percent in
the year through March 31, compared with U.S. expansion of 2.3
percent.  Pricier Than U.S.  The fastest economic growth in two decades last year and
accelerating inflation made Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and
Brasilia more expensive than any U.S. city, according to a
survey by ECA International, a London-based human-resources
company. Brazil’s  home prices  rose an estimated 25 percent
during the 12 months through May, with prices up 44 percent in
Rio, Adrian E. Huerta, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in  New
York , and Marcelo Motta and Marina Mansur in Sao Paulo, wrote in
a June 15 report.  “Are these price increases sustainable?” the analysts
wrote. “Well, we are not seeing any deceleration in home price
increases yet.”  U.S. housing prices have fallen to 2003 levels as
foreclosures depress values and unemployment hovers around 9
percent. Miami-area homes are selling for 51 percent less than
their December 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index. Only  Las Vegas  and Phoenix had bigger price declines.  In Rio’s exclusive Leblon enclave, near the city’s Ipanema
district of bossa nova fame, apartments sell for an average
$1,058 a square foot ($11,388 a square meter), according to
Sindicato da Habitacao do  Rio de Janeiro , or Secovi, the city’s
real estate association. In Miami’s  South Beach , the average
condominium price was $354 a square foot during this year’s
first quarter, said Condo Vultures LLC, a Bal Harbour, Florida,
real estate brokerage and consulting firm.  ‘Other Way Around’  “Five years ago, it was the other way around,” Studnicky
said in a phone interview. “Miami was trading for $500 to
$1,000 a foot. Rio was trading for $300 to $500. It has
absolutely switched.”  Miami real estate agents are learning Portunol, a mix of
Portuguese and Spanish that Brazilians can understand, said
Peter Zalewski, principal of Condo Vultures. He lost three
employees who spoke fluent Portuguese to competitors.  “Other agents stole them because they wanted to tap into
the market,” Zalewski said.  Developers built from the ground up and converted
apartments to create 49,000 new condominiums east of Interstate
95 in  Florida ’s Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties from
2003 to 2008, riding a speculative bubble that popped when
credit dried up.  Fewer for Sale  The number of condos and townhouses available for sale fell
to 27,700 as of June 13 from 60,900 in November 2008, after the
collapse of credit markets, according to Condo Vultures.  Developers are preparing to build again with their eyes on
Latin American buyers. Studnicky’s company announced a joint
venture, Related ISG LLC, on June 9 to market new condo
developments with Miami-based Related Group of Florida, the
state’s largest condo builder.  Related, which was founded by Jorge M. Perez and wrote off
$1 billion in losses in 2008, plans to use pre-construction
deposits from Latin American buyers, who are accustomed to 50
percent down payments, to finance six projects with 1,500 units,
Studnicky said. Building is expected to cost $600 million to
$800 million and begin by 2013, he said.  Integra Development  While it may take a few years for U.S. lenders to finance
new construction in Miami, Brazilian buyers are taking advantage
of today’s opportunities, said Paulo Tavares de Melo, director
of real estate for Integra Solutions LLC, a fund for high-net-
worth Brazilians to invest in Florida property. Integra paid $12
million in April to develop 3 acres (1.2 hectares) in downtown
Miami with permits for as many as 920 apartments and 100,000
square feet (9,300 square meters) of office and retail space.  “The fact is there’s a lot of money in Brazil,” Melo, 37,
whose family made its fortune in Brazil’s sugar cane and ethanol
industries, said in a telephone interview from Miami, where he
has lived since 2001. “There’s more interest here than New
York, because of the prices, and the perception that prices have
already fallen so much.”  Coelho da Fonseca Empreendimentos Imobiliarios Ltda, a Sao
Paulo-based real estate brokerage, created an international
division in May, mainly to assist Brazilians buying property in
the U.S., especially Miami.  ‘Drawn to Miami’  “Brazilians are drawn to Miami by the opportunity to buy
property which they can rent the next day, generating income,”
Gabriela Duva, director of Coelho da Fonseca’s new division,
said in a telephone interview from New York. “Even those buying
for leisure also plan to rent while not using their
properties.”  Brazil’s government has changed tax rules three times since
March 29 to slow the real’s appreciation, which has widened its
current account deficit and made U.S. properties less expensive.
Brazilians’ enthusiasm for real estate in the U.S. may cool if
the currency or property values head in a different direction,
said Jose Augusto Pereira Nunes, owner of Miami-based  Algebra
Realty .  “Brazilians today have the tide and the winds in their
favor, the  exchange rate  being the tide and prices here being
the winds,” Nunes, who moved to Florida from Brazil 25 years
ago, said in a telephone interview. “If one of these falters,
demand will also falter.”  Falling Property Values  U.S. real estate values also may have further to fall, said
 Robert Shiller , a Yale University economics professor and co-
founder of the S&P/Case-Shiller indexes. That suggests that now
isn’t the best time to buy.  “A 10 to 25 percent further decline in real home prices
over the next, you know, five years, would not surprise me at
all,” Shiller said at a June 9 conference in New York.  Miami’s decline in property values has contributed to a
projected 2012 municipal deficit of at least $40 million,
forcing the city to consider employee pay cuts, layoffs and
furloughs, Mayor Tomas Regalado said yesterday.  Over the past nine to 12 months, Brazilians bought as many
as a third of the condos sold by Fortune International, said
Edgardo Defortuna, chief executive officer of the Miami-based
real estate development and marketing company. About 75 percent
of purchases at buildings he represents, including the Icon
Brickell in Miami, the Jade Ocean in Sunny Isles and the Trump
Hollywood in Hollywood, Florida, are all-cash deals to buyers
from outside the U.S., he said.  Make a Profit  While many Latin Americans invest in Florida as a haven
from social and economic uncertainty, Brazilians come to enjoy
themselves and, perhaps, make a profit, said Defortuna, a native
of  Argentina .  “When I talk to Brazilian people, they are buying for the
right reasons,” he said in a phone interview. “It’s not only
because they have money now, but because they think they’re
going to continue to make money next year and the year after.”  Fortune International is marketing about 1,000 condos and
will add 350 more by September, Defortuna said. He is working
with brokers in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s largest city, and Brasilia,
the capital. To make those clients feel more at home, Defortuna
offers a line of condos with furnishings from  Artefacto , a Sao
Paulo-based furniture maker with two Florida stores.  “Everybody who makes a little money buys in Florida,”
Paulo Bacchi, co-owner of Artefacto, said in a telephone
interview from Miami. “Some came to buy a vacation home. Some
are buying 10 units for an investment. They’re buying because
the only way prices can go is up. They’re betting on Florida.”  Close to Shopping  In addition to the beach proximity, Brazilians want condos
near the shopping malls of  Aventura  and Bal Harbour, where they
buy watches, designer clothing and perfumes at prices that are a
relative bargain, Bacchi said. They also feel more free to
flaunt their wealth in Florida because it has a lower crime rate
than most Brazilian cities, he said.  “They come here and enjoy their wealth, enjoy life without
the issue of being robbed,” Bacchi said. “The basic worry in
Miami is, don’t forget to use your sunscreen.”  Brazilians overtook Canadians as the foreign group spending
the most tourist dollars in Miami last year, according to the
Greater Miami Convention & Visitors Bureau. They spent an
estimated $1.14 billion in the Miami-Dade area on hotels,
restaurants, entertainment and shopping, compared with $840.9
million by Canadians, according to the bureau. That equates to
$2,053 per Brazilian visitor, compared with $1,432 per Canadian.  Auto-Racing Sideline  Cristiano Piquet , 33, started selling homes in Miami in
2005 as a sideline to an auto-racing career. He now works with
50 brokers, catering mostly to buyers from his native Brazil. He
likes to take clients in his four-seat Cessna seaplane, offering
bird’s-eye views of Miami’s high-rise condos and beaches while
making his sales pitch.  “Brazilians are buying prime real estate, especially on
the water,” Piquet, who races Porsche GT3 series cars, said in
a telephone interview. “They pay $1 million for vacation homes,
all cash.”  One of Piquet’s clients is Azevedo, who said he plans to
stay at his $1 million unit at the Trump International Beach
Resort in Sunny Isles, 20 miles (32 kilometers) north of Miami,
about four times a year, and rent out the two condos in Miami,
at the Vizcayne and Icon Brickell towers. Miami, an eight-hour
flight north of the equator from Sao Paulo, offers warm weather
during Brazil’s winter and an escape from its sweltering summers
in Florida’s cooler months, he said.  “There’s the weather and the beach,” Azevedo said. “It’s
one of the closest places you can fly from Sao Paulo outside of
 South America .”  More Direct Flights  Direct flights between Brazil and Miami International
Airport have increased to 114 a week from 96 in 2009, said Greg
Chin, spokesman for the Miami-Dade Aviation Department.  AMR
Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines flies from Miami to Rio,  Sao Paolo ,
Recife, Brasilia and  Belo Horizonte , Brazil.  Tam SA (TAM) , a Brazilian
airline, links Miami with Rio, Sao Paulo, Brasilia, Belo
Horizonte and Manaus.  Azevedo, whose company develops affordable housing in
Brazil, bought his Florida condos with 50 percent cash down
payments and financed the balance with 4.75 percent interest
rate mortgages. Similar condos are selling today for 10 percent
to 15 percent more than he paid in December, Azevedo said. He’s
not worried about losing money.  “If you buy similar units in Brazil, you’d pay double the
price and double the  interest rates ,” he said. “So that’s why
it’s such a good deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  