-- 
Brazil Consumer Prices Rose Through mid-June at Slowest Pace Since August

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-06-21T13:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/brazil-mid-june-consumer-prices-rise-0-23-from-previous-month.html
Brazilian consumer prices rose at
their slowest pace this month since August, helped by a decline
in gas prices, as growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy
showed more signs of cooling.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.23
percent in the month through mid-June, down from 0.70 percent in
last month’s reading, the  national statistics agency  said today
on its website. The increase was more than the 0.17 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 37 analysts.  A deceleration in price increases in recent months has been
insufficient to convince analysts that the central bank will be
able to meet its inflation target next year. Policy makers
signaled they are ready to raise the benchmark interest rate for
a fifth consecutive meeting next month as they try to contain
inflation that has remained above the 6.5 percent upper limit of
the target range since April.  “Inflation decelerated because of specific issues -- food
and fuels. Other items show inflation pressures are still
spread,” said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo . “The central bank must
remain vigilant and needs to continue to raise rates.”  The yields on interest rate futures due in January 2013,
the most-traded in Sao Paulo, rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 12.53 percent at 8:53 a.m. New York time.
The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.5936 per  U.S. dollar .  Benchmark Rate  Serrano expects policy makers to raise the benchmark
interest rate to 12.5 percent in July, before pausing in August.  Price increases slowed this month as a decline in gas
prices lowered transportation costs by 0.73 percent. Food price
increases eased to 0.11 percent, compared with 0.54 percent in
the mid-May reading.  Central bankers, in deciding to raise the Selic rate to
12.25 percent last month, said they will increase the benchmark
rate for a “sufficiently long” period even as the country’s
inflation outlook shows signs of improving. Policy makers
abandoned in March the goal of hitting their 4.5 percent target
this year, saying the costs of bringing inflation back to that
level this year were “too high.”  Economists covering  Brazil  raised their 2012 inflation
forecast for a second straight week and now expect prices to
increase 5.18 percent next year, according to the median
forecast in a June 17  central bank survey  of about 100
economists published yesterday. Consumer prices will increase
6.18 percent this year, the same survey shows.  ‘Still Skeptical’  “Market players are still skeptical and expect inflation
to quicken again in the fourth quarter and first quarter of
2012,” Serrano said.  Annual inflation, as measured by the IPCA-15 index,
quickened to 6.55 percent, from 6.51 percent in mid-May, the
statistics agency said today. It was the highest reading since
July 2005.  Brazil’s prices as measured by the IGP-M index fell 0.21
percent in the May 21 to June 10 period, according to a report
today by the Getulio Vargas Foundation. The index, which is 60
percent weighted in wholesale prices, had its first drop for the
period since December 2009.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher  interest rates , measures to curb credit expansion
and spending cuts to slow inflation and contain domestic demand.
The economy will expand 4 percent this year, down from 7.5
percent in 2010, according to estimates by the central bank.  A drop in commodity prices, prompted by slower global
growth, is helping contain inflation in Latin America.
Bloomberg’s commodity index, which calculates the mean of
indexes including energy, grains, food, precious metals and
livestock, has declined 8 percent from the beginning of May.  Chilean policy makers slowed the pace of interest-rate
increases this month as growth in  South America ’s fifth-biggest
economy eased and inflation expectations declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  