-- 
British Team to Play in Olympic Soccer, BOA Says; Scots, Welsh Opposed

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-06-21T16:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/british-team-to-play-in-olympic-soccer-boa-says-scots-welsh-opposed.html
The  British Olympic Association  said
it reached agreement with  England ’s Football Association for a
combined Great Britain team to take part in the 2012  London 
Games.  Even so, Scottish and Welsh soccer bodies say they remain
opposed to the move, which they fear will prejudice their
individual identities as playing nations.  Players from England, Scotland, Wales and  Northern Ireland 
will be eligible to play for Team Great Britain in men’s and
women’s tournaments, the BOA said in a  statement  today.  The  F.A.  is the sport’s designated national governing body
within the National Olympic Committee and consulted with the
associations from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland in
reaching the accord, the BOA said.  Scotland and  Wales  say they still reject the concept of a
combined team. The Scottish F.A. said today its position is
unchanged and it’s opposed to Team GB. The Football Association
of Wales also said no agreement had been reached.  “The FAW cannot support nor formally endorse the approach
that has been proposed by the Football Association. This has
been made clear in communications with the F.A.,” Chief
Executive Jonathan Ford said by e-mail.  He said the Welsh body is “committed to supporting the
Home Nations playing all representative football under their
respective flags as independent members of FIFA and UEFA,” the
world and European governing bodies.  “This position is supported by the Welsh fans and I am
confident, by the majority of all football fans in our
respective countries,” he said.  ‘Understanding’  The F.A. declined to comment beyond what was stated by the
BOA.  “We are pleased that the team will be selected from
players across the home nations and I’d like to thank our
counterparts at the Welsh, Irish and Scottish F.A.s for their
understanding on what is a difficult issue,” F.A. General
Secretary Alex Horne was cited as saying in the BOA release.  The men’s team will feature 15 players under the age of 23
and three other “open age” players, while the 18-player
women’s squad will have no age restriction.  Great Britain  last
played in the men’s tournament in 1960 in Rome and won the gold
medal in Paris in 1900, London in 1908 and Stockholm in 1912.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 