-- 
Obama Nominee Bryson Sides With Republicans on Taxes, Rules

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-21T21:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/bryson-says-u-s-needs-businesses-in-a-less-taxed-position-.html
John Bryson, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for Commerce secretary, sided with Republicans
in Congress, saying companies need lower taxes and that a labor
complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA)  was “not sound.”  Bryson, facing questions from lawmakers who said Obama has
produced costly regulations and failed to spur job growth, said
today he would push as Commerce secretary to curb rules
burdening companies, cut taxes and spur trade.  “I‘m committed to helping simplify regulations that are
difficult to understand, eliminate regulations that are
ineffective and speed up regulatory decisions so American
businesses can have the certainty they need,’’ Bryson testified
to the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.  Bryson, 67, is a founder of the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , an environmental group, and former chief executive
officer of  Edison International (EIX) , the owner of California’s
largest utility. Senators read a letter of support for Bryson
from the Business Roundtable, which represents CEOs of companies
such as Boeing. While Republicans questioned Obama’s policies,
none said they would oppose Bryson’s nomination.  ‘‘My question is whether you will have the courage to stand
up against the most anti-business administration” in recent
history, Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, said
before Bryson testified.  Boeing’s Board  Bryson served on the board of Boeing along with William Daley, who is now Obama’s chief of staff. Bryson defended today
the decision by the Chicago-based company to add a nonunion
assembly line in  South Carolina .  Lafe Solomon, the National Labor Relations Board’s acting
general counsel, filed a complaint on April 20 saying Boeing
built the plant for its new 787 Dreamliner in retaliation for
work stoppages by unions at its Seattle-area production hub.
Boeing, the world’s largest aerospace company, has denied such
motives.  “The best legal analysis I saw says this legal
initiative” by the NLRB “is not sound,” Bryson said, when
questioned by senators today.  Bryson joined Edison International in 1984 and was named
CEO in October 1990. He retired in 2008.  Since September, Bryson has been chairman of BrightSource
Energy Inc., an Oakland, California-based developer of solar
 power plants . He has served on the board of Boeing since 1995
and on that of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest media
company, since 2000, according to the companies’ websites.  ‘Tremendous Drive’  Bryson has “tremendous drive and tremendous executive
experience, and so looking at it from a rational point of view
you are a gift to this country,” Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a
West Virginia Democrat, told Bryson. “You will be a needed
voice in an administration that needs it more than it
realizes.”  Rockefeller questioned Bryson’s support in the past for a
measure to cap carbon emissions, and asked if he would “fight
against coal.”  Bryson said he believed in "diverse sources of fuel,
including in particular domestic sources of fuel,’’ citing a
coal project his company had worked on in  West Virginia . “The
imperative now is enhancing our businesses in the U.S., and
creating jobs. I will be focused on jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  