-- 
Budget Cuts, Reforms to Ease Italy’s Cost of Debt, BOI Says

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-06-21T12:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/budget-cuts-reforms-to-ease-italy-s-cost-of-debt-boi-says-1-.html
A “credible” plan of reforms and
deficit cuts may help  Italy  reduce the cost of debt servicing,
central bank Director General Fabrizio Saccomanni said.  “A credible package of budget corrections and reforms
would have an immediate positive impact on financial markets,”
Bank of Italy’s Saccomanni said in a speech in Rome today. That
would reduce “the cost of public-debt servicing and the cost of
capital for private investors which are connected.”  Moody’s Investors Service put Italy’s credit rating under
review last week for a possible downgrade because of economic
challenges, risks associated with austerity measures and the
potential for higher borrowing costs.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered
the nation’s rating outlook to negative from stable in May,
citing slowing growth and “diminished” prospects for debt
reduction. The economy grew 0.1 percent in the first quarter.  Late yesterday, Moody’s placed the ratings of Italian
government-related issuers, including  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Enel SpA (ENEL) , on
review for a possible downgrade.  “The decline of premium risks on Italian issuers would
also benefit banks which could finance themselves at lower rates
and on longer terms,” Saccomanni said. “That would strengthen
their ability to support the investments of companies and new
jobs’ creation.”  Silvio Berlusconi’s government may pass deficit-cutting
measures of about 3 billion euros ($4.3) this month to meet its
goal of reducing the budget shortfall to 4 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011. Italy had public debt of about 1.8
trillion euros at the end of 2010 and a debt-to-GDP ratio of
about 119 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  