-- 
California Lawmakers Lose Their Pay for Faulty Budget, Controller Rules

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-06-21T21:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/california-lawmakers-lose-their-pay-for-faulty-budget-controller-rules.html
California  lawmakers must forfeit
their pay for failing to send a balanced budget to Governor
 Jerry Brown , the controller said.  The $89.8 billion spending plan that the Democrat-run
Legislature passed last week was short $1.85 billion of revenue
needed to balance, primarily in terms of school funding,
Controller John Chiang said today in a  statement .  “Careful review of the recently passed budget found
components that were miscalculated, miscounted or unfinished,”
Chiang said. “The numbers simply did not add up, and the
Legislature will forfeit their pay until a balanced budget is
sent to the governor.”  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, and lawmakers are at an
impasse over how to bridge a $10 billion deficit. Without a
budget, the biggest issuer of municipal debt in the U.S. is
unable to borrow on  Wall Street  to pay bills when the fiscal
year starts July 1.  Chiang, a Democrat, said lawmakers forfeited their rights
to salary and expenses for every day after the June 15 deadline,
under a penalty set by voters in November through Proposition
25.  Brown vetoed the budget June 16, saying it used legally
doubtful maneuvers. The Democrat-designed measure was drawn up
after Brown couldn’t get Republican backing to extend more than
$9 billion of expiring taxes and fees he wants to make up the
shortfall.  Brown Reaction  “The controller has made his determination,” Brown said
in a statement after Chiang’s announcement. “We should all work
together to pass a solid budget.”  The $95,291 annual base salary for California lawmakers is
the highest in the nation, according to data compiled by the
 National Conference of State Legislatures . In addition, they
receive about $142 for expenses each day in session. The salary
for legislative leaders is as much as $109,584 a year.  Chiang, 48, is “going to get a lot of support from the
general public,” said Joel Fox, a Republican political
consultant in Los Angeles. “These are the same people who
passed Prop. 25. The focus was legislators not getting paid if
they don’t do their job and it worked.”  Jon Coupal, president of the  Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association , named for the author of California’s tax-limiting
Proposition 13, said he expects Chiang’s decision to spur quick
passage of a balanced budget.  ‘Significant Motivator’  “This will be a significant motivator,” he said by
telephone. “There really was no incentive for them not to drag
this out in previous years.”  Brown took office in January on a pledge to fix the fiscal
malfunctions that have left California with an A-  credit rating 
from  Standard & Poor’s , its lowest for any state. He began the
year facing a $26 billion deficit through June 2012. Since then,
spending cuts passed in March and better-than-projected revenue
have narrowed the gap to $10 billion.  “We believe California’s near-term credit quality is
affected by its budget situation more than most states because
of the implications for the state’s cash position,” S&P credit
analyst Gabriel Petek, based in  San Francisco , said today in a
report. “If a budget is not adopted in time for the state to
issue its revenue anticipation notes before its cash runs low,
the state’s basic operating liquidity can become inadequate.”  Temporary Taxes  Brown wants lawmakers to temporarily retain a 1 percentage-
point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent, and a 0.5
percentage-point increase in vehicle registration fees to 1.15
percent of value. His plan also calls for extending a reduction
of the annual  child tax credit  to $99 from $309. All were put in
place temporarily in 2009 and are set to expire by July 1.  The governor said he would later ask voters to decide in a
statewide election, possibly as early as September, to keep the
measures for five years.  Brown said after he vetoed the budget that he’d “move
heaven and earth” to get four Republican votes needed for his
plan. So far, he hasn’t met with top Republicans, according to
Jann Taber, a spokeswoman for Senate leader Bob Dutton of Rancho
Cucamonga, and Sabrina Lockhart, a spokeswoman for Assembly
leader  Connie Conway  of Tulare.  “He has continued to speak with legislators on both sides
of the aisle,”  Gil Duran , a Brown spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Republican Stance  Republicans have indicated they’d be willing to allow a
referendum on the taxes after initially opposing a vote,
following polls that showed voters would reject the extensions.  The Legislature’s minority party wants lawmakers to pass a
balanced budget now, without prolonging the revenue measures,
and give voters the chance to reinstate the tax increases later.  “I continue to maintain that the Legislature met our
constitutional duties in passing the budget last week,” said
Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Democrat from  Los Angeles . “We
carried out our responsibility to pass a budget reflecting all
the options available to close the deficit without new revenues
and without cuts so deep as to cost the state jobs and
jeopardize our economic recovery.”  New York lawmakers have their pay suspended when budgets
are overdue, said Meagan Dorsch, a spokeswoman based in Denver
for the  Legislature Conference . A law in  Guam  cuts off paychecks
to the governor, lieutenant governor and senators of the
territory when budgets are tardy, she said.  A Washington state law holds that lawmakers who fail to
adopt a budget by the July 1 deadline commit misdemeanors,
although none have been charged, Dorsch said. A 1979 opinion by
the state’s attorney general concluded that while the
Legislature as a whole may be guilty of a misdemeanor,
individual lawmakers weren’t subject to prosecution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  