-- 
CapitaLand to Double China Portfolio Over Five Years on Economic Expansion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-21T09:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/capitaland-to-double-china-portfolio-over-five-years-on-economic-expansion.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , which has S$10.4
billion ($8.1 billion) of assets in China, said it’s aiming to
double its portfolio in the country in the next five years as it
expects the economy to expand over the next decade.  CapitaLand,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest developer, expects new
investments in all sectors in the country, including apartments,
shopping malls, serviced residences and the “Raffles City”
brand of office and retail developments, Chief Opera1ting
Officer Lim Ming Yan in an interview in Singapore yesterday.  “China’s market is very big and it’s growing very fast,”
said Lim, who was chief executive officer of CapitaLand’s
operations in China from 2000 to 2009. “We will continue to
invest significantly in real estate sectors globally, and China
will be a major one.”  China overtook  Singapore  as CapitaLand’s biggest market by
assets in the first quarter, making up 37 percent of its
holdings, followed by 35 percent in the city-state. The
Singapore-based company expects to expand in its key markets
with the capacity to invest a further S$2 billion this year,
based on the S$6 billion spent on new investments globally in
2010, Lim said.  CapitaLand shares climbed 3.3 percent to S$2.85 at the 5:05
p.m. close in Singapore, the third-best performer on the city’s
benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  and its biggest one-day gain in
more than three months.  Malls, Serviced Apartments  Ascott Holdings Ltd., the company’s serviced residence
operator, plans to almost double its portfolio in China to
12,000 from 6,600 apartment units by 2015, while  CapitaMalls
Asia Ltd. (CMA) , its shopping mall unit, aims to double its holdings
to 100 malls from 53 within three to five years, it said.
China’s retail sales rose 16.9 percent in May and foreign direct
investment surged 13.4 percent to $9.2 billion, according to
government data.  The expansion into China comes as the country is stepping
up property curbs amid concerns prices are becoming unaffordable.
The central bank on June 14 ordered banks to hold more money as
reserves for the sixth time in 2011 as it fights to contain
inflation.  Chinese developers’ outlook was cut to “negative” from
“stable” by  Standard & Poor’s  on June 15 on concern tighter
credit and further curbs may lead to rating downgrades in the
next year. Property sales may start to slow as the policy
“starts to bite,” leading to price cuts that may drive  home
prices  10 percent lower in the next year, S&P said.  Value Homes  CapitaLand’s residential projects in China accounted for 12
percent of its global portfolio, and it has formed a separate
unit to build so-called value homes in the country to tap on
demand for lower-priced apartments after focusing on the mid to
high-end housing market, Lim said.  China last month said it will maintain curbs after
intensifying measures this year with higher minimum down
payments for second-homes and residential property taxes in
Shanghai and Chongqing.  “The policy is effective,” said Lim, who expects home
prices to “moderate” by as much as 5 percent in the second
half in some Chinese cities. “Price increases have moderated
significantly. Volume has dropped.”  China ’s new home prices in May rose in 67 out of 70 cities
that the government monitors, while those for existing
apartments started to cool with 23 cities posting a month-on-
month decline, compared with 16 in April, according to the
statistics bureau’s report on June 18.  CapitaLand obtained a site in the central Chinese city of
Wuhan and plans to start building its value homes as early as
the end of this year, Lim said. It’s also seeking opportunities
for similar projects in the southern business hub of Guangzhou,
Lim said, declining to be specific on how much these low-cost
homes will account for the company’s portfolio.  “We just don’t want to have big swimming pools and other
additional facilities for those homes so we can sell at low
price and address to that lower-end market,” Lim said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  