-- 
Century of Hunger Is Warning From France as Farm Ministers From G-20 Meet

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-06-22T18:23:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/century-of-hunger-is-warning-from-france-as-farm-ministers-from-g-20-meet.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said the world must take action to avoid another food crisis, as
agriculture ministers meet in Paris.  A lack of transparency in global agricultural markets is
adding to price swings and threatens future  food production ,
Sarkozy said in a speech to Group of 20 farm ministers. World
leaders risk making this “the century of  hunger ” unless they
can agree on new rules on  food supply , French Agriculture
Minister Bruno Le Maire said before the meeting.  France, which holds the G-20 presidency, wants a central
database on crops, limits on export bans, international market
regulation, emergency stockpiles and a plan to raise global
output.  “We have to act, and act together,” Sarkozy said. “The
world is watching you.”  Wheat as much as doubled in the past year as Russia and
 Ukraine  curbed exports after drought decimated crops, adding to
record global food prices the  World Bank  says drove 44 million
more people into poverty since June. Nations will spend $1.29
trillion on food imports this year, the most ever and 21 percent
more than in 2010, the United Nations estimates.  France’s position on the main proposals being put to the G-
20 ministers is that either all are agreed on or there is no
accord, Le Maire said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
on June 20.  All or Nothing  “We don’t want to dilute the  action plan ,” Le Maire said.
“Either the G-20 members are able to find consensus on
something which would help us to fight against excessive
volatility and to fight against hunger in the world,” or “it
would be a failure,” he said.  The choice is “international solidarity” or “egotism”
if nations want to avert this becoming the “the century of
hunger,” he told a meeting of 120 farmers groups in Paris last
week.  France  is the European Union’s biggest farm producer.  The ministers will most likely balk at the proposal on
trade restrictions, said Robert Carlson, international relations
director at the Washington-based National Farmers Union.
“That’s going to be a tough one,” Carlson said in an
interview in Brussels. “Probably the last thing you get
agreement on is the agreement to let somebody else control the
borders of your country.”  The meeting is “a good chance to be able to focus on what
needs to be done,”  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at
Commodity Broking Services Pty. in Sydney, told Linzie Janis on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Look.”  Food Riots  The last time prices surged, from 2007 to 2009, more than
60 food riots occurred worldwide, according to the U.S. State
Department.  The G-20 countries account for 65 percent of all farmland
and 77 percent of global grain output, according to a  statement 
on the website of the G-20 presidency.  “No one would understand that 20 agricultural ministers
would gather and meet in Paris, without specific and concrete
decisions on this question of agriculture, and this question of
hunger in the world,” Le Maire said.  Corn futures advanced 82 percent in the past 12 months in
Chicago trading, a global benchmark, rice gained 39 percent and
sugar jumped 65 percent. There will be shortages in corn, wheat,
soybeans, coffee and cocoa this year or next, according to
Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank Groep. Prices also rose
after droughts and floods from  Australia  to  Canada  ruined crops
last year. European farmers are now contending with their driest
growing season in more than three decades.  India ’s Measures  India, which limits some food exports to manage prices and
supply, may be reluctant to coordinate those measures with other
countries, said Dinesh Mishra, the head of the  National
Cooperative Union of India , a New Delhi-based organization that
includes farm groups and agricultural-development banks.  “We depend on the monsoon and other weather conditions for
good crop production,” Dinesh said in an interview in Brussels.
“We need to be careful in making our policies, ensuring that
our domestic requirements are met.”  India was among nations which banned rice exports in 2008
as prices for the staple food for half the world reached an all-
time high.  Egypt  also cut sales,  Vietnam  barred speculators from
its domestic market and  China  imposed export taxes.  The proposal to limit export curbs and start a database, to
be managed by the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization , will
be “especially sensitive,” Le Maire said last week.  Hands Tied  “Countries want the guarantee that they can feed their
population,” he said. “You’re asking countries to tie their
hands, so I understand it’s difficult.”  World food output will have to rise 70 percent by 2050 as
the global population climbs to 9.2 billion from an estimated
6.9 billion in 2010, the UN estimates.  Biofuels, some of which are derived from crops including
corn, are not part of the main proposals to the ministers’
meeting. National policies are too far apart for agreement and
the subject “isn’t ripe,” Le Maire said.  Brazil  uses sugarcane
to produce ethanol, while the U.S. transforms corn into the
fuel. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack told reporters on
June 20 that he would defend the use of biofuels.  France is likely to win backing for the proposed database
on food stocks and production, according to the National Farmers
Union’s Carlson and Pekka Pesonen, the secretary general of
Brussels-based Copa-Cogeca, a European farmers group.  Political Issue  “It’s more of a practical issue rather than a political
issue,” Pesonen said. Getting the information may be “the
biggest challenge” because some countries “don’t have this
information available for themselves,” he said.  Growth in agricultural output will slow to 1.7 percent a
year through 2020, compared with 2.6 percent in the previous
decade, the FAO and Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report this month.  France will only sign an agreement that includes regulation
of financial markets for agricultural commodities, Le Maire
said. The details will be discussed by G-20 finance ministers
later this year, he said.  The world needs “a new agricultural model” because “this
price volatility has become insupportable,” Sarkozy told farm
groups in Paris on June 16.  “It’s a political moment of the kind that doesn’t happen
very often, perhaps once in a lifetime,” David Nabarro, the
UN’s special representative on food security and nutrition, told
a conference in Paris on June 16. “It can transform or it can
fail, and much of this depends on how governments act over the
next few weeks and months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Francine  Lacqua in  London  at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 