-- 
Centro Wins Dismissal of Suit to Block Sale to Blackstone

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-06-21T05:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/centro-wins-dismissal-of-suit-to-block-sale-to-blackstone-1-.html
Centro Properties Group (CNP)  won the
dismissal of a shareholder lawsuit which sought to block a $9.4
billion sale of its U.S. malls to a unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
allowing the transaction to be completed by June 30.  Smartec Capital Pty, which owns less than 0.5 percent of
Centro’s outstanding shares, sued in Sydney federal court
claiming the Melbourne-based company needed shareholder approval
for the transaction to proceed. Federal Court Judge Margaret
Stone threw out the lawsuit today without a hearing.  The plaintiff’s lack of “prospects for success are such
that the proceedings should be summarily dismissed,” Stone said
in court.  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VI LP, a unit of the
world’s biggest private-equity firm, agreed to buy Centro’s 588
U.S. malls in March. Centro is selling assets to pay debt that
totaled A$16 billion ($17 billion) as of Dec. 31, according to
its  financial statements . The shopping-mall manager said on
March 1 it also agreed to swap part of its debt for 108
Australian properties and will be left with about A$100 million
to distribute to shareholders when the deals are concluded.  Smartec claimed Centro violated Australian rules for listed
companies by not seeking shareholder approval for the U.S. sale.
The investor sought to overturn a ruling by the Australian
Securities Exchange, which found that approval wasn’t needed
because Centro’s U.S. assets didn’t make up its main business.  Centro fell 8.7 percent to 4.2 Australian cents as of 1:21
p.m. on the Australian Stock Exchange.  Smartec sued the wrong party, Centro’s lawyer Ian Jackman
told the judge today.  “We don’t have anything to do with the transfer of the
properties,” Jackman said. The U.S. assets are owned by
subsidiaries and companies unrelated to Centro, he said.  He urged the judge to throw out the lawsuit, calling it
“utterly futile” and “just silly.” Allowing the process to
go forward would create uncertainty for the buyers and sellers,
Jackman said.  The case is: Smartec Capital Pty Ltd. v. Centro Properties
Ltd. NSD913/2011. Federal Court of  Australia  (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  