-- 
Chelsea Is On Brink of Hiring Villas-Boas, Telegraph Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-06-21T07:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/chelsea-is-on-brink-of-hiring-villas-boas-telegraph-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Villas-Boas on Brink  Chelsea is on the brink of hiring Andre Villas-Boas, 33, as
manager after a delegation from the London club traveled to
Porto to complete a compensation agreement with the Portuguese
champion, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  Porto will not negotiate the release of Villas-Boas, who
worked at Chelsea under  Jose Mourinho  between 2004 and 2007,
until after the 15 million euros ($21.5 million) required to buy
him out of his contract has been paid, the newspaper added.  Falcao to Follow?  After paying what would be record compensation to hire a
soccer manager, Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  may spend another
26.5 million pounds to bring Porto striker Radamel Falcao to
Stamford Bridge, the Sun  reported .  The Colombian, who joined Porto in 2009, has scored 41
goals in 50 appearances, including a record 17 goals in the
Europa League last season to help Porto win European soccer’s
second-tier UEFA Cup, the Sun said.  Weighing Move  Villas-Boas declined to give Abramovich a firm commitment
over the offer of a three-year contract worth 6.2 million pounds
per annum because he’s weighing the potential damage to his
reputation should he fail to deliver the success that the
Russian owner demands, the Daily Mirror  reported .  Capello Courted  England manager  Fabio Capello  turned down an approach from
 Inter Milan  to take over as coach of the Italian Serie A club,
the Sun  reported , citing Capello’s son, Pierfilippo, who acts as
his lawyer and agent.  Capello, whose contract with the Football Association
expires after next year’s European Championships, is said to
have been offered 20 million pounds tax free over three years by
Inter, the Sun added.  Four-Way Fight  Tottenham Hotspur is locked in a four-way fight to sign
Espanyol striker Pablo Osvaldo, who’s rated at 17 million
pounds, the Mirror  reported .  Atletico  Madrid , Inter Milan and Juventus are also
interested in the 25-year-old Argentine, who scored 13 goals
last season, the newspaper said.  Work Permit Worry  Liverpool remains keen on signing Lyon defender Dejan
Lovren even though the Premier League club is concerned it will
struggle to gain a work permit for the Croat, who has played
eight times for his country, the Mail  reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  