-- 
Cheung Kong’s Chiu Says He’s ‘Not That Bullish’ on Asia’s Housing Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-21T09:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/cheung-kong-s-chiu-says-he-s-not-that-bullish-on-asia-s-housing-market.html
Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd.,  Hong
Kong  billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s property company, is “not that
bullish” on Asia’s housing market as governments introduce more
curbs to contain prices, Executive Director Justin Chiu said.  Hong Kong’s second-biggest developer also expects  home
prices  in the city to remain little changed after the government
on June 10 imposed more measures including bigger down payments,
making it hard to repeat the 20 percent to 30 percent gains in
previous years, he said.  “I’m not that bullish on the Asian residential  property
market  as I was last year,” Chiu told reporters in Singapore
today. “It’s not going to collapse. You have to be cautious as
some governments have already taken actions to cool down the
market.”  Asia ’s recovery from the credit crisis turned into a boom
for many of the region’s property markets as surging economic
growth and low interest rates drove housing prices higher,
prompting governments from Hong Kong,  China  to Singapore to
intensify curbs that ranged from taxes on home sales to higher
down payments on mortgages.  “Home prices are already quite high and housing is a
public concern in Asia,” Chiu said. “Interest rates are likely
to go up. If I were to invest in Asian properties, I would go
into office and retail markets. It’s not that political.”  Price Decline  Hong Kong property prices may fall as much as 15 percent by
the end of the year, said  Walter Kwok , former chairman of  Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer by
market value in an interview on June 18. Savills Plc has said
the city is the world’s most expensive place to buy an apartment  Government officials including Chief Executive Donald Tsang
have warned of an asset bubble in the Chinese city, where home
prices have surged more than 70 percent since the beginning of
2009. In the most recent measures to curb prices on June 10, the
government raised up-front payments for properties costing more
than HK$6 million ($770,000) and required borrowers whose income
is primarily from outside Hong Kong to deposit an extra 10
percent when they buy properties unless they can demonstrate a
“close connection” to the city.  Won’t Repeat Gains  “The Hong Kong market is not going to fall, but we’re not
likely to see the 20 to 30 percent increases in the past
years,” Chiu said. “We will not see another 10 percent we’ve
seen in Hong Kong in the second half of the year,” he said,
referring to the gains so far this year.  Hong Kong’s home prices may drop 10 percent to 20 percent
in 2012 and a further 10 percent in 2013 on rising  interest
rates ,  Andrew Lawrence , a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Barclays
Capital , said in a June 7 Bloomberg Television interview.  Cheung Kong’s shares rose 0.2 percent to HK$109.10 at the
close in Hong Kong, while the Hang Seng Property Index gained 1
percent. The Bloomberg Asia Pacific Real Estate Index climbed
1.3 percent.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said on May 1 that the nation is
“determined” to bring down housing prices in some cities to a
“reasonable” level. The government raised the minimum down
payment for second-home purchases this year and introduced
residential taxes in Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing and
Guangzhou also imposed restrictions on housing purchases.  “The government has taken a tough stance,” said Chiu,
referring to the Chinese measures. “We have already seen
volumes in major cities come down. The government measures are
working. It’s actually been quite effective this time by pulling
out liquidity from the market.”  In  Singapore , where demand for private homes and mortgages
has boosted earnings for companies including lender DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. and real-estate developer City Developments Ltd.,
measures to curb property speculation have resulted in slower
price gains for six consecutive quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  