-- 
China Reverse-Merger Battle Pits Morgan Stanley Against Hedge Fund Shorts

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-21T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/china-reverse-merger-pits-morgan-stanley-against-hedge-funds.html
On the morning of May 18, Kevin Barnes published a report accusing executives of Chinese
fertilizer maker  Yongye International Inc. (YONG)  of using acquisitions
to loot cash from the company and manipulate earnings.  Barnes, an analyst at Cheyenne, Wyoming-based hedge fund
Absaroka Capital Management LLC, set an estimated share value of
$1 for Yongye. He said Absaroka had already bet an amount he
wouldn’t reveal on a decline in the stock, which closed the day
before at $4.58. The shares fell 23 percent in two days.  Less than two weeks later, Morgan Stanley’s Asian private-
equity unit said it would buy $50 million of preferred stock in
Yongye, pushing its shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market up 42
percent in a single session. The fund is one of at least six
that are wagering the short sellers are wrong by investing in
U.S.-listed Chinese companies that have had about $6.78 billion
of market value erased this year following allegations of
financial fraud by short sellers such as Barnes.  “Half the people, the longs, think the whole market is
suffering because of the sins of the few, and therefore it’s a
buying opportunity,” said Phil Groves, president of Hong Kong-
based DAC Financial Management  China  Ltd., which does due
diligence in China for investors. “The other half, the shorts,
thinks there are a bunch of companies that are still trading but
really worthless. Both have an opportunity to make money,
because not every Chinese company listed in the U.S. is bad.”  Short investors bet against a stock by selling borrowed
shares with the hope of repurchasing them at a lower price. Long
investors buy shares betting the price will rise.  Private-Equity Buyouts  Since February at least six buyouts of U.S.-listed Chinese
companies have been announced, totaling $1.96 billion in value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Four of the
acquisitions involve private-equity funds, including TPG
Capital, Bain Capital LLC and Hong Kong-based Primavera Capital
Management Ltd., founded by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s former
Greater China chairman, Fred Hu.  Shares of the target companies --  CNinsure Inc. (CISG) ,  Funtalk
China Holdings Ltd. (FTLK) ,  China Fire & Security Group Inc. (CFSG)  and
 Chemspec International Ltd. (CPC)  -- have gained an average of 10
percent since the deals were announced, according to
calculations based on Bloomberg data.  Yongye, which produces nutrients sprayed on plants and
added to animal feed, is an “exceptional company that has built
significant brand recognition,” Homer Sun, managing director of
Morgan Stanley Private Equity  Asia , said in a May 31 press
release announcing the deal. The fund did “extensive due
diligence” on the Beijing-based company, the statement said.  Hohhot Factory  Morgan Stanley’s investment buys it preferred shares that
can be converted into common stock in the next five years,
giving it a stake of about a 10 percent depending on company
performance, according to filings. The deal has conditions: If
Yongye fails to meet specified targets, including at least 20
percent annual profit growth from 2011 to 2014,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
can get its money back with a premium.  Nick Footitt , a spokesman
for the bank in  Hong Kong , declined to comment.  Inside a two-story cement office building at a company
factory complex in Hohhot, a city of 2.7 million in China’s
northern province of  Inner Mongolia , Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Wu Zishen said in a June 10 interview that all
of Barnes’s allegations were false and had been concocted by him
to make a quick profit at the expense of shareholders.  Negotiations with Morgan Stanley had been going on for
months, and the bank provided “a thorough health check to prove
we are clean,” Wu said.  ‘Nervous and Helpless’  “At first we were so angry at the short sellers,” said
Wu, his eyes puffy and tired. “Then we calmed down and thought
those attacks were not personal, they were profit-driven, so we
should be rational in responding.”  Wu, who drives a Mercedes-Benz sport-utility vehicle and
doesn’t speak English, said he watches his company’s stock price
closely and has “not lived a single day in peace” since Yongye
was listed in 2008.  “Anytime the stock price fluctuates dramatically, I feel
nervous and helpless,” said Wu, who bought $3 million worth of
shares in the company last week, according to company filings.
“We feel hurt because we have put in effort. We have had more
than 700 investor meetings over the past 1,000 days.”  During a tour of the Hohhot factory at 2 p.m. on a weekday
afternoon, only a few workers were visible and workshop doors
were padlocked. The company, which reported sales of $214
million last year, has a second facility in Wuchuan County,
about an hour away by car, decorated inside with the faces of
smiling farmers. Yongye executives call it the “smiley-face
wall” and say the pictures are of satisfied customers.  SEC Investigation  The arrival of private equity into companies like Yongye
means short sellers no longer have it all their own way. They’ve
dominated the discussion since November, when  Rino International
Corp. (RINO) , a Dalian, China-based supplier of water-treatment
equipment that was targeted for criticism, said two years of its
financial statements aren’t reliable.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has revoked the
registrations of at least eight Chinese companies since
December, and more than 24 firms have disclosed auditor
resignations or accounting flaws to the agency since March, SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  wrote in an April 27 letter.  The SEC began an investigation last year into the use of
reverse takeovers, a common method used by Chinese companies
such as Yongye to list their shares in the U.S. without the
regulatory and investor scrutiny of an initial public offering.
On June 9, the regulator urged caution when buying stakes in
reverse-merger companies.  ‘Risk-Free Short’  The market tone made reverse-takeover companies a
“virtually risk-free short,” said John Bird, an Austin, Texas-
based private investor who holds more than $10 million worth of
short positions on 30 U.S.-listed Chinese companies, including
35,000 shares of Yongye as of June 8.  The 101 Chinese companies with a market valuation of less
than $1 billion listed in  New York  trade at a median of 3.9
times 12-month trailing earnings, well below the 10.2 times
similarly sized firms in Hong Kong fetch, Bloomberg data show.  “If the longs start seeing a buyout as a potential safety
net, it ends up making the short side less effective,” said
Bird. “I hate to see it, but I congratulate the people who are
able to put something together.”  Private-equity funds are targeting U.S.-listed Chinese
companies because they offer better potential value compared
with private enterprises in China, where owners demand high
prices partly because of the large number of buyers chasing each
opportunity, said Donald Yang, managing director at Abax Global
Capital Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Abax, Bain  Funds focused on China raised $12.8 billion between January
and May of this year, according to the Hong Kong-based Centre
for Asia Private Equity Research Ltd. That compares with $20.4
billion in all of 2010, and $11 billion in 2009.  Abax, which manages $900 million in private-equity and
hedge funds according to its website, is backing management-led
buyouts of  Harbin Electric Inc. (HRBN) , an electric-motor maker, and
 Fushi Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , a Beijing-based producer of copper-clad
wire. Abax counts Morgan Stanley among its investors.  The strategy of using a management buyout and relisting in
either Hong Kong or China will release the embedded value of a
company, Yang said.  “Even when you see value, you still have to think about
how you crystallize that value,” Yang said. “Just buying the
long stocks in the U.S. is no way to do it.”  Yang declined to discuss plans for Harbin Electric or Fushi
Copperweld.  Bain, which is buying all of China Fire & Security for
about $234 million, may relist the company after three years,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not
to be identified because the plan isn’t public. A spokesman for
Boston-based Bain declined to comment.  Fair Price  The high legal and advisory costs of going private,
including the need to show shareholders they are getting a fair
price, means that buyouts have been a rarity for U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, said Paul Strecker, a Hong Kong-based partner
at Shearman & Sterling LLP, which has served as a legal adviser
on nine deals announced in the past year.  In the past year, Only two of the take-private deals have 
closed: the $70 million management buyout of Beijing-based 
Sinoenergy Corp., which operates compressed natural gas filling 
stations in China, and a $14 million management buyout of 
Tongjitang Chinese Medicines Co., a pharmaceuticals firm in 
Shenzhen, China.  Paulson’s Losses  Bain and Morgan Stanley are moving into territory where big
investors have been burned. Paulson & Co., the New York hedge
fund run by John Paulson that oversees about $37 billion, and
C.V. Starr & Co., a firm run by former American International
Group Inc. Chairman Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, have lost on
respective investments in Toronto-listed Sino-Forest Corp. and
U.S.-listed  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)   Shares of both companies fell after short seller Muddy
Waters Research issued reports accusing the firms of fraud.
Paulson’s fund sold all 34.7 million of its shares in Sino-
Forest, a tree-plantation owner, it said in a June 20 regulatory
filing, potentially losing C$705 million ($720 million). C.V.
Starr’s loss may be more than $30 million.  “You have to be unequivocally convinced that the assets
are there, that the business is real and that management is
honest,” said Matthew Wiechert, research director of Glaucus
Research Group LLC, a U.S. short seller specializing in Chinese-
based companies listed on foreign exchanges. “There’s no
recourse if you’re fooled.”  Humic Acid  Absaroka’s Barnes, who wrote the report on Yongye and
traveled to Inner Mongolia this month to continue his research,
said he stands by his conclusions and that private-equity buyers
are capitalizing on his work.  “Private-equity investors that are putting new money to
work in U.S.-listed Chinese firms are benefiting from a
voluminous amount of due diligence work completed by short
sellers to date,” Barnes said in a telephone interview.  Barnes’s report raised questions about Yongye’s $35 million
agreement to acquire lignite coal exploration and production
rights from Wuchuan Shuntong Humic Acid Company Ltd. in March
2010. Lignite coal is the main raw material for Yongye’s humic
acid products, according to filings. As of March 31, Yongye had
not received government approvals, the company said in its most
recent quarterly filing. Yongye said it expected to obtain the
mineral rights by the end of the year.  Attacks on Yongye  The Absaroka report said Chinese filings by Wuchuan
Shuntong show an “insignificant” holding company with no
revenue and little capital. The transaction was “a hoax”
controlled by Yongye’s management and “apparently created to
loot $35 million of public investors’ cash out of the company,”
Barnes wrote.  Another purchase in 2010, of the customer list of a Yongye
distributor for $3 million in cash and 3.6 million in new
shares, was structured in a way that helped the company
manipulate earnings, the report said.  Barnes wasn’t the first to attack Yongye. On March 23, a
blogger named Ian Bezek challenged the quality of the company’s
earnings on Seeking Alpha, an investor website. The stock fell
10 percent that day. Yongye said in a statement that Bezek’s
allegations were based on “innuendo and loaded questions rather
than any factual basis.”  A May 9 note published by OLP Global LLC, a research firm
focusing on China, said Wuchuan Shuntong is a shell set up by
Yongye and that the fertilizer firm spent $67 million acquiring
assets from “sellers that do not exist.” Yongye’s shares fell
5 percent that day, only to rebound 5.9 percent the next day.  Rebutting Barnes  At the factory in Hohhot, CEO Wu and Sam Yu, the company’s
chief financial officer, rebutted Barnes’s allegations. Buying
the distribution list gave Yongye more control over channels
used to push out its products, Wu said. The purchase of the
humic acid supplier opened access to raw materials, said Yu.  “It doesn’t matter if it’s a small company or not, as long
as they have the approval and access from local government to
explore lignite coal,” Yu said.  Yongye is the third Chinese company to be targeted by
Barnes, who said he worked in the global natural resources
investment banking group at JPMorgan Chase & Co. from 2003 to
2009.  China Shen Zhou Mining & Resources Inc. (SHZ)  and  SkyPeople
Fruit Juice Inc. (SPU)  both saw shares slump after Absaroka published
negative reports. Shen Zhou shares have fallen 53 percent since
the March 8 report. SkyPeople’s shares fell 18 percent to $2.08
on June 1, the day of Absaroka’s report, and are now down 7.1
percent from the May 31 close.  ‘Good Faith’  Barnes hasn’t been as successful with his prediction about
Yongye. Shares closed yesterday at $5.19, up 13 percent since
the day before publication of the Absaroka report. Short selling
has fallen to 3 percent of outstanding shares as of June 17 from
a record 9.4 percent on April 4, according to Data Explorers, a
New York-based research firm. The average short interest for
stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is 2.7 percent.  Barnes couldn’t get access to Yongye’s facilities from his
base at the Holiday Inn in Hohhot earlier this month. The
company denied his request to join an investor visit on the
grounds that his interest “is not one anchored in good faith,”
it said in an e-mail sent to Barnes.  --Mohammed Hadi, Dune Lawrence, Eva Woo. With assistance from
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong and Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York.
Editors: Neil Western, Robert Friedman.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi in Hong Kong at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
Eva Woo in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  