-- 
Christie’s Employee Retirement-System Overhaul Passes New Jersey Senate

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-21T00:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/christie-s-employee-retirement-system-overhaul-passes-new-jersey-senate.html
The New Jersey Senate passed
Governor  Chris Christie ’s plan to scale back pension and health
benefits for government workers, as unions protested and a
majority of Democrats in the chamber opposed the measure.  Lawmakers voted 24-15 for the bill today, 12 days after
Christie, a first-term Republican, and Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat, announced a compromise. The Assembly Budget
Committee subsequently passed the measure 7-5 and the full lower
chamber is scheduled to consider it on June 23.  “This is not an attack on our public workforce,” Sweeney,
of West Deptford, said during more than two hours of floor
debate in Trenton. “What happens to those people if we don’t
save these pensions today? We have a responsibility to our
public employees.”  The proposal would raise the  retirement age  to 65 from 62
and freeze cost-of-living increases. Workers would be required
to contribute as much as 35 percent of the cost of health
insurance premiums based on income, up from 1.5 percent of
salaries currently. It would also require workers to pay more
into pension plans.  Sweeney, 52, Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, Senate
Minority Leader Tom Kean and Assembly Minority Leader  Alex DeCroce  all said on June 15 that they would support the
proposal. The legislation includes a provision sought by Oliver
to let unions seek lower health-insurance payments after four
years through contract negotiations.  Eight Democrats  Democrats control the Senate, 24-16, and the Assembly, 47-
33. All Republicans in the Senate and eight Democrats voted for
the bill. Senator Ron Rice, a Newark Democrat, didn’t vote.  “I am encouraged by the bipartisan Senate vote today and
the continued display of support for common-sense pension and
health-benefits reform,” Christie said in a statement. “This
is a watershed moment for  New Jersey , proving that the stakes
are too high and the consequences all too real to stand by and
do nothing.”  Christie has said the overhaul is needed to shrink a
$53.9 billion pension deficit that opened as the state skipped
contributions for most of the past decade, including a $3
billion payment last year. The government will add $759 million
to the plan once lawmakers pass the benefits overhaul, Treasurer
Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said last month.  Unions demonstrating at the Statehouse called for the
health-care changes to be made at the negotiating table. Labor
groups have staged several rallies against the measure,
condemning Democrats for agreeing to the measure.  Bargaining Power  Democrats including Senate Majority Leader Barbara Buono
and Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo  opposed the
proposal, saying it would gut collective bargaining.  “The day we vote to undermine collective bargaining is the
day we begin to erode our identity as a nation,” said Buono, of
Metuchen. “This has become more about busting the unions than
about solving these problems.”  During the protest, workers and union leaders said they
have been unfairly targeted to make up for rising health
insurance costs and the state’s failure to adequately fund the
pension system.  “I can’t afford to do this job if I’m making less money in
four years than I am right now,” said Yolanda Grbic, 37, who
has taught school in  Jersey City  for 10 years. “I’m already
living paycheck to paycheck. This is something we negotiated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in the N.J. Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  