-- 
Christie Approval Rating Is at Lowest in Year as Women Turn More Negative

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-06-21T17:10:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/christie-approval-rating-slips-to-lowest-in-year-as-women-turn-thumbs-down.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
approval rating slid to the lowest in a year as support waned
among women, a Quinnipiac University poll found.  Christie, 48, got approving marks from 44 percent of
registered voters surveyed, the poll released today showed. Just
36 percent of female voters liked the first-term governor’s job
performance, while 53 percent of men approved.  The gender gap widened from February, when 46 percent of
women and 58 percent of males approved. Since taking office in
January 2010, Christie has cut funding for schools and family
planning, sparred with union members including teachers, and
sought to scale back government-worker benefits he says the
state can’t afford.  “I don’t think he can overcome it,”  Maurice Carroll ,
director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said of
the gender gap. “Men tend to vote Republican and women tend to
vote Democratic, and Christie is an extreme case.”  The latest survey said 49 percent of voters dislike
Christie’s policies, matching those that like him as a person.
Women split 41 percent to 40 percent on liking him, compared
with men at 58 percent to 25 percent.  Crunch Time  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, pointed to a 7
percentage-point gain in the governor’s Quinnipiac approval
ratings last year between June and August, following passage of
his first spending plan. The governor cut $10 billion, including
funding for schools and cities, to help a $10.7 billion deficit
in the budget year that ends June 30.  “The governor is about where he was last year,” Drewniak
said in an e-mail. “Clearly, the budget and making the
difficult but necessary decisions to repair the state’s deep
fiscal problems and massive budget deficits had an impact last
year, and quite likely this year.”  Compared with the Legislature’s handling of the budget, the
governor isn’t doing so badly. Democratic lawmakers got
disapproving grades from 66 percent of respondents, while 20
percent approved, the poll said. Those tallied split 47 percent
approve to 48 percent disapprove on how Christie is handling the
budget.  More than half, 55 percent, disapproved of the way the
governor is dealing with school issues. Women voters disapproved
60 percent to 34 percent.  Education Policies  Christie has proclaimed 2011 the year to overhaul education
and has pushed for expanding the number of  charter schools ,
changing teacher tenure rules and tying their pay to student
performance. The state  Supreme Court  has ordered him to restore
$500 million in funding to the poorest districts to reverse cuts
since he took office.  More than half of survey respondents, 56 percent, said the
state should spend more to improve schools in the poorest
communities. Sixty-two percent said funding should increase to
improve all schools in the state.  If the money went to schools, 65 percent said they would
support a “millionaire’s tax.” Christie vetoed a similar
measure last year and has said he doesn’t support raising taxes
to balance budgets. He and the Legislature face a June 30
deadline to pass a spending plan.  Family Planning  In addition to the tendency of women to vote Democratic,
they usually react more negatively than men to the governor’s
confrontational tone, Carroll said.  “How many women do you know who like really belligerent
guys?” Carroll said. “Most guys like that. Women don’t.”  Christie cut $7.5 million from family-planning funding in
his first spending plan, leading six clinics to close. He has
proposed a similar level in next year’s budget .  Among all voters surveyed, Christie’s job-approval rating
fell from 47 percent in April and from a term-high 52 percent in
the February poll. His 44 percent grade in the June 14-19
telephone survey matches his previous low in a June 2010 poll.  Christie’s disapproval from voters climbed to 47 percent,
the highest of his term, the poll found. Fifty-four percent of
women dislike the governor’s job performance.  About half of respondents, 51 percent, said media coverage
of Christie riding to his son’s baseball games in a state
helicopter was “much ado about nothing,” Quinnipiac said. The
governor and Republicans later reimbursed the state about $3,400
for two trips aboard the chopper.  “Voters like their ‘Jersey guy’ governor better as a
person than they like his policies,” Carroll said.  Quinnipiac pollsters contacted 1,610 registered voters and
the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.4 percentage
points, the Hamden, Connecticut-based school said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 