-- 
Class-Action Suit Against Wal-Mart Was Too Big to Succeed: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-21T00:46:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/class-action-suit-against-wal-mart-was-too-big-to-succeed-view.html
Everything about  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  is big. Total sales, at $422 billion last year, exceeded
the gross domestic product of all but 18 countries. Its  4,300
U.S. stores  employ more than 1.4 million people, more than any
other U.S. company.  So the verdict handed down yesterday by the U.S. Supreme
Court in Wal-Mart v. Dukes was suitably outsized; it decided the
largest workplace discrimination case in history. The decision,
which was unanimous in one part, and split along the familiar 5-
4 ideological lines in another, was the correct one.  The lawsuit was brought on behalf of every woman who worked
for Wal-Mart since late December 1998, more than 1.5 million in
all. The  Supreme Court , which hadn’t reviewed the standards for
class-action suits in 12 years, told the women they didn’t have
enough in common to sue the company as a monolithic class.  The female plaintiffs  claimed  that they had been illegally
denied pay and promotions despite a company policy against sex
discrimination. The suit relied largely on statistics, which
seemed damning enough.  Women filled  70 percent  of Wal-Mart’s hourly jobs, yet made
up only 33 percent of management employees. Women were paid less
than men in every region, even when they had higher performance
ratings and seniority.  The plaintiffs bolstered their case with affidavits
detailing the experiences of 120 individuals. One female worker
said she was told to “doll up” if she wanted a promotion.  Wal-Mart devastatingly turned the numbers against the
plaintiffs. One brief filed on behalf of the women cited  Census
Bureau figures  showing that U.S. median earnings of women in
2009 were 77 percent of men’s earnings. The company pointed out
that women at Wal-Mart earned between 85 percent and 95 percent
of what male colleagues earned. They actually did better at Wal-
Mart than in the country at large.  As for the affidavits, the company said they represented
just one-thousandth of one percent of women employed at the
retailer since December 1998.  As Justice  Antonin Scalia  wrote for the majority, “Without
some glue holding together the alleged reasons” for Wal-Mart’s
pay and promotion decisions, it was impossible to say that all
of the class members suffered the same injury at different
stores run by different managers across the nation. Wal-Mart
allows local managers wide latitude in wages and promotions.  The plaintiffs can still bring lawsuits individually, and
many certainly will. Some may even band together in smaller
classes -- if they worked at the same store, for example, and
believe they experienced systemic discrimination from the same
managers.  In the end, what the women were really trying to prove is
that Wal-Mart has a corporate culture that favors men. Some of
the briefs filed with the court claimed that promotions were
characterized as a “tap on the shoulder,” with local managers
having great discretion in deciding whose shoulder to tap.
Vacancies were not regularly posted. Employees were discouraged
from discussing their compensation, presumably to prevent
comparisons.  As Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  wrote in a partial dissent,
such behavior could be a cover for bias against women. It will
be up to other courts to make sure Wal-Mart doesn’t use its
decentralized management to escape legal responsibility. But
those cases should be dealt with on their individual merits --
and unique facts.  This opinion is likely to make litigation harder for other
employment class actions that bind together disparate litigants
in a single class. But a class of 1.5 million employees faces an
appropriately high hurdle. This class didn’t clear it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 