-- 
Roger Clemens’s Prosecutors Seek to Bar Evidence of Witness Probe

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-21T23:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/clemens-s-prosecutors-seek-to-bar-evidence-of-lie-by-u-s-witness-mcnamee.html
Roger Clemens ’s lawyers should be
restricted in their questioning of ex-New York Yankees trainer
 Brian McNamee , a key government witness, about a 2001 incident
in which he lied to the police, prosecutors said.  In a request today to U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in
Washington, U.S. prosecutors said the former Yankees pitcher
shouldn’t be allowed “to inflame the jury” by bringing up
“long-off, uncharged allegations of sexual assault” that
involved the police interview of McNamee. McNamee was never
arrested or charged with any offense.  McNamee, who became a personal trainer for Clemens, will
testify that he injected Clemens with anabolic steroids and
human growth hormone, the government said in the filing.  Prosecutors said McNamee was questioned by police in
October 2001 in connection with an incident that occurred at a
hotel in  St. Petersburg , Florida. McNamee, who at the time was
employed by the Yankees, “falsely denied” knowing another
Yankees employee or how the woman who was the alleged victim of
the assault became incoherent, prosecutors said in today’s
filing.  “The government files this motion to obtain, in advance of
trial, a ruling imposing necessary limits to prevent that
legitimate cross-examination from turning into an unfairly
prejudicial, and procedurally improper, sideshow,” prosecutors
said in today’s filing.  Congressional Probe  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the  Boston Red Sox , Toronto Blue Jays and
 Houston Astros  over a 24-year Major League Baseball career, has
pleaded not guilty.  Clemens faces a $1.5 million fine and as long as 30 years
in prison if convicted on all charges. Jury selection is
scheduled to begin July 6.  Bill Miller , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen in
Washington, declined to comment. Clemens’s lawyer, Michael Attanasio in San Diego, also declined to comment. Richard Emery,
a lawyer for McNamee, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
and e-mail seeking comment.  In another filing today, prosecutors said they plan to call
about 45 witnesses during the trial. They include former Major
League Baseball players and employees of several teams, as well
as officials of the House of Representatives.  The government’s case is expected to last four weeks,
according to assistant U.S. attorneys Steven Durham and Daniel
Butler.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  