-- 
Clinton Abandons Quiet Diplomacy to Show Support for Saudi Women Drivers

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T16:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/clinton-abandons-quiet-diplomacy-to-show-support-for-saudi-women-drivers.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
spoke out today in support of the right of Saudi women to drive,
a day after her spokeswoman advocated “quiet diplomacy” as a
more effective way to tackle the issue.  “What these women are doing is brave and what they are
seeking is right,” Clinton said today at a news conference when
asked about her stance on the driving ban. “The effort belongs
to them. I am moved by it and I support them.”  Clinton’s public comments come after a coalition of Saudi
activists yesterday released a letter, dated June 3, calling on
the top U.S. diplomat and highest-ranking female in the Obama
administration to take a stand. Yesterday, State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said Clinton spoke to Saudi Foreign
Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal on June 17 and broached the
subject. That was not deemed sufficient by the Saudi women
getting behind the wheel.  “Quiet diplomacy is not what we need right now,”
according to Saudi Women for Driving, a group of women’s-rights
activists, bloggers and academics challenging the world’s only
ban on female drivers. “What we need is for you, personally, to
make a strong, simple and public statement supporting our right
to drive.”  The driving campaign began when a group of Saudis called,
through the Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. social-networking
websites, on women with international driver’s licenses to get
in their cars and drive on June 17. They said their plan wasn’t
a protest.  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil
reserves, has avoided the anti-government demonstrations that
have rocked the Arab world this year.  10 Days in Jail  One of the organizers, Manal al-Sharif, a 32-year-old
computer-security consultant, was arrested last month in the
city of al-Khobar, in  Eastern Province , after she drove on more
than one occasion and urged other women to drive in a video she
posted on YouTube, according to  Amnesty International . The
human-rights group said al-Sharif was forced to sign a pledge
that she wouldn’t drive again and was released 10 days later.  “Beep beep and solidarity to the Saudi women & supporters
challenging the driving ban!” House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi   wrote on  Twitter  on June 17.  The last time a group of women publicly defied the driving
ban was on Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops massed in Saudi Arabia
to prepare for a war that would expel Iraqi forces from  Kuwait .  Saudi Arabia enforces restrictions interpreted from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. Women aren’t allowed to apply
for a driver’s license, though some drive when they’re in desert
areas away from cities. They can’t travel or get an education
without male approval or mix with unrelated men in public
places. They aren’t permitted to vote or run as candidates in
municipal elections, the only balloting the kingdom allows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  