-- 
Columbia University Students Reject Plea Deals in Drug Case

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-21T19:41:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/columbia-university-students-reject-plea-deals-in-campus-drug-selling-case.html
A group of Columbia University
students accused of selling drugs on the Ivy League school’s New
York campus rejected plea deals offered by prosecutors at a
court hearing in state  Supreme Court .  Harrison David, 20, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts , today
rejected an offer to plead guilty to criminal sale of a
controlled substance, in exchange for one year in prison and two
years’ probation. David faces as long as 10 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charge, said his attorney,  Matthew
Myers .  Myers said that his client is being singled out by
prosecutors for a more severe penalty and that probation is a
more appropriate sentence. The only reason David sold cocaine
was at the urging of undercover officers who suggested he “bump
up” his marijuana sales, Myers said.  “None of this started as a cocaine operation,” Myers told
reporters after today’s court appearance. “It’s highly unfair
that he’s separated.”  The other four students -- Christopher Coles, 21, of
Philadelphia; Adam Klein, 21, of Closter,  New Jersey ; Jose
Stephan Perez, 20, of Atlanta; and Michael Wymbs, 22, of New
York -- refused deals to plead guilty to drug-related charges
that would have earned them each five years’ probation.  Diversion Rejected  Prosecutor William Novak rejected requests by their defense
attorneys to divert their cases to state drug-treatment courts,
saying the sales were motivated by profit, not addiction.
Coles’s attorney,  Marc Agnifilo , said his client was addicted to
marijuana, smoked five times a day and just left a treatment
program in  Washington .  A guilty plea on a misdemeanor charge would allow Coles to
pursue numerous career paths, while a felony conviction would
hamper his plans, Agnifilo told reporters after today’s hearing.  “A misdemeanor plea is pretty livable,” Agnifilo said.
“You can be a lawyer, a doctor. A felony is a whole different
ballgame.”  The five students and three other people were indicted in
December following a five-month investigation named “Operation
Ivy League.” The students were arrested in March after raids on
fraternity houses and residences on the school’s  Manhattan 
campus.  LSD-Laced Mints  Prosecutors said undercover officers spent $11,000 buying
drugs including cocaine, marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced
Altoids mints and Sweetarts candy, with most of the sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms of three fraternities.  Alleged suppliers Miron Sarzynski, 24, and his girlfriend,
Megan Asper, 22, were arrested in October in the East Village
neighborhood of Manhattan. Another alleged cocaine supplier,
Roberto Lagares, 31, was arrested in December in  Brooklyn . None
of them attended Columbia.  Sarzynski pleaded guilty to second-degree criminal sale of
a controlled substance and first-degree attempted kidnapping and
was sentenced to six years in prison. Asper pleaded guilty to
third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance and
was sentenced to 45 days in prison. Lagares pleaded guilty to
criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and
was sentenced to six years in prison.  An undercover detective who worked on the case was arrested
this month as part of a crackdown on illegal card games on
 Staten Island , according to prosecutors. The office of Bridget
Brennan, the  special narcotics prosecutor  for  New York , said the
detective’s role in the case against the students was
“minimal.”  ‘Peripheral Witness’  “We will continue to assess the evidence, but at this
point we don’t foresee any significant impact,” Brennan’s
office said in an e-mailed statement. “The detective appears to
be a peripheral witness in the cases that are still ongoing.”  The detective’s arrest may help improve the plea offer for
David, Myers said.  “The offer might get better,” Myers said. “It always
helps in a bargaining situation.”  All five students remain free on bail. Their next court
appearance is scheduled for July 19.  Columbia, founded in 1754, has about 25,000 students and is
one of eight schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the
 Ivy League . Graduates include President  Barack Obama  and  Warren
Buffett , the chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  