-- 
Comcast to Cut Wait Times for Cable Repair and Installation

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-21T20:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/comcast-will-slash-wait-times-for-cable-repair-after-worst-designation.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  plans to reduce the
time customers wait for the cable guy after a consumer website
last year voted it worst company in America.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, will shorten its cable
repair and installation windows in all markets from as much as
four hours to two hours or less by 2012. The largest U.S. cable
operator is using new dispatch technology and equipping all
technicians with laptops and handheld devices to guarantee on-
time arrival within the shorter windows, Chief Executive Officer
Brian Roberts said.  Comcast’s plan to shrink windows for all subscribers is
similar to a service pledge by St. Louis-based  Charter
Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the fourth-biggest cable provider. Better
service is one of Comcast’s main goals as it rebrands its cable
service “Xfinity,” Roberts said.  “Xfinity service should mean something different than it
did in the past,” Roberts said. “It should stand for better
technology and better  customer service ,” he said last week, in
an interview during the  National Cable & Telecommunications
Association ’s Cable Show in  Chicago .  Comcast has begun testing the 2-hours-or-less windows in
Lancaster,  Pennsylvania , and  Salt Lake City . The company didn’t
say where it will shrink windows next.  Consumer Complaints  Last year, readers of Consumerist.com, a website affiliated
with the Yonkers, New York-based Consumers Union, chose Comcast
from among 32 companies as the worst company in America. Voters
lamented long wait times, unsuccessful service calls resulting
in multiple appointments, and a customer-service department with
little power to expedite calls, said Ben Popken, managing editor
of  Consumerist.com .  “People get really mad when they take time off work and a
cable guy is really late or doesn’t show up,” said Popken.
“Comcast is the biggest cable provider, and the bigger you are,
the more complaints you’re going to get.”  Comcast was one of the last four companies in the running
for the title this year and lost to London-based BP Plc.  Waiting for the cable guy is an issue long associated with
the industry. Technicians used to receive a stack of work orders
at the beginning of day and address service requests according
to a schedule, Comcast said. If a service call ran late, other
appointments in the day would be delayed or canceled.  Dispatch Technology  Comcast uses dispatch technology from Englewood, Colorado-
based  CSG Systems International Inc. (CSGS)  and Ventyx, a division of
Zurich-based  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  The mobile-workforce technology allows
technicians to relay their whereabouts and give updates on
installations with regional coordinators, who can make
adjustments on the fly, Comcast said. The technology allows
servicing of more homes on schedule without hiring additional
employees, the company said.  Charter Communications’s use of dynamic dispatching over
the last couple of years has allowed it shrink wait times to two
hours, John Birrer, senior vice president in charge of customer
experience, said in a telephone interview. All the company’s
regional call-center heads report to Birrer, which he said
creates consistency.  “This industry has gotten in its own way,” said Birrer.  Time Warner Cable  Last year, New York-based  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  introduced
“Signature Home” to its premium customers. The service
includes technicians who make house calls based on reservations
at specific times. The second-largest cable operator is in the
process of creating other packages that include self-install
kits, according to spokesman  Alex Dudley . Customers typically
have three-hour windows with regular Time Warner Cable packages,
the company said.  About two years ago, Comcast introduced a  seven-point
guarantee  to customers. It will credit users’ accounts with $20
if technicians are late or if the company can’t resolve
“routine” issues in one visit.  The rollout corresponds with Comcast’s continued expansion
of its Xfinity service, a rebranding of the company’s network
and products that include high speed Internet, high definition
cable, XfinityTV.com and mobile applications. Comcast also has
developed self-install kits to allow customers to install video,
voice and data in their homes.  Comcast rose 36 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $24.05 at 4 p.m.
New York time in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares
are up 9.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  