-- 
Crude Oil Futures Advance With Euro, Equities Before Greek Confidence Vote

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-06-21T20:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/crude-oil-futures-advance-with-euro-equities-before-greek-confidence-vote.html
Oil edged up for a second day in New
York on speculation that Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
will win a confidence vote today, moving the country a step
closer to avoiding a default on its debt.  Futures climbed 14 cents and the euro rose against the
dollar after European leaders said  Greece  can avoid a default.
The weaker U.S. currency boosted commodities’ appeal as an
alternative investment. Oil briefly fell after the  International
Energy Agency  said Saudi Arabian oil production may be rising.  “If the Greeks can pass the confidence vote, the effect on
equities and the dollar will provide more support for  oil
prices ,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Oil for July delivery settled at $93.40 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have advanced 20 percent in
the past year. Trading on the July contract expired today. The
more actively traded August contract gained 54 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $94.17 a barrel.  Prices fell from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles decreased 81,000 barrels to 363 million. August oil
slipped 2 cents to $93.61 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:31
p.m.  European Union leaders have insisted Papandreou gain
multiparty support for austerity measures that are a condition
for the aid needed to avoid default as soon as next month.  The euro gained 0.7 percent against the dollar to $1.4402
at 3:12 p.m. in  New York . Earlier, it touched $1.4423, the
highest level since June 15.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.3 percent to
1,295.52, its biggest rally since April 20. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  increased 109.63 points, or 0.9 percent, to
12,190.01.  Saudi Production  Earlier, crude tumbled as much as 0.8 percent after  David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s industry and markets division, said that
the agency is seeing signs Saudi oil production is rising.  A Saudi industry official with knowledge of the matter said
June 10 that the Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the kingdom’s state oil
company, will pump more crude. The official declined to be
identified.  The official’s comments followed a June 8 meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries at which members
failed to reach a consensus on a Saudi proposal to raise output
to curb prices around $100 a barrel in New York. The kingdom is
OPEC’s largest producer and has the bulk of its spare capacity.  Domestic Use  “There are indications that Saudi production is
increasing,” Fyfe said in  Washington . “At the same time, it
takes time for that oil to get to the market, and Saudi domestic
crude utilization will probably also be increasing in June and
July.”  Saudi Arabia  burns petroleum during the hottest part of the
year to generate electricity for its own population, boosting
domestic consumption in the summer months. The IEA forecast
earlier this month that third-quarter oil demand in the kingdom
will jump 5.6 percent from the year-earlier period to 3.19
million barrels a day.  The IEA is also monitoring markets to determine whether
members need to release reserves.  Brent crude  fell after the IEA
comments.  “Rising Saudi Arabian oil production has finally
registered with Brent crude traders,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “This added
supply is what’s ultimately putting downward pressure on
prices.”  Venezuela Production  Venezuela’s Oil Ministry also reported that production in
the OPEC member rose to 2.82 million barrels a day in April from
2.75 million barrels a year earlier, according to an e-mailed
report.  Brent oil for August delivery fell 74 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $110.95 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices have advanced 41 percent in the past
year. Brent cost $16.78 a barrel more than Nymex August futures,
down from a record $23.32 a barrel last week.  U.S. crude supplies probably fell last week for the third
consecutive time, according to the median of 16 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. inventories dropped 1.83 million barrels, or 0.5
percent, to 363.7 million in the seven days ended June 17,
according to the analysts surveyed before the Energy
Department’s report. Thirteen of the respondents forecast a
decline, two projected a gain and one said there was no change.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its supply
report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. The industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  will report its own data today.  China  Supplies  Stockpiles of crude oil in China fell 3.5 percent at the
end of May from a month earlier, according to China Oil, Gas &
Petrochemicals, a newsletter published every two weeks by the
official Xinhua News Agency. The U.S. and China are the world’s
two largest oil-consuming countries.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 509,507
contracts as of 3:14 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 568,531
contracts yesterday, 14 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.53 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 