-- 
Oil Falls on U.S. Stockpiles, OPEC Output; Goldman Sees ‘Choppy’ Prices

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-22T12:38:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/crude-oil-declines-in-new-york-after-greek-government-wins-confidence-vote.html
Oil fell in  New York  before a U.S.
government report today that may show that stockpiles of crude
declined less than analysts forecast last week, raising
skepticism about growth in the world’s biggest economy.  Futures declined as much as 1 percent after a separate
industry report showed inventories fell 81,000 barrels. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News indicated the Energy Department will
say supplies fell 1.83 million barrels. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  will hold a press conference today following a
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  in  Washington .  “Statements from Bernanke regarding the state of the  U.S.
economy  after the FOMC meeting are likely to be a decisive
factor for the crude oil market development today,” Filip Petersson, Stockholm-based commodity strategist at SEB AB said.
“We expect a relatively bleak picture and no indications of
further support efforts.”  Crude for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as 93 cents to $93.24 a barrel in
electronic trading and was at $93.65 at 1:35 p.m. London time.
The contract yesterday climbed 54 cents to $94.17. Futures have
risen 21 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for August delivery was at $110.84 a barrel, down
11 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract traded at a premium of $17.19 a
barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-month
contracts in London and New York reached a record close of
$22.29 on June 15.  Greek Vote  Oil pared losses earlier after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a confidence vote in Parliament early this
morning, bolstering his government’s chances of pushing through
reforms to secure more international financial aid.  The Greek vote “opens the way for the implementation of
crucial austerity measures,”  David Wech , Vienna-based head of
research at JBC Energy GmbH said. “The worst-case scenario of a
near-term default of the Southern European country seems to be
off the table, at least for the time being.”  U.S. crude stockpiles slipped 81,000 barrels to 362.9
million last week, according to the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  yesterday. The Energy Department report
today may show supplies fell 1.83 million barrels, according to
the median forecast of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Choppy’ Prices  Oil-supply totals from the API and the Energy Department
have moved in the same direction 72 percent of the time over the
past year. The API collects information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Oil prices  are likely to remain “choppy” in the near-term
as the market reacts to a slowdown in economic growth, before
rising again in the second half of the year amid increasing
demand, Goldman Sachs said in an e-mailed report dated June 21.  Crude in New York tumbled as much as 0.8 percent yesterday
after David Fyfe, head of the IEA’s industry and markets
division, said that the agency is seeing signs Saudi Arabian oil
production is rising.  Fyfe’s comments follow a June 8 meeting of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries at which members failed to
reach a consensus on Saudi Arabia’s proposal to raise output to
curb prices around $100 a barrel in New York. The kingdom is
OPEC’s largest producer and has the bulk of its spare capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  