-- 
Deacons of Kenya Plans to List Its Shares ‘Early Next Year,’ Chairman Says

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-06-21T10:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/deacons-of-kenya-plans-to-list-its-shares-early-next-year-chairman-says.html
Deacons Kenya Ltd., a Kenyan
clothing retailer, plans to start trading its shares on the
nation’s bourse “early next year,” Chairman Peter Njoka said.  “Taking into account the auditing process and approval
process, we are aiming to do it soonest,” Njoka told
shareholders today in the capital, Nairobi.  The  Nairobi Stock Exchange , sub-Saharan Africa’s worst
performer this year, is targeting five listings this year, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Mwangi said on April 1. CFC Insurance
Holding Ltd., CFC Stanbic Holding Ltd.’s insurance unit, started
trading on April 21, making it Kenya’s first listing in 28
months.  British American Insurance Co. and TransCentury Ltd., a
Kenyan investor in infrastructure projects, are among companies
that plan to trade on the exchange. Co-Operative Bank of Kenya
Ltd., the country’s third-biggest lender by assets, started
trading its shares in December 2008.  Deacons sold 701 million shillings ($8 million) of stock in
December, short of its 800 million-shilling target, to fund an
expansion in its home market and neighboring nations. The
company plans to open its first store in  Rwanda  in October and
add another one in  Uganda , Chief Executive Officer Muchiri
Wahome said today. Presently Deacons has stores in Kenya, Uganda
and Tanzania, he said.  Profit climbed 36 percent to 108.5 million shillings in the
year through December. The company plans to boost the number to
33 from 25 by the end of this year, Wahome said.  Deacons has distribution agreements with South African
retailers including  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC) , Truworths International
Ltd., Woolworths Holdings Ltd., and with German sporting-goods
maker Adidas AG. Its own brands include 4U2, Angelo and Life
Fitness, according to the statement. The company began
operations in 1958 with a distribution agreement for Marks &
Spencer Group Plc in East  Africa  for 22 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  