-- 
Dead Body, Cancerous Lungs Will Appear on U.S. Cigarette Packs

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T20:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/dead-body-cancerous-lungs-will-appear-on-u-s-cigarette-packs-next-year.html
Images of a corpse and cancerous
lungs are among nine graphic warnings that  tobacco companies  led
by  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  must start placing on cigarette packs sold
in the U.S. next year.  The  labels , required under a two-year-old tobacco law to
convey the health effects of smoking, also include pictures of
rotting teeth and a man exhaling smoke through a hole in his
neck, the  Food and Drug Administration  said today on its
website. The FDA selected the nine images from 36 it proposed
last year.  Cigarettes can’t be sold in the U.S. after Oct. 22, 2012,
without the warnings, part of the biggest tobacco marketing
rules change in a quarter century. Each pack must carry one of
the nine labels that pair images with text such as “Smoking can
kill you.” The graphics must cover the top half of the front
and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print ads.  The labels “will be the toughest and most effective
tobacco health warnings in this country’s history,” Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said today at a White
House briefing. “With these warnings, every person who picks up
a pack of cigarettes is going to know exactly what risk they’re
taking.”  U.S. cigarette packs and ads now carry one of four text
 warnings  under a federal law enacted in 1984. The messages
include “Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide” and
“Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, and May
Complicate Pregnancy.” They aren’t paired with images.  ‘Deadly and Unglamorous’  The 27-year-old warnings “go unnoticed on the side of
cigarette packs and fail to effectively communicate the serious
health risks of smoking,”  Matthew Myers , president of the
Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids in Washington, said in an e-mail.
The labels unveiled today “will tell the truth about how deadly
and unglamorous cigarette smoking truly is.”  Canada , the U.K. and  Brazil  are among more than 40
countries that require graphic cigarette warnings. One in five
Canadian smokers reported smoking less as a result of the
graphic labels in a 2004  study  of more than 600 people.  More than 20 percent of adults in the U.S., or  46 million
people,  smoke cigarettes, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . The Obama administration is pushing to
reduce the U.S. smoking rate to 12 percent in a decade.  Fewer Smokers  The FDA estimates the labels will reduce the number of U.S.
smokers by 213,000 people in 2013,  Lawrence Deyton , director of
the agency’s Center for Tobacco Products, said today at a news
conference at the White House.  Smoking is the biggest cause of preventable death in the
U.S., killing about 443,000 people a year, according to the
Atlanta-based CDC.  Altria’s Philip Morris USA,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and
Lorillard Tobacco Co., the three biggest U.S. cigarette makers,
had opposed the graphic-label rules, saying they would infringe
on companies’ free-speech rights.  “The  Supreme Court  has specifically warned governments
against attempting to compel private speech in an effort to
control adults’ use of a legal product,” Altria, of Richmond,
 Virginia , said in comments filed with the FDA in January.  Altria is reviewing today’s final rule, Steve Callahan, a
company spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  David Howard , a
spokesman for Reynolds, and Robert Bannon, a Lorillard
spokesman, declined to comment on the rule.  Altria declined 1 cent to $27.31 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Reynolds lost 8 cents to
$38.17, and Lorillard gained 79 cents to $111.89.  Court Challenge  Reynolds, based in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , and
Greensboro, North Carolina-based Lorillard are among the
companies seeking to overturn the law’s graphic warning-label
requirements.  It’s unconstitutional for the government to “confiscate
the top 50 percent of both sides of cigarette packaging and
mandate shocking color graphics,” Reynolds and Lorillard said
in September in a brief filed with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati.  Altria, which isn’t part of the lawsuit, broke with its
rivals to back the 2009 tobacco law as a way to standardize
manufacturing rules and spur development of less-harmful tobacco
products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in  Washington  at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  