-- 
Diggers Unearth 3,000-Year-Old Tablet, Jerusalem’s Oldest Written Document

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-06-21T13:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/diggers-unearth-3-000-year-old-tablet-jerusalem-s-oldest-written-document.html
Israeli archaeologists have
discovered part of a 3,000-year-old clay tablet covered with
cuneiform script that they say is the oldest written document
ever found in  Jerusalem .  The thumb-sized fragment, which is described as an archived
copy of an Accadian-language letter that Canaanite King Abdi-
Heba wrote to the king of  Egypt , was placed on display today at
the  Davidson Center  in Jerusalem’s Old City. It was found in
excavations of a site from the First Temple period led by Hebrew
University archaeologist Eilat Mazar.  The discovery closes a small blank “patch on the map of
knowledge of Jerusalem,” Ronny Reich, a senior Israel
Antiquities Authority archeologist, said in a speech after
Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat opened a visitors center at the site.  Mazar’s work at the Ophel Wall site has been focused on
finding evidence of palace activity from the Jewish Temple
during the reign of King Solomon, centuries after the Canaanite
ruler. The excavation lies in the shadow of the Temple Mount,
which Muslims refer to as the Haram Sharif or Noble Sanctuary.  Years of digging have unearthed a four-room gatehouse that
Mazar said appears to have been destroyed with the Babylonian
conquest of Jerusalem in 586 BC. In the building’s floor she
found twelve large clay jars, one of which has a Hebrew
inscription indicating they were used to store wine or oil.  The excavation was funded by Daniel Mintz, managing
director of Olympus Capital Holdings  Asia , a New York-based
private equity fund, and his wife, Meredith Berkman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Jerusalem at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 