-- 
Dish Network Wins Right to Be ‘Stalking Horse’ Bidder at Terrestar Auction

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-06-21T20:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/dish-network-wins-right-to-be-terrestar-auction-stalking-horse-bidder.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  won  bankruptcy
court  permission to be the opening bidder at an auction for the
assets of Terrestar Networks Inc., a satellite provider of
wireless communications.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  New York  approved  Dish
Network , the second-largest satellite television provider in the
U.S., as the so-called stalking horse bidder, with an offer of
$1.38 billion. Any rival offer must start at $55.5 million more
than the stalking-horse bid. The bidding deadline is June 27 and
the auction is scheduled for June 30.  “The lack of objections is reflective of this being a good
event for all concerned,” Lane said today in court.  Terrestar, based in Reston,  Virginia , said it spent almost
a year seeking a buyer. Englewood, Colorado-based Dish’s bid is
$150 million more than a valuation of the company included in an
outline of the reorganization plan in December, Terrestar said
in court papers. It also exceeds Terrestar’s $1.1 billion of
secured debt. The purchase agreement was signed on June 14.  The judge also approved a breakup fee of $27.5 million to
be paid to Dish if it doesn’t win the assets, and an expense
reimbursement of as much as $3 million. A hearing to approve the
sale is scheduled for July 7.  Dish is likely buying Terrestar for its “valuable
broadband spectrum,”  Dave Novosel , an analyst with Gimme Credit
LLC, said in a report June 16. The spectrum can be used for
wireless services.  EchoStar  EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , an affiliate of Dish, agreed to increase
its Chapter 11 financing for Terrestar to $90 million from $75
million. EchoStar is a holder of Terrestar’s secured debt.  Terrestar, which began operating in 1988, filed for Chapter
11 creditor protection in October 2010.  Financing agreements “did not provide Terrestar with
sufficient revenue to service its outstanding debt obligations
while maintaining the capital expenditures necessary to finalize
development of its technology,” Jeffrey Epstein, the chief
executive officer of Terrestar, said in court papers at the time
of the filing.  Arik Preis, a lawyer for Terrestar, said that because of a
possible delay in receiving Federal Communications Commission
approval of the sale, Dish has agreed to fund 97 percent of the
purchase price before the regulatory agency signs off on the
deal. A purchase of Terrestar must win regulatory approvals from
the U.S. and  Canada .  In April, a bankruptcy court approved Dish’s acquisition of
video-rental chain Blockbuster Inc.’s assets for $320.6 million
after an auction. Dish also acquired satellite communications
company DBSD North America Inc. out of bankruptcy.  Dish rose 75 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $28.64 at 4:30 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
stock has gained 46 percent this year.  The case is In re Terrestar Networks Inc., 10-15446,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  