-- 
Dodgers’ Financial Future in Doubt as Baseball’s Selig Rejects Fox TV Deal

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/dodgers-owner-mccourt-will-explore-options-after-mlb-rejects-fox-accord.html
Major League Baseball ’s rejection of
a 17-year agreement between the  Los Angeles Dodgers  and  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports leaves the team’s future and its ability to
meet a June 30 payroll in doubt.  The broadcast package, which included a $385 million loan
to the Dodgers, isn’t in the best interests of baseball, the
team or its fans, MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  said yesterday.  Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  responded that he’ll “explore
vigorously our options and remedies.” The proposed deal with
Fox was worth about $3 billion, McCourt said at an April 27 news
conference in  New York .  The Dodgers have struggled to meet their last two payrolls
and have another totaling about $30 million at the end of this
month that will include more than $8 million in deferred
compensation to former player  Manny Ramirez , the Los Angeles
Times has reported. The June 15 payroll was about $10 million,
the newspaper said.  “Commissioner Selig’s letter of rejection is not only a
disappointment, but worse, is potentially destructive to the Los
Angeles Dodgers and Major League Baseball,” Steve Susman, one
of McCourt’s attorneys, said in an e-mailed statement.  Dodgers players could file for free agency if the team
can’t make payroll, players’ union spokesman Greg Bouris said in
May. MLB spokesman Pat Courtney has declined to comment on
whether baseball would step in and provide the money.  $800 Million Value  Frank and Jamie McCourt, who have since divorced, bought
the team from News Corp. in 2004 for $430 million. Forbes
magazine in March valued the team at $800 million, third among
the 30 MLB teams. Bloomberg Businessweek reported last August
that, according to unidentified people close to the McCourts,
the Dodgers’ debt stood at around $525 million, the majority of
it borrowed against future ticket sales.  The Dodgers’ 2011 player payroll is about $104 million,
ranking the team 12th among MLB’s teams,  USA Today  reported.
Dodgers spokesman Josh Rawitch has said the team doesn’t release
payroll information.  Selig said his decision to reject the package was reached
after “careful consideration of the terms of the proposed
transaction and the club’s current circumstances.”  “Critically, the transaction is structured to facilitate
the further diversion of Dodgers assets for the personal needs
of Mr. McCourt,” Selig said in a statement released by Major
League Baseball. “Given the magnitude of the transaction, such
a diversion of assets would have the effect of mortgaging the
future of the franchise to the long-term detriment of the club
and its fans.”  Binding Term Sheet  A binding term sheet signed by Frank and Jamie McCourt on
June 17, and approved by a Los Angeles divorce judge, would
ensure $235 million of the $385 million be used for the Dodgers. 
As part of the agreement, Frank and Jamie each would receive $5
million for attorneys’ fees and costs, and an additional $5
million “to use as she and he desires.”  MLB on April 25 appointed former Texas Rangers President
 Tom Schieffer  to take over the management and day-to-day running
of the team because of what Selig called “my deep concerns
regarding the finances and operations of the Dodgers.”  McCourt’s attorneys said yesterday he was “extremely
disappointed” that Selig rejected the television deal.  A community property settlement hammered out last week
between the McCourts hinged on league approval of the contract
with Fox Sports. The McCourts have fought over ownership of the
team and agreed to have their dispute resolved in a one-day
trial Aug. 4 to address Frank McCourt’s claim he has sole title
to the team.  Representatives of Jamie McCourt declined to comment, as
did  Lou D’Ermilio , a spokesman for Fox Sports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net  