-- 
Dong Gains as Measures to Reduce Dollar Demand Show Results

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-21T09:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/dong-gains-as-measures-to-reduce-dollar-demand-show-results.html
The Vietnamese dong rose for a
second day on speculation the government’s measures to reduce
the use of dollars in the market are proving effective, easing
the risk of a further devaluation this year.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam lowered the interest-rate limit
on dollar deposits for individuals to 2 percent from 3 percent
on June 2, and cut the cap for institutions to 0.5 percent from
1 percent. The central bank also ordered state-owned firms to
sell all foreign currency they collect to lenders from July 1.  “The exchange rate has been stable partially because the
central bank’s measures aimed at de-dollarization are still
having an effect,” said Pham Phuong Lan, the Hanoi-based head
of fixed-income and currency trading at the Bank for Investment
& Development of Vietnam.  The dong strengthened 0.3 percent to 20,608 per dollar as
of 4:18 p.m. in Hanoi, according to data from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The State Bank of  Vietnam  set the  reference rate  at
20,618, unchanged since June 13, according to its website. The
currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of
that rate.  The central bank devalued the dong by about 7 percent on
Feb. 11, the fourth such move since 2009, to help cut the
nation’s widening trade deficit.  The Vietnamese government is “committed to keeping the
current interest-rate policy in place for the rest of the year,
and to maintaining a stable dollar-dong exchange rate,”  Thomas Harr , the Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-exchange
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in a research note
today.  “In light of the government’s resolve to maintain monetary
stabilization measures in the second half, we revise our dong-
dollar forecast, pushing back our expectations of a further
devaluation to 2012,” Harr wrote.  Government bonds  fell, with the yield on the benchmark
five-year notes rising eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 12.54 percent, according to a daily fixing rate from
banks compiled by Bloomberg.  --Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi, with reporting by Jason Folkmanis in
 Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Simon Harvey, Andrew Janes  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 