-- 
Dow to Drive Surging Water Unit Sales By Slashing Energy Costs

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-06-21T11:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/dow-chemical-to-drive-surging-water-unit-sales-by-slashing-energy-costs.html
Dow Chemical Inc. aims to increase
sales at its water unit by more than 60 percent over the next
five years by slashing the cost of its filtration technology.  Dow will reduce the energy required to remove the salt from
seawater to as little as 2 kilowatt hours per cubic meter in
2015 from about 2.7 kilowatt hours today to cut overall costs by
about a third from 2008 levels, said Ian Barbour, general
manager of the water and process solutions division.  “What once was a niche separation technology is now being
utilized much more broadly,” Barbour said in an interview in
Tarragona, northeastern  Spain , where Dow opened a water
technology research center this month.  Global demand for fresh water will exceed existing supplies
by about 64 percent or 2.7 trillion tons by 2030 as populations
increase and people move to cities where lifestyles use water
more intensively, McKinsey & Co. estimates. Bridging that gap by
upgrading pipelines and increasing water-processing capacity
will require an investment of about $55 billion a year over the
period, the consulting firm said.  The $1 billion market for membranes that strip out salt
from the sea will grow by at least 10 percent a year over the
next decade to create a market worth at least $2.6 billion,
Barbour forecast. Dow aims to increase its market share of about
40 percent, he added.  “The fundamentals are really simple,” Barbour said. “It
takes water to make TVs, cars and the kind of food people like
to eat.”  Water from Sea  Dow’s technology allows arid countries to extract drinking
water from the sea for about 75 cents per cubic meter by forcing
it through the membrane in a process known as reverse osmosis.
The cost may fall to about 60 cents by 2015 assuming the price
of energy and other raw materials such as steel remain at
similar levels, Barbour said.  “We have technologies that we know we can integrate more
effectively to drive cost but we didn’t really have the best
facility to do these different configurations,” Barbour said.
The Tarragona center opened on June 9 “will really allow us to
optimize the design.”  Barbour’s water unit is part of the advanced materials
division that posted sales of $12 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  