-- 
Majid Al Futtaim May Sell Five-Year Bonds for Expansion, Debt Refinancing

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-21T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/dubai-s-majid-al-futtaim-may-sell-five-year-bonds-for-growth.html
Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, the
Dubai-based owner of the City Center shopping malls, may sell
five-year bonds to help refinance borrowings, fund expansion and
extend debt maturities.  “The  bond market  offers the right maturity profile for
us,” said Daniele Vecchi, group treasurer for the company.
Banks prefer to lend for two to four years while it takes longer
than that to build a shopping mall and for it to begin
generating cash, he said.  Majid Al Futtaim announced a $2 billion medium term note
program June 14, filing a prospectus with the London Stock
Exchange.  Barclays Capital ,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  will arrange the transaction.  Dubai’s government on June 15 raised $500 million from the
sale of 10-year bonds, which received more than $1.8 billion in
bids from more than 90 investors. Government-owned Emirates, the
world’s biggest airline by international traffic, on June 1
raised $1 billion from the sale of five-year bonds.  Majid Al Futtaim’s first bond sale “will not be an
aggressive issue” as the company plans to be a recurring seller
as it exchanges loans for bonds, Vecchi said. “So we will be
looking in the five year because that’s where the banking market
starts to be a bit weak in terms of liquidity.”  Long-Term Debt  Majid Al Futtaim posted a loss of 144 million dirhams ($39
million) in 2010 compared with a profit of 479 million dirhams
in the preceding year. Long-term debt stood at 8.5 billion
dirhams at the end of 2010, according to the prospectus.  The company in May 2010 said it plans to invest $3.5
billion to develop shopping malls in  Egypt , Lebanon,  Syria  and
the United Arab Emirates. Its shopping mall in  Beirut  will be
completed in October 2012 and it is proceeding with plans to
build a mall in Cairo at a cost of 2.8 billion dirhams.  Standard & Poor’s  assigned the company a rating of BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade score.  Majid Al Futtaim ‘s business is supported by rental income
from its shopping malls and “a large food retail exposure
through our Carrefour franchise, which are relatively defensive
businesses and performed extremely well through the crisis,”
Vechhi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  