-- 
The Mississippi, No Longer Muddy, Still a Threat: Steven Solomon

-- B y   S t e v e n   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/the-mississippi-no-longer-muddy-still-a-threat-steven-solomon.html
As the floodwaters slowly
recede along the lower  Mississippi  River, we can begin to
take stock of the flood of 2011, the most devastating since
the epic deluge of 1927.  Most striking, by far, is what didn’t happen: Although
many people and communities suffered, overall economic and
social life in and around the most important arterial
waterway in the U.S. suffered only minimal injury. The
national economy dodged a bullet at a vulnerable moment.  What went right? First and foremost, the emergency
flood strategy devised by the  Army Corps of Engineers  after
the 1927 disaster proved out. Think of it like this: The
Mississippi Valley just south of  St. Louis  to the Gulf of
Mexico is essentially a 600-mile funnel that drains two-
fifths of the continental U.S. from the Rockies to the
Appalachians and serves as the commercial lifeline for the
heartland’s 12,000-mile inland waterway transportation
network.  Until 1927, the Corps tried to forcibly contain
floodtides within a narrow corridor of high, strong levees.
But in 1927 the mighty Mississippi burst its levees,
inundating an area nearly the size of  New England ;
displacing 600,000 people; drowning farmland; disrupting
barge transport of grains, fuel and industrial goods; and
tearing the economic and social fabric of the nation.  In response, the Corps built safety valves to divert
excess water through floodways -- essentially temporary
rivers parallel to the Mississippi -- to protect big cities
and industries downstream. It took seven decades, but the
flood of 2011 was the big test, and the plan passed with
flying colors.  New Crises Brewing  Still, having dodged disaster this time does not
protect us from new crises brewing on the river. The
Mississippi itself is changing, thanks to altered
precipitation patterns in the Midwest, ongoing natural and
man-made changes within the river, development on its
floodplains and other factors.  In its natural state, the Mississippi has been rightly
described as a powerful, writhing snake always cutting new
channels and requiring continuously adaptive solutions from
engineers. But, given accelerated runoff from farms and
cities and an increase in unusual storms, the engineering
challenges have grown even more formidable.  Taken in succession with the shocks of  Hurricane
Katrina  in 2005, last year’s  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill, the
appearance of a huge oxygen-deprived dead zone in the Gulf,
and the increased frequency of so-called 100-year storms in
the region, the great flood of 2011 should be the final
warning that we must re-engineer the entire Mississippi
watershed for unfolding realities of the 21st century.  Consensus on Fixes  The good news is that there is a remarkable consensus
among the Army Corps, environmental groups and other
experts on what needs to be done. Broadly, ecosystem
sustainability needs to be given the same top priority
alongside flood control and navigation, and the river’s
managers need more tools as they adapt their responses to
new challenges.  This starts with giving the river more room -- by
setting back (and modernizing) levees and by restoring
wetlands at key locations throughout the floodplain.
Wetlands are nature’s sponges: They absorb and naturally
cleanse excess water, then gradually release it as things
dry out.  Around the world, wetlands are increasingly being
restored and replacing concrete channels to increase
storage, slow surges of destructive runoff, filter out
pollutants, add green spaces for recreation and nurture
wildlife and biodiversity.  Need More Wetlands  Wetland buffers are rightly a central component of the
post-Katrina program under way to protect  Louisiana ’s
battered coast from rising sea levels and hurricane storm
surges. Groups such as the  Nature Conservancy  are
collaborating with the  Department of Agriculture  and the
Corps to find strategic parcels along the river that can be
restored to wetlands.  We must also restore the amount of sediment flowing in
the no-longer-so-muddy Mississippi. Huge volumes of
sediment originating in the  Rocky Mountains  that used to
replenish the Mississippi Delta are now trapped behind six
great dams that were built on the  Missouri  River in the
mid-20th century.  Giant Dead Zone  One can see the effect in the steady erosion of low-
lying Louisiana coastline -- so far about 2,300 square
miles have been lost -- and the increased vulnerability of
the region to hurricanes and floods. The problem has been
exacerbated by the dredging of canals by oil producers.  It is also vital that we curb the excess fertilizer
that ends up in the river from farms using popular fast-
drainage tile systems. These nutrients, especially nitrogen
and phosphorus, end up in the Gulf, where they have led to
algae blooms that have created a  dead zone  the size of
 Massachusetts  between Louisiana and  Texas . Decomposing
algae consume oxygen, devastating fisheries and coastal
ecosystems.  Most important, the Mississippi must be managed as an
integrated, total watershed, from its tributary headwaters
down to the Gulf, with consistent, minimum standards and
coordinated participation among all stakeholders -- state
and local governments, shipping companies, farmers, the
 Army Corps , environmental groups, the Interior Department,
the Environmental Protection Agency, and so on. To some
extent this is already occurring through the federal and
state rebuilding projects in the aftermaths of Hurricane
Katrina and the BP oil spill.  A 1994 Blueprint  It’s an ambitious plan. Fortunately, there’s a good
place to start: a highly praised 1994 report,  “Sharing the
Challenge: Floodplain Management Into the 21st Century,”
produced by a White House task force headed by one of the
Army’s top engineers, Brig. Gen. Gerald E. Galloway. The
team investigated the destructive 1993 flood in the upper
Mississippi basin and laid out a blueprint, in 60 specific
proposed actions and recommendations on 28 other issues,
for an economically robust and environmentally sustainable
floodplain management system for the 21st century.  A New Law  Legislation based on the Galloway plan would give
states financial incentives to develop better floodplain
management plans to federal standards; environmental
quality would be upgraded to equal status with economic
development on federal water resource projects, which would
be reviewed by a new, interagency group; the  Mississippi
River Commission , which was established by Congress in 1879
to oversee the southern portion of the river, would be
expanded to include the upper Mississippi and Missouri
basins; a lead federal agency would be designated to
coordinate acquisition of key floodplain parcels, while
residents voluntarily remaining in floodplains without
federal flood insurance would be left accountable for their
fates.  Yet there has been no law passed, and few of the
recommendations in the Galloway report have been put into
place. Blame the usual suspects: a Congress hostage to
special interests and more interested financing pork
projects such as dredging the Missouri River for its
nonexistent barge traffic; state and local governments
under the influence of developers; underfunding of the
Corps; and hostility from the George W. Bush administration
followed by a lack of interest from the Obama White House.  Safety and Jobs  The flood of 2011 should be a wakeup call. One hopes
that President  Barack Obama , who in the Senate represented
 Illinois , a state bordering the Mississippi, will recognize
the Corps’ success in managing the crisis and provide the
money and authority to make the Galloway plan a reality.
(Incidentally, he would create no small number of jobs in
the process.)  One only need look upriver on the Missouri, where
outcries are rising and levees being breached thanks to
record-shattering snowmelt in the Rockies, to understand
that nature isn’t going to wait around for politics-as-
usual to play out.  (Steven Solomon is the author of “ Water : The Epic
Struggle for Wealth, Power, and Civilization”
(HarperCollins 2010), which was a finalist for the Los
Angeles Times Book Prize. He is currently working on a book
on the  Mississippi River . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer of this column:
Steven Solomon in Washington at  snsolwater@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  