-- 
Heat to Build on Both U.S. Coasts This Week as First Day of Summer Arrives

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-06-21T13:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/heat-to-build-on-both-u-s-coasts-this-week-as-first-day-of-summer-arrives.html
Heat will grip the U.S. West and the
Atlantic Coast from  New Jersey  to Florida for the rest of the
week before concentrating over Texas by week’s end, forecasters
said.  The hottest areas are expected to be along the Atlantic
from Virginia to  South Carolina  and near San Francisco and
Sacramento in California, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC. MDA EarthSat Weather predicts the
hottest areas will be in California’s central valley through the
Southwest into western Texas.  “While showers and thunderstorms continue to keep heat
under control on the East Coast, some locations continue to see
strong heat,” Rogers said in a note to clients today. “In the
near term the strongest heat is found from California and the
Southwest.”  Today marks the first day of summer in the Northern
Hemisphere.  Temperatures may top 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees
Celsius) in  Sacramento  and 110 degrees in the U.S. Southwest.  In his 6- to 10-day forecast, Rogers calls for heat to
center over Texas and spread across the southern Rocky Mountains
and into the southern Mississippi River Valley. Then the heat
will drift northward into the Plains states of Nebraska and
Kansas and spread over the middle of the U.S. in the 10- to 15-
day period, Rogers said.  In its 6- to 10-day forecast,  MDA  shifts the heat eastward
into the Great Plains with the most intense concentration in
northern and western Texas. MDA’s 11- to 15-day forecast
predicts a much wider spread of heat, with intense outbreaks in
the Great Lakes to Hudson Bay and in the Southwest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  