-- 
Theflyonthewall Unblocked, CoCos, Jiau Verdict: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-21T12:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/theflyonthewall-unblocked-cocos-jiau-verdict-compliance.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley can’t use  New York  law
to block  Theflyonthewall.com , an online financial news service,
from issuing immediate reports about changes in their stock
ratings, a federal appeals court ruled.  The appeals panel yesterday in Manhattan reversed a lower
court ruling that had blocked Theflyonthewall.com, based in
Summit,  New Jersey , from reporting the upgrades or downgrades of
stocks for two hours or until half an hour after the opening of
the New York Stock Exchange.  The injunction U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan
issued last year relied on New York state law, which permits
plaintiffs to sue based for the misappropriation of so-called
hot news. Judge Robert Sack, writing for the three judge panel,
concluded that a firm’s ability to make news by issuing a
recommendation likely to affect the market price of a security
“does not give rise to a right for it to control who breaks
that news and how.”  In a statement, Theflyonthewall.com called the ruling “a
complete victory in its long-running battle with the investment
firms.”  Glenn Ostrager, lead counsel for Theflyonthewall.com, said
in the statement that he is pleased the appeals court clarified
the law governing the publication of hot news.  Merrill Lynch spokesman Bill Halldin and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
spokeswoman  Sandra Hernandez  had no immediate comment on the
ruling. Barclays spokesman Mark Lane declined to immediately
comment.  The case is Barclays Capital Inc. v. Theflyonthewall.com
Inc., 10-1372, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Danish Central Bank Opens Door to CoCos to Help Lenders  Denmark’s central bank is open to letting the Nordic
country’s biggest lenders resort to contingent convertible bonds
to help them meet extra capital requirements designed to prevent
insolvency.  The comment was made by central bank Governor Nils
Bernstein, 68, in an interview in Copenhagen yesterday.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision may let lenders
use so-called CoCos, which convert into equity at a given
trigger, to fulfill tougher capital rules, Lars Frisell at
Sweden’s bank regulator and a member of the Basel committee said
last month.  The securities have been criticized by  Oswald Gruebel ,
chief executive officer at Switzerland’s biggest bank  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
for diluting regular shareholders’ investments. Peter Straarup,
the CEO at Denmark’s biggest lender Danske Bank A/S, has said
he’s open to using CoCos.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  CEO Christian Clausen
said in April the securities can be “good” if used “in the
right way.”  The Basel committee may require the biggest banks to hold
as much as 3.5 percentage points in extra capital if they grow,
two people familiar with the talks said this month. Members of
the Basel group are unlikely to agree at this week’s meeting
whether the surcharge should be made up only of common equity or
whether part of it could contain CoCos, one of the people said.  German Bank Group Says Investor Help on Greece Needed  The agreed-upon voluntary participation of bondholders in a
Greek aid package is necessary to avoid a “dangerous chain
reaction,” according to the Association of German Banks, which
called for additional incentives for investors.  Banks are “aware of their responsibility” and plan to
push for a “sustainable solution,” the association’s general
manager, Michael Kemmer, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Additional incentives such as higher ratings through
certain guarantees as well as wide political support for Greek
reforms would help, he said.  Telephone Companies to Face Proposed FCC Rules on Billing  A U.S. regulator said he would propose rules to keep
unauthorized charges off subscribers’ monthly telephone bills.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius
Genachowski  made the remarks about the rules yesterday in a
speech in Washington. Genachowski said he would send fellow FCC
members his proposal for new rules today. The regulations will
call for more disclosure on phone bills, the agency said in a
news release.  The FCC  proposed  on June 16 a total of $11.7 million in
fines against four telephone companies it said had charged
thousands of consumers for services that they never wanted,
ordered or used, a practice known as cramming. In a June 16
advisory, the agency said it would not tolerate the practice.  Korea, Tokyo Exchanges Study Cross-Trading, Economic Daily Says  Korea Exchange Inc.  and Tokyo Stock Exchange Inc. are
studying ways to enable cross-trading at each other’s bourse,
the Seoul Economic Daily reported, citing unidentified industry
officials.  Euro Area Scraps ESM Seniority for Greece, Ireland, Portugal  Euro-area governments stripped their permanent debt-crisis
mechanism of preferred-creditor status for any loans to Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to help the countries return to bond
markets. They also expanded their current 440 billion-euro ($630
billion) fund.  The decision by finance ministers today marks a policy
reversal from a March agreement to give the European Stability
Mechanism preferred status covering aid for all euro-area
countries. Such seniority would have given the ESM, due to be
established in mid-2013, priority over private investors in any
payout after a default.  Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan told reporters after
the decision in Luxembourg that the amendment is “not good news
for Ireland.”  European Union governments are seeking to ease the return
to debt markets of the three euro countries that have received
aid totaling 256 billion euros since last May from the euro area
and  International Monetary Fund . Greece has abandoned plans
under its 110 billion-euro rescue to tap markets in 2012,
forcing the EU and IMF to prepare a second rescue.  The Irish government, which is funded under its 67.5
billion-euro bailout until the second half of 2013, will test
the debt market in the third quarter of 2012, Noonan said.  Separately, the International Monetary Fund isn’t
negotiating a second rescue package for Greece while it weighs
whether to approve the next payment of the country’s initial
program, acting IMF head John Lipsky said.  For more on ESM seniority, click here.  For more on the IMF, click here.  Compliance Action  Insurers’ Credit Helped by New Regulation Delay, Moody’s Says  U.S. life insurers, a group led by  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , may be bolstered by a Commodity
Futures Trading Commission proposal to delay tighter rules on
derivatives.  Life insurers use derivatives to boost investment returns
and guard against fluctuations in  interest rates  and currencies.
The CFTC said last week it needed to postpone a regulation
passed in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform law. The agency
would have six more months to write rules aimed at reducing risk
and boosting transparency.  “The Dodd-Frank rules’ margin requirements would
potentially soak up significant amounts of liquidity and create
volatility in available liquidity for life insurers,” the
Moody’s analyst said. Life insurers are seeking so-called end-
user exemptions that would protect them from the new rules,
according to the report.  Republicans Want Details on Warren Role in Foreclosure Talks  U.S. House Republicans pressed the Treasury Department for
details on  Elizabeth Warren ’s role in talks to settle federal
and state claims that mortgage servicers improperly processed
foreclosures.  Representatives Spencer Bachus of Alabama, chairman of the
 Financial Services Committee , and Darrell Issa of California,
head of the  Oversight and Government Reform  committee, requested
copies of “any and all” communication between Warren, the
White House adviser setting up the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, and any state attorneys general or representatives of
their offices since September 2010.  “It appears the CFPB has been deeply involved in the
mortgage-servicing settlement negotiations and that role goes
far beyond the mere offering of ‘advice’ under the Merriam-
Webster’s definition or any other reasonable interpretation of
that term,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter sent yesterday to
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.  “We provided advice to federal and state officials
regarding a potential servicing settlement,” Warren wrote in
her April 4 response. “In doing so, we have been an active
participant in inter-agency discussions, sharing our analysis
and recommendations in support of a resolution that would hold
accountable any servicers that violated the law.”  House Republicans have been sparring for months with Warren
over her role in the settlement negotiations.  For more, click here.  Courts  Hedge Fund Expert-Networker Convicted in Insider Trade Case  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert networking
firm Primary Global Research LLC, was convicted in the third
trial to result from a U.S. government crackdown on insider
trading tied to hedge funds.  Jiau, 43, who provided industry information to financial
clients, was convicted of one count each of conspiracy and
securities fraud in Manhattan federal court for passing inside
tips about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to
hedge fund managers.  A sentencing date was scheduled for Sept. 21. Jiau’s
lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said she would file an appeal after the
sentencing.  Jiau, of Freemont, California, was one of several dozen
people charged in overlapping insider rings stemming from the
probe of New York-based hedge fund Galleon Group LLC. The cases
implicated hedge funds, banks, technology firms and consultants
such as Jiau.  Jiau’s lawyer unsuccessfully argued before trial that her
client’s indictment was flawed, saying there was no evidence
that any “insider” breached a fiduciary duty not to disclose
material non-public information.  Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was convicted May 11 of
directing the largest hedge fund insider trading ring and faces
almost 20 years in prison at his July 29 sentencing. Ex-Galleon
trader Zvi Goffer was convicted with two others June 13 on
related charges and faces a similar sentence Sept. 21.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more of this story, click here.  For Bloomberg Television video report, click here.  Ex-Langbar CEO Gets One Year in Jail for Misleading Market  Geoffrey Stuart Pearson, the former chief executive officer
of a Bermuda-based investment company at the center of a fraud
scandal, was sentenced to a year in prison for making misleading
statements about its assets.  Pearson, 63, was found guilty of three counts of making
misleading statements to the financial markets after a five-week
trial at a London criminal court, according to a statement
yesterday from the U.K.  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecuted
the case. Pearson, who was acquitted of 10 other charges, was
also barred from working as a company director for five years,
the SFO said.  Pearson’s lawyer, Shula de Jersey, said the former CEO has
helped to recover 38 million pounds in a related civil lawsuit.  The judge recognized that Pearson was himself a victim of
deception by the principals in the fraud for a “substantial
part of time,” and this was the basis on which he was
sentenced.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan, RBS Sued by Federal Agency Over Mortgage Bonds  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
units were sued by the federal agency that regulates credit
unions, seeking to recover money lost on mortgage-backed
securities.  The National Credit Union Administration Board, or NCUA,
accused the institutions of packaging and selling mortgage bonds
with loans that didn’t meet underwriting guidelines. The bonds,
sold to federally chartered credit unions, caused more than $800
million in losses, according to the agency.  The agency plans to sue between five and 10 additional
banks related to the mortgage bonds, David Small, an NCUA
spokesman, said in an interview. Agency officials are in
settlement talks with the banks, he said.  Michael Geller, a spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS, and
Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment yesterday.  The cases are National Credit Union Administration Board v.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 11-cv-02341, and National Credit
Union Administration Board v. RBS Securities Inc., 11-cv-02340,
U.S. District Court, District Of Kansas (Kansas City).  David Lerner Associates Sued Over $6.8 Billion in REITs  David Lerner Associates Inc. was sued by investors who
claimed it acted negligently in the sale and underwriting of
more than $6.8 billion in shares of the Apple Real Estate
Investment Trusts.  The brokerage firm, known for its founder’s “Take a tip
from Poppy” advertising slogan, misstated the business model of
the REITS and misrepresented the value of shares and returns for
investors, according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Newark, New Jersey.  During the past seven years, the firm has collected more
than $600 million in fees and commissions while five Apple REITs
have made more than $6 billion in proceeds, according to the
complaint. The firm has marketed the REITs as appropriate for
conservative investors and claims they have never lost money by
investing in hotels, the complaint said.  Joseph C. Pickard, the firm’s general counsel, said in an
e-mailed statement that the claims are “frivolous” and were
filed by “attorneys seeking a quick payday,” adding the
company expects to be “vindicated in a court of law.”  The 35-year-old firm, based in Syosset, New York, has
underwritten Apple REITs for 19 years, Pickard said.  The investors are seeking class-action status for the case.  The firm last month was accused by the  Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority  of overcharging customers on sales of
municipal bonds and mortgage securities.  The case is Kronberg v. David Lerner Associates Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  Interviews/Speeches  Bank of Spain Says Capital Rules Enough in Adverse Scenario  Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said
bank capital rules approved in February are sufficient even in
unlikely “adverse scenarios” and the state bailout fund will
act as a backstop if lenders fail stress tests.  Fernandez Ordonez made the remarks to a parliamentary
committee in Madrid today.  “European stress tests will show to what extent lenders
need more capital to face the extreme scenarios contemplated in
these tests,” he said. “If as a consequence of this exercise
it turned out that some Spanish lenders needed extra capital”
that can’t be raised privately, the country’s Fund for the
Orderly Restructuring of Banks, or FROB, would step in.  Spain tightened capital requirements for lenders, offering
incentives for savings banks to convert into commercial lenders
and to list on the stock market. The Bank of Spain identified a
capital shortfall of as much as 15.2 billion euros ($22 billion)
in March and the government has given lenders until September to
plug it themselves or face partial nationalization.  Grant Says New Regulations ‘Asphyxiating’ U.S. Banks  James Grant, editor of  Grant’s Interest Rate Observer ,
talked about the impact of new regulations on the ability of
U.S. banks to offer credit.  Grant also discussed the exposure of U.S. money market
mutual funds to the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and the
outlook for resolution of the crisis. He spoke with Pimm Fox on
Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 