-- 
Emerging Stocks Snap Four-Day Loss on Easing Greek Concerns, Valuations

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-06-21T10:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/emerging-stocks-snap-four-day-loss-on-easing-greek-concerns-valuations.html
Emerging-market stocks snapped a
four-day drop on speculation the Greek government will survive a
parliamentary vote of confidence and as the cheapest valuations
in more than two years lured investors.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1 percent to 1,109.33
at 10:57 a.m. in London, rebounding from the lowest level in
more than three months. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  increased 1.4
percent, and  China ’s  Shanghai  Composite Index climbed from a
nine-month low. Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  advanced 1
percent and  Russia ’s Micex Index gained 0.6 percent as oil rose.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government faces a
confidence vote tonight after he reshuffled his cabinet and
replaced his finance minister. Papandreou must win approval for
additional austerity measures to obtain emergency funding from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  and avoid
default. Concern the Greek debt crisis will spread has dragged
valuations on MSCI’s emerging-market index down to about 10.7
estimated profits, the lowest level since March 2009.  “Today’s key event will be the confidence vote in the
Greek government -- expected around 1900 EST -- with risk
rallying overnight on rising optimism that the government will
be victorious,” analysts at  RBC Capital Markets  including
Robert Beange in London wrote in a note to clients today.
“Success in the confidence vote could see a further short-term
rally in risk.”  The Greek vote caps a week of turmoil for Papandreou, who
fended off a revolt from the ranks of his ruling socialist Pasok
party in parliament last week. MSCI’s emerging market gauge has
lost 3.7 percent this year, compared with a 0.5 percent gain for
the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of developed shares.  Asian Trade Data  Stronger-than-forecast trade data in Thailand and Taiwan
helped strengthen emerging-market currencies, pushing the Korean
won 0.6 percent higher against the dollar. The ruble appreciated
by 0.5 percent as oil jumped as much as 1.6 percent in  New York 
in a second day of increases.  OAO Sberbank, the biggest lender in Russia, the world’s
leading energy exporter, gained 1.1 percent in Moscow and OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas exporter, rose 0.9
percent.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index rose 0.6 percent in
Johannesburg as gold and copper prices increased.  Shinhan Financial Group Co. led a rally by South Korean
banks, advancing 4.4 percent.  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  rallied
5.4 percent and Woori Finance Holdings Co. surged 4.8 percent.
Bank stocks are “undervalued” and loan growth, especially for
small- and medium-sized companies, may improve in the second
half, Daewoo Securities said.  China Shares  Anhui Conch Cement Co. jumped 4.3 percent in Shanghai and a
gauge of real estate stocks rose 1.1 percent after the Shanghai
Securities News said local governments will be allowed to sell
bonds to fund public-housing construction.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  fell 2.3 percent in  Hong
Kong . Bank of America Corp. may sell some of its $21 billion
stake in the China bank to bolster capital, said three people
briefed on the plans.  Vietnam’s VN Index rose 2.6 percent, the most in  Asia , on
speculation inflation may rise at a slower pace this month after
consumer prices decelerated in the nation’s two biggest cities.  The Dubai Financial Market General Index rose 0.4 percent
after Joe Kawkabani, Franklin Templeton Investments (ME) Ltd.’s
chief investment officer of equities in Dubai, said the United
Arab Emirates’ improved securities settlement system may help
 MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  boost the nation to emerging-market status.  MSCI Decision  MSCI Inc. is scheduled is due to announce its decision on
the upgrade at  10 p.m.  London time.  South Korea and Taiwan, Asia’s biggest emerging markets
after China and  India , will retain their MSCI classifications as
emerging markets because the index compiler’s requirements for
upgrades haven’t been met, according to Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 318 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps fell four basis
points to 200.  -- Editors: Linda Shen, Ana Monteiro  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 