-- 
PetroChina Walks Away From Canadian Gas Asset Deal With Encana

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-22T08:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/encana-faces-slower-growth-without-partner-on-shale-gas-output.html
PetroChina Co. walked away from what
would have been its biggest overseas acquisition, the C$5.4
billion ($5.5 billion) purchase of natural-gas assets in  Canada ,
after failing to agree on price.  Asia ’s largest energy producer and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  were unable
to reach a final accord because of differences over asset
valuation,  Mao Zefeng , a Beijing-based PetroChina spokesman,
said by phone today.  The 50-percent stake purchase in Encana’s Cutbank Ridge
assets would have given PetroChina its first shale-gas reserves
in  North America  as it competes with global rivals for energy
supplies. The deal’s collapse may indicate Chinese companies are
becoming more discerning after paying an average premium of 7.2
percent on $95 billion of energy acquisitions since 2006.  “Unless Encana can come down 20 percent, I don’t think
PetroChina would go ahead,”  Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-based
head of regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd.,
said by telephone. “The problem is Encana is not going to come
down 20 percent because there are other buyers out there,
especially Exxon Mobil, BP, ConocoPhillips are all eager to get
into shale gas.”  Gas prices  have risen 8.4 percent in New York since Feb. 9,
when the deal was announced, increasing the cost of acquisitions.
The Cutbank Ridge assets hold the equivalent of about 1 trillion
cubic feet of gas, according to Encana. The company had total
gas reserves of 13.3 trillion cubic feet as of the end of 2010.  The failed transaction is the second in Canada by a Chinese
company since April, when a hostile bid by Minmetals Resources
Ltd. for copper producer Equinox Minerals Ltd. was topped by a
C$7.32 billion offer from Barrick Gold Corp.  ‘Tough Negotiators’  Encana fell 2.3 percent to C$28.78 at the close of Toronto
trading yesterday. PetroChina declined 0.4 percent to HK$11.04
in  Hong Kong  today, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  was
almost unchanged.  “The stereotype of the Chinese grabbing any deal at any
price just isn’t valid,” said Wenran Jiang, a University of
Alberta professor and senior fellow at the Asia Pacific
Foundation. “The Chinese are tough negotiators and have become
more nuanced and scrutinize every deal.”  Encana and PetroChina failed to agree on a joint operating
agreement, Alan Boras, an Encana spokesman based in Calgary,
said yesterday.  PetroChina’s rejection of the Encana deal shouldn’t be seen
as a slackening of Chinese interest in North American shale
properties, according to  John Stephenson , a senior portfolio
manager at First Asset Investment Inc. in Toronto. Shale is a
dense rock formation into which drillers inject water, chemicals
and sand to release oil or gas.  Chinese Shale Potential  China  has acquired overseas shale-gas assets to gain
expertise in producing the hard-to-extract resource and brought
in foreign partners including Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron
Corp. to assess the nation’s shale potential.  The country may have 26 trillion cubic meters of shale gas,
more than 10 times its proven holdings of conventional gas,
Zhang Dawei, deputy director of oil and gas strategy research at
the Ministry of Land and Resources, said in April.  PetroChina’s parent, China National Petroleum Corp., and
Shell are currently exploring the Jinqiu shale-gas block in
southwestern Sichuan province. Shell and PetroChina are already
operating the Changbei tight-gas field in the Ordos Basin in
northern Shaanxi province and exploring the Fushun-Yongchuan
block in Sichuan.  Canadian Gas  The Encana deal would have surpassed PetroChina’s C$1.9
billion purchase of two Alberta oil-sands projects a year ago.
The failed transaction won’t affect PetroChina’s strategy in
North America, spokesman Mao said.  Other Asian companies have entered the Canadian gas market.
Encana in 2010 reached a $1.1 billion agreement to sell stakes
in three gas fields to Korea Gas Corp. Petroliam Nasional Bhd,
Malaysia’s state-owned oil company, said on June 2 it would
spend as much as C$1.07 billion for stakes in  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ) ’s fields.  Encana, Canada’s largest gas producer, faces the prospect
of slower growth unless it finds a partner to help develop
millions of cubic feet of shale reserves. The cancellation of
the PetroChina deal is “negative for Encana’s credit profile,”
wrote Moody’s Investors Service yesterday in a note to clients.
Moody’s said the partnership would have helped the company’s
liquidity and “ability to fund negative free  cash flow .”  Funding Projects  Chief Executive Officer Randy Eresman said on April 20 that
Encana was looking for more partners to help fund fuel
extraction in British Columbia amid “unsustainably low” gas
prices. First-quarter revenue fell by more than half from a year
earlier and net income dropped to $78 million from $1.49 billion.  Gas futures prices have averaged $4.289 per million British
thermal units this year in  New York . Prices have declined 52
percent from the 2008 average of $8.899.  Encana said joint venture talks with potential investors
are “well under way” for other projects, including the Horn
River shale and Greater Sierra field. The company expects to
receive $1 billion to $2 billion in revenue from asset sales, up
from a previous forecast of $500 million to $1 billion,
according to a statement yesterday.  --Jeremy van Loon, David Wethe and Chua Baizhen. With assistance
from Joe Carroll in  Chicago ,  Mike Lee  in  Dallas  and Edward Klump
in Houston. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Paul Gordon .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 