-- 
Republican Lawmakers to Unveil Bill in August to Delay EPA Air-Toxics Rule

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-21T20:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/epa-extends-comment-time-on-mercury-and-air-toxics-proposal.html
House Republican lawmakers will
offer legislation in August aimed at postponing the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency ’s proposed air-toxics rule, said
Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican.  “We want to delay the final rule,” Whitfield, chairman of
the House energy and power subcommittee, said today at a nuclear
energy conference in  Washington .  American Electric Power Co., which produces 80 percent of
its electricity from coal, is among companies pushing the EPA to
give businesses more time to comply with the regulation to cut
mercury and other pollutants. AEP, the biggest U.S. producer of
coal-fueled power, has said the rule will force plant shutdowns.  The EPA said earlier today that it will lengthen the
initial 60-day public comment period for the proposed rule by 30
days. The extension is in response to lawmakers who had called
on the agency to give companies more time to weigh in on the
standards, according to an EPA statement.  The final rule will still be issued in November, according
to the agency.  U.S. Representative John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, had
asked the EPA to give utilities, manufacturers, environmental
groups and other interested parties 120 days to comment on the
proposed standard.  Earlier today, Whitfield said his main goal is to delay the
rule.  “We don’t really have expectations that we can repeal all
of this, but if we can delay the final rule, delay the
compliance period and address whether or not technology is
really available, then I think we’ve accomplished a lot,” he
said.  The EPA proposed the limits on air toxins such as mercury,
arsenic and acid gases in March, clearing the way for the first
U.S. standards for such pollutants. The regulation would require
many  power plants  to install “widely available, proven
pollution control technologies” to cut emissions tied to cancer
and heart attacks, the EPA said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  