-- 
Ethiopia Expects Decision on World Bank Funding for Irrigation This Week

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-06-21T06:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ethiopia-expects-decision-on-world-bank-funding-for-irrigation-this-week.html
Ethiopia expects the  World Bank  to
decide this week whether to provide an additional $60 million of
funding for an irrigation project in its Nile Basin, a Water and
Energy Ministry official said.  The Washington-based lender provided $100 million since
2008 to support the Nile Basin Irrigation and Drainage Project,
Hayalsew Yilma, program coordinator at the ministry, said in an
interview yesterday in the  Addis Ababa , the capital.  “We are negotiating with the bank for additional funding,”
Hayalsew said. “It’s going to be presented to the bank’s board
on June 23.”  The project aims to irrigate 20,000 hectares (49,421 acres)
of land to help transform subsistence farmers in the area in
northwestern Ethiopia into sellers of surplus crops. Studies are
being conducted on the potential for an additional 97,000
hectares to be irrigated.  Ethiopia ’s five-year growth plan aims to increase the
amount of irrigated land fivefold to about 10,000 hectares by
mid-2015, Hayalsew said. Bank funding may be forthcoming “as
long as the projects do not cause significant harm to downstream
countries,” he said. As much as 2.2 million hectares of
Ethiopia’s 3.7 million hectares of irrigable land is in the Nile
Basin, according to the ministry.  Increasing irrigation may boost food security in Africa’s
second-most populous nation. About 3 million Ethiopians
currently receive emergency assistance and another 7.8 million
get food or cash under an aid program to support them, the
 United Nations  said in April.  “Countries like Ethiopia are no longer looking at  food
security , poverty, and climate change separately,” World Bank
spokesman Heather Worley said in an e-mailed response to
questions on June 17. “Climate-smart agriculture and irrigation
practices are key to solving food security issues and increasing
crop yields.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 