-- 
MetLife Pushes Reverse Mortgages as Wells Fargo Retreats

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-06-21T22:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/metlife-pushes-reverse-mortgages-as-wells-fargo-bank-of-america-retreat.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, is poised to become the No. 1 reverse-mortgage lender
as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  leave the market.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, is retreating
from reverse mortgages in part because of “unpredictable home
values,” the company said June 16. The reverse mortgage was the
most prominently featured product last week on the  website  of
MetLife Bank, a unit that the company said may hedge the parent
against declines in the main insurance business.  “They must know something that I don’t know,” said David Lykken, president of Mortgage Banking Solutions, an Austin,
Texas-based consulting firm. “They’re too smart to be heading
into an area that’s disastrous.”  Demand for reverse mortgages contracted from record sales
in 2009 after the housing slide eroded the  home equity  that
seniors draw on to qualify for loans. MetLife climbed to second
place in May from  fifth  two years earlier, according to the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  “MetLife had been zooming toward No. 1” even before Wells
Fargo announced its departure, said Marty Bell, the National
Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association’s director of marketing and
communications. “They’ve been in it a lot shorter time than
everybody else, and they’ve been really building it.”  Shares Rise  MetLife rose $1.10, or 2.7 percent, to $41.62 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the day’s third-
best performance in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)  Wells
Fargo advanced 51 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $27.46. Bank of
America rose 23 cents to $10.83.  MetLife entered the business in 2008 with a purchase from
EverBank Financial Corp. Later that year, the insurer bought a
mortgage business from First Horizon National Corp. The  employee
count  at MetLife Bank, the insurer’s lending unit, surged to
4,985 at the end of March from 3,768 a year earlier, according
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The worker count was 85
at the end of 2007.  Reverse-mortgage lenders issue loans to homeowners and
accept real estate equity as collateral. The contracts allow
borrowers, age 62 or older, to remain in their homes and receive
either a lump sum payment or a stream of income. The lenders --
or the mortgage investors that purchase the loans -- count on
making a profit when the property is sold after a borrower’s
death or relocation. Borrowers or their heirs may keep proceeds
that exceed the amount owed the lenders.  “It’s a retirement-planning vehicle, so it’s something
more natural that a life insurer like MetLife would offer,”
 Randy Binner , an analyst with FBR Capital Markets, said in an
interview. “It’s a small, but growing part of their business.”  ‘Natural Hedge’  The expansion of MetLife Bank gives its parent a “natural
hedge” against a contraction in insurance returns when interest
rates decline, William Wheeler, the insurer’s chief financial
officer, said in December. That’s because more borrowers
refinance mortgages when rates are low, he said.  Ted Mitchell, a spokesman for MetLife, declined to comment.
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-biggest U.S. life insurer,
doesn’t issue reverse or traditional residential mortgages, said
 Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman.  MetLife had 932 reverse mortgages endorsed by the  Federal
Housing Administration  in May, compared with 1,092 at San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo and 332 at Bank of America,
according to  government data . MetLife ranked fifth in May 2009
with 199. That compared with more than 1,400 at Wells Fargo and
726 at No. 2 Bank of America and its Countrywide unit.  BofA’s Exit  MetLife Bank, which sells the mortgages it issues, had
$15.6 billion of assets as of March 31, according to the FDIC.
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo’s main unit had $1.1 trillion of
assets, while  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America’s
biggest FDIC-regulated subsidiary had $1.5 trillion.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets,
announced its exit from reverse mortgages in February, saying
the staff and resources used by the operation were needed in
other parts of the company. Bank of America posted a $2.2
billion loss last year as it negotiated settlements with
counterparties who accused the bank of selling loans based on
fraudulent data.  The reverse-mortgage market is supported by the Government
National Mortgage Association, a U.S.-owned insurer of mortgage-
backed securities commonly known as Ginnie Mae. The agency
guarantees the loans that are issued by lenders like MetLife and
subsequently sold to investors. MetLife charges investors to
then monitor the home collateral and ensure terms of the
contracts are met.  “None of the lenders are doing these to keep them on
balance sheet,” said John Lunde, founder of Reverse Market
Insight, an  Aliso Viejo , California-based data and consulting
firm focused on the reverse-mortgage market.  Net income at MetLife Bank was little changed last year at
 $218 million . That’s less than 10 percent of MetLife’s total.  “MetLife Bank is nice,” Robert Henrikson, chairman of the
insurer, said in a May 24 investor conference. “It’s one area
where low, low  interest rates  present profit opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 