-- 
EU Removes Tariffs on Chinese Bricks Used for Steelmaking

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-21T10:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/eu-removes-tariffs-on-chinese-bricks-used-for-steelmaking.html
The European Union ended tariffs
against China on bricks used in steelmaking after the EU’s
biggest producer of them said it no longer wanted the levies,
facilitating imports after almost six years of trade protection.  The EU scrapped the duties as high as 39.9 percent on
imports from China of magnesia bricks, used by steelmakers such
as  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  The case pit Austria’s  RHI AG (RHI) , the largest EU
maker of the refractory product used to line the vessels in
which steel is melted, against other European producers that
supported the  import taxes .  The decision by the EU’s 27 governments today in Luxembourg
is the outcome of an eight-month inquiry into whether to renew
the trade protection and will take effect after being published
in the EU  Official Journal . Publication is due on June 25.  The EU imposed the import taxes in October 2005 to punish
Chinese exporters for selling magnesia bricks in  Europe  below
cost, a practice known as  dumping . The goal was to help EU
producers after  China ’s share of the European market more than
doubled to 15 percent.  RHI, one the European producers that supported the anti-
dumping duties in 2005, switched positions last year when the
bloc opened the probe into whether to re-impose the levies. The
company, which also operates in China, said the varying rates
against individual Chinese companies had created an imbalance in
the European market.  LWB Refractories GmbH of  Germany  was among other EU
manufacturers of magnesia bricks listed in the bloc’s 2005
decision to introduce anti-dumping duties. The levies have
stayed in place during the EU review opened in October 2010 into
whether to renew them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  