-- 
EU Said to Consider Releasing Stress-Test Data When Global Markets Closed

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-06-22T10:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/eu-said-to-consider-releasing-bank-stress-test-data-after-markets-closed.html
The European Union’s top securities
regulator is recommending the release of the bank stress-test
results at night or on a weekend when global stock markets are
closed, according to a person familiar with the situation.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority  wrote to the
 European Banking Authority , the London-based EU agency carrying
out the tests, calling for publication of results while markets
are shut, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. While a date for the results hasn’t been
set, regulators expect them to be released in mid-July, the
person said.  The stress-test results were published on July 23 last year
while U.S. markets were still open. If it opts to release the
data on a weeknight, the EBA has a two-hour window to coordinate
publication. U.S. markets close at 9 p.m. U.K. time and the New
Zealand exchange opens two hours later.  “Like any market-sensitive announcement it should be done
when the markets are closed,” Fred Ponzo, managing partner of
capital markets consultants  Greyspark Partners , said in a
telephone interview. “Doing it when  New York ,  London ,  Hong Kong 
and  Tokyo  are closed is just good practice.”  91 Banks  Ninety-one banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the EBA said. That capital measure is stricter than
last year’s assessment, which had a pass rate of 6 percent Tier
1 capital, a measure of financial strength that encompasses a
broader range of securities.  The regulator has disallowed lenders counting in their
results some types of non-voting capital, known as silent
participations, which are permitted under German rules.  Officials at ESMA and EBA declined to comment.  This year’s exams will test banks’ resilience to a 0.5
percent economic contraction in the euro area, a 15 percent drop
in equity markets and a 125 basis point jump in short-term
inter-bank financing costs.  Standard & Poor’s  own stress test, published in March,
found European banks would need as much as 250 billion euros
($360 billion) in fresh capital if faced with a “sharp”
increase in yields and a “severe” economic downturn. In
contrast, a survey of 113 investors by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
earlier this month showed they expect banks to raise 29 billion
euros after the tests.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 