-- 
EU Working With U.S. on Electric-Car Rules, De Gucht Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-21T17:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/eu-working-with-u-s-on-electric-car-standards-de-gucht-says.html
The U.S. and the European Union are
close to setting joint standards for electric vehicles in a move
that would foster development of the low-polluting cars, the
EU’s top trade official said.  “The EU and the U.S. are about to agree to an ambitious
work plan aiming at aligning regulatory issues, standards and
research” for those vehicles, EU Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  said in a speech in  Washington  today. With joint rules the
world’s two largest economies will “avoid moving into different
directions and risk creating new market barriers,” he said.  De Gucht, who is in Washington to meet with U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk, other administration officials and
business executives, didn’t elaborate on what the standards
would be. They may be announced when he returns to Washington
for a meeting with White House officials late this year.  De Gucht also made a pitch to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the nation’s largest business lobbying group, for a long-stalled
 Doha Round  of the  World Trade Organization , saying the trade
arbiter should come up with some smaller package to agree to
before the end of the year. That agreement should include rules
for facilitating trade in poor nations and a standstill
guaranteeing that no nation raises tariffs while a full accord
is still pending.  “Protectionism is a real threat in the years to come,” he
said, discussing the standstill proposal. Still, prospects for a
deal this year aren’t certain. After 10 years of failed attempts
to reach an agreement, “when it comes to Doha, I’m not
confident about anything anymore,” De Gucht said.  Russia’s bid to enter the WTO is also hampered by its ban
on European vegetables, which needs to be lifted before the
country can join the Geneva-based trade arbiter, De Gucht said.
Russia instituted the ban after a deadly outbreak of E. coli in
 Germany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  