-- 
European Stocks Advance Most in Two Months Before Greek Vote

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-21T16:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/european-index-futures-climb-before-greek-vote-astrazeneca-may-be-active.html
European stocks climbed the most in
two months amid speculation that Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will win a confidence vote that moves the nation a
step closer to avoiding a default.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  led a rally in Greek banks,
jumping 9 percent.  Misys Plc (MSY)  surged 9 percent after the software
provider said it has received a preliminary takeover approach.
 Syngenta AG (SYNN)  rose 3.6 percent after the chemical maker said sales
growth in the second quarter has been “robust.”  SABMiller Plc (SAB) 
lost 3.6 percent after Australia’s Foster’s Group Ltd. rejected
its $10 billion cash offer.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 1.4 percent to 269.59 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest gain since April 20.
Since its peak on Feb. 17, the gauge has still tumbled 7.4
percent as U.S. economic data trailed forecasts, adding to
concern about Europe’s debt crisis. The measure’s valuation fell
to 12.6 times its companies’ reported earnings yesterday, the
cheapest since 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  “There is optimism that the moves Papandreou has made will
be sufficient enough to get the vote passed,” said  Andrea Williams , who helps manage about 600 million pounds ($970
million) at Royal London Asset Management. “It’s one hurdle at
a time for Greece. Spain’s bond issuance also seems to have gone
ok which is also helping the market.”  Spanish Auction  Spain sold 3 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of debt today,
compared with the Treasury’s target for a maximum of 3.25
billion euros. Stocks in  Europe  pared losses late yesterday
after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker assured investors that a
solution will be found to Greece’s debt crisis.  Tonight’s confidence vote for Papandreou may determine
whether Greece becomes the first euro-area country to default
and caps a week of turmoil for the nation’s prime minster, who
has fended off a revolt from the ranks of his ruling Pasok
party. European Union leaders have insisted that Papandreou
secure multiparty support for austerity measures that are a
condition of the aid.  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index gained 2 percent,
Germany’s DAX increased 1.9 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose
1.4 percent.  Greece’s ASE surged 3.7 percent to its highest in two
weeks. Eurobank, the nation’s second-largest lender, soared 9
percent to 3.28 euros and  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  rallied 7.9
percent to 4.93 euros.  Misys Approach  Misys surged 9 percent to 418.9 pence after the provider of
software for the financial industry said it has received an
approach that may or may not lead to a takeover offer. In a
research note this month, Jefferies Group Inc. analysts named
Infosys Ltd., Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., HCL Technologies
Ltd. and Temenos Group AG as possible bidders.  Syngenta rallied 3.6 percent to 278.9 Swiss francs after
the world’s largest maker of farming chemicals forecast that
sales of pesticides, seeds and other products to its mainstay
crop markets will more than double.  Oil and gas shares had the second-biggest increase among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600, rising the most since
February, as crude climbed for a second day in  New York .  BP Plc (BP/)  rose 3.7 percent to 445.7 pence, the largest advance
since January, after Weatherford International Ltd. agreed to
pay Europe’s second-biggest oil company $75 million to cover its
liability for any current or future claims related to the
Macondo oil spill.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  gained 2.1 percent to
2,158.5 pence.  Petropavlovsk, Nokia  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  surged 7.6 percent to 729.5 pence, the
biggest advance since November. The producer of gold in Russia
said sales of the precious metal increased 64 percent through
the first five months of this year as prices gained.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  rallied 3.9 percent to 4.21 euros, paring
yesterday’s 4.3 percent selloff, after the company unveiled the
N9 smartphone in Asia to fend off competition from phones
powered by Google Inc.’s Android. The company will start
shipping the product later this year.  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  climbed 6.8 percent to 1,587 pence after the
owner of Premier Inn hotels and Costa Coffee shops said total
sales rose 9.2 percent in the 13 weeks ending June 2 and the
first quarter was consistent with its outlook.  SABMiller slid 3.6 percent to 2,103 pence after Foster’s
rejected a A$9.5 billion ($10 billion) cash offer from the
London-based company as too low in what would be the biggest
takeover in the industry since 2008. Foster’s surged by the most
since 1986 in Sydney trading as SABMiller said it will
“continue to seek engagement” with Australia’s biggest brewer.  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  dropped 2.6 percent to 19.99 euros, extending
yesterday’s 7.6 percent slide after the Finnish government
agreed to implement a windfall tax. Analysts at WestLB AG and
UBS lowered their recommendations for Finland’s largest utility
to “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 