-- 
European Bank Debt Dominates U.S. Money-Market Funds’ Assets

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-06-21T17:51:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/european-bank-debt-dominates-u-s-money-market-funds-assets.html
The top U.S. prime money-market
funds have about half their assets in securities issued by
European banks, according to a report by  Fitch Ratings .  The 10 largest funds eligible to purchase securities from
corporations concentrated 31 percent of their holdings as of May
31 in debt, deposits and repurchase agreements with banks in
 France ,  Germany  and the U.K., up from 30 percent three months
earlier, the London-based ratings firm said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
based in Frankfurt, was the biggest issuer, accounting for 4.5
percent of the funds’ assets.  European banks have worked to reduce their risk to  Greece 
over fears the Mediterranean country may default on its debt,
and to other countries that may be vulnerable if the crisis
spreads. The Bank of International Settlements estimated
European lenders held $136.3 billion in loans to Greece at the
end of 2010 and almost $2 trillion to Portugal, Ireland,  Spain 
and  Italy .  Money-market fund holdings of European debt have risen from
38 percent of assets since the second half of 2006 to about 50
percent at the end of May, driven by the banks’ demand for
dollar-based holdings and narrowing investment opportunities for
the funds, Fitch said.  Fund managers have reduced risk by shortening maturities
and increasingly collateralizing their holdings, Viktoria
Baklanova, a New York-based analyst at Fitch, said in a
telephone interview.  Reduced Exposure  Maturities are “generally limited to three months,” while
the proportion of holdings made up by collateralized  repurchase
agreements  has increased, she said without providing more
detailed figures.  Standard & Poor’s  estimated that 80 percent of European
bank holdings is limited to three months or less, and 95 percent
to six months or less among the 500 U.S. and European money
funds it rates.  “A lot of funds aren’t adding exposure, or if they are
it’s real short and in highly diversified positions,” Peter Rizzo, senior director of fund services at S&P in  New York , said
in a telephone interview.  Of the European holdings broken down by individual banks,
45 percent comprise 1 percent of the funds’ assets and 25
percent comprise between 1 percent and 2 percent, Rizzo said.  The supply of securities that U.S. prime funds can and want
to purchase is limited and the shortage may grow more serious if
turmoil forces them to withdraw from European banks, Baklanova
said.  ‘A Big Bind’  With fewer U.S. issuers, the amount of outstanding asset-
backed commercial paper has declined to $380 billion from $1.2
trillion in 2007, the Fitch report said.  “They are in a big bind,” Michael Krasner, managing
editor of research firm iMoneyNet in Westborough,  Massachusetts ,
said in a telephone interview. “They are being severely
challenged at the moment to find securities to buy and hold.”  The Fitch report analyzed a sample of the 10 largest U.S.
prime money-market funds, representing $755 billion, or 45
percent of the total U.S. prime money-market funds.  Deutsche Bank was followed as the biggest issuer by  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA at 4.1 percent and Amsterdam-based Rabobank Group at
3.8 percent, Fitch said. No U.S. banks were in the top 10.  Among European nations, funds had the highest concentration
in debt from French banks at about 15 percent, followed by U.K.
banks at 9.7 percent, according to the report. Funds had no
holdings in Ireland or Portugal at the end of May, while Italian
bank holdings fell to 0.8 percent from 1.5 percent and Spanish
holdings remained at 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  