-- 
Euro Weakens on Greece Austerity-Vote Concern as Dollar, Yen Make Gains

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-06-22T05:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/euro-falls-against-dollar-before-greece-vote-on-budget-cuts-asset-sales.html
The euro fell from a one-week high
against the dollar on speculation Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will struggle to pass an austerity package through
parliament even after winning a confidence vote.  Europe ’s single currency declined versus 14 of its 16 major
counterparts before Papandreou seeks approval next week for a 78
billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts and asset
sales. The dollar strengthened against higher-yielding
currencies on speculation Europe’s fiscal woes will slow global
growth. Norway’s krone weakened before the central bank meets
today to review  interest rates .  “The prime minister survived and that’s a good sign
because you have a functioning government but they still need to
pass legislation for the austerity measures,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of
 Australia , the nation’s biggest lender. “The euro had priced in
a lot of the good news and so it’s come off a bit and will
likely fall a little further.”  The euro weakened to $1.4390 as of 6:45 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
$1.4412 in  New York  yesterday, after earlier rising to $1.4434,
the strongest since June 15. The shared currency fell to 115.51
yen from 115.60 yen.  The dollar gained 0.1 percent to $1.0595 per Australian
dollar, and rose as much as 0.6 percent against the Norwegian
krone before trading at 5.4967 from 5.4866. The greenback was
little changed at 80.26 yen.  ‘Crisis Levy’  European finance ministers said this week they would hold
off on approving a 12 billion-euro payment to Greece promised
for July until passage of plans to cut the deficit, sell state
assets and impose a “crisis levy” on wages. The aid is part of
last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund .  Police used tear gas and stun grenades to disperse
thousands of citizens protesting planned budget cuts after
yesterday’s Greek confidence vote.  Papandreou will meet his ministers today to discuss a draft
law for the government’s five-year fiscal plan, one of two laws
that need to pass by the end of the month to qualify for EU aid.
He will talk to counterparts at a summit in Brussels starting
tomorrow that will discuss a new financing package.  The IMF, contributor of a third of the bailout money for
Greece and the two other euro-area countries that have received
bailouts, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned EU leaders a failure
to take decisive action on the debt crisis risks triggering
“large global spillovers.”  Euro ‘Vulnerable’  “What they’re trying to put through in  Greece  is longer
term and there’s a big long road from here,” said Alex Sinton,
a senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland,  New
Zealand . “The euro is vulnerable.”  The euro will find buyers toward the $1.433 level today,
Sinton said. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey is for it to weaken to $1.41 by year-end.  Norway’s krone dropped on speculation the central bank will
scale back plans to raise borrowing costs over the next year as
Europe’s debt crisis threatens to sap a rebound in global growth.  The central bank is trying to cool a recovery in the
world’s second-richest nation per capita that has fueled  credit
growth  and sent property prices higher. At the same time, policy
makers have signaled they don’t want rate increases to fan krone
gains that hurt trade.  ‘Dovish Tone’  “We expect a somewhat more dovish tone in particular for
policy in 2012-2013,” Barclays Capital analysts including
London-based Piero Ghezzi, head of economics, emerging market
and currency research, wrote in a research note today.  The central bank will leave its overnight deposit rate
unchanged at 2.25 percent, after last month raising it for the
first time in a year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Gains in the dollar were tempered before the Fed ends a
two-day policy meeting today and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  holds
a press conference. Policy makers will keep the benchmark at
zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The committee will “firm up” language around keeping
borrowing costs low for an extended period and apply that to its
balance sheet as well, BNP Paribas SA analysts led by New York-
based Ray Attrill wrote in a note to clients.  The Fed is scheduled to end its $600 billion second round
of bond-buying or so-called quantitative easing this month.
Futures show the likelihood policy makers will increase the
target rate by March 2012 dropped to 21 percent from 30 percent
a month ago.  “I don’t think the FOMC decision will support the
dollar,” said Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “While they will signal the
end of the current quantitative easing scheduled end of June,
that’s fully anticipated.”  U.S. home prices fell 0.3 percent in April, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the Federal Housing Finance Agency
report today. Purchases of existing houses decreased 3.8 percent
to a six-month low in May, the National Association of Realtors
said yesterday.  -- With assistance from Masaki Kondo in  Singapore . Editors:
Nicholas Reynolds, Nate Hosoda  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  