-- 
Euro Gains Versus Dollar, Yen After Greece’s Pandreou Wins Confidence Vote

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-21T22:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/euro-gains-versus-dollar-yen-after-greece-s-pandreou-wins-confidence-vote.html
     June 21 (Bloomberg) --The euro rose against the dollar and
the yen after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a
confidence vote in parliament, taking the Mediterranean nation
one step closer to avoiding default on its debt.  The shared currency rose after Papandreou received 155
votes. He needed 151 to prevail. The  Federal Reserve  began a
two-day policy meeting.  “The euro will trade higher,”  Jessica Hoversen , a New
York-based analyst at the futures broker MF Global Holdings
Ltd., said before the vote. Greek lawmakers “recognize that the
market needs to believe that Greece is going to get that $12
billion tranche and a vote for the government is a vote for the
package.”  The euro rose against the dollar to $1.4391 at 6:15 p.m. in
New York, from $1.4304 yesterday. It earlier touched $1.4423,
the strongest level since June 15. The euro gained against the
yen to 115.52, from 114.80.  The confidence ballot cleared the way for a separate vote
on a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts and
asset sales to ensure the payment of 12 billion euros due in
July under last year’s 110 billion-euro bailout from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . It also was
needed for consideration of a second rescue plan.  Pleas for Consensus  Papandreou called last week for the confidence vote after
opposition parties rejected pleas for national consensus and his
handling of the crisis led to defections from his party.  The dollar weakened earlier before the Federal Open Market
Committee issues an interest-rate decision tomorrow. Policy
makers will keep the benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25
percent tomorrow, where it’s been since December 2008, a
Bloomberg News survey forecast.  Futures show the likelihood policy makers will increase the
target rate by March 2012 dropped to 21 percent from 30 percent
a month ago.  Sales of existing homes in the U.S. decreased in May to the
lowest level in six months, an annual pace of 4.81 million,
National Association of Realtors data showed today. The report
followed data from the  New York  and Philadelphia Fed Banks last
week showing manufacturing in those regions shrank this month.  “The slowdown we’ve seen has pushed out the expected Fed
tightening,” said Steven Englander, head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “We’ve had two
and a half months of data and the timing of expected Fed
tightening is pushed out by 10 months. The market may be
extrapolating the softness for a longer period than they have
any right to.”  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.4 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.3 percent, and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials increased
0.6 percent. Crude oil rose as much as 1.6 percent to $94.74 a
barrel in New York before briefly reversing gains.  The euro earlier rose versus most major currencies as
 Greece ’s Papandreou sought to secure multiparty support for his
government’s austerity measures. He called last week for the
confidence vote after opposition parties rejected pleas for
national consensus and his handling of the crisis led to
defections from his party.  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker assured investors
yesterday that a solution will be found to Greece’s debt crisis.  Implied volatility for one-week Euro-U.S. dollar options
has slumped 195 basis points to 13 percent over the past three
days. It closed at 14.98 percent on June 16, the highest level
since May 6. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to
set option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The pound weakened 0.5 percent to 88.73 pence per euro and
rose 0.2 percent to $1.6238 after Bank of England Markets
Director  Paul Fisher  said further bond purchases to stimulate
the economy are possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  