-- 
Europe’s Threat to Asian Exports May Force Slower Interest-Rate Increases

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-22T01:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/europe-s-threat-to-asian-exports-may-force-slower-interest-rate-increases.html
Europe’s debt crisis and slowing U.S.
growth are damping demand for exports from  Asia , giving central
banks a reason to slow interest-rate increases even at the risk
of seeing inflation undercut domestic spending.  South Korean, Indian and Thai export growth has slowed,
reports showed this month. Chinese overseas shipments may
stagnate this summer on “weak” U.S. expansion, Credit Suisse
Group AG said.  Policy makers may be forced to delay further raising
borrowing costs to support their economies, slow currency gains
and protect regional exports, which accounted for 35 percent of
world shipments in 2009. That could spur inflation, which has
accelerated to the fastest pace since 2008 in China, approached
20 percent in  Vietnam  last month and prompted protests in India.  “If Western economic data continues to deteriorate, there
is a risk that Asian central banks shy away from tightening,”
said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research in
 Hong Kong  at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Ultimately, we believe that
will only fuel inflation further.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which has held the overnight
cash rate target at 4.75 percent after seven increases from
October 2009 to November 2010, said it will weigh Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis against a forecast pickup in domestic
growth and inflation in deciding whether to increase borrowing
costs, minutes of its June 7 meeting released yesterday showed.  ‘Downside Risks’  “The flow of data over the past month had not added any
urgency to the need for an adjustment to policy,” the RBA
minutes showed. “Downside risks to the international economy
had become a little more prominent.”  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou won a vote of
confidence early this morning, bolstering his new government’s
chances of securing further international financial aid.  The leader will try to win parliamentary backing next week
for a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) package of budget cuts to
stave off the threat of default. European finance ministers said
this week they would hold off on approving a 12 billion-euro
payment to the country promised for July until passage of the
plans to cut the deficit, sell state assets and impose a
“crisis levy” on wages.  Debt Demand  The risk of a sovereign debt default in  Greece  and slowdown
in the U.S. have already bolstered demand for government debt in
a sign investors are ratcheting back expectations for higher
 interest rates .  Australian two-year bonds headed for the longest rally
since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, with yields
falling 25 basis points since March 31 to 4.67 percent yesterday
as concerns intensified that  Europe ’s debt crisis will derail
the nation’s fastest expansion in a decade. India’s one-year
government bonds have rallied, with yields sliding to 8.06
percent yesterday from 8.27 percent on June 13, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If Asian central banks do go on hold, but remain
committed to tightening, it would signal better demand for
short-term debt,” said Ashish Agrawal, an emerging-market rate
strategist at Credit Suisse in  Singapore .  China’s more than 10-week pause in raising interest rates
is the longest since increases began in October. South Korean
central bank board member Kang Myung Hun said June 16 that the
pace of the nation’s monetary tightening may need to slow “if
the uncertainty deepens” in the global economy.  Region’s Reliance  India ’s central bank signaled last week it may slow the
most aggressive monetary tightening among Asia’s major economies,
saying “the extent of policy action needs to balance the
adverse movements in inflation with recent global
developments.” It raised the repurchase rate to 7.50 percent
from 7.25 percent this month.  The caution reflects the region’s reliance on U.S. and
European demand for Asian goods, even as Group of 20 nations
push to rebalance the world economy so global growth depends
less on such a relationship and more on domestic demand.  Asian economies accounted for 35 percent of world exports
in 2009, compared with 25 percent a decade earlier, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  Exports accounted for 15 percent of  Japan ’s gross domestic
product in 2010. In  South Korea , they are about half of the
economy. Overseas shipments account for about 60 percent of
 Thailand ’s GDP, about two-thirds of Taiwan’s economy and about
one-fifth of  Australia ’s.  China Exports  China’s exports may stagnate this summer as the  U.S.
economy  remains “weak,” Tao Dong, Credit Suisse’s chief
regional economist for Asia, excluding Japan, said in Hong Kong
this week. Thailand’s overseas shipments advanced 17.6 percent
in May from a year earlier, down from 24.6 percent in April,
while India’s rose 34.4 percent in April compared with 43.9
percent the previous month.  “The big risk here is that they shy away from tightening
and allow inflationary pressures to continue to fester and asset
bubbles to build,” HSBC’s Neumann said.  China’s retail sales growth slowed to 16.9 percent in May
as food costs jumped 12 percent from a year before, eroding the
purchasing power of Chinese households. Savings are also being
hurt, with the one-year deposit rate of 3.25 percent more than 2
percentage points less than the 5.5 percent annual pace of
inflation.  China  and the  Philippines  opted for raising bank-reserve
ratios rather than benchmark lending rates this month, signaling
the scope for increasing borrowing costs may have shrunk.  The IMF cut its forecast for U.S. growth in 2011 last week
for the second time in two months, warning that further setbacks
to the recovery pose growing threats to the world economy, along
with potential contagion from the European debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  