-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline, Dollar Advances as Fed Cuts Economic-Growth Forecast

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-22T20:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/euro-decreases-s-p-500-futures-little-changed-amid-greece-confidence-vote.html
U.S. stocks declined, breaking a
four-day rally, after the  Federal Reserve  lowered its economic
growth forecast and said it will complete a $600 billion bond-
purchase program as scheduled this month. The dollar rose, and
oil climbed following a decrease in inventories.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,287.14 at 4:00 p.m. in New York, and the Stoxx Europe 600
Index dropped 0.6 percent. Ten-year U.S. note yields were almost
unchanged, holding below 3 percent for a sixth day. The Dollar
Index advanced 0.4 percent while the euro fell 0.5 percent to
$1.4344. The pound weakened after some  Bank of England  members
said more stimulus may be needed.  The  S&P 500  halted its longest streak of gains of the
month, having risen 2.4 percent over the past four days in a
rebound from an almost three-month low. Stocks lost ground after
Fed officials reduced their economic-growth projections, with
much of the decline in the final hour of trading. The Fed, in a
statement after a two-day policy meeting in  Washington , left its
benchmark interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent and
repeated a pledge to keep it there “for an extended period.”  “There was a bit of disappointment that the Fed downgraded
their forecasts,” said Brad Sorensen, director of market and
sector analysis at San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp.,
which has $1.7 trillion in client assets. “The ‘extended
period’ language can’t be more specific because they don’t know
what the economic data is going to be. There’s no way to know
what happens over the next three months. So, there’s no way to
know what policy will be in three months.”  ‘Slower Pace’  Fed policy makers said they will maintain record monetary
stimulus to support the flagging economic recovery after
completing the bond-purchase program. “The economic recovery is
continuing at a moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than
the committee had expected,” the statement said. “The slower
pace of the recovery reflects in part factors that are likely to
be temporary,” such as supply chain disruptions stemming from
the Japanese disaster in March.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a press conference in
Washington that the central bank can take additional actions to
stimulate the economy “if conditions warranted.” Potential
tools, which have risks or costs, include additional securities
purchases or a reduction in the interest rate on excess bank
reserves, Bernanke said.  Bill Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California ,
said in a Twitter post this morning that the Fed “will likely
hint” at interest caps and QE3 -- a hypothetical third round of
quantitative easing, which would involve the purchase of assets
-- during its August meeting in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming .  Shipping Demand  U.S. equity futures briefly trimmed losses before the open
of exchanges after earnings from  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  signaled that
global shipping demand is improving. FedEx shares rallied 2.6
percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s decline followed the gauge’s
1.4 percent advance yesterday, its biggest gain in two months.
Royal Philips Electronics NV, the world’s biggest maker of light
bulbs, tumbled 8.8 percent in Amsterdam trading after saying it
will need to deepen cost-cutting to combat deteriorating demand
for lighting and consumer electrical goods such as headphones.  Greece ’s government won a vote of confidence and needs
parliamentary approval next week for 78 billion euros ($112
billion) in budget cuts to prevent default.  Greek Bonds  The yield on the 10-year Greek bond fell 17 basis points to
16.81 percent, while the similar-maturity Irish yield advanced
31 basis points to 11.71 percent. The two-year German note yield
slipped five basis points to 1.48 percent, dropping for the
first time in four days. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of
credit-default swaps protecting the senior debt of 25 European
banks and insurers climbed seven basis points to 161, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The European Financial Stability Facility started selling 3
billion euros ($4.3 billion) of bonds due December 2016 to help
fund euro-area nations’ contribution to the bailout of  Portugal ,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. The notes
may be priced to yield about seven basis points more than the
benchmark mid-swap rate and the issue is scheduled to be
completed this week, said the people.  Crude oil rose for a third straight day, rising $1.24 to
settle at $95.41 a barrel in New York as the U.S. Energy
Department said stockpiles declined by 1.71 million barrels in
the latest week. Inventories were forecast to drop by 1.83
million barrels, according to the median of analyst estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.3 percent, for
its first back-to-back gain in three weeks, as  South Korea ’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped 0.8 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
retreated 1.8 percent after MSCI Inc., whose stock indexes are
tracked by investors with about $3 trillion in assets, delayed
to December its decision on whether to raise the United Arab
Emirates and Qatar to emerging-market status.  The pound depreciated against all its 16 major
counterparts. Bank of England officials voted 7-2 to keep
 interest rates  on hold this month, with some warning that the
economy is weakening. The BOE’s  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale 
continued a push for a quarter-point increase in the benchmark
rate. Governor  Mervyn King  and the other six members of the
Monetary Policy Committee, including Ben Broadbent, voted for no
change.  Adam Posen  kept up a call for more bond purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  