-- 
Ex-FrontPoint Hedge Fund Manager Skowron in Talks Over U.S. Fraud Charges

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ex-frontpoint-hedge-fund-manager-skowron-in-talks-over-u-s-fraud-charges.html
Chip Skowron, the ex-FrontPoint
Partners LLC hedge-fund manager charged as part of a nationwide
 insider trading  crackdown, is in talks with federal prosecutors
that may involve plea negotiations, according to court filings.  Skowron was charged in April by the office of U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in Manhattan with conspiracy, securities fraud and
obstruction. He was also sued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Prosecutors claimed he obtained nonpublic information from
Dr. Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and a former
adviser for Human Genome Sciences Inc. The tips concerned
hepatitis C drug trials and enabled Greenwich, Connecticut-based
FrontPoint to avoid more than $30 million in losses, the
government said. Benhamou has since pleaded guilty.  “Counsel for the defendant and I have had ongoing
discussions regarding a possible disposition of this case,”
Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Pablo Quinones wrote in court
papers filed June 13 in Skowron’s case. “We plan to continue
our discussions.”  More than a dozen people have been charged by Bharara’s
office since November in cases tied to so-called expert
networking firms. The consulting firms match hedge funds with
industry experts who provide market advice. At least nine people
have pleaded guilty or been convicted by a jury.  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert networking
firm Primary Global Research LLC, was convicted of securities
fraud and conspiracy June 20 in Manhattan federal court.  Nationwide Probe  The broader U.S. probe of insider trading has implicated
hedge funds, banks and insiders at technology companies. Bharara
said that, since he took office, his prosecutors have charged 49
people with insider trading and 44 have been convicted.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Debra Freeman in  New York  signed an
order June 13 granting prosecutors a one-month extension to
obtain an indictment against Skowron. Since May, the government
has twice obtained similar extensions in the case, according to
court records. James Benjamin Jr., Skowron’s lawyer, didn’t
return a call or e-mail seeking comment.  “This request can mean a whole range of things,” said
 Stephen Miller , a former federal prosecutor in New York and
Philadelphia who isn’t involved in the case. “It can mean
they’re talking about the actual plea discussions, how much jail
time is the government going to seek all the way to a prosecutor
badgering a defense lawyer about ‘When are you going to get your
client in to plead guilty?’” said Miller, now a partner at
Cozen O’Conner.  Seeking to Delay  The defendant may also be seeking a delay “to buy more
time to do more of an investigation or raise motions with the
court,” Miller added.  Skowron isn’t the only insider-trading defendant charged by
Bharara’s office who was granted an extension by a magistrate.  In May, Manosha Karunatilaka, a former account manager at
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. who was charged in
December, pleaded guilty to sharing nonpublic information about
the firm with Primary Global clients.  Karunatilaka was granted at least three extensions by U.S.
magistrates in Manhattan, according to court filings. He waived
indictment and pleaded guilty on May 11 to one count of
conspiracy to commit wire and  securities fraud .  Walter Shimoon, a consultant for Primary Global charged in
December with insider trading, obtained at least five
adjournments in his case, court records show. The most recent
granted prosecutors a delay until July 6.  Shimoon’s lawyer,  Henry Mazurek , declined to comment.  Four Extensions  In the case of Benhamou, prosecutors were granted four
extensions until he pleaded guilty in April to four counts
including conspiracy, securities fraud and making false
statements to the FBI.  Benhamou, of Neuilly-sur-Seine,  France , was charged last
year with insider-trading for allegedly tipping off a hedge fund
about the results of trials for the drug Albuferon.  The U.S. identified Skowron, of Greenwich, and FrontPoint
as the recipients of those tips on April 13. Skowron was accused
of providing benefits to Benhamou, including paying him more
than $14,600 in cash as well as providing gratuities such as
hotel rooms, the U.S. said.  “When Dr. Skowron needed information, Dr. Benhamou was
always on call, helping Skowron and his hedge fund illegally
benefit to the tune of $30 million,” Bharara said at a news
conference in April announcing the case against the  fund
manager .  FrontPoint oversaw $7 billion at the start of November
before Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of its health-care funds,
was tied to claims by prosecutors that the firm got advance
notice on drug-trial results.  FrontPoint’s assets slipped to $4.5 billion by January and
the firm closed its health-care funds. Benhamou’s lawyer, David Zornow, and  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for FrontPoint, declined to
comment. Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-00997, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  