-- 
Ex-Taylor, Bean CEO Paul Allen Sentenced to 40 Months in Prison for Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ex-taylor-bean-ceo-sentenced-to-40-months-in-prison-over-3-billion-fraud.html
Former Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp. chief executive officer  Paul Allen  sentenced to
about 3 1/2 years in prison in federal court in Virginia for his
role in a $3 billion fraud scheme.  Allen, 55, yesterday became the sixth person sent to prison
by U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema for participating in a
fraud that duped some of the largest U.S. financial
institutions. The scheme also targeted the federal bank bailout
program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based Colonial Bank and its parent, Colonial BancGroup Inc.  Prosecutors asked Brinkema to sentence Allen to six years
in prison. Allen, of Oakton, Virginia, pleaded guilty in April
to one count of conspiracy to commit bank and wire fraud and one
count of making false statements. He testified for the
government at the trial of  Taylor Bean ’s former chairman,  Lee Farkas .  “As TBW’s chief executive officer, Mr. Allen served as an
accomplice to Lee Farkas and his massive fraud scheme,”
Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , head of the Justice
Department’s criminal division, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “Today’s sentence sends a strong message that
corporate fraud by senior executives will not be tolerated.”  Sean Ragland, 37, a former senior financial analyst at
Taylor Bean who also pleaded guilty to the fraud, was sentenced
today to three months in prison.  The fraud scheme involved the sale of fictitious loans or
loans already owned by other investors.  A jury in Alexandria found Farkas guilty April 19 of 14
counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and  securities fraud  after
two-week trial. Farkas was taken into custody after the verdict
He is to be sentenced on June 30.  The cases are U.S. v. Allen, 11-cr-00165, and U.S. v.
Ragland, 11-cr-00162, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 