-- 
Existing-Home Sales in U.S. Probably Dropped in May to Lowest This Year

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-21T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/existing-home-sales-in-u-s-probably-dropped.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
probably fell in May to the lowest level this year, a sign that
housing lags behind other parts of the economy, economists said
before a report today.  Purchases fell 5 percent to a 4.8 million annual pace, the
fewest since November, according to the median forecast of 69
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A 13-year low 4.91
million existing houses were sold last year.  An  unemployment rate  hovering around 9 percent and strict
lending rules mean it may take years to absorb the 1.8 million
distressed properties on the market that are weighing down home
values. The state of the housing market is one reason why
Federal Reserve policy makers are likely to maintain record
stimulus when they meet this week.  “The housing recovery is still looking pretty distant,”
said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.
in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Buyers lack the confidence and
access to credit that are important to driving sales.”  The National Association of Realtors will release the
figures at 10 a.m. in Washington. Estimates for home sales in
the Bloomberg survey ranged from 4.5 million to 5.18 million.  The number of existing homes sold peaked at 7.08 million in
2005. Nonetheless, they comprise about 94 percent of all
purchases now, up from about 85 percent six years ago as
foreclosures and distressed sales lure some buyers.  Distressed Properties  The 1.8 million of inventory of distressed homes nationwide
would take about three years to sell at the current pace,  Daren Blomquist , communications manager at RealtyTrac Inc., said last
week.  Competition from existing homes selling at discounted
prices is hurting builders. Sales of new properties dropped 4
percent in May to a 310,000 annual pace, economists said ahead
of a June 23 report from the Commerce Department. A record-low
323,000 new homes were sold last year.  “We still see housing demand at very weak levels,” Bill
Wheat, chief financial officer at D.R. Horton Inc., the second-
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, said last month at a
housing conference in  New York . “It could still be a struggle
in 2012.”  Homebuilders are underperforming the overall market. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Homebuilding Index has declined 3.4
percent this year, compared with a 1.7 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 Index .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been among those
forecasting that the recent slowdown in growth will prove
temporary as commodity prices retreat. At the same time, the
central bank should maintain record stimulus to bolster a
“frustratingly slow” recovery, he said this month. Officials
are scheduled to meet in Washington today and tomorrow to
determine the course of policy.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  