-- 
Fayyad to Stay in Place as Palestinian Authority’s Premier

-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-06-21T17:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/fayyad-to-stay-in-place-as-palestinian-authority-s-premier-1-.html
Palestinian Authority Prime Minister
Salam Fayyad said he will resist pressure to resign and aims to
continue in office while the rival Hamas and Fatah factions try
to form a joint government.  Fayyad, speaking to reporters today in the West Bank city
of Ramallah, said he wants to at least complete his two-year
plan to build the institutions for Palestinian statehood that
are supposed to be ready in August.  “There’s an action plan that needs to be implemented,”
Fayyad said. At the same time, he said that he doesn’t want to
be an “obstacle to unity.”  Hamas, the Islamic movement that controls the  Gaza Strip ,
completed an agreement with Palestinian Authority President
Mahmoud Abbas May 4 to form a unity government with Fatah,
seeking to heal a four-year rift. The two sides agreed to set up
a transitional Cabinet of so-called technocrats with no
political affiliation and hold elections within a year.  A meeting to announce the new Cabinet that was scheduled
for today in Cairo was scrubbed.  Abbas said in an interview with Lebanese television
yesterday that he supports keeping Fayyad as prime minister,
according to the Palestinian Authority’s official Wafa news
agency. Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said in an e-mailed
statement to reporters today that Abbas’s insistence on Fayyad
as premier is a breach of the May 4 agreement.  The late Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat  named Fayyad his
finance minister in 2002. Fayyad isn’t a member of the Fatah
party and ran as an independent in the 2006 legislative
elections.  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by  Israel , the
U.S. and European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Jerusalem  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah through the Jerusalem newsroom at 
   fhodali@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg. 