-- 
Ford’s Fields Says Automaker Is ‘Back on Track’ on Quality

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-06-21T21:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ford-says-it-s-back-on-track-on-quality-performance.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said it’s “back on track” in improving the
quality of its vehicles and that performance in  North America 
will be mixed for the year.  The automaker is fixing defects in its MyFordTouch and Sync
technology and improving the software,  Mark Fields , president of
the Americas, told reporters today in Dearborn,  Michigan , where
Ford is based. The company said while reporting first-quarter
results in April that quality performance for the year would be
“mixed” after falling short of a goal to improve in the
period.  Ford’s Explorer sport-utility vehicle this month was ranked
17th out of 19 models in its class reviewed by  Consumer Reports ,
which called the touch-screen controls “complicated and
distracting.”  J.D. Power  & Associates said it had received
reports of the screens blanking out.  “We’re largely back on track on some of these early
issues,” Fields said.  Ford has reworked software on MyFordTouch to prevent random
rebooting that had afflicted the system, said Sue Cischke, vice
president of environmental and safety engineering. The touch
controls also have been recalibrated to respond more quickly to
a driver’s touch, she said.  Training Drivers  Ford is encouraging dealers to spend as much as 40 minutes
training drivers to use the system.  “If you’re trying to figure it out as you’re driving,
obviously that’s not a good thing to do,” Cischke said.  Ford disables some MyFordTouch functions, such as
navigation entry and accessing sports scores, when the car is
moving, said Wes Sherwood, a spokesman.  Cischke did not directly respond to the question of whether
Ford would consider locking out the touch-screen entirely while
the vehicle is in motion.  “What we allow when you’re driving is very limited
interaction,” she said. “What we’re encouraging people to do
is use the voice interaction.”  Communication may hinder Ford’s quality ratings as much as
its products because consumers may find MyFordTouch to be more
complicated than they expected, said  Jim Hall , an analyst at
2953 Analytics Inc. in Birmingham, Michigan.  ‘Problem Already’  “If you have to train customers to use your product, you
have a problem already from a customer-perception standpoint,”
he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has worked to improve
the automaker’s quality, and J.D. Power ranked Ford the
mainstream brand with the fewest defects last year. The gains
helped Ford report $9.28 billion in profit the past two years
after $30.1 billion in losses from 2006 to 2008.  “If you go back five years, their quality ratings were
extremely poor,” said Dennis Virag, president of The Automotive
Consulting Group Inc. “Under Mulally, he’s done a terrific job
of turning the company around.”  Ford rose 38 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $13.32 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
dropped 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in  Detroit  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Armstrong in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 