-- 
Freak Death, Frozen Pastry Mix in ‘4000 Miles’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-21T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/freak-death-false-teeth-frozen-pastry-mix-in-4000-miles-jeremy-gerard.html
Vera Joseph doesn’t have time to put
her teeth in when grandson Leo shows up at her West Village
apartment at 3 o’clock in the morning, grubby and reeking.  When he’s showered and changed after a bike ride from
 Seattle  that has cost the life of his best friend and traveling
partner, Leo hungrily tears into a pastry.  “Tell me if it’s completely thawed,” she says. “I got a
few of those free a month or two ago at the Senior Center.”  “4000 Miles,” Amy Herzog’s appealing new play, unfolds
with the unassuming ease of conversations overheard, among
people with complicated relationships.  Leo’s shambling grace barely conceals the determination of
a young man who knows his mind. He begs Vera not to call his
mother, frantic since his failure to show up at the friend’s
funeral. He chose instead to complete the trip solo.  Then there’s Leo’s girlfriend Bec, a college student with a
strong will of her own. When she appears, the physical
attraction of the two young people is as palpable as their
destiny is sealed.  Fine Details  Herzog is blessed with a smashing production, staged by
Daniel Aukin with an ear finely tuned to the nuances of language
at which the writer excels. Lauren Helpern’s beautifully
detailed apartment (comfy rooms, too many hallways -- perfect),
Japhy Weideman’s moody lighting and Kaye Voyce’s terrific
costumes set up the play with easygoing precision.  Best of all is a cast led by the great Mary Louise Wilson
as the acerbic yet tender Vera. Gabriel Ebert’s volatile Leo,
Zoe Winters’s fed-up Bec and Greta Lee’s flittery Amanda, (a
near-fling who serves primarily as comic relief), round it out.  “4000 Miles” shimmers with promise, a tribute to  Lincoln
Center Theater ’s LCT3 developmental arm, where tickets will run
you just $20. That’s a steal.  At the Duke on 42nd Street, 229 W. 42nd St. Information:
+1-646-223-3010;  http://www.dukeon42.org .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 