-- 
Fukushima Crisis Gives GE, BYD Opportunity in LEDs, Power Packs

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-06-21T01:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/fukushima-crisis-gives-ge-byd-opportunity.html
The video screen at the Marunouchi
subway entrance in  Tokyo  Station asks passing commuters to
“Please Help Us Save Energy,” a plea repeated throughout Japan
in television advertisements warning of summer power shortages.  More than three months after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami triggered the nuclear disaster at Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, lights are dimmed and escalators
remain shut off in subways and shopping centers. The push to
save energy is also creating opportunities for companies making
long-lasting light-emitting diode bulbs and backup power packs.  General Electric Co. and China’s BYD Co. -- the maker of
electric cars and appliances backed by  Warren Buffett  -- are
going up against  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to win a
bigger share of  Japan ’s $120 billion appliance market. As summer
approaches, the government has asked industries to cut power use
by 15 percent following the nuclear disaster.  “LED bulbs and cooling fans are moving quickly because
they are affordable to anyone who’s trying to save power,” said
Ayako Chano, a researcher at GfK Marketing Services Japan Ltd.,
a research firm.  GE in April agreed to sell 101 types of LED lamps through
the distribution network of Iris Ohyama Inc., a Japanese maker
of household products. BYD, based in Shenzhen, southern  China ,
will start selling backup power systems in Japan later this
month, said Sherry Li, a spokeswoman. The systems can power home
appliances such as refrigerators and medical equipment.  “There are still opportunities for foreign brands,
including the Chinese,” said Ikuo Suzuki, an analyst at
Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo. “Brands matter less for LEDs
and batteries than for TVs and refrigerators, especially if they
are cheaper and good quality.”  7-Eleven Solar Panels  Seven & I Holdings Co., the owner of the 7-Eleven chain,
said after the March 11 quake it’s investing 10 billion yen
($125 million) in energy-saving measures that include installing
solar panels at 1,000 stores and LED lamps at 5,000 outlets in
the Tokyo region. McDonald’s Holdings Co. (Japan) and  Lawson
Inc. (2651)  are using LED lights to cut energy use.  McDonald’s has also urged employees at its head office to
consider taking leave in the first week of August to help save
energy, said spokesman Kazuyuki Hagiwara.  LED lights consume less electricity and last longer than
traditional  light bulbs . They are used in ceiling lights, street
lamps, traffic signals and to illuminate flat-screen
televisions.  The rolling blackouts in March in the greater Tokyo area,
served by Tokyo Electric, have helped spur sales among
consumers. Sales of LED lamps doubled in Japan in April and May,
while cooling fans quadrupled, according to GfK Marketing’s
Chano.  ‘Big Push’  For Osaka-based Panasonic, the interest in LED lights and
battery packs ties in with the company’s “big push” in energy
conservation, according to company President Fumio Ohtsubo.  The company, Japan’s largest maker of home appliances, said
in January it plans to double LED production capacity in two
years. Panasonic may also start sales of power systems earlier
than planned, said  Akira Kadota , a Tokyo-based spokesman.  Sanyo Electric Co., Panasonic’s battery-making unit,
forecasts the global lithium-ion battery market will more than
triple to 5 trillion yen annually by 2020, driven by large-scale
batteries including backup power systems.  Sales of large-scale battery systems will probably expand
to at least 2 trillion yen a year, while batteries for
environment-friendly cars will reach 1.5 trillion yen, Sanyo
said in November. Consumer electronics will account for the
remaining 1.5 trillion yen of the 5 trillion yen global market,
Sanyo said.  Chinese Competition  BYD aims to sell more than 10,000 sets of its power systems
in Japan within two years, Li said, declining to comment on
prices. The company offers a model that can power a refrigerator
for as long as 20 hours, she said.  Toshiba will offer similar power systems this summer,
accelerating shipments in about a year, said  Keisuke Ohmori , a
spokesman. Toshiba plans to sell 20,000 units with power
capacity ranging from 1 kilowatt hour to 5 kilowatt hour, with
the smallest model probably priced around 500,000 yen, he said.  “We’ve received very strong responses from customers in
the Kanto region where planned power outages were carried out in
late March,” said Toshiyuki Sato, a manager for smart-grid
business promotion unit at Yamada Denki Co., Japan’s biggest
electronics retailer.  Still, forecasts show that Tokyo may avoid a repeat of last
year’s record heat wave as the La Nina weather pattern ends,
according to Koji Yamazaki, an atmospheric scientist at  Hokkaido
University  and a member of an extreme weather analysis team in
the  Japan Meteorological Agency .  Red Bars  Back at the Marunouchi subway, the video screen displays
figures for the electricity generating capacity of  Tokyo
Electric : 43,700 megawatts. It also shows how much is in use,
which was 79 percent or 34,720 megawatts as of 11 a.m. on June
16.  Public broadcaster NHK started an “electricity forecast”
segment during its news programs six times a day from June 1 for
viewers mainly in the Kanto region getting power from Tokyo
Electric.  The  bar chart  showing the usage rate will turn to red from
yellow as it reaches close to the utility’s supply limit,
alerting viewers of possible power shortages, NHK’s evening news
said May 31. So far, the chart hasn’t gone into the red, Tokyo
Electric said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  