-- 
Geithner Says Europe’s Leaders Failing to Speak With Unity on Greek Crisis

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-21T14:38:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/geithner-says-europe-s-leaders-failing-to-speak-with-unity-on-greek-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  criticized European leaders for failing to speak with
one voice on resolving  Greece ’s debt crisis.  “It would be very helpful to have Europe speak with a
clearer, more unified voice on the strategy,” Geithner said
today in Washington. “I think it’s very hard for people to
invest in Europe, within Europe and outside Europe, to
understand what the strategy is when you have so many people
talking.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  faces a confidence
vote in his government today that may determine whether Greece
becomes the first euro-area country to default. Euro-area
finance chiefs, pushing Greece to pass the laws needed to cut
its deficit and sell state assets, yesterday left open whether
the country will get the full 12 billion euros ($17 billion)
promised for July as part of last year’s 110 billion-euro
international rescue package.  Speaking at a forum sponsored by the Wall Street Journal,
Geithner said  Europe  has to agree on a strategy on Greece and
communicate that to the markets.  Geithner said he told Group of Seven leaders over the
weekend that the European Union has “a very substantial
financial arsenal” at its disposal and needs to ensure that it
is “available to be deployed to do the kind of things they need
to do to make this process work.”  “That means make it available so banks can be
recapitalized where they need capital, to make sure there is a
funding available to the banking system,” he said. There “is
no reason why Europe cannot manage these problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  