-- 
Gensler Evolving in Derivatives War Sees No Deed Go Unpunished

-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 
2011-06-21T23:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/gensler-evolving-in-derivatives-war-sees-no-deed-go-unpunished.html
Gary Gensler , chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, took his seat before a
Senate appropriations subcommittee on May 4 to make his case for
a $106 million budget increase.  Without the money, Gensler said, his agency wouldn’t be
able to perform its new job of policing roughly $300 trillion in
U.S. over-the-counter derivatives, a market that includes the
credit-default swaps that helped push the  U.S. economy  into the
worst recession in 70 years, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its August issue.  “In 2008, both the financial system and the financial
regulatory system failed the test for the American public,”
Gensler, 53, told the senators. “An investment in the CFTC is
warranted, because, as we saw in 2008, without oversight of the
swaps market, billions of taxpayer dollars may be at risk.”  Even before Gensler had a chance to make his rounds at the
Republican-controlled House, he got its response. Representative
Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican, proposed a spending bill on
May 23 that called for a 15 percent CFTC budget cut to $172
million.  Although the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act required the commission to write and enforce more
than 50 new rules regulating derivatives trading and commodities
futures, Gensler, who’d gotten an increase for the current year,
needed to tighten his belt starting on Oct. 1, as at other
agencies, Kingston said.  ‘Thinking Has Evolved’  The news was the latest blow to the former Wall Streeter,
who has been knocked around repeatedly since he began advocating
in 2009 that the huge derivatives market had to be controlled --
and that his CFTC was the agency to do it.  As a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partner and then Treasury
undersecretary, Gensler had lined up with the hands-off-
derivatives crowd behind the $601 trillion global market.  He says the near-collapse of the world’s financial system
changed his mind about regulation.  “My thinking has evolved,” Gensler says in his ninth-
floor  Washington  office, which is decorated with artwork by his
three daughters. “I was part of the consensus view on
derivatives, and it’s fair to say that the consensus missed it.
We should have done more to protect the American people.”  Gensler is an unlikely agitator for reform. While he was at
the Treasury, the administration of President  Bill Clinton 
refused to regulate OTC derivatives, the financial instruments
that derive their value from an underlying asset. Gensler helped
push an anti-regulation bill through Congress in 2000.  ‘Deregulatory Orientation’  When President  Barack Obama  tapped him to head the CFTC in
December 2008, Vermont’s independent senator, Bernie Sanders,
said Gensler was beholden to Wall Street and blocked the
nomination.  Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat, foresaw more of the
same anti-regulation sentiment.  “I remain concerned about the deregulatory orientation in
this nominee’s past,” he said.  Gensler faced confirmation hearings in February 2009 when
the financial universe was on shaky ground. Companies worldwide
had taken almost $1.45 trillion in writedowns and eliminated
about 250,000 jobs.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  had plunged 33 percent in
2008 as unregulated trading in credit-default swaps, a form of
OTC derivative that banks and hedge funds used to insure against
loan defaults, brought down American International Group Inc.
and helped sink Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  AIG Bailout  AIG had run a lucrative business selling the swaps, which
paid out if debt investments, including the subprime mortgage
securities fashioned by Wall Street, defaulted. When AIG
couldn’t meet its obligations, the government bailed out the
insurer to the tune of $182.5 billion in 2008 and 2009.  During the hearings, Gensler pledged that he’d bring the
unregulated swaps market under control. And he agreed with
Sanders that the CFTC, which already regulated commodities
futures from orange juice to crude oil, would tighten rules to
curb speculative trading.  The Senate confirmed him by a vote of 88 to 6 in May 2009.
After that, he lobbied lawmakers to give the CFTC more power and
was the only agency chief to sit through the final 20 hours of
House-Senate committee negotiations on Dodd-Frank.  A runner who’d completed a 50-mile ultramarathon in 2007,
Gensler shows off a photo of the participants gathered around a
conference table at 5 a.m. on June 25, 2010.  “I wanted to be there,” says Gensler, recalling the Dodd-
Frank victory.  ‘Ganging Up’  Gensler has had little time to savor the win. Former
banking colleagues, lawmakers and corporate America are doing
all they can to slow his regulation drive.  “Everyone’s ganging up on him -- Wall Street, the GOP,
Fortune 500 companies,” says  Michael Greenberger , a University
of Maryland law professor and a former CFTC director of trading
and markets. “All this fighting is making getting the
regulation right more difficult.”  The CFTC commissioners voted 5 to 0 on June 14 to postpone
the rules regulating derivatives trading until Dec. 31, 2011.
Some parts of Dodd-Frank that relate to swaps rules were set to
take effect on July 16. The agency hasn’t finished many of the
details, such as which banks and hedge funds will be designated
as swaps dealers.  “It’s a lot on our agenda,” Gensler said at the CFTC
meeting in Washington.  Wall Street Profits  Wall Street has emerged as Gensler’s biggest nemesis.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
Goldman and Morgan Stanley controlled 96 percent of the $321
trillion derivatives contracts held by U.S. banks in the first
quarter, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency says. The
$321 trillion notional amount represents the estimated value of
the assets that underlie the derivatives.  Goldman and the others make more than $30 billion in annual
profit in financial derivatives trading, according to financial
consultant  Oliver Wyman , a unit of Marsh & McLennan Cos., the
world’s second-biggest insurance broker.  Dodd-Frank would weaken that grip. The law, which gives the
CFTC regulatory powers over 80 percent of the U.S. derivatives
market, pushes as much swaps trading as possible onto futures
exchanges and to new trading platforms called swap execution
facilities.  Dodd-Frank also specifies that most swaps trades be settled
through clearinghouses, which require firms to pay membership
fees, provide money to cover trades and have minimum amounts of
capital. Before Dodd-Frank, banks, insurance companies and hedge
funds weren’t required to set aside money to cover potential
losses. They made their own agreements about how much
collateral, if any, to put up. The CFTC is writing the rules
that govern the specifics for its portion of the market.  New Battleground  “Wall Street has moved the battleground from the halls of
Congress to the corridors of CFTC,” says  Tyson Slocum , director
of the energy program at consumer advocate Public Citizen, who
backs tighter regulation of swaps markets.  Goldman executives  came calling  at the CFTC 52 times from
last August to mid-June, according to the agency’s website.
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  managers paid 33 visits and JPMorgan Chase
officials dropped by 26 times in the same period. It isn’t just
big banks that are pestering Gensler: Asset manager BlackRock
Inc. came for 25 meetings; hedge fund Citadel LLC had 15.  ‘Perfect Lobbying Storm’  “This is a perfect lobbying storm,” says Marcus Stanley,
policy director of Americans for Financial Reform, which is
seeking greater regulation. “The people who understand the most
about the fine print are the ones making money.”  Capitol Hill is buzzing with anti-reform sentiment. The
House Financial Services Committee approved a bill by a vote of
30 to 24 in May that called on the CFTC to delay implementing
any swaps rules until Sept. 30, 2012.  Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the committee’s
chairman, says regulators need more time and information.
Bachus, a Republican, raised about $1.1 million last year from
political committees of banks, securities and investment firms,
real-estate and insurance companies and their employees,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks
campaign finance.  Democratic Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand
of  New York , joined by all 16 of the state’s House members,
wrote to Gensler on May 17, seeking exemptions for Wall Street
from parts of the derivatives rules. Last year, Schumer raised
$5.1 million from the political committees of the banks and
other sources that the Center for Responsive Politics noted for
Bachus. Gillibrand raised $2.4 million.  900 Meetings  Wall Street and its political allies aren’t the only would-
be spoilers. Gensler and his staff have held a total of more
than 900 meetings, including hundreds with lobbyists ranging
from Delta Air Lines Inc. to the National Petroleum Refiners
Association.  Under Dodd-Frank, swaps users must set aside money to cover
potential losses. Airlines and utilities that use derivatives to
hedge against price fluctuations are seeking exemptions, arguing
that such margin requirements would force them to tie up
millions of dollars. Under CFTC  proposals , for example, a
corporation that trades more than $100 million in swaps may not
be eligible for any exemptions.  Even brewers are challenging Gensler. Craig Reiners,
commodities-risk manager at MillerCoors LLC, the No. 2 U.S. beer
company, says that if the cost of hedging rises significantly,
swaps may no longer be economical for corporations. A 3 percent
margin requirement would drain more than $500 million in
liquidity from the beermaker, he says.  Representative Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican, warned
that such rules could raise the price of a cold draft.  ‘Price of a Six-Pack’  “I think you just got the attention of the American
people,” Hensarling said at a House Financial Services
Committee  hearing  on Feb. 15.  Gensler, who doesn’t drink alcohol, was quick to respond.
“We’re aware and focused on the cost of a six-pack,” he said.  Gensler’s own commissioners are throwing up roadblocks. The
Republicans on the five-member board,  Scott O’Malia  and Jill Sommers, are undercutting him on key regulations. Democrat
Michael Dunn has questioned the CFTC proposal on position
limits. In December, O’Malia offered an amendment on a proposal
that would have required swaps dealers to provide prices to all
market users before any trade, according to CFTC director of
public affairs  Scott Schneider . Gensler retracted the proposal
and the board approved a revised proposal a week later, which
allowed a buyer to see prices from a select number of traders.  SEC’s Shadow  Operating in the glare of global finance is a change for
the CFTC, which has labored in the shadow of the Securities and
Exchange Commission. President Gerald Ford created the agency in
1974 to oversee futures trading in all commodities, replacing
the Commodity Exchange Authority.  The most-recent serious attempt to regulate OTC derivatives
began in 1998. Gensler, then assistant Treasury secretary,
worked with Secretary Robert Rubin and Rubin’s deputy, Lawrence Summers. The three joined former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan to torpedo a proposal by CFTC Chairman Brooksley Born
to regulate swaps.  Gensler, who says he recused himself from many discussions
because of his Goldman background, says the conventional wisdom
was that markets were capable of regulating themselves. Two
years later, he was one of the Treasury officials responsible
for shepherding the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000
through Congress.  Position Limits  Sponsored by Republican senators Phil Gramm of Texas,
Richard Lugar of Indiana and introduced by Representative Thomas Ewing of Illinois, the bill exempted OTC derivatives from
regulation and oversight.  Now, Gensler’s rules would curb the clout of big
derivatives players. The CFTC has proposed a 20 percent limit on
the stake that financial companies can own in clearinghouses and
exchanges. And it wants clearinghouses to allow firms with as
little as $50 million in capital to become members.  Dodd-Frank also gives Gensler power to set trading curbs,
called position limits, that would rein in speculation in his
existing bailiwick: commodities futures and related swaps. He
says speculation in oil futures sent crude prices above $140 a
barrel in 2008 and gasoline to around $4 a gallon. Crude oil was
trading around $94 a barrel on June 21.  “Position limits help to protect the markets both in times
of clear skies and when there is a storm on the horizon,” he
says.  Gensler’s critics say he’s meddling too much. John Damgard,
president of the Futures Industry Association, which represents
futures and options markets, says the CFTC shouldn’t use
position limits to curb speculation.  ‘Overreaching’  “He’s overreaching his authority,” Damgard says. The
futures markets are used mainly by corporations to hedge their
fuel and commodities costs and by institutional investors and
hedge funds. “The people using our markets are not some little
old lady. They are sophisticated institutional investors who
wouldn’t use these instruments if they thought the market was
not functioning,” he says.  Public Citizen’s Slocum isn’t buying that argument. He says
the groups lined up against Dodd-Frank are the same ones
profiting from trading swaps.  “Banks make money when there is less transparency,” he
says.  Gensler, now at the center of high finance, grew up with
his twin brother, Robert, in a working-class Baltimore
neighborhood. Their father owned a vending-machine business. The
brothers studied math in a program at Johns Hopkins University
for gifted teenagers.  ‘Brilliant Even Then’  Both went to the University of  Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School . Gary graduated summa cum laude from Wharton in 1978 with
a bachelor’s of science in economics and then earned his MBA
there in 1979. Robert ended up at Salomon Brothers and is now a
vice president and portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price Group Inc.
in Baltimore.  “Robert and Gary were brilliant even then,” says Daniel Alpert, a classmate and a founding managing partner at New York
investment bank Westwood Capital LLC. “You couldn’t tell them
apart, but Gary was maybe more public-minded and active in
student affairs.”  Gary joined Goldman in 1979 and made partner in 1988, the
same year as did future CEO  Lloyd Blankfein . Gensler, at 30, was
one of the youngest partners; Blankfein was 34.  Gensler advised the National Football League in 1990
television negotiations, winning a record contract that earned
each team $32 million a year, up from $17 million in the
previous pact. He spent three years in  Tokyo  heading currency
trading and fixed income before returning to New York to serve
as co-head of finance.  New Challenge  Gensler says he was looking for a new challenge after 18
years on Wall Street. He joined the Treasury in 1997 as
assistant secretary for financial markets.  “He brought market savvy,” says Gensler’s boss, then-
Undersecretary John Hawke.  Gensler provided market expertise as the Treasury
eliminated three-year notes in 1998 and reduced sales of five-
year notes to once a quarter from monthly auctions.  As for promoting Wall Street interests: “I never saw
anything that indicated any proclivity to Goldman Sachs views or
positions,” says Hawke, who became comptroller of the currency
before joining the law firm Arnold & Porter in 2004.  Identical twin Robert, younger by three minutes, was the
mischievous one. Gensler says Robert would get a kick out of
breezing by Treasury security guards and Rubin congratulated
Robert by mistake when Gary was sworn in.  Gensler left the Treasury in 2001 and joined the staff of
Senator Paul Sarbanes of Maryland as a senior adviser. He helped
write the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act on corporate finance. The same
year, he published “The Great Mutual Fund Trap: An Investment
Recovery Plan” with now-JPMorgan counsel Gregory Baer.  Daughters Weigh In  The book lambasted the $24 trillion industry for
maintaining that managers could beat the market while charging
high fees. Gensler advocated that investors switch to index
funds, even though his twin was a star stock picker.  Gensler, who’d moved his family to his native Baltimore in
2004, became a single father in 2006 when his wife, Francesca
Danieli, died from breast cancer. He stayed in Baltimore until
last year so that his daughters -- Anna, now 21, Lee, 19, and
Isabel, 14 -- could remain in familiar surroundings.  His daughters nudged him back into the limelight. “The
girls were saying, ‘Dad, you’ve got to get out of the house,’”
Gensler says.  21,000 Comments  He joined  Hillary Clinton ’s presidential campaign as senior
economic adviser. After Clinton conceded, he says he was
recruited by Obama’s team.  Since he became the CFTC nominee, the former Goldman
partner has been slammed for everything from a potential rise in
the price of a six-pack to what banks say are unfair efforts to
stymie their business.  The pressure isn’t stopping. Gensler and his staff received
more than 21,000 public  comments  on their proposals as of mid-
June and have finished only one of the 50-odd rules they’re
responsible for. He slogged to Capitol Hill 12 times from
December to mid-June   defending his agency and asking for
money.  “We don’t have the resources to monitor a market seven
times the size of futures markets,” he says.  Wall Street isn’t going away. Almost every day, there’s a
new objection to Dodd-Frank designed to reduce the law’s impact
and keep profits in derivatives markets flowing.  Once a member of the banking elite that talks about
generating revenue and maximizing profits, Gensler says he has
left that world behind.  “It’s appropriate for people to have different points of
view,” he says of the former colleagues and other detractors
who have united against him. “My role is to work for the whole
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 