-- 
Georgia’s $1 Billion Issue Leads Week as Sales Slow Over 2010: Muni Credit

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-06-21T18:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/georgia-s-1-billion-issue-leads-week-as-sales-slow-over-2010-muni-credit.html
Georgia , one of seven top-rated U.S.
states, led this week’s sales with $998 million in general-
obligation debt as the pace of municipal-bond deals slows
compared with the same period last year.  Georgia sold 10-year bonds priced to yield 2.63 percent, in
line with top-rated tax-exempts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread on Georgia 10-year general-obligation
bonds sold in 2007 and due December 2017, narrowed to about 0.18
point above 6-year a top-rated benchmark June 16 from 0.68
percentage point on Nov. 19, Bloomberg data show.  The state was expected to sell its bonds at low rates amid
continued demand for high-quality securities and reduced supply,
said Michael Brooks, a senior portfolio manager who oversees $30
billion in munis at AllianceBernstein Holding LP. The deal
dominates this week’s calendar, which anticipates about $5.5
billion will be offered.  “There’s really such a lack of issuance,” he said by
telephone. “There are people who are desperate” and will buy
the debt at low rates.  Proceeds from Georgia’s offering will go toward education
and highway projects as well as refund debt. The state sold $77
million in taxable qualified school construction bonds under the
federal economic-stimulus program that covers the interest costs
for issuers on education projects. The funds will help build and
equip schools, said Lee McElhannon, director of bond finance at
the state commission.  Education Projects  Money in the sale will fund higher-education projects, such
as $35 million for a new biology building at  Georgia Southern
University  in Statesboro; $16.5 million for a new nursing
building at the  University of West Georgia  in Carrollton and
$7.6 million for a teacher education and learning center at the
 College of Coastal Georgia  in Brunswick, he said.  About $440 million of the offering will refund bonds to get
lower yields, McElhannon said.  Georgia will have $8.8 billion in outstanding borrowing as
of July 1, according to its  preliminary offering statement .  The state has a “moderate” debt burden, Moody’s Investors
Service said in June 17 report. Debt per capita of $1,103 ranked
24th among the 50 states, the report said.  Fitch Ratings  in a June 16 report cited the state’s
“rapid” amortization of principal, with 69 percent due in 10
years.  Weekly Issuance  States and municipalities are set to sell about 63 percent
of the average of $8.7 billion for the same period in the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers
have so far this year sold about half of the amount of the same
period in 2010, the data show.  Brooks, at AllianceBernstein, said municipal governments
are wary about issuing bonds in the current economic climate. In
addition, he said that elected officials may face “political
risk” if they borrow money for construction projects while
cutting budgets and jobs.  “Mom and Pop don’t understand the difference between
operating expenditures and  capital expenditures ,” Brooks said.  The municipal market was “kind of uncertain” as
withdrawals from U.S. municipal-bond funds resumed last week,
said Daniel Solender, who oversees $14 billion as head of
municipal bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Withdrawals Resume  Investors withdrew a net $172 million from U.S. municipal-
bond mutual funds, data from Lipper US Fund Flows showed. The
disposals resumed from the week before, when the funds logged
their first net addition since November.  “There still appears to be money around for investment
based upon bond-coupon payments and calls, so if deals are
priced correctly, there is a good amount of interest,” Solender
said in an e-mail.  Issuers yesterday were paying 2.64 percent on top-rated 10-
year securities, compared with 2.575 percent on June 6, the
lowest since mid-November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY, which funds
capital needs of the most-populous U.S. city, will sell $200
million in tax-exempt building aid revenue bonds and $100
million in taxable school construction bonds as soon as
tomorrow. The securities, which carry the fourth-highest
investment grade from Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s , will be
issued via competitive sale.  (Added June 21)  KENTUCKY STATE PROPERTY & BUILDINGS COMMISSION , which sells
debt on behalf of the state with a 9.8 percent unemployment
rate, higher than the national 9.1 percent will issue $362
million in tax-exempt revenue and revenue refunding bonds as
soon as today. Proceeds will be divided between $110 million for
new projects and refunding of $150 million for a savings of $17
million and restructuring of $127 million, according to Tom Howard, executive director of the state’s Office of Financial
Management. The bonds are rated A+, fifth-highest, by S&P.
Citigroup Inc. will lead the sale.  (Added June 21)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  