-- 
German Investor Confidence Fell More Than Forecast to Two-Year Low in June

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-21T09:53:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/german-investor-confidence-falls-in-june.html
Investor confidence in  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest economy, dropped to the lowest in 2 1/2 years
in June as the region’s debt crisis dimmed the economic outlook.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, fell to -9 from
3.1 in May. That’s the lowest since January, 2009. Economists
expected a decline to -3, according to the median of 37
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX index (DAX)  has shed about 4 percent
since reaching this year’s high on May 2 as investors grow
increasingly concerned that Greece will default on its debts.
The  U.S. economy  is also slowing, clouding export prospects. So
far, Germany’s economy remains unscathed. The Bundesbank on June
10 raised its growth forecast for this year to 3.1 percent from
2.5 percent, saying the country is enjoying a “broad-based
upturn.”  “The ZEW’s drop looks scary at first and was no doubt
prompted by the cooling in the U.S. economy and the ongoing
Greek saga,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in
Hanover. “However, bearing in mind that the German economy was
showing signs of overheating in recent months, it merely signals
a welcome slowdown in growth, not a collapse.”  ZEW’s gauge of current economic conditions eased to 87.6
from 91.5. The euro fell about a quarter of a U.S. cent after
the report before recovering to $1.4334 at noon in Frankfurt.  Debt Crisis  Companies have ramped up investment and hiring to meet
booming orders from Asian markets, helping drive economic
expansion of 1.5 percent in the first quarter.  Germany’s  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest
maker of luxury cars, said on June 8 that it had the most
successful May ever, with deliveries rising 22 percent.  Still,  Celesio AG (CLS1) , Europe’s biggest drug wholesaler, said
on June 16 that profit may fall this year, partly as austerity
measures crimp spending in European markets.  “The worsening debt crisis in several European countries
is affecting our business more and more strongly,” Chief
Executive Officer Fritz Oesterle said that day.  The  International Monetary Fund  on June 17 cut its forecast
for U.S. growth in 2011 for the second time in two months. The
Washington-based fund said that further setbacks to the economic
recovery along with potential contagion from the European debt
crisis pose increasing threats to global growth.  Greek Vote  In Europe, governments are struggling to restore investor
confidence and avert the region’s first sovereign default. The
government of Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is
teetering after European leaders failed to agree on releasing a
loan payment that would spare Greece from default as domestic
resistance to budget cuts intensifies. Papandreou faces a vote
of confidence in parliament later today.  European economic confidence fell for a third month in May
and manufacturing growth weakened. The longer the crisis drags
on, “the worse the risk to other countries,” Goldman Sachs
Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said on June 17.  Investors “are certainly too pessimistic,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “The German
economy will cool, but that doesn’t mean growth will be very
weak and that we’re entering a downturn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  