-- 
Gingrich Top Fundraisers Quit in Latest Blow to His Presidential Campaign

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-06-21T19:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/gingrich-top-fundraisers-quit-in-latest-blow-to-his-presidential-campaign.html
Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s
two top fundraising aides resigned today, delivering the latest
blow to the Republican’s struggling presidential campaign.  Fundraising director Jody Thomas and fundraising consultant
Mary Heitman quit the campaign, said Gingrich spokesman R.C.
Hammond.  More than a dozen of the candidate’s staff members resigned
on June 9, including the national co-chairman, campaign manager,
longtime spokesman and aides in  Iowa , a state that votes early
in the nomination race. Hammond said the campaign has more than
a dozen aides remaining.  “We are raising the money for Newt to run the issues-
oriented campaign he wants to run,” he said in an interview.  The June 9 resignations resulted from discord within the
campaign over strategy, the role of the candidate’s wife
Callista and money problems, aides and supporters said.  Gingrich, 68, of  Georgia , officially declared his bid for
the Republican presidential nomination on May 11. Days later, he
was on the defensive within party circles after he referred to a
proposal to privatize Medicare offered by House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, as “radical
change” and a form of “right-wing social engineering” in an
appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The comments drew criticism from other Republicans, and
Gingrich later called Ryan to apologize.  Campaign Debt  The NBC interview caused top fundraisers to begin defecting
over concern about Gingrich’s ability to convey a disciplined
campaign message, said a Republican strategist with knowledge of
the campaign’s finances who requested anonymity in discussing
the matter after the June 9 resignations. Gingrich had
accumulated a seven-figure campaign debt, the strategist also
said.  Separately, Gingrich has sought and received a 45-day
extension from the  Federal Election Commission  allowing him to
wait until July 25 to file his personal financial disclosure
form.  The report is expected to disclose his personal income and
the status of a line of credit of as much as $500,000 at Tiffany
& Co., the New York-based jewelry store. It also may shed light
on income Gingrich earns from the mix of private endeavors he
established since leaving Congress in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  