-- 
Gloom Lifts on Music as Vevo, Spotify Add Customers

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-06-23T15:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/gloom-lifts-on-music-in-cannes-as-vevo-spotify-add-customers.html
(Corrects Vevo’s ownership structure in first paragraph of
story published June 21.)  The  music industry  may emerge from
its post-Napster doldrums as legal music-streaming services such
as Vivendi SA- and Sony Corp.-backed Vevo add users and
companies step up music sponsorship.  Record companies  are “coming through the pain” by halting
revenue declines, Rob Wells, president of the global digital
business at  Universal Music Group , said at the  Cannes Lions 
media conference today.  Music companies are experimenting with new business models
to reverse a slump in revenue that followed the rise of Napster
and other music-sharing services. Global music sales dropped to
$15.9 billion in 2010 from $27.2 billion in 1998, according to
the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.
Napster was formed in 1999.  Sponsorship by brands -- for example by offering users free
downloads in exchange for watching an ad -- is also gaining pace
as an alternate source of revenue.  “I would argue half the revenue of the industry in a few
years will come from brands,” Laura Lang, chief executive
officer of digital marketing agency Digitas, said in Cannes.  Vevo, whose owners include Vivendi’s Universal Music Group
and  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s music division, provides advertising-supported
music videos in the U.S., U.K. and  Canada  and provides live
coverage of performances.  Online Jukebox  London-based Spotify offers some free, ad-supported music
over the Internet. It reached agreements with three major record
labels and is close to a close with the fourth, Warner Music
Group, to start a U.S. version of its online music service,
people with knowledge of the talks said this month.  The potential of the music industry to grow again has
attracted some unlikely backers. Last month Napster co-founder
 Sean Parker  said he’s looking at investing in traditional music
companies, whose back catalogs are “going to become extremely
valuable,” as online jukebox services proliferate.  Still, music marketers have to be wary of bombarding
listeners with ads.  “We have to find a balance between something that feels
too commercial and quality entertainment,” Vevo CEO Rio Caraeff
said. “That’s one of the key tension points for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Cannes via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  