-- 
Gome Electrical Says It’s Suing Ex-Chairman Chen for Breach of Agreement

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-21T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/gome-says-it-s-suing-ex-chairman-chen-in-beijing-for-breach-of-agreement.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd.,  China ’s second-largest electronics retailer, said it
filed a lawsuit in Beijing against former chairman  Chen Xiao 
for breaching an agreement to protect the company’s reputation.  Chen broke the agreement by giving “false and misleading
company information to a finance newspaper reporter” that
damaged Gome’s reputation and operations, the company said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Chen said he wasn’t aware
of a lawsuit filed against him and declined to comment further
when reached by phone yesterday.  Chen had resigned in March after losing a boardroom battle
with Gome’s billionaire founder  Huang Guangyu , who fought from
prison to reassert his influence over the company after being
jailed on bribery and insider trading charges. Gome on May 11
fell the most in almost two months in  Hong Kong  trading after
the 21st Century Business Herald carried remarks by Chen.  The retailer on May 11 said it didn’t agree with Chen’s
comments as reported by the newspaper and that it would “take
appropriate steps to protect the company’s interests.”  Gome gained 4.3 percent to HK$2.94 yesterday, before the
statement was released. The stock has gained 5 percent this
year, compared with a 5.1 percent drop for the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  The lawsuit is part of Gome’s efforts to address “any
doubts on the company’s business,” said Xiaopo Wei, a Hong
Kong-based consumer analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets who
recommends buying the stock.  Gome in March reported a 39 percent increase in net income
to 1.96 billion yuan ($303 million) for 2010, the fastest
annual profit growth in four years.  Huang had fought for control over the company with
shareholders including Bain Capital LLC, saying he disagreed
with the slower rate of store openings under Chen, whom the
private-equity fund had supported. Gome earlier in March said
it aims to add outlets to raise its share of China’s home
appliances market from about 10 percent.  The company is also expanding in the Internet-commerce
market as it competes with larger rival Suning Appliance Co.  -- Michael Wei  and Michelle Yun. With assistance from Marco Lui
in Hong Kong. Editors: Frank Longid, Tan Hwee Ann  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  