-- 
U.S. Should Do More for Job Growth, Gross Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-21T15:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/government-should-do-more-to-foster-job-growth-gross-says.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
U.S. government must do more to support employment growth.  “What we’ve been able to apply in the last 20 years is a
financial based employment structure where the magic of finance
and asset appreciation” generated jobs, Gross said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “That model no longer applies. We need to go back to
the manufacturing roots of this country as opposed to the
financial roots.”  The U.S. economy lost more than 8.7 million jobs since
January 2008. The jobless rate hit a 26-year high of 10.1
percent in October 2009 and was 9.1 percent last month.  “It’s fiction to assume those people can all move to
Silicon Valley and create the next Facebook,” Gross said in the
interview. “We need to put them to work doing something and
producing a product that the rest of the world wants.”  Nonfarm payrolls grew in May by 54,000, the smallest
increase in eight months, after a gain of 232,000 in the
previous month, the Labor Department reported June 3. The median
forecast of 89 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 165,000.  “We should not rely solely on job or corporate-direct
payroll tax credits because corporations may not take enough of
that bait,” Gross wrote in a monthly investment outlook
published today on Pimco’s website. “Government must step up to
the plate, as it should have in early 2009.”  Job Creation   Unemployment has been one of the main challenges facing the
 U.S. economy  since the global financial crisis began. It is also
expected to be one of the main topics of the next presidential
election, he said.  “Neither party has an awareness of the why or the
wherefores of how to put America back to work again,” Gross, 67,
wrote in his commentary. “It is becoming obvious that the 2012
election will be fought on a battlefield of job creation.”  The U.S. “labor force is too expensive and poorly educated
for today’s marketplace,” Gross wrote. “If we are to compete
globally while maintaining a higher wage base, we must train for
’middle’ in addition to ‘high tech.’ Philosophy, sociology and
liberal arts agendas will no longer suffice. Skill-based
education is a must, as is science and math.”  Under its “new normal” philosophy,  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco expects a shrinking global role for the
U.S. economy following the 2008 financial crisis.  Manufacturing Erosion  “The past several decades have witnessed an erosion of our
manufacturing base in exchange for reliance on wealth creation
via financial assets,” Gross wrote. “Now as that road
approaches a dead-end cul-de-sac via  interest rates  that can go
no lower, we are left untrained, underinvested and over-indebted
relative to our global competitors.”  The  Federal Reserve  has left its target rate for overnight
loans between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “The private sector is the source of long-term job
creation, but in the short-term, no rational observer can
believe that global or even small businesses will invest here
when the labor over ‘there’ is so much cheaper,” Gross wrote.
“That is why trillions of dollars of corporate cash rest
impotently on balance sheets awaiting global-non-U.S.-investment
opportunities.”  Pimco’s $243 billion Total Return Fund handed investors a
return of 6.99 percent in the past year, beating about 74
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , managed $1.3
trillion of assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  