-- 
Danish Opposition to Euro Rises in Poll

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-21T06:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/greece-debt-crisis-pushes-danish-euro-opposition.html
Danish opposition to joining the
euro rose to a record high as the currency bloc’s debt crisis
made voters favor the krone, according to a poll published by
Danske Bank A/S.  The lead of the ‘no’ bloc widened to 16.5 percentage points
to reach 56.7 percent in June, compared with a 9.9 point lead in
March, according to the poll released today by  Denmark ’s biggest
bank and conducted by Copenhagen-based  Statistics Denmark . The
poll puts opposition to the euro at the highest since the
currency was introduced in 1999.  Danes, who rejected the euro in a 2000 referendum, have
grown more skeptical of euro adoption as  Greece ’s debt plight
puts  Europe ’s single currency through its toughest test since
its inception 12 years ago. The region’s monetary union may not
survive as taxpayers in Germany balk at the prospect of bailing
out governments that failed to comply with Europe’s fiscal
rules, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said
yesterday.  “As well as the debt crisis in southern Europe and
Ireland, the ‘no’ camp surge is probably also due to the Danish
central bank having narrowed the official interest rate spread
to the eurozone,” Steen Bocian, chief economist at Danske Bank,
said in the statement. “Hence, the costs of not being part of
the eurozone appear significantly less than just a little more
than two years ago.”  Next Referendum?  The central bank on April 7 raised its benchmark lending
rate to 1.3 percent from 1.05 percent, matching a quarter-point
increase by the  European Central Bank  to 1.25 percent and
keeping the spread between the rates at 5 basis points. In
October 2008, Denmark raised its rate to an eight-year high of
5.5 percent to protect the krone as the credit crisis spread.
That increase brought the difference between Danish and euro
area benchmark rates to 175 basis points.  Denmark’s central bank uses monetary policy to maintain the
krone’s peg to the euro in a 2.25 percent band. Governor Nils Bernstein has said he supports joining the currency.  “The next euro referendum shouldn’t be held until it’s
clear that the answer will be yes, because otherwise it’ll be a
long time before one can hold another vote on the matter,”
Bernstein said yesterday in an interview.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 13 cut Greece’s credit rating by
three levels to CCC, the world’s lowest debt grade. The Greek
government needs a parliamentary vote on a 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) five-year package of budget cuts and asset sales by
next month to ensure the country receives a new European Union
aid package to avoid the euro-area’s first default.  Bond Yield  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  faces a confidence 
vote later today as lawmakers decide whether to accept the 
austerity package.  Greek 10-year yields jumped 40 basis points yesterday to
17.34 percent as speculation the country may face bankruptcy
continues. The yield on Denmark’s 10-year bond eased 2 basis
points yesterday to 3.12 percent, compared with a 1 basis point
decline on  Germany ’s 10-year bund to 2.95 percent. The
difference between yields on Danish and German government debt
is smaller than that of any euro member.  “It remains uncertain when the Danes will again vote on
joining the euro,” Bocian said, adding there won’t be a
referendum before the country’s general elections, due to be
held no later than November.  Social-Democrat leader Helle Thorning-Schmidt, whose
opposition bloc is ahead of the government in most opinion
polls, has said she won’t hold a euro referendum in her first
four-year term if she wins.  Denmark should hold a referendum on joining the euro and
eliminating two other European opt-outs this year if the
government stays in power following a elections, Deputy Prime
Minister Lars Barfoed said according to Politiken today.  According to today’s survey, 56.7 percent of respondents
would reject or would be inclined to reject the euro, while 40.2
percent said they would support or be inclined to back the
currency switch, Danske Bank said.  Statistics Denmark interviewed 981 people in the first two
weeks of June for Danske Bank’s survey. The lender didn’t
provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 