-- 
Saudi Arabia Is Probably Producing More Oil, IEA’s Fyfe Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-06-21T19:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/iea-still-monitoring-oil-market-for-need-to-release-reserves.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
oil exporter, is probably boosting its output of the commodity,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  “There are indications that Saudi production is
increasing,”  David Fyfe , head of the IEA’s oil industry and
markets division, told reporters in Washington today. “At the
same time, it takes time for that oil to get to the market, and
Saudi domestic crude utilization will probably also be
increasing in June and July.”  The Paris-based agency, a policy adviser to 28
industrialized nations, including the U.S., Japan and Germany,
is monitoring oil markets to determine whether members need to
release reserves and cover the gap between commodity supply and
demand, Fyfe said.  Saudi Arabia, together with  Kuwait , Qatar and the United
Arab Emirates, were ready to supply more oil to the market,
Saudi Oil Minister Ali Al-Naimi said after the June 8 meeting of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna.
OPEC failed to reach an agreement on production targets during
that meeting.  Oil for July delivery rose 14 cents to expire at $93.40 a
barrel at the close of floor trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures have advanced 20 percent in the past year. The
more actively traded August futures gained 54 cents to settle at
$94.17 a barrel.  Saudi Arabia burns petroleum during the hottest part of the
year to generate electricity for its own population, boosting
domestic consumption in the summer months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net 
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  