-- 
High Point Solutions Purchases Rutgers Stadium Naming Rights for 10 Years

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-06-21T17:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/high-point-solutions-purchases-rutgers-stadium-naming-rights-for-10-years.html
High Point Solutions Inc. , a Sparta,
New Jersey-based supplier of online server and router hardware,
signed a 10-year, $6.5 million agreement with  Rutgers University 
for naming rights to the school’s 52,454-seat football stadium.  The amount of the agreement, reported earlier in the Newark
Star-Ledger, was confirmed in an e-mail by Jason Baum, the
school’s sports information director. It’s worth less than half
annually what representatives of the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based university had said they wanted.  In October 2008, T.J. Nelligan, founder of Nelligan Sports
Marketing Inc., the university’s exclusive marketing agent at
the time, said in an interview with Bloomberg News that Rutgers
wanted to sell naming rights to a New Jersey company for an
average of $1.5 million to $2 million annually over 15-30 years.  “This partnership, with an innovative corporation rooted
in the State of  New Jersey  provides new revenue for our
athletics program in a challenging economic climate,” Rutgers
University President Richard L. McCormick said in a statement.  The Scarlet Knights’ first game in High Point Solutions
Stadium will be Sept. 1 against North Carolina Central.  The University of Central Florida recently sold its naming
rights to Bright House Networks for $15 million over 15 years.
The University of  Maryland  sold the naming rights to its
football stadium to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  for $20 million
over 25 years.  Rights Deals  In March, closely held High Point announced a five-year, $1
million agreement to purchase the naming rights to Quinnipiac
University’s multipurpose sports arena in Hamden,  Connecticut ,
the Newark Star-Ledger said.  The company signed an agreement in 2009 to become an
information-technology partner in the Barclays Center in
Brooklyn,  New York , where the National Basketball Association’s
Nets will play after a scheduled move from New Jersey in 2012.  Rutgers began playing at what became known as “Old”
Rutgers Stadium on Nov. 5, 1938, in Piscataway. The current
field, Rutgers Stadium, opened in 1994, with 41,500 seats. The
stadium was expanded in 2009 to its current capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  