-- 
IMF Policy Conclusions Misaligned With Research, Auditors Say

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-21T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/imf-policy-conclusions-misaligned-with-research-auditors-say.html
The policy conclusions from
International Monetary Fund research don’t always follow the
underlying analysis, thereby potentially harming the
institution’s reputation, according to an internal audit.  “Many staff indicated that they often felt pressure to
align their conclusions with IMF views,” the institution’s
Independent Evaluation Office said in a report released today.  The office found that from 1999 until 2008 the
“relevance” of research was hampered by insufficient
consultation with the topic countries, the evaluation office
said in a statement. The technical quality of working, regional
and background papers was “quite uneven,” the study found.  The IMF has come under increased scrutiny in the wake of
the financial crisis and amid concerns of European debt default
and unrest in the  Middle East  and North Africa. An audit
released in February found IMF economists missed signs of
fragility that led to the 2008 financial collapse, partly
because agency staff were “in awe of” monetary authorities in
the U.S. and other major economies.  IMF directors “considered it critical for the credibility
of the institution that the conclusions of in-house research are
not biased by the IMF’s position on the subject or excessively
influenced by other work done internally,” according to a
separate statement from the IMF board.  The IMF should conduct periodic strategic reviews of the
uses of its research products in consultation with country
authorities, and staff should consult with country authorities
on topics for the background papers that accompany bilateral and
regional surveillance, according to the audit released today.  Performance Evaluations  Performance evaluations at the IMF should reward staff
according to the caliber of research they perform and quality
assurance procedures should be enhanced. At the same time, new
and alternative ideas should be encouraged, the audit said.  IMF management should “cultivate an open, independent and
innovative research environment, explicitly encouraging staff to
explore differing and alternative views,” IEO Director Moises Schwartz said in the statement.  Reacting to the audit’s proposals, the IMF agreed to
consider naming a senior staff member to coordinate and ensure
the quality of agency research, according to the board
statement.  The board also agreed that IMF staff should consult more
with host country authorities on research to monitor regions and
countries. Directors pledged to improve dissemination of IMF
studies, while “a number” of directors stressed the need to
boost staff diversity from an academic and professional
standpoint.  Policy Messages  The board noted that IMF research “will inevitably” have
policy messages, even as it deemed critical that in-house
research not be biased by the IMF’s positions and that policy
advice be “grounded on robust analysis.” Directors also said
country assignments should be lengthened for IMF mission members
to boost collaboration with host authorities and increase
knowledge of local conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  