-- 
IMF Says Spain Must Step Up Reform Efforts as Eur Region’s Crisis Worsens

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-22T08:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/imf-sees-considerable-risks-to-spain-economy-urges-additional-overhauls.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
 Spain  must step up efforts to overhaul its economy as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis threatens to damp growth.  “The repair of the economy is incomplete and risks are
considerable,” the Washington-based IMF said in its annual
appraisal of Spain  yesterday . There must be “no let-up in the
reform momentum” to bolster the recovery and reduce a 21
percent unemployment rate that is “unacceptably high,” the
fund said.  Spain’s Socialist government is carrying out the deepest
budget cuts in at least three decades while raising the
 retirement age  and reducing firing costs. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero overhauled wage-bargaining rules on June
10 in the latest step aimed at reining in borrowing costs that
surged to the highest in a decade last week on mounting
expectations of a Greek default.  “Financial conditions could deteriorate further,
reflecting rising concerns about sovereign risks in the euro
area,” the IMF said. “This could put additional pressure on
sovereign and bank funding costs for Spain, which in turn could
feed back to the real economy.”  The IMF called on the government, which has passed two
labor overhauls in the past year, to make deeper changes to
reduce the highest  unemployment rate  in Europe.  ‘Underlying Problems’  “Some of the underlying problems of the Spanish economy,
especially weak productivity growth and the dysfunctional labor
market, remain to be fully addressed,” the IMF said. It called
for “further enhancing the credibility of fiscal consolidation,
completing financial-sector reform” and “boldly strengthening
the reforms of the labor market.”  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said the IMF report is
“extraordinarily positive.” The fund said that authorities
“undertook a series of measures targeting the main economic
problems facing the country.”  “I don’t see here that they are telling us that we have to
make changes,” Salgado said in a telephone interview yesterday
in Madrid. “The core of the labor reforms is in place
already.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell to 5.475 percent today,
from 5.49 percent yesterday, narrowing the spread over
equivalent German securities to 249 basis points from 251 basis
points. That gap widened to as much as 282 basis points last
week, approaching the euro-era high of 298 reached on Nov. 30.  ‘Additional Measures’  The government has pledged to cut the  budget deficit  to 6
percent of gross domestic product this year and 3 percent in
2013 from 9.2 percent last year, with measures including public-
sector wage cuts and a pension freeze. Meeting the medium-term
targets “will likely require additional measures,” said the
IMF, whose economic projections are less optimistic than the
government’s.  Economic growth, led by exports, will rise “gradually” to
1.5 percent to 2 percent in the medium-term, the IMF said. The
Spanish government forecasts growth of 1.3 percent this year,
rising to 2.3 percent next year and 2.4 percent in 2013. Salgado
said yesterday she is sticking to those forecasts and first-
quarter GDP “doesn’t contradict” the estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  