-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as Concern About Greek Debt Default Eases

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-21T20:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/index-futures-advance-on-greek-vote-speculation-3m-general-electric-rise.html
U.S. stocks advanced, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a fourth straight day, as
concern about Greece’s debt crisis eased.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  rose at least 1.8
percent, following a rally in European banks, as Greece’s
government faces a confidence vote that may determine whether it
avoids a default.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co. added more than 0.8 percent, pacing gains among
companies most-tied to economic growth. Best Buy Co. climbed 2.7
percent as the largest consumer electronics retailer set a $5
billion share repurchase plan and raised its quarterly dividend.  The S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent to 1,295.52 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 109.63 points, or
0.9 percent, to 12,190.01. The Nasdaq Composite Index gained 2.2
percent to 2,687.26, reversing its 2011 drop. The Russell 2000
Index of small companies increased 2.3 percent to 806.37.  “We expect the confidence vote in  Greece  to go well,”
said  Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity market
strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $354.9
billion. “We’re starting to put some of the major building
blocks into place to resolve the Greece situation. If you can
stop the bleeding, that stops the dominoes from falling. That
begins to take some of the contagion risk off the table.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, lost 5.7 percent to 18.86. The S&P 500 has risen
for four days after a six-week slump brought it within half a
point of erasing its 2011 gain on June 16 and made it the
cheapest in almost a year compared with forecast earnings.  Confidence Vote  Stocks rose across the globe amid growing investor optimism
that today’s vote of confidence in Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou is likely to determine how soon the nation can win
international aid to shore up its finances.  Benchmark gauges and a measure of homebuilders in S&P
indexes rallied even as a report showed that sales of existing
U.S. homes fell in May to the lowest level in six months.
Purchases of existing homes fell 3.8 percent to a 4.81 million
annual pace last month, in line with the 4.8 million median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, data from the
National Association of Realtors showed.  The slow pace of recovery should allow the  Federal Reserve 
to delay the central bank’s exit from record stimulus,
economists said in a survey. Officials are scheduled to meet in
 Washington  today and tomorrow to determine the course of policy.  Fed’s Balance Sheet  Seventy-nine percent of 58 economists expect Bernanke to
sustain the Fed balance sheet at current levels until October or
later, compared with 52 percent who held that view before the
Fed’s last policy meeting in April, according to a Bloomberg
News survey conducted last week. Ninety percent of those
surveyed predict the Fed will wait until the fourth quarter
before dropping its pledge to hold  interest rates  low for an
“extended period.”  “They want to keep monetary policy as easy as possible,”
said Tom Wirth, senior investment officer for Chemung Canal
Trust Co., which manages $1.6 billion in Elmira,  New York . “In
 Europe , they’ve started to raise interest rates, and that is
really hurting their economies.” The Federal Reserve
“recognizes that is the wrong medicine to give at this point.”  Fitch Ratings  said U.S. lawmakers are “very likely” to
raise the debt ceiling limit before Aug. 2, even as it
reiterated that failure to do so would result in the country
being placed on rating watch negative.  Rating Watch Negative  “The U.S. Treasury is saying that if the debt ceiling is
not raised by Aug. 2, then they can’t guarantee that they will
remain current on their obligations,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head of
Fitch’s Asia-Pacific Sovereigns team, said in an interview in
Singapore today. “If the debt ceiling has not been raised by
then, then we would put the U.S. sovereign ratings on rating
watch negative. We think it’s very likely that the debt ceiling
will be raised in good time.”  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has warned that a
failure to increase the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling by Aug. 2,
the date he projects borrowing authority would be exhausted, may
have catastrophic effects on the  U.S. economy  by sharply raising
borrowing costs. Republicans are using the debt-ceiling talks to
press for cuts in government spending. Fitch rates U.S.
sovereign debt AAA, the highest investment grade.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, added 1.9
percent to $27.46. Citigroup rose 3 percent to $39.31.  Regulatory Claims  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  pared a gain of as much as 1.9
percent, rising 1.1 percent to $40.91. The only Wall Street bank
to remain profitable throughout the financial crisis agreed to
pay $153.6 million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims over its
role in designing and selling a product linked to risky
mortgages as the housing market unraveled in 2007.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-
dependent on economic activity gained 2.5 percent as 29 of its
30 stocks rose. The Dow Jones Transportation Average of 20
stocks increased 1.9 percent.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, advanced 3.3 percent to $101.39. Alcoa climbed 4
percent to $15.37. Hewlett-Packard gained 0.9 percent to $35.30.  Best Buy rose 2.7 percent to $32.38. The buyback plan
replaces the $5.5 billion program announced in 2007, which had
$800 million left as of May 28, the Richfield, Minnesota-based
company said today in a statement. The quarterly payout will be
raised to 16 cents a share.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  advanced 2.8 percent to $54.06.
Deutsche Bank AG said first-quarter earnings at the home
furnishings retailer may beat estimates. Deutsche Bank estimated
60 cents a share for first-quarter earnings, which are scheduled
to be released tomorrow.  Consumer Companies  A gauge of consumer companies that sell necessities slid
0.1 percent, the only decline within 10 S&P 500 groups.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  slumped 4.2 percent to $43.28. The largest
U.S. drugstore chain said it failed to renew a contract worth
more than $5 billion in annual sales with drug-benefits manager
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  after negotiations fell apart. The
agreement will end as of Jan. 1.  The S&P 500 rebounded after touching its 200-day moving
average last week, a sign that the market’s decline from an
April peak may be limited, analysts who study charts to make
predictions said. The benchmark index for U.S. equities fell to
as low as 1,258.07 on June 16, 0.17 point above its average
level of 1,257.90 in the previous 200 days, before recouping the
loss and ending the day higher.  The 200-day moving average “is a pretty significant
support level,” as it’s close to the S&P 500’s low for the year
in March and to the closing level at the end of 2010,  Ryan Detrick , senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s Investment
Research in Cincinnati, said in an interview. “There could be
some potential buying here,” he said. “We’re encouraged the
market held pretty well. Longer term, the uptrend is still in
place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  