-- 
Inflation in India May Quicken on Forecast for Deficient Monsoon Rainfall

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-06-22T07:55:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/india-to-get-deficient-rains-for-second-time-in-3-years-spurring-prices.html
Monsoon rain in  India  will be below
normal for the second time in three years, the weather office
said, potentially lowering farm output and accelerating
inflation that is the highest among  Asia ’s major economies.  Rainfall will be 95 percent of the 50-year average in the
June-September season, Science and Technology Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. That
compares with 98 percent predicted by the  India Meteorological
Department  in April. The bureau defines normal precipitation as
96 percent to 104 percent of the long-term average.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is relying on adequate
rainfall to harvest record quantities of food grain and oilseeds
for a second year and cool inflation, which has led the central
bank to raise  interest rates  10 times since mid-March 2010.
Agriculture makes up almost 14 percent of the economy and a
reduced farm production can increase imports, while also
lowering rural incomes and hurting sales of tractors and cars.  “We have seen food inflation cooling down all the way from
20 percent to 8 percent year-on-year and if rains disappoint
then obviously that trend can reverse very quickly,” said
 Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at Standard Chartered
Plc. Inadequate rainfall “is likely to damp rural demand which
in our view was extremely important in the overall economic
activity” in the last fiscal year, she said.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation quickened to
9.06 percent in May from 8.66 percent in April, according to
data released on June 14. An index measuring wholesale prices of
farm products including milk and lentils rose 8.96 percent in
the week ended June 4 from a year earlier, according to the
commerce ministry.  Food Prices  Global food prices will remain higher in the next decade
than in the past 10 years as agricultural production slows and
demand increases, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development and the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture
Organization  said in a joint report June 17.  India imported record quantities of sugar, lentils and
cooking oil in 2009 following the weakest monsoon since 1972. A
below-normal monsoon this year may prompt the government to keep
a ban on exports of wheat and rice, and extend curbs on
shipments of sugar.  The South Asian nation, the world’s second-biggest grower
of wheat and rice, may need as much as 70 million metric tons of
grains to supply to its citizens at subsidized rates after
parliament approves a food security bill, Food Minister K.V.
Thomas said in an interview last week. The government will keep
a ban on exports of the food grains, he said.  Export Bans  India banned shipments of wheat in early 2007 and non-
basmati rice in April 2008 to bolster domestic supplies amid a
global food crisis. State reserves of food grains totaled 65.6
million tons on June 1, almost triple the quantity five years
ago, according to the Food Corp. of India.  The forecast for below-average rains may further pressure
India’s stocks, the worst performer in Asia this year, said  Arun Kejriwal , a director at Mumbai-based Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services Pvt.  “The market tone is currently bearish and confused,” he
said by phone yesterday. “A comment like this will affect
sentiments and only add to the pressure on stocks.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  swung between
gains and losses today as the forecast of a below-normal
rainfall outweighed optimism that  Greece  may avoid a default on
its debt. The index traded between 17,524.51 and 17,678.86 as
 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , India’s biggest household products
maker, dropped the most in two weeks.  Wettest Month  Rainfall in July , the wettest month of the monsoon season,
may be 93 percent of the long-period average as a weakening of
La Nina weather conditions causes less precipitation, the
forecaster said yesterday. Showers in August are forecast at 94
percent, it said.  Rains over northwest India, the nation’s main cane, cotton
and rice-growing region, may be 97 percent of the 50-year
average, the forecaster said. Central India, which includes the
top soybean-producing areas, may receive 95 percent rainfall,
while showers over the southern peninsula will be 94 percent,
the weather office said. Showers over northeastern states, the
top tea-growing region, may be 95 percent of the average.  Soybeans and refined  soybean oil  advanced for a second day
in Mumbai today. July-delivery soybeans climbed as much as 1.8
percent to 2,341 rupees for 100 kilograms (220 pounds) on the
National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange, while refined soybean
oil for delivery in the same month added 0.8 percent to 645.70
rupees per 10 kilograms.  Futures Gain  “Oilseeds and soybean oil futures rose more than one
percent, recovering from last week’s losses, supported by the
forecast of below-normal monsoon rains,” AnandRathi Commodities
Ltd. said in a report today. The prediction “triggered a rally
in all agricultural commodities.”  Rains will be “well distributed” and below normal
precipitation won’t hurt crops, Ajit Tyagi, director general of
the bureau told reporters yesterday. The nation got 11 percent
more rain than normal since the season began on June 1,
according to the weather bureau.  India’s 235 million farmers depend on rain for irrigating
crops from rice to cotton, and sowing of monsoon crops begins in
June and harvesting starts in September. The rains typically
start over the southern Kerala state by the first week of June,
before blanketing the entire nation by July 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  