-- 
India Bonds Drop on Concern Oil Price Rise Will Spur Inflation

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-06-21T12:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/india-bonds-drop-on-concern-oil-price-rise-will-spur-inflation.html
India’s 10-year bonds fell, snapping
a three-day advance, on concern rising  oil prices  will stoke
inflation.  Crude has rebounded 1.6 percent this week, following a
decline of more than 6 percent last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gasoline prices were last increased by
state-owned companies on May 15 in India, which imports almost
80 percent of its oil. Yields at the lowest level in six weeks
are also deterring investors, said A.Y. Shedshale, a Mumbai-
based deputy general manager at Bank of Maharashtra.  “The firming up of oil prices has brought back inflation
worries,” Shedshale said. “More fuel price rises could be in
the offing.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.23 percent as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate reached 8.19 percent yesterday, the
lowest level since May 6.  The wholesale-price index rose 9.06 percent in May from a
year earlier after an 8.66 percent jump in April, official data
showed on June 14.  India ’s monsoon rainfall, the main source of irrigation for
the nation’s 235 million farmers, will be below normal this
year, Science and Technology Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal told
reporters in  New Delhi  today.  Rains in the June-September season may be 95 percent of the
50-year average, the  India Meteorological Department  said in a
statement on its website. Showers would be 98 percent of the
long-period average, the weather office said on April 19.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
was little changed at 7.92 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  