-- 
Lira Strengthens on Easing Greek Default Concerns; Bond Yields Retreat

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-06-21T15:32:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/lira-strengthens-on-easing-greek-concerns-bond-yields-retreat.html
The lira weakened for a second day
against the dollar and bond yields declined as investors
increased bets the central bank will keep  interest rates  at a
record low this week.  Turkey currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 1.6095 per
dollar at 6:10 p.m. in Istanbul. The lira was the worst
performer among more than 20 emerging-market currencies. The
two-year benchmark bond yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 9.05 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Policy makers will probably leave their benchmark rate at
6.25 percent when they meet June 23, according to the median of
14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The bank has raised  reserve
requirements  for short-term deposits four times since December
and left rates on hold to curb loan growth and contain a
current-account deficit that widened to $7.7 billion in April,
the second-biggest gap since records began in 1984.  “Foreign investors see the central bank not hiking rates
as a mistake and seek to reduce their lira risks before
Thursday’s meeting,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti
Securities in Istanbul, said in a note to clients. The lira will
“remain under pressure” as the central bank probably won’t
raise rates until next year, he said.  Three-month forward-rate agreements, which investors use to
hedge against changes in interest rates, fell five basis points
to 9 percent, the first decline since June 10. Six-month cross-
currency swaps dropped three basis points to 7.1196 percent, the
biggest decline since May 24.  The central bank said June 6 that lower fruit prices will
help curb inflation after it accelerated to a six-month
high of 7.2 percent in May, above the 5.5 percent target rate.  Continuation of the bank’s policy “obviously weighs on the
lira especially now that inflation has started to rise,” Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  