-- 
Misys Receives Preliminary Approach That Might Lead to a Takeover Offer

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-06-21T11:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/misys-receives-preliminary-approach-that-might-lead-to-a-takeover-offer.html
Misys Plc (MSY) , a U.K. provider of
software for the financial industry, said it received a takeover
approach, sending the shares to the highest level in nine years.  The approach is “preliminary” and “may or may not lead
to an offer being made for the company,” Misys said in a
statement today, without identifying the potential bidder.  “This is a one-off asset,” said Milan Radia, an analyst
at Jefferies Group Inc. in London. “You get such a large
installed base of customers that last invested heavily in their
software over 10 years ago so the upgrade potential here is
enormous.”  Misys jumped as much as 12 percent and was up 8.8 percent
at 418.3 pence as of 11:48 a.m. in  London . The stock has gained
about 40 percent in the past year, giving the company a market
value of 1.4 billion pounds ($2.3 billion).  London-based Misys makes  software  for cash, wealth and risk
management as well as for capital markets activities such as
syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives trading and
post-trade processing. It has more than 1,200 customers
including Credit Agricole CIB, Nordea Bank AB and the financing
arm of PetroChina Co. Ltd., according to its website.  Possible Bidders  U.S. software vendors like  Fidelity National Information
Services Inc. (FIS)  and  Fiserv Inc. (FISV)  “will be keen to internationalize
their businesses,” Radia said. Indian providers  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  and  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. (INFO)  would also be keen to get a large base of
customers to sell upgrades to.  “For any credible, large-scale vendor it’s going to create
some synergies for them, whether it’s geographic or license
driven,” Radia said.  Fiserv or Sungard Data Systems Inc. would be the “most
likely fit,” said Rajeev Bahl, an analyst at Matrix Corporate
Capital LLP in London, adding that a bid from Geneva,
Switzerland-based  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  would be less likely given
the current valuation of Misys.  Misys is worth about 5 pounds a share, or a total of about
1.8 billion pounds, Radia estimated, divided into 600 million
pounds for the banking software unit and 1.2 billion pounds for
the capital markets business.  The company is currently trading at 15.6 times trailing
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
In 16 enterprise software transactions that exceeded $1 billion,
buyers paid a median of 18.9 times Ebitda, according to
Bloomberg data.  Spokespeople for Misys, Infosys, TCS and Temenos declined
to comment. In 2006, Misys ended takeover discussions after
failing to receive an offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  