-- 
Jack Warner Says He’d Rather Die Than Meet FIFA Investigator Louis Freeh

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-21T11:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/jack-warner-says-he-d-rather-die-than-meet-fifa-investigator.html
Jack Warner , the former  FIFA  vice
president who quit yesterday, said he’d “die first” rather
than meet with former FBI Director Louis Freeh, who’s
investigating allegations of bribery within the soccer body.  FIFA  said Warner’s resignation meant it ended its inquiry
into the Trinidadian over claims he and Asian soccer head
Mohamed Bin Hammam tried to bribe Caribbean officials in a
presidential election.  Warner, who’d been with FIFA almost 30 years, said he’s
willing to help FIFA but won’t cooperate with Freeh because of
his ties to the U.S. The inquiry was sparked by Chuck Blazer, a
U.S. soccer official who worked directly under Warner as
regional body Concacaf’s general secretary. Blazer asked
Chicago-based lawyer John Collins to compile a report detailing
the allegations against  Bin Hammam  and Warner.  “I will die first. Not me,” Warner said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Trinidad. “If FIFA wants me to
cooperate I will do that but not with Freeh.”  Warner, 68, who was one of the sport’s most powerful
administrators, quit from all his soccer posts, saying he’d felt
undermined by officials within FIFA and been “hung out to
dry.”  Media reports in the U.K. said today that Warner will
travel to FIFA’s headquarters in Zurich to meet with Freeh in
the next two weeks. Freeh was appointed FBI Director in 1993 by
then U.S. President  Bill Clinton , a member of his nation’s
unsuccessful bid to stage the 2022  World Cup , a process won by
Qatar.  ‘Farce’  “I’m not going to back a complaint made by an American and
investigated by Americans and an attempt to put it on American
soil because the complaint is from Miami,” Warner said. “I
don’t back this farce.”  Caribbean soccer officials, who are alleged to have been
offered $40,000 bribes to vote for Bin Hammam in FIFA’s
presidential election, declined to meet with Freeh in Miami and
demanded he come to the Bahamas where Concacaf is based. Warner
and Bin Hammam deny wrongdoing.  Warner said Collins, who’s acted as general counsel for the
United States Soccer Federation, told Concacaf officials in
Zurich on May 30, a day after Bin Hammam and Warner had been
suspended by FIFA’s ethics committee, that Freeh would be hired
to lead the investigation. FIFA announced Freeh’s appointment on
June 3, two days after Sepp Blatter was re-elected as the sole
candidate following Bin Hammam’s withdrawal.  “Mr.  John Collins  told the members in Zurich long before
he was ever appointed that Louis Freeh shall be the investigator
along with his  FBI  team. John Collins told us that. He told us
that long before he was selected. Why should I care about this
farce?” Warner said.  Collins denied Warner’s allegation.  ‘Laughable’  “The claim that Louis Freeh and I are somehow close
because we are Americans is laughable. It is like saying I know
and am close with all 310 million Americans,” he said in an e-
mail. “I first met Louis Freeh for the first time when he
interviewed me on May 31, 2011.  FIFA, in an e-mail, said it was “the Ethics Committee that
decides who they wish to seek assistance from.”  While FIFA said it’s dropped the investigation into Warner
and “the presumption of innocence is maintained,” it remains
unclear what effect it has on the status of an investigation in
Trinidad, where Warner is the minister of works and transport.  Police Commissioner Dwayne Gibbs has yet to receive a
response from FIFA on a request for information about alleged
bribery at the meeting Warner organized for Bin Hammam at Port
of  Spain ’s Hyatt Regency hotel between May 10 and 11.  Police “will await a response from FIFA to the request
before issuing a statement regarding new developments,” a press
release said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  