-- 
Nikkei 225 Advances Most in Three Weeks as Greek Default Concern Ebbs

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-06-21T07:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/japanese-stocks-rise-as-juncker-pledges-solution-to-greece-toyota-climbs.html
Japanese stocks rose, sending the
 Nikkei 225  Stock Average to its biggest gain in three weeks, on
renewed confidence Greece will be rescued from a default that
could destabilize Europe.  Nissan Motor Co., a carmaker that gets 15 percent of its
revenue in the region, advanced 3.1 percent. Aeon Co. jumped 3.8
percent after the Nikkei newspaper said profit at Japan’s
second-largest retailer by market value increased 30 percent in
the three months through May.  Kubota Corp. (6326) , a maker of  farm
equipment  that had delayed earnings forecasts because of damage
from March’s earthquake, advanced 2.9 percent after saying
profit will increase this year.  “Investors are sure that Europe’s debt problems won’t
spill over in a domino effect,” said Koichi Kurose, chief
economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which holds about $240
billion in deposits. “There’s more confidence that European
Union countries will step in to help  Greece .”  Nikkei 225 rose 1.1 percent to 9,459.66 at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo, the most since May 31. The broader Topix index gained
1.1 percent to 815.73, with all 33 of the gauge’s industry
groups advancing.  The Topix has lost 12 percent since March 10, the day
before a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami devastated Japan’s
northeast coast, triggering the worst nuclear accident in 25
years, disrupting supply chains, and leaving more than 23,000
people dead or missing. The decline was the biggest among the
world’s 40-largest benchmark indexes.  Confidence Vote  The slump has pushed valuations on the Topix index to 1.18
times book value, compared with 2.15 on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 10.71 on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. About two
thirds of the 1,671 Topix companies trade at less than
book value, meaning that investors could theoretically buy the
firms at current prices and liquidate them at a profit.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  faces a confidence
vote today in parliament. European Union leaders have insisted
Papandreou secure multi-party support for austerity measures
that are a condition of the aid needed to avoid default as soon
as next month.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the euro-region
finance ministers group, said yesterday Papandreou assured him
the government would do everything necessary to ensure delivery
of financial aid from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund .  ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  “Greece will be supported by European nations in the
end,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at
Tachibana Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “We’re going to avoid a
worst-case scenario.”  Markets across  Asia  tumbled last week, with the Topix
slipping 1.5 percent, on concern that default by Greece could
cause a freeze in credit markets worldwide, similar to the
one in 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. IMF
Managing Director  John Lipsky  said yesterday there’s still a
risk of the crisis “spilling over to the rest of the world.”  Nissan climbed 3.1 percent to 820 yen today. TDK Corp., an
electronics manufacturer that gets about 15 percent of its
revenue from Europe, gained 3.3 percent to 4,485 yen.  TDK extended gains after maker of electronic parts
projected net income will rise 11 percent to 50 billion yen
($624 million) in the year ending in March 2012. The company
said it plans to pay an annual dividend of 90 yen this year,
higher than the previous year’s payout of 80 yen.  Quake Recovery  The yen depreciated to as low as 115.35 against the euro
today, a level not seen since June 15, compared with 114.16 at
the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo yesterday. A weaker yen
boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  Aeon advanced 3.8 percent to 931 yen, the biggest gain
since March 16. The company may say its March-May operating
profit rose 30 percent to about 28 billion yen, the Nikkei
newspaper reported, without saying where it got the information.
Supermarket sales added to the profit increase, the report said.  Kubota increased 2.9 percent to 681 yen. The company, which
had delayed its earnings forecast because of disruptions to
factories after the earthquake, said full-year net income will
rise 9.4 percent to 60 billion yen from a year earlier on a 7.1
percent increase in sales.  Reconstruction Work  Japan ’s government raised its assessment of the economy for
the first time in four months as production and exports show
signs of recovering from a slowdown caused by the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on June 1
supply constraints are easing faster than expected as companies
rush to repair factories. While Gross domestic product shrank at
an annualized 3.5 percent rate in the three months ended March
31, economists predict the economy will expand in the second
half of the year as reconstruction work kicks in.  Among stocks that fell, Tokyo Electric Power Co., battling
the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, lost 2.9 percent to
305 yen, the most on the Nikkei. The company had its  credit
rating  cut four steps to junk status by Moody’s Investors
Service as costs related to the Fukushima disaster escalated.  Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co., a maker of chip
equipment, retreated 1.3 percent to 661 yen. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
yesterday cut its rating on the company to “neutral” from
“overweight,” citing higher costs for employment and research
and development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 