-- 
Japan Must Decide If Tokyo Electric Was Too Slow to Flood Plant, UN Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-06-22T06:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/japan-must-decide-if-tokyo-electric-was-too-slow-to-flood-plant-un-says.html
Japan  must determine whether Tokyo
Electric Power Co. waited too long to begin pumping seawater
into stricken reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant
in the hours after the March 11 earthquake, the leader of a
United Nations investigative panel said.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  chose not to assess
the timing of power company’s decision to inject water to cool
reactors, said Mike Weightman, the U.K. nuclear inspector who
led the UN mission that investigated the meltdown. An
independent Japanese commission will have to decide whether
correct procedures were followed, he said in Vienna yesterday.  Tsunehisa Katsumata, chairman of the utility known as
Tepco, in March denied criticism that executives hesitated to
flood the plant following a Wall Street Journal  report  that the
company delayed the move because it would render the reactors
unsalvageable. Masao Yoshida, the plant manager, later disobeyed
an order from headquarters to stop injecting seawater into
Reactor No. 1, General Manager Junichi Matsumoto said May 26.  “They did the best job they could under the
circumstances,” Weightman said. “Despite what was happening
outside of the site, despite the pressures from senior levels
within organizations and government, they took the decisions in
the best interest of safety with the knowledge they possessed at
the time.”  ‘Rather Lenient’  The IAEA produced a 160-page report detailing the events
leading to three reactor meltdowns at Tepco’s Fukushima plant.
The agency concluded that the utility’s planning against tsunami
risk was inadequate. Strengthening international nuclear safety
after Fukushima is the focus of a 151-nation IAEA conference
this week in Vienna.  “IAEA did a preliminary report that was also rather
lenient,” Rikki Kersten, a politics professor at the  Australian
National University  in Canberra, said by telephone today.
“Since the disaster in March, the IAEA hasn’t demonstrated a
firm hand when it comes to monitoring and assessing the
situation in Japan, so in a sense this is consistent.”  Scientific, industry and diplomatic delegates to the
closed-door meeting in the Austrian capital are considering
granting the IAEA more power to enforce nuclear safety. IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano, a former Japanese diplomat, is
seeking the authority to impose random safety checks as well as
setting up stockpiles of emergency equipment.  No Concrete Decisions  No concrete decisions will be made at the Vienna conference
about whether to strengthen international safety measures, U.S.
and European officials said. Nations will continue discussions
when the IAEA convenes its annual general conference in
September.  Amano’s proposal to impose random inspections on all 440 of
the world’s nuclear reactors should be reconsidered, U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said at a
press briefing in Vienna yesterday.  “There has to be a way to narrow down the number of
facilities that you look at,” said Jaczko, who noted that the
IAEA doesn’t have the resources to spot check all 104 U.S.
reactors. Amano’s proposals are a “good place to start.”  Germany ’s top delegate to the meeting, environment state
secretary Ursula Heinen-Esser, called Amano’s proposals a good
first step “to initiate a broad review process as part of the
overall master plan.”  “We have great assurance that the Japanese government and
operators and others will take forward these lessons and seek to
improve safety in Japan and also worldwide,” Weightman said in
an interview in Vienna yesterday. Japan’s decision to reform its
nuclear regulatory system was “very welcome,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  