-- 
John Edwards Should Face October Trial, Federal Prosecutor Tells Judge

-- B y   J o h n   P e r a g i n e   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-21T16:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/john-edwards-should-face-criminal-trial-in-october-u-s-prosecutor-says.html
John Edwards , the former U.S.
presidential candidate accused of accepting illegal campaign
contributions to hide an extramarital affair, should face an
October criminal trial, a federal prosecutor said.  Edwards, who has pleaded not guilty to charges he used
donations to conceal the relationship and child he had with
filmmaker Rielle Hunter while running for president in 2008,
should be able to review evidence gathered by prosecutors in
time for an October trial, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Robert J.
Higdon  told a federal judge today in Greensboro, North Carolina.  “The defense will have a good sense and picture of the
trial with the material we’re ready to release,” Higdon told
Judge Norwood Carlton Tilley Jr. Prosecutors are “confident we
can proceed with the October date,” he said. He said Edwards’s
legal team is seeking a January 2012 trial.  A federal grand jury indicted Edwards this month on charges
of accepting illegal campaign funds, conspiracy and making false
statements. Edwards, who was in court today, is free on bond.  Edwards, a 58-year-old Democrat, was the target of a two-
year probe into his handling of  donations  to his presidential
campaign in 2007 and 2008. Prosecutors say he used the funds to
pay Hunter’s rent, medical visits and prenatal expenses as part
of an effort to keep his relationship with her secret.  Wife’s Death  Edwards publicly acknowledged the relationship with Hunter
in August 2008. A former plaintiffs’ lawyer from North Carolina,
he served in the Senate from 1999 to 2005. Massachusetts Senator
 John Kerry  tapped him to be his running mate in the 2004
presidential election.  Edwards, who ran against now-President  Barack Obama  for the
nod to be the Democratic presidential candidate, withdrew from
the race in January 2008. He later revealed his affair with
Hunter after a newspaper reported that he had fathered the
woman’s daughter and claimed paternity of her child.  In a 2009 book, Edwards’s wife,  Elizabeth Edwards , said her
husband confessed the affair to her in the final days of 2006,
after returning home from a tour announcing his second run for
president. Elizabeth Edwards died in December after a six-year
battle with  breast cancer .  The Federal Election Act limits the amount individuals may
contribute to candidates. The most an individual could
contribute in the 2008 presidential primary was $2,300.  Edwards accepted about $725,000 from one person and more
than $200,000 from another, according to the indictment.  ‘Well-Known Individuals’  A statement from Scott E. Thomas, a former chairman of the
 Federal Election Commission , identified the two donors as Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, a 100-year-old multimillionaire heiress, and
Fred Baron, a Dallas-based trial lawyer who died in October 2008
at 61.  At today’s hearing, Higdon said prosecutors were reluctant
to turn over all of the more-than-300,000 pages of evidence they
had gathered in the Edwards case because some material involves
witnesses who are “well-known individuals.”  Tilley told Higdon that Edwards’s defense team has a right
to all evidence gathered against the former senator so they can
properly interview witnesses against him.  James P. Cooney III, one of Edwards’s attorneys, said he
worried the government’s offer to turn over only part of the
evidence they’ve collected in the case amounted to a “pig in a
poke.”  Putting Edwards’s trial on a fast track would force defense
lawyers to “read 5,000 docs a day, seven days a week” to get
through the material, Cooney said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Winston-Salem, North Carolina at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  