-- 
John Paulson, Subprime God, Flees Muddy Waters: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-06-21T19:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/john-paulson-subprime-god-flees-muddy-waters-william-pesek.html
Suddenly finance god  John Paulson 
isn’t looking so omniscient. The New York-based hedge-fund
manager was the star of the 2008 subprime crisis, capitalizing
on  Wall Street ’s misrepresentations to the tune of $15 billion
betting against U.S. mortgages. Now, fraudsters may have taken
him in.  That is, if a June 2  report  by Muddy Waters LLC is correct
and Sino-Forest Corp. lied about its finances. I don’t know, and
neither do investors such as Paulson, the biggest shareholder in
the Canadian-listed, Chinese timberland owner. Paulson & Co.
said this week that it sold all its stock, which has plunged
more than 90 percent in the past few weeks.  Even though Sino-Forest rejects claims that it exaggerated
its landholdings, investors are taking no chances. That gets at
a bigger issue than short sellers trying to undermine one
company. The skittishness of markets reflects the sense that
we’re one step away from replaying the world financial crisis.  The global backdrop offers no comfort. Post-tsunami  Japan 
is a mess; the U.S. recovery is faltering; and Europe poses a
Lehman Brothers-like risk if  Greece ’s debt crisis can’t be
resolved. The sudden collapse in confidence in some Chinese
investments adds to the anxiety for the markets.  Dodgy Accounts  Why is it a surprise that some Chinese companies have dodgy
finances? One reason we are so quick to assume the worst is that
Lehman, after months of vehement denials in 2008, really was a
house of cards. Before that, WorldCom Inc. and Parmalat SpA
really had cooked their books as Wall Street looked the other
way.  So why are markets quick to believe a little-known investor
such as Carson Block, the head of Hong Kong-based research firm
 Muddy Waters , when he questions China? Although few short-
sellers make lots of money betting against China, the ranks of
Carson and his ilk are growing. That’s partly a reflection of
the fear that the great Chinese crash is coming.  One worry is that the first wave of bad loans from China’s
huge 2008-2009 stimulus is about to hit. The bigger concern is
how growth in recent years left the domestic financial system
less resilient. China’s expansion relies on a variety of
counterproductive policies: an undervalued, nonconvertible
currency, off-balance-sheet arrangements to mask debt and ample
credit to politically connected firms that don’t necessarily
make the most productive use of capital.  Margin for Error  China  does have a rather large margin for error, mostly in
the form of $3 trillion in currency reserves. Yet it has made
little progress toward developing a more transparent and open
financial system. That, too, is making some investors more
inclined to short China than to bet on continued growth.  China is less of a market-based economy than a vast family-
run business controlled by the political elite, says Fraser Howie, a co-author of the book “Red Capitalism.” It’s important
to remember that when a company such as Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. goes public, majority ownership stays with
the Communist Party in Beijing. Good corporate governance
doesn’t always follow.  Is the new scrutiny of Chinese companies a game changer? “I
certainly hope so,” Howie says. “We know China is a difficult
and corrupt place to do business, so funny dealings are rife.
Certainly small Chinese companies are coming under the
spotlight, but will it translate to the big state-owned
enterprises as well? That I am not so sure of. I think too many
investors will shy away from questioning the big guys.”  Start Asking Questions  It’s important that investors start asking those questions.
As potential irregularities come to the surface, they will fuel
a broad reappraisal of corporate-governance practices at
foreign-listed Chinese companies. As skepticism and activism
widen, China Inc. will be subjected to much more intense
scrutiny than in the past.  That would be a plus for China’s long-term development. In
the short run, the fact that markets are so riled about reports
that a small company like Sino-Forest might be exaggerating
revenue hints at the broad erosion in confidence over the fate
of the world’s major economies.  China is now the second-biggest economy, but there is a
growing sense that it is due for a setback. The country has
proved it can live without consumers in Japan,  Europe  and the
U.S. for a couple of years. But a third or fourth year as the
world heads into an economic soft patch or worse?  Everyone liked having a bright spot amid the gloom after
the world financial crisis. Now China’s prospects are becoming
as murky as the governance of its companies. There’s a reason
Block called his firm Muddy Waters.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 