-- 
Jordan Refiner May Stop Importing Fuel Without Repayment

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-06-21T15:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/jordan-refiner-may-have-to-stop-importing-fuel-without-repayment.html
Jordan Petroleum Refinery Co. (JOPT) , the
 Middle East  kingdom’s only refiner, may have to stop importing
fuel unless it receives money owed by the government and power
companies, Chief Executive Officer Abdul Kareem Alaween said.  “Our current debts are unprecedented,” totaling 633
million dinars ($895 million), Alaween said today in a press
conference in Amman. Electricity companies owe the refiner 396
million dinars and the rest is receivables unpaid by various
government institutions, he said.  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the Middle East,
imports almost all of its energy needs and relies on foreign
investment and grants to support its budget and current-account
deficits. The kingdom’s electricity demand is forecast to double
to 5,000 megawatts by the end of 2020 and again to 10,000 by
2030, Energy Minister Khalid Touqan said June 18.  “Until now the company continues to refine products and we
have crude oil, products and derivatives that we are providing
in a normal manner, but we are sounding the alarm for what could
happen,” Alaween said. “We warn against reaching a point where
we cannot continue to import crude oil and derivatives because
the consequences will not be easy.”  The refiner has reached the “ceiling” for loans, or 700
million dinars, and will not take any more loans, he said. It
recently received a two-year loan from  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
Alaween said without revealing its value.  Government Subsidy  Rising fuel prices, increased government subsidies in the
past six months and purchases of oil products to make up for two
interruptions to Egyptian natural-gas supplies due to sabotage
earlier this year, were cited by Alaween as reasons for the
company’s financial woes.  If prices of crude and its derivatives remain at the
current levels, Jordan’s energy bill will reach 3 billion dinars
this year, or an average of 250 million dinars per month,
because  power plants  will be forced to switch to diesel which is
more expensive than gas, he said.  Iraq agreed earlier this month to increase daily crude
exports to  Jordan  to 15,000 barrels from 10,000 barrels. The
Jordanian refinery cannot process more than 10,000 barrels a day
of the heavier Iraqi heavy oil because it would then face
“technical difficulties,” Alaween said.  The plant has a processing capacity of 100,000 barrels a
day of crude and is currently refining at an average of 80,000
barrels a day, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  