-- 
JPMorgan’s $153.6 Million Settlement With SEC Recalls Case Against Goldman

-- B y   H u g h   S o n ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-22T03:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/jpmorgan-to-pay-153-6-million-to-settle-sec-allegations-over-housing-cdos.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s deal to
settle a U.S. regulator’s claims that the bank misled buyers of
mortgage-linked securities before the housing market collapsed
echoed a case brought last year against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   JPMorgan agreed to pay $153.6 million to end a Securities
and Exchange Commission suit. The SEC alleged that the New York-
based bank failed to tell investors in 2007 that a hedge fund
helped pick, and bet against, underlying securities in the
collateralized debt obligation they purchased. In July, Goldman
Sachs paid a record $550 million for failing to inform clients
in 2007 that it allowed a hedge fund that also bet against
housing to help formulate the CDOs.  “It’s the same general allegation of wrongdoing,”  Robert Khuzami , enforcement chief of the SEC, said yesterday in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “The message in both cases is
if you engage in this kind of wrongdoing, if you mislead
investors, you’re going to pay a fine.”  The SEC is targeting mortgage-industry firms from loan
originators including Countrywide Financial Corp. to Wall Street
CDO underwriters. The regulator has looked at  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and Morgan Stanley, a person with
knowledge of the matter has said.  Like Goldman, JPMorgan’s brokerage unit, JPMorgan
Securities LLC, didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing in settling.
Unlike Goldman, the claims against the firm relied solely on a
section of the  Securities Act  of 1933 that connotes a “lesser
violation,” said Ed B. Horahan, a Washington-based securities
lawyer.  ‘Messed Up’  Goldman Sachs settled under a section of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 that says the accused firm knew what it was
doing, while JPMorgan’s case is closer to negligence, Horahan
said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined
to comment yesterday.  “JPMorgan simply admitted that it ‘messed up’ the
documentation,” said Brad Hintz, an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. The bank “pays a fine, announces a public mea
culpa and has no more liability. This looks like a win for
JPMorgan.” JPMorgan rose 1.1 percent to close at $40.91
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The customers misled by the two banks also differed,
according to the SEC suits. JPMorgan sold about $150 million of
notes in the CDO, known as Squared, to about 15 firms including
a not-for-profit Lutheran insurer, Thrivent Financial, and a New
York City-based manager of General Motors Co. pensions.  Meanwhile, one of the biggest investors in Goldman Sachs’
Abacus CDO was Dusseldorf, Germany-based IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG. The German bank was aware of the risk
associated with the securities and was “among the most
sophisticated mortgage investors in the world,” Goldman Sachs
said in April 2010.  JPMorgan, Magnetar  The facts of JPMorgan’s case, which involve hedge fund
Magnetar Capital LLC, look worse than Goldman Sachs’s, said
Charles Whitehead, an associate professor at Cornell Law School
in  New York . Magnetar, betting housing prices would fall, stood
to profit if assets defaulted.  “Goldman was able to point to a number of cases where the
Abacus collateral manager refused to take suggestions made by
the hedge fund,” Whitehead said. “In this case, the SEC’s
complaint goes out of its way to highlight the fact that the
collateral manager was taking direction very much from
Magnetar.”  Magnetar had a “significant role” in picking the assets
linked to the CDO, known as Squared, during February 2007,
according to e-mails between the hedge fund, JPMorgan and the
collateral manager, a unit of GSC Capital Corp., the SEC said.
That month, the hedge fund bet against 18 of 19 securities
inserted into the investment, according to the complaint.  Magnetar’s Bets  Magnetar didn’t control the asset-selection process and its
bets were part of a “market-neutral” portfolio, Steve Lipin, a
spokesman for the hedge fund, said yesterday in an e-mail.  “Magnetar is not a party to the settlement nor a defendant
in this case, and was not involved in the marketing of the
securities,” Lipin said. “The SEC staff issued a closing
letter to Magnetar stating that it does ‘not intend to recommend
any enforcement action’ against Magnetar, any of its funds or
any current or former Magnetar personnel.”  JPMorgan said in a statement that the bank booked $900
million in losses on the CDO and, after an internal review,
voluntarily made $56 million in payments to investors of a
separate CDO called Tahoma I.  “The SEC has not charged the firm with intentional or
reckless misconduct,” JPMorgan said in the statement.  Losses on CDOs  CDOs package assets such as mortgage bonds into new
securities with varying risks. A surge in U.S. home loan
defaults undermined the instruments, helping lead financial
companies to record $1.82 trillion in losses and writedowns
during the housing crisis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The SEC’s claim focuses on JPMorgan’s disclosures about
Squared CDO 2007-1. Marketing materials said the instrument’s
portfolio was selected by GSC, which had experience analyzing
CDO credit risk. Magnetar also played a role in the selection
and stood to benefit if CDOs tied to the instrument defaulted,
according to the agency’s  complaint .  In the months before the deal closed in May 2007, the bank
made a “frantic global sales effort” to sell the Squared
securities amid signs of distress in the housing market, the SEC
said in a statement.  “We are soooo pregnant with this deal, we need a wheel-
barrel to move around,” wrote a JPMorgan employee in charge of
distributing the CDO in a March 2007 e-mail meant to encourage
the sales staff, according to the SEC complaint. “Let’s
schedule the cesarian, please!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 