-- 
JPMorgan Joins World Bank in $400 Million Hedging Program for Agriculture

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-06-21T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/jpmorgan-joins-world-bank-in-400-million-food-hedging-program.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the  World
Bank  will provide as much as $400 million to developing nations
for hedging their trade in agricultural supplies after record
global food prices pushed 44 million more people into poverty.  The credit will come equally from New York-based JPMorgan
and the World Bank’s International Finance Corp. and allow for
as much as $4 billion of hedging, the World Bank said in a
statement today. The funds are available to producers,
consumers, cooperatives and local banks.  “High, uncertain and volatile food prices are the single
gravest threat facing the most vulnerable in the developing
world,” World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in the
statement. “People are hungry for food and for action on a
global level.”  Group of 20 farm ministers meet in Paris this week to
discuss proposals to share information on stockpiles, eliminate
export restrictions, create emergency food stocks for the
poorest nations and reduce commodity price swings. World food
output will have to rise 70 percent by 2050 as the global
population climbs to 9.2 billion from an estimated 6.9 billion
in 2010, the  United Nations  says.  The World Bank wants to get other lenders involved in its
Agriculture Price Risk Management product, extending credit to
those in emerging markets who would not normally be able to pay
for hedging. Stable prices will help farmers get financing to
expand output and ensure “reasonable access” to food for
consumers, the Washington-based bank said.  Central Database  The G-20 ministers should agree to establish a central
database on the quality and quantity of global grain stocks,
which would reduce price swings by avoiding panic-buying,
Zoellick said in the statement. They should also exempt
humanitarian aid from export bans, he said.  Growth in rice and wheat yields in  developing countries ,
representing about 80 percent of the global population, has
slowed to 1 percent a year, from 3 percent in the 1970s,
Zoellick said. Unless action is taken to mitigate  climate
change , agricultural yields may drop 16 percent over the next
half century, he said.  “We need to be creative about farming, so there are not
only more crops but more resilient crops,” Zoellick said. There
are almost 1 billion hungry people in the world, he said.  World food prices rose 37 percent in the past 12 months,
reaching a record in February, according to an index of 55
commodities from the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization .
That helped push 44 million people into poverty in the past
year, defined as those living on less than $1.25 a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  