-- 
Kenya Shilling Depreciates to Weakest on Record as Dollar Demand Increases

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-21T12:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/kenya-shilling-depreciates-to-weakest-on-record-as-dollar-demand-increases.html
Kenya ’s shilling plummeted to its
weakest level in 17 years as demand for dollars increased from
corn importers seeking to address shortage of the grain.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy slumped as
much as 0.9 percent to 91.60 per dollar and was trading 0.6
percent lower at 91.32 at 3:18 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi,
from yesterday’s close of 90.75. A close at this level will be
the weakest since March 1994. That’s when Kenya abolished
exchange controls, allowing the shilling to trade freely,
Jeremiah Kendagor, head of trading at Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd., said by phone.  Kenya is a net importer of food in years of drought, Peter
Kegode, an independent economist, said by phone yesterday. Rain
in the three months through May was “highly depressed and
poorly distributed,” curbing agricultural production and
hydropower output, the Kenya Meteorological Department said on
May 26. The price of corn, the nation’s staple food, has
increased 64 percent over the past year.  “The shilling weakening is being driven by increased
demand for dollars by corn millers who have to increase their
corn supply to meet the country’s food deficit,” Mwambu
Malamba, a senior dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of
 Africa  Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Imports of corn will be duty-free until the end of the year
to address a food shortage caused by drought, Finance Minister
 Uhuru Kenyatta  said in a government gazette on June 17.  Shilling Estimate  The shilling, the continent’s worst performer this year,
has slumped 12 percent since Jan. 1, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender,
expects the shilling to lose another 2 percent within a month to
92.5 per dollar.  Central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u told traders on June
19 there was no need for panic selling of the shilling.  “The bank wishes to assure the market that the panic is
not warranted,” Ndung’u said in comments published by the
Nairobi-based Standard on Sunday newspaper. The shilling is
likely to stabilize when  Greece ’s sovereign debt crisis settles
and Kenya completes the current cycle of importing capital
goods, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  