-- 
Kenya Shilling at 17-Year Low on Spiralling Inflation Sparks State Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-06-21T12:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/kenya-shilling-at-17-year-low-on-spiraling-inflation-sparks-state-concern.html
Kenya’s shilling is plummeting to
its weakest level in 17 years and government borrowing costs are
the highest since 2002 as a fourfold surge in inflation shakes
investor confidence in East  Africa ’s largest economy.  The shilling, the continent’s worst performer, has slumped
12 percent this year, while 91-day Treasury yields have jumped
6.4 percentage points since February to 9.006 percent at last
week’s sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Standard
Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender, expects the shilling
to lose another 2 percent within a month to 92.5 per dollar.  Kenya, the world’s largest exporter of black tea, is
grappling with 13 percent inflation, up from 3.2 percent in
October, as corn, the nation’s staple food, soared 43 percent.
The central bank cut interest rates to a record low in January,
before raising them by a total of a half a percentage point at
the following two monetary policy meetings in March and May.  “The central bank entirely misread the inflation cycle,”
 Leon Myburgh , a sub-Saharan Africa strategist for Citigroup Inc.
in Johannesburg, said in a June 17 phone interview. “The
shilling remains vulnerable.”  Inflation may reach 18 percent in the fourth quarter unless
the central bank accelerates rate increases, said Matthew Pearson, the head of Africa equity products in London at
Standard Bank.  The central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate to
5.75 percent on Jan. 27 even after inflation surpassed the
official 5 percent target to reach 5.4 percent the same month.  Panic Unwarranted  Central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u told traders on June
19 there was no need to panic.  “The bank wishes to assure the market that the panic is
not warranted,” Ndung’u said in comments published by the
Nairobi-based Standard on Sunday newspaper. The shilling is
likely to stabilize when  Greece ’s sovereign debt crisis settles
and  Kenya  completes the current cycle of importing capital
goods, he said.  Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  told reporters in Nairobi
last week the government has “some concern” about the
currency’s weakness.  The potential for intervention is a “subject of
discussion,” said Kenyatta. Still, “we don’t want to say that
we are going to interfere with market forces,” he said.  The shilling will only end its depreciation when policy
makers show that rates are set to “spike,” said  Razia Khan ,
head of Africa research at Standard Chartered Bank Plc, which
operates in  13 sub-Saharan African countries .  Drought  “It’s not enough to express concern about the currency,
but not do anything to ensure that the turnaround takes place,”
Khan said in a phone interview from London. Any signal of “much
higher”  interest rates  will “make it very painful to be short
the Kenyan shilling,” she said.  The currency depreciated as much as 0.9 percent to 91.60
per dollar, the weakest since 1994, and traded 0.6 percent down
at 91.25 as of 2:58 p.m. in Nairobi.  Kenya is feeling the effects of rising global commodity
prices as a drought forces the country to import more food than
it exports, according to Peter Kegode, a Nairobi-based
independent economist who advises agricultural associations.  Oil accounts for about 20 percent of imports, based on
 Central Bank of Kenya  data published in March.  Brent crude  has
climbed 19 percent this year.  IMF Accord  “Unless the central bank addresses those real rates of
inflation and real interest rates, there’s going to continue to
be pressure on the shilling,” said  Standard Bank ’s Pearson.  The weaker shilling is lifting costs for the central bank
as it buys dollars to boost reserves in line with a Jan. 31
International Monetary Fund accord. While Kenya is targeting
having dollars to cover four months of import bills, reserves
last week fell to $3.98 billion, equivalent to 3.79 months of
imports, from $4 billion a week earlier, the bank’s data show.  The central bank kept bond yields from rising at its
auctions last week compared with the previous week’s sale by
limiting issuance to the lowest in at least three months. The
bank accepted 49 percent of the 13.7 billion shillings ($151
million) of bids at its June 16 auction. The yield fell one
basis point from the previous sale to 9.006 percent, the bank’s
data show.  “Clearly the central bank is trying to manage the upsurge
in rates,” Ronald Olembo, a Nairobi-based fixed-income trader
at CFC Stanbic Bank Ltd., said in a June 17 phone interview.  Election Shock  Kenya is rated B+ at both Fitch and  Standard & Poor’s , four
levels below investment grade, and equal with Zambia, Georgia
and  Bolivia . Fitch and S&P have a “stable” outlook.  The IMF expects Kenya’s economic growth to slow to 5
percent this year from 5.6 percent last year, compared with an
average of 6.6 percent for developing nations worldwide.  “They’re obviously getting headwinds from high inflation
and the currency is depreciating, but we think they will get
through this,” said  Veronica Kalema , a director for Fitch
Ratings’ sovereign group in  London . “The economy is finally
recovering and the politics are looking better.”  Kenya implemented a new constitution last year to devolve
some power from the presidency to regional legislators in an
effort to prevent ethnic tension before next year’s presidential
election. Legislators are also seeking to redistribute land
ownership, an issue that is at the heart of tribal tensions that
left 1,500 people dead after the last election in December 2007.  A more than four-month stand-off in the  Ivory Coast  after
contested voting that ended in April and revolts that toppled
the presidents of Egypt and  Tunisia  have raised investor
wariness of election risks, said Standard Bank’s Pearson.  “Political risk in Africa has come to the fore again,”
Pearson said. There’s the prospect of a “near-term potential
shock” from Kenya’s election, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  