-- 
Korean Air Seen Toppling Cathay Pacific On EU Trade Deal: Freight Markets

-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-06-21T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/korean-air-to-top-cathay-pacific-on-eu-trade-freight-markets.html
Korean Air  Lines Co. shareholders
may be the biggest beneficiaries of the $71 billion boost in
commerce between the European Union and South Korea after a
free-trade agreement between the two takes effect July 1.  The EU’s  first  trade accord with an Asian nation will
increase air shipments of Samsung Electronics Co. flat screens
from South Korea and Louis Vuitton bags and crates of Beaujolais
Nouveau from  France . That may help Korean Air reclaim the rank
of the world’s biggest international air-cargo company that it
lost to  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  last year.  “Airlines will most definitely benefit from the trade
agreement,” said Song Jae Hak, a transport analyst at Woori
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, who has a “buy” rating
on Korean Air. “Korean Air is sure to reclaim its No. 1
position.”  The 27-member bloc’s trade deal with  South Korea , the
world’s seventh-biggest exporter, is expected to expand their
almost $100 billion of annual commerce by $4.7 billion a year
over the next 15 years, according to a 2010 study led by state-
run Korea Institute for International Economic Policy. South
Korea’s annual air shipments may rise 6.4 percent and imports by
2.8 percent by 2015, Korean Air said in a written response to
queries last week.  Korean Air earned 28 percent of its freight revenue in the
first quarter of this year from European routes, compared with
40 percent from the Americas.  Superjumbo Efficiencies  The company’s shares have rallied 22 percent from their
March 15 low to 68,900 won yesterday on a stronger Korean
currency and investor expectations that the introduction of
Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos will cut costs per seat and lure
more premium-class passengers.  The share-price gain makes Korean Air the second best-
performing over that period among the 31 stocks that comprise
the Bloomberg World Airlines Index. Hong Kong-based Cathay
Pacific declined 4.3 percent.  Korean Air may have room to gain. Twenty-seven out of 33
analysts tracked by Bloomberg have a “buy” recommendation on
the stock, with Song’s 12-month target of 105,000 won the
highest. The average target price of 17 analysts that provided
them was 84,158 won.  The EU pact is likely to increase the relative importance
of European markets for South Korea over the U.S. while
congressional disputes delay approval of a similar trade
agreement with America. That may help companies such as London-
based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Ludwigshafen, Germany-based  BASF
SE (BAS)  get ahead of U.S. rivals in  Asia ’s No. 4 economy.  More Incentive  The deal creates “even more incentive for us to move as
quickly as we can,” U.S. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  said in
Seoul on April 29. “We don’t want a long period of time in
which products from the EU have a significant competitive
advantage over U.S. goods.”  “The EU FTA will bring an immediate rise in imports of
wine and luxury goods to South Korea,” said Yun Hee Do, an
analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. Airlines
are likely to enjoy more benefits than shipping lines, where
“the problem of overcapacity looms,” he said.  The global container shipping fleet may grow 9 percent this
year, said Paris-based Alphaliner, which provides data on the
industry. The biggest rise is expected in Asia- Europe  trade as
shipping lines deploy vessels longer than the 324-meter (1,063-
foot)  Eiffel Tower . Capacity on the route may have risen about
19 percent in May alone, it said.  Low Rates  The trade accord “could serve as a positive factor, albeit
small, for shipping lines pressured by low rates,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer of Seoul-based Midas International
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $3.2 billion in equities.
Midas holds Korean Air shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Normally when you get these tax incentives or free-trade
agreements there is clear growth in business,” Thomas Knudsen,
head of Asia-Pacific operations for  Maersk Line , a unit of A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S, said in an interview in  Singapore . EU tax
exemptions for Cambodian goods helped shipments from there to
Europe grow “significantly” this year, he said.  South  Korea ’s annual commerce with the 10-member
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  has jumped 61 percent to
$107 billion in the four years since a trade accord came into
effect in June 2007, the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  and Trade
says. Korea’s combined exports to countries it has trade pacts
with jumped 34 percent in 2010 from a year earlier, faster than
the 28 percent growth in total exports, Korea Customs Service
figures show.  Auto Parts  Auto parts, medicines and fine machinery -- such as cameras
and watches -- are industries expected to benefit from the South
Korea-EU agreement, Korean Air said in the statement.  The company plans to add five Airbus A380s this year on
routes including between South Korea’s Incheon and Paris in
September. The Seoul-based company is scheduled to receive five
more A380s by 2014 and said on May 3 it would purchase seven new
planes, set to be delivered between 2013 and 2015. Korean Air is
also due to get seven Boeing Co. 747-8 freighters by 2015.  The airline on Jan. 27 forecast a record operating profit
this year, with cargo traffic expected to gain 3.8 percent.  Global air-cargo traffic may rise 5.5 percent this year,
from a 4.3 percent pace in the first four months, according to
the  International Air Transport Association  in Geneva. Demand
for air cargo may recover in the second half as retailers
restock for year-end holidays, according to airlines including
Cathay and FedEx Corp.  Cathay Pacific may see cargo growth cooling “a little
bit” in 2011 after last year’s 18 percent rise in volumes,
Chief Executive Officer John Slosar said March 9. Last year was
“extraordinary” with the end of the global recession and
shipments of Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in  Hong Kong  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  