-- 
NFL, Union Negotiators Said to Consider Giving 48% of Revenue to Players

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/nfl-owners-meet-on-labor-deal-seeking-key-to-start-2012-season-on-time.html
National Football League owners and
players are discussing a labor contract in which players would
get about 48 percent of all revenue, according to a person
familiar with the negotiations.  The potential deal would eliminate a provision of the
previous collective bargaining agreement that allowed owners to
deduct $1 billion from total revenue before splitting the rest
with players, said the person, who was granted anonymity because
he wasn’t authorized to discuss the negotiations publicly.
Owners were briefed on the status of talks yesterday during a
meeting in Rosemont, Illinois.  The league and its players have met in small sessions over
the last few weeks in an effort to end a three-month lockout,
ensure training camps open on time in July and that the season
starts on schedule in September.  “We don’t have an agreement,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  
told reporters after yesterday’s meeting. “We have a very strong 
view of the priorities, a very strong view of what we need to 
accomplish in the negotiations and a determination to get there.”  Goodell didn’t disclose specifics and wouldn’t comment
further on the status of negotiations, though he said more
meetings have been scheduled. He didn’t say when.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the players, didn’t return
an e-mail seeking comment.  Under the NFL’s labor contract that expired after last
season, players received about 60 percent of revenue once the $1
billion credit had been deducted. Under the new proposal, the
players’ share would never dip below about 47 percent, according
to the person. It doesn’t include ownership taking the $1
billion off the top as a management credit, which has been a
point of contention in negotiations.  Three-Month Lockout  NFL owners locked out players on March 12 after a season
that produced record television ratings for the most popular
sport in the U.S., drawing a total audience of 207.7 million
people, according to Neilsen Co. data. It was capped by the
 Green Bay Packers ’ Super Bowl victory against the Pittsburgh
Steelers in February, a game that drew the largest U.S.
television audience in history.  The two sides are at odds on how to divide about $9 billion
in annual revenue, the most of any sports league.  Goodell said yesterday that ownership remains committed to
getting a fair deal and a full 2011 season.  Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay said before yesterday’s
meeting that avoiding a delay to the scheduled start of the
season is contingent on reaching an agreement as soon as
possible.  “Why get a deal Oct. 1 or November that we could have had
on July 7 or whatever?” Irsay told reporters. “This is the
time to get a deal done.”  Labor Talks  The meeting near  Chicago  followed three weeks of labor
talks. After the NFL locked out players, the players sued in
federal court, charging antitrust violations and wage-fixing.  Along with player pay, topics of negotiations include
extending the regular season by two games to 18, a rookie wage
scale and health care.  Training camps typically start at the end of July. The
 Minnesota Vikings  said in a news release last week that the club
must inform officials at Minnesota State University in Mankato
by July 18 whether its camp will take place.  “Both sides know what the calendar is and understand the
consequences of delay,”  Jeff Pash , the league’s lead negotiator,
told reporters yesterday.  Ratification  As part of the process of completing a new contract, Pash
said the NFL would have to make sure documents are fully drafted
and approved, and then both sides would have to ratify the
agreement. Owners and players would also have to go before
“various courts” to deal with some litigation, Pash said.  If the two sides are able to reach a handshake agreement,
Pash said he didn’t know how long it would take for the free
agency period to begin. In addition to players not getting paid
or being able to practice, the lockout prevents about 500
players from becoming free agents.  “The players would want it to be soon and we would want it
to be soon,” Pash said. “So we would move as quickly as we
could.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in Rosemont,  Illinois , at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net 
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  