-- 
NHL Approves Atlanta Thrashers’ Move to Winnipeg, New Team Name Unresolved

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   L y d i a   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-06-21T21:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/nhl-approves-atlanta-thrashers-move-to-winnipeg-new-team-name-unresolved.html
The  National Hockey League  is
returning to Winnipeg.  The league’s board of governors voted today in New York to
approve the sale of the  Atlanta Thrashers  to Winnipeg, Manitoba-
based True North Sports & Entertainment, NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said. The team, whose new name hasn’t been announced,
will play in Winnipeg starting with the 2011-12 season.  Bettman declined to comment on the financial details of the
sale, which was announced last month. The Hockey News reported
on May 20 that the price would be $110 million, with the NHL
receiving at least another $60 million as part of a relocation
fee. The True North deal received more than the 50 percent vote
among the 30 NHL teams necessary to approve relocation and the
75 percent needed to change ownership.  “Everybody is sorry that we found ourselves in a
circumstance where our franchise was leaving Atlanta,” Bettman
said in a news conference after the meeting. “Based on the
reception that we’ve gotten, everybody is extremely excited
about the opportunities in Winnipeg.”  The board also approved the league budget and a rule change
regarding penalization for hits to the head and boarding.  Boston
Bruins  forward  Nathan Horton  missed the final four games of the
Stanley Cup Final after sustaining a concussion on an illegal
hit from  Vancouver Canucks  defenseman Aaron Rome. Rome was
suspended for the remainder of the series.  Hits to Head  “Anywhere on the ice, coming from any direction, if you
target the head and make the head the principle point of contact,
you will be subject to a two-minute penalty on the ice,” league
Vice President for Player Safety and Hockey Operations Brendan Shanahan, an eight-time All-Star and three-time Stanley Cup
winner, said in a news conference. “You will also be subject to
supplemental discipline as well.”  Winnipeg lost its previous NHL team, the Jets, when the
franchise moved to  Arizona  in 1996 and became the  Phoenix
Coyotes .  Season tickets for the new team went on sale to the public
on June 4. The required 13,000 season tickets were sold to
existing minor-league patrons and new buyers within 72 hours,
according to the Winnipeg Free Press. The waiting list was
capped at 8,000 soon after that.  Toronto Maple Leafs  General Manager Brian Burke said that,
though there was no skepticism during the discussions about
Winnipeg’s ability to support an NHL franchise, the league’s
smallest market would need to sustain those ticket sales beyond
the immediate excitement.  Smallest Market  “There are challenges in that market, it’s that simple,”
Burke told reporters. “They could have sold the building out
three times, but that’s the first five years, that’s the easy
part.”  A name for the new team, which has the No. 7 pick in the
NHL Draft this week, wasn’t discussed, New Jersey Devils General
Manager Lou Lamoriello said. Suggestions include the Jets and
the Manitoba Falcons, in honor of the Winnipeg Falcons, who won
 Canada ’s first Olympic hockey gold medal in 1920. An  online
petition  calling for the team to regain the Jets nickname has
gathered more than 13,500 signatures.  MTS Centre  The 15,000-seat MTS Centre, the future home of the
franchise, will retain its name after MTS Allstream Inc., a
local telecommunications company, and True North announced an
extension of their sponsorship agreement last week. Financial
details of the 10-year extension, announced on the arena’s
website, weren’t released.  “We get to be back in a place we wish we hadn’t left in
1996,” Bettman said May 31 at a news conference in Winnipeg
following the announcement of the sale.  True North is headed by David Thomson, chairman of
financial news and information provider  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) 
Thomson was ranked 24th on Forbes magazine’s 2009 list of the
world’s richest people, with an estimated net worth of $13
billion.  In a May 31 letter to fans posted on the Thrashers’ website,
team owners Bruce Levenson and Michael Gearon Jr. said that they
had been seeking a buyer or partner and had tried to keep the
team in Atlanta.  Attendance Woes  “After extensive effort, nobody has come forward,”
Levenson and Gearon wrote. “As a result, we had no choice but
to explore the investment option presented to us by the NHL in
the form of True North.”  The Thrashers averaged 13,649 fans per game last season,
28th of the league’s 30 teams, according to NHL figures, down
from a high of 17,205 in the club’s 1999-2000 inaugural season.
A franchise-low 8,461 fans attended the Thrashers’ Nov. 4 loss
to the Columbus Blue Jackets.  “We’ve been through the emotions and the frustrations the
last few weeks but when I look back -- and I have been there 13
years -- it’s been a great run,” Thrashers President Don Waddell, who has announced he will not be staying with the team,
told reporters. “The franchise is in very good hands.”  The Thrashers compiled a record of 342 wins, 437 losses, 45
ties and 78 overtime losses, an average of fewer than 32 wins a
season in their 11 years. The team qualified for the playoffs
once, in 2007, when it was swept by the  New York  Rangers in the
opening round.  Atlanta is the only city to lose two franchises since the
league expanded to 12 teams in 1967. The Atlanta Flames moved to
Calgary 31 years ago. Lamoriello said Atlanta’s second attempt
at an NHL franchise did not bode well for the sport’s future in
 Georgia ’s capital.  Seventh Canadian Team  “You never say never, but they certainly made every effort
they possibly could to have it work and it didn’t work,”
Lamoriello told reporters.  The new Winnipeg franchise will be the NHL’s seventh
Canadian team, joining the Vancouver Canucks, Calgary Flames,
Toronto Maple Leafs, Edmonton Oilers,  Montreal Canadiens  and
 Ottawa Senators .  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Lydia Winkler in New York at 
 lwinkler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  