-- 
Nokia Unveils New Phones for Emerging Markets to Take on Apple, Google

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-21T08:22:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/nokia-unveils-phone-with-dual-sim-touch-screen-to-target-emerging-markets.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  unveiled mobile phones at
both ends of its range to fend off competition from cheap 
unbranded handsets and smartphones powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s 
Android.  The C2-03 model will target consumers in emerging markets
by making it easier to switch between different phone numbers,
 Mary McDowell , the executive vice president who runs low-end
phones, said in  Singapore  today. Nokia also showed the N9, a
touchscreen smartphone based on its MeeGo software that will
start shipping later this year.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is turning his focus
toward winning back customers in Asia, home to the world’s two
biggest mobile-phone markets, after spending his first months
devising a plan to fight  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Android-based
devices in Europe and the U.S. Nokia’s market share in China and
India tumbled by more than a third last year, according to
research firm Gartner Inc.  “Nokia recognizes it needs to move more quickly to make up
lost ground in emerging markets, particularly India where agile
opportunist competitors have taken market share,” said  Ben Wood ,
a London-based analyst with CCS Insight.  Nokia rose as much as 12 cents, or 3 percent, to 4.17 euros
and traded at 4.16 euros as of 11:21 a.m. in Helsinki, valuing
the Espoo, Finland-based company at 15.6 billion euros ($22
billion). The stock is down 46 percent this year.  Market Share  “The reality is that 90 percent of the world does not have
or cannot afford a smartphone or a high-end device,” said Elop
in his first major speech in  Asia  since the former Microsoft
Corp. executive took the helm at Nokia in September last year.
“This gap creates an opportunity.”  Elop plans to increase investment in low-end phones that
have sold well in Asia as well as emerging-market countries
elsewhere. These models accounted for about half of Nokia’s
handset revenue and  78 percent  of units shipped last year.  They face competition from cheaper Android phones from
companies such as  ZTE Corp. (000063)  as well as a flood of unbranded
phones from smaller Chinese manufacturers, built on chipsets
from MediaTek Inc.  While China led Nokia’s markets in the first quarter with a
30 percent  sales  increase, the company said May 31 intensifying
competition from local suppliers in the country was driving down
prices.  China  and the Asia-Pacific region accounted for 45
percent of Nokia’s device sales in the first quarter.  Touch, Type  That hasn’t stopped the slide. Its market share in China
tumbled to 20.4 percent last year from 31.5 percent in 2009 and
in India, Nokia dropped to 30.2 percent from 48.9 percent in one
year, according to estimates at Gartner.  The C2-03 model, a touch-and-type device combining a
touchscreen and a keypad, will have the ability to carry two SIM
cards, facilitating the use of two phone numbers. It will also
feature maps and location-based services without the user
requiring to sign up for a plan with the carrier.  “Touch and type allows them to introduce something at the
low end that other guys don’t have quite yet,” said Mikko Ervasti, an analyst at Evli Bank in Helsinki. “It will help to
get some part of the market in the low end.”  Southeast Asia , including Indonesia and  Vietnam , as well as
 India , China,  Nigeria ,  South Africa  and  Brazil  are regions that
could yield the “next one billion people” who’ll buy mobile
phones, McDowell said.  ‘Full Swing’  “In the third time in a month, we’re debuting another
dual-SIM device,” McDowell said. “We may be late to this
party, but we’re in full swing now.”  At the high end, Nokia faces competition from Apple’s
iPhone and a welter of Android-based devices that are starting
to match the iPhone’s capabilities in apps, Web surfing and
media delivery. These touchscreens also integrate increasingly
well with corporate e-mail and other systems, making them a
threat to Research In Motion Ltd.’s Blackberry line as well.  The N9 user has no buttons on the face and works by swipe
and tap gestures on the screen. The touch interface extends to
accessories like headphones and speakers which are activated
through tapping them using so-called near field communications
technology, senior vice president Marko Ahtisaari said.  Nokia last week settled its dispute with Apple over patents
including one for wiping gestures on a touchscreen in a deal
that gives the Finnish company a one-time payment and royalties.  Symbian Phones  Nokia’s “primary smartphone strategy” remains the Windows
phone, Elop said, which will be unveiled this year and will
begin to ship “in volume” in 2012. Nokia is planning to
introduce 10 devices based on Symbian, the software it’s phasing
out as it switches to Microsoft’s platform.  Last quarter, Nokia’s handset revenue dipped below Apple’s
iPhone sales for the first time. Android smartphone software,
offered on devices from dozens of vendors is expected to be the
world’s most used smartphone system this year, according to
 Gartner .  Globally, Nokia’s shipments fell 2.3 percent in the first
quarter, driving down its  market share  more than 5 percentage
points to 25.1 percent, according to Gartner. Apple boosted its
share to 3.9 percent, ZTE to 2.3 percent and HTC to 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  