-- 
Nortel Judge Approves Committee to Negotiate for Retirees

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-21T15:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/nortel-judge-approves-committee-to-negotiate-for-retirees-over-benefits.html
Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ’s retirees and
disabled workers are entitled to their own committees and legal
advisers paid by the bankrupt telecommunications company to help
them negotiate changes to their benefits, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
appointed two committees today, one to represent 3,300 U.S.
retirees and their families and another for 245 disabled
workers.  “It has been somewhat difficult to get the retirees
organized,” Gross said during the hearing.  Nortel, once the biggest manufacturer of telecommunications
equipment in  North America , has proposed canceling some benefits
for retirees and for long-term disabled workers, saying it can’t
afford them as the company is preparing to shut down.  After Toronto-based Nortel filed for bankruptcy in 2009, it
began selling its businesses, raising about $3 billion so far in
auctions. The last major asset left, a portfolio of 6,000
technology patents, will be auctioned off later this month with
an opening bid of at least $900 million made by  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The company requested the retiree committee in order to
help it negotiate the possible cancellation of some retirement
benefits, company attorney Jane Kim told Gross.  The cost to provide benefits to retirees and disabled
workers is about $1 million a month for each group, Nortel said
in court papers.  Nortel’s businesses “are in the process of winding down,”
Kim said in court today. “We cannot continue to support payment
of benefits as they are.”  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  