-- 
Norwegian Billionaire Kjell Inge Roekke Seeks Takeovers After Aker Revamp

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-06-22T09:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/norwegian-billionaire-kjell-inge-roekke-seeks-takeovers-after-aker-revamp.html
Billionaire Kjell Inge Roekke’s Aker
ASA, which controls  Norway ’s largest maker of oil platforms and
its second-biggest crude explorer, anticipates growing through
acquisitions while expanding in Asia and  Africa .  “We are basically not present in the  Middle East ,”
Oeyvind Eriksen, 47, the chief executive officer of the Aker
holding company and  Aker Solutions ASA (AKSO) , said in a June 20
interview in Oslo. “We have a very fragmented presence in Asia
Pacific and we lack local content in West Africa to participate
in the next expected upturn cycle for subsea equipment.”  Surging  oil prices  and dwindling output from areas such as
the  North Sea  has spurred a boom in exploration in new areas off
Africa,  South America  and  Asia . Companies will increase global
spending on exploration and production 11 percent this year to
$490 billion, Barclays Plc estimated in December. There have
been deals of about $85.4 billion in energy mergers and
acquisitions this year, more than any other industry, Bloomberg
data shows.  Eriksen is completing a one-year restructuring of Aker
Solutions, Norway’s largest engineering company, which has
included selling and separating assets. The company is
“basically debt free,” which will allow it to seek
acquisitions to strengthen its technology portfolio and
distribution network outside Norway, he said.  Norway Growth  Aker, the holding company, fell 0.5 krone to 139.5 kroner
as of 11:37 a.m. in Oslo. The shares are down 0.7 percent this
year, valuing the company at 10 billion kroner ($1.8 billion).
 Aker Solutions  fell 1 percent to 107 kroner.  Companies such as Statoil ASA and Roekke’s Aker companies
are seeking to expand outside Norway, where oil production has
halved over the past decade as North Sea fields dry up. At the
same time, producers are increasing spending offshore the Nordic
country to raise recovery rates and drilling more wells in the
Arctic to tap new resources. Petroleum investments are forecast
to rise 15 percent to a record $27 billion in Norway this year,
according to  Statistics Norway .  ‘Pretty High’  Rising prices for oil-service assets is “probably what
will limit how we will proceed,” said Eriksen, sitting in his
office overlooking the fjord of Oslo. “Prices on oil services
companies have been pretty high recently. Short-term we need to
be disciplined in order to avoid mistakes.”  Aker Solutions gained 2.8 billion kroner ($508 million)
from the sale of its process & construction business to Jacob
Engineering Group Inc. and subsidiary Aker Marine Contractors to
Ezra Holdings Ltd. It has also separated its engineering,
procurement and construction unit, which it aims to list in July
in Oslo as Kvaerner ASA.  “It’s not only a question of how to price the target
company,” Eriksen said. “When we calculate the return on the
investment, we also look into how we can take advantage of the
target company within other business areas of Aker Solutions and
increase the sales activity via the new platform. That might be
a slightly different calculation.”  The 52-year-old Roekke is Norway’s 10th richest man,
according to magazine Kapital. He started working on a fishing
trawler when he was 17, before moving to  Alaska  where he bought
his own vessel at the age of 23. In 1996, he gained control of
Aker, a 170-year-old industrial company, and became majority-
shareholder in engineering company Kvaerner in 2002, which later
became Aker Solutions. Roekke owns 67 percent of Aker.  Seafood, Oil  Roekke brought Eriksen to Aker in 2009 and began
restructuring the group, including merging Aker Exploration with
Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA to form the second-biggest crude
explorer offshore Norway. They also arranged the sale of assets
from Aker Holding AS to Aker Solutions. The deal stirred up a
dispute between Roekke and the government, which is part owner
in Aker Solutions through Aker Holding, amid concern the
transaction was overpriced. Eriksen said Aker wouldn’t engage in
sales within the group again.  “We’ve completed the main restructuring, the main
disposals, and now it’s about how to take advantage of the new
structure,” he said. “Going forward it’s about how each
individual company can develop itself in its respective markets,
including how we can identify acquisition targets as part of the
plan to grow.”  Relisted Driller  Aker will grow within the “typical Norwegian sectors” of
oil and gas, seafood, marine biotechnology, environmental
technology and asset management, he said. The executive said he
was most positive on energy and seafood.  Aker also relisted its rig company Aker Drilling in Oslo in
February, three years after taking it off the exchange to avoid
a takeover by billionaire John Fredriksen’s  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)   Eriksen said he was bullish on demand for new harsh
environment and deepwater rigs, notably in Norway, where the
average age of the current fleet is 18 years and more than a
third are more than 25-years-old.  Higher exploration budgets and greater demand for modern
rigs and rigs capable of operating in deepwater and harsh
environments has spurred a boom in new rig orders. Orders for
ultra-deepwater units have risen to 31 since November, while the
number of jack-up rigs on order has climbed to 40 since October,
Seadrill said May 27.  Aker Drilling has “invited basically all drillers that may
have an interest” in consolidation talks, Eriksen said. “We
sincerely think that it will happen.”  “We have positioned Aker Drilling as a pure-play deepwater
harsh environment. If we should consider some kind of
consolidation, to us the most attractive players will be
drillers with a similar position or ambition,” he said.  Seadrill, the owner of the world’s second-largest fleet of
deepwater rigs, considers Aker Drilling among potential
acquisition candidates, CEO Alf Thorkildsen said in an interview
on Feb. 24. While the two companies were in talks to merge at
the beginning of the year, they couldn’t agree on terms, Eriksen
said. He declined to comment on whether the company was
currently in merger discussions.  Aker’s industrial holdings also include Aker Clean Carbon
ASA, and  Aker BioMarine ASA. (AKBM)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia at   mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  