-- 
NYSE Euronext Suffers Second Day of Interrupted Trading on Technical Fault

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-06-21T10:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/nyse-euronext-suffers-second-day-of-interrupted-trading-on-technical-fault.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  suffered a second day
of interrupted trading in European equities as a computer
malfunction affected processing of transactions in about a tenth
of its market segments.  The owner of equity bourses in Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam,
Luxembourg and Lisbon delayed trading in the largest Dutch and
Belgian stocks by two hours today following the unspecified
technical disruption, according to the New York-based company’s
website. Bonds, exchange-traded funds and currencies were also
affected.  “Disruptions of this sort not only create inconvenience
but also cause uncertainty as markets can’t open,” said Luis Benguerel, a trader at Interbrokers Espanola in  Barcelona ,
 Spain . “Exchanges know investments in technology to avoid these
sort of accidents are a priority so they should act.”  The start of equity trading across Euronext’s markets was
delayed for an hour yesterday because of a system fault. The
breakdown was the latest such occurrence this year in Europe,
where stock transactions are divided among regulated exchanges
and alternative platforms.  All trading affected today restarted by 11:05 a.m. Paris
time, Euronext said on its website. The Netherlands’ AEX Index
and Belgium’s  BEL 20 Index (BEL20)  resumed pricing as normal from 11
a.m. local time.  No Glitch Details  Caroline Tourrier, a spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext in
Paris, wasn’t able to provide further details on the technical
glitch when contacted by phone.  Competing exchanges including Bats Global Markets Inc. have
said glitches show that traditional operators such as NYSE
Euronext and LSE Stock Exchange Group Plc, which manage the bulk
of equities trading in Europe, aren’t a guarantee of functioning
markets by themselves. NYSE Euronext cited improving computer
systems as a goal of its combination with Deutsche Boerse AG,
which it announced in February.  European stocks climbed today amid speculation that Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will win a confidence vote that
moves the nation a step closer to avoiding a default. The Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index rose 0.6 percent at 11:30 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  