-- 
Obama Weighs Afghan Needs, Waning Support

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-21T23:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/obama-weighs-military-needs-in-afghanistan-as-public-support-for-war-wanes.html
President  Barack Obama , in an
address to the nation tonight, will seek to balance military
goals against fiscal realities and waning public support when he
announces how quickly he’ll bring U.S. troops home from
 Afghanistan .  Obama is coming under pressure from the public, lawmakers
and some of the Republicans vying to run against him in 2012 to
accelerate U.S. disengagement from Afghanistan. The calls for
drawing the Afghan campaign to a close have increased since the
killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and as attention is
focused on the nation’s debt.  White House officials refused to provide details of the
president’s plan, including whether he’ll withdraw all 30,000
troops that constitute last year’s military surge that he
ordered by the end of 2012. The Los Angeles Times, citing
unnamed Pentagon officials, said Obama is expected to withdraw
10,000 personnel by the end of this year. Other reports said
Obama plans to bring about 30,000 troops home by the end of next
year. White House press secretary  Jay Carney  called those
figures “speculation.”  “The president will keep the commitment that he made in
December of 2009 to begin the drawdown of U.S. forces from
Afghanistan next month,” Carney said at a briefing yesterday.  Taliban Government  About 97,000 U.S. forces are serving in Afghanistan, along
with about 50,000 from other nations in the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization. The U.S. began military operations in
Afghanistan in October 2001, in response to the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks on America orchestrated by al-Qaeda leaders
being harbored by the Taliban-run government then in charge of
the country. That government was quickly overthrown.  Obama ran for president in 2008 promising to end U.S.
military involvement in  Iraq , which the U.S. invaded in March
2003. Obama last year withdrew all combat forces from Iraq,
leaving 50,000 troops to provide training and support until the
end of this year. He has said the U.S. will fully hand over
security responsibility in Afghanistan to local authorities by
2014.  The two wars together have cost the lives of 6,080 U.S.
personnel and more than $1 trillion, according to Defense
Department figures. The cost figure doesn’t include as much as
$100 billion the Pentagon lists as not war-related, such
intelligence spending, or the long-term costs for Veterans
Administration care and disability costs for the 44,122 wounded
Iraq and Afghanistan veterans.  ‘Significant,’ ‘Major’ Changes  Michael O’Hanlon, a military strategy and defense analyst
at the  Brookings Institution  policy group in  Washington , said a
withdrawal of 5,000 troops this year from Afghanistan and a
total of 30,000 by the end of 2012 or early 2013 would be
consistent with military planning, while withdrawing 10,000 this
year would require some “significant” changes. A withdrawal of
15,000 this year, O’Hanlon said, would require “major” changes
to plans.  Richard Fontaine, a senior fellow with the Center for a New
American Security in Washington, said the timing of withdrawals
is important because the military wants to preserve “the
maximum combat power it can bring to bear throughout the
fighting season” this year and in 2012. The fighting season in
Afghanistan typically runs from late spring through autumn.  Withdrawing 10,000 troops during this year’s fighting
season would limit U.S. capabilities more than withdrawing 5,000
now and another 5,000 after the fighting season ends, said
Fontaine, who is a former foreign policy adviser to Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican.  Support Troops  Fontaine also said he expects most of the first withdrawals
to be personnel that provide support, rather than combat troops.
War costs, which have contributed to a trillion-dollar
federal  budget deficit  that both the Congress and Obama have
promised to cut, also have figured into the debate.  From a cost savings perspective, if most of the withdrawals
come in late 2012, Fontaine said, it will mean “you’re still
talking about a war that’s north of $100 billion a year
stretching through 2012.”  Obama’s speech comes after weeks of deliberations among his
military, diplomatic, economic and political advisers. Those
included General David Petraeus, the top commander in
Afghanistan and Obama’s nominee to lead the CIA, Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates , whose is set to leave his post on June
30, and  Leon Panetta , the former CIA director who was confirmed
yesterday as Obama choice to replace Gates.  Bruce Riedel , a former CIA officer who led Obama’s first
interagency review of Afghanistan and  Pakistan  and is a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said he
expected Petraeus and Panetta would support withdrawing 5,000
troops this summer and 5,000 later this year.  Gates’ View  Gates said during his visit to Afghanistan this month that
the drawdown shouldn’t jeopardize the past year’s gains to stem
Taliban advances. Gates pushed for any drawdown of the surge to
cover the next 18 to 24 months.  Gates said the Taliban might be more willing to negotiate a
reconciliation with the Afghan government led by President  Hamid Karzai  by the end of this year if the U.S. can maintain military
pressure.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said in a statement yesterday
that “conditions on the ground” should allow Obama to withdraw
at least 15,000 U.S. troops by the end of the year.  Poll Results  A survey released yesterday by the Pew Research Center
found for the first time a majority of Americans, 56 percent,
want to bring U.S. troops home as soon as possible rather than
wait until the Afghan situation has stabilized.  That reflects an eight-point increase since May and a 16-
point increase from a year ago. The survey of 1,502 adults was
conducted June 15-19 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
3.5 percentage points.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted June 17-20 found almost
one-third of Americans want an immediate withdrawal; 53 percent
support withdrawal over the next couple of years.  Obama’s speech follows revelations that the U.S. has
engaged in preliminary talks with the Taliban to promote peace
talks, and new concerns about the U.S. relationship with Karzai.  Gates described U.S. contact with Taliban guerillas as
“very preliminary.” The U.S. stance supports Afghan
reconciliation with the Taliban provided they meet conditions
such as renouncing violence, breaking with al-Qaeda and
respecting rights for women.  Karzai last week characterized the U.S. as an occupying
force in Afghanistan. Karzai on June 18 told a youth conference
that the U.S.-led troops were there for their own national
interests and that foreign troops “dishonor the people” of
Afghanistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  