-- 
Obama to Outline Afghan Troop Plans

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-06-21T19:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/obama-to-outline-plans-for-beginning-u-s-afghanistan-troop-withdrawal.html
President  Barack Obama  will announce
tomorrow the next step in his strategy for winding down U.S.
involvement in  Afghanistan , beginning a withdrawal of troops
starting next month as public support for the war wanes.  Obama had set a July deadline to start bringing home some
of about 97,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan and giving greater
responsibility to Afghan security forces. A full handoff to the
Afghans is planned by 2014.  “The president will keep the commitment that he made in
December of 2009 to begin the drawdown of U.S. forces from
Afghanistan next month,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said at a briefing today.  Carney refused to provide details of the president’s
announcement, including whether he will call for withdrawing all
30,000 troops that constitute last year’s military surge by the
end of 2012, or a smaller portion, as military officials prefer.
The Los Angeles Times, citing unnamed Pentagon officials, said
Obama is expected to withdraw 10,000 personnel by the end of
this year. Other reports said Obama plans to bring about 30,000
troops home by the end of 2012. Carney called those figures
“speculation.”  The president will deliver a speech outlining his plans at
8 p.m. Washington time from the White House. The next day Obama
will visit Fort Drum in  New York , the base for the 10th Mountain
Division, which has deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan.  Political Support  Philip J. Crowley , a former State Department spokesman,
said the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and bipartisan
concern over the deficit mean Obama would have political support
to cut the number of military personnel in Afghanistan by as
much as a third.  “He will definitely be able to do that order of magnitude
given the revised politics of the country today versus 2009,”
Crowley, who holds the  Omar Bradley Chair of Strategic
Leadership  at Dickinson College and the Army War College in
Carlisle,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. “That’s
larger than the military would like to do but he’s got some
political wind at his back and it gives him some greater
flexibility.”  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who is stepping down on
June 30, and General David Petraeus, who is set to leave as the
top commander in Afghanistan later this year to become director
of the Central Intelligence Agency, have favored keeping as many
combat troops as possible on the ground through the end of the
year. Petraeus gave the president options for a withdrawal last
week.  Keeping Gains  Gates argued during his visit to Afghanistan this month
that the withdrawal should be conducted so it doesn’t jeopardize
the gains won in the past year to stem the Taliban’s advances.  “We have to look at it strategically like that and not
just focus on the front end of this and whatever number gets
announced in July,” Gates said.  The U.S. also has to consider what the decision signals to
other allies in the coalition of nations fighting in
Afghanistan, so they don’t take it as an indication they can
withdraw immediately, he said.  Petraeus would endorse withdrawing 30,000 personnel by the
end of 2012, the National Journal reported yesterday, citing
unidentified military and administration officials.  Stephen Biddle, senior fellow for defense policy at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in  Washington , said Obama’s
tendency has been “to take a middle position between the high
and the low end offered to him.”  Middle Path  Biddle said a course of withdrawing 30,000 troops over 18
months would give Obama the ability to propose “a very high
number” that may appeal to those who want to leave Afghanistan,
while extending it over a timeline that the military would
accept.  Pressure has been mounting from the public and lawmakers
for Obama to speed up the pace of the troop withdrawals since
U.S. forces killed bin Laden last month.  A majority of Americans -- 56 percent -- said they favored
withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan as soon as possible,
according to a June 15-19 poll by the Pew Research Center for
the People and the Press in Washington. Thirty-nine percent
favored keeping U.S. forces there until the situation is
stabilized.  Sentiment for pulling out is at an all-time high and has
risen since the death of  bin Laden , according to Pew. Last
month, 48 percent favored an exit as soon as possible, and a
year ago the figure was 40 percent, Pew data shows.  War Costs  War costs, which have contributed to a trillion-dollar
federal  budget deficit  that both the Congress and Obama have
promised to cut, also have figured in the debate.  A Pew poll last month found that 60 percent of the U.S.
public said the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have contributed
“a great deal” to the nation’s debt, a bigger proportion than
those who cited the economy, federal spending or tax cuts.  A group of 27 senators, including two Republicans, signed a
letter to Obama last week calling for a “sizable and
sustained” reduction of the U.S. presence in Afghanistan.
Citing bin Laden’s death, the senators say the main U.S.
objectives in Afghanistan have been met.  The U.S. Conference of Mayors voted yesterday to urge the
withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and  Iraq  and to bring
“war dollars home” to create jobs.  The government’s fiscal 2011 budget plan includes $113.5
billion for Afghanistan operations, up from $56.1 billion in
2009. The U.S. will spend $45.8 billion for Iraq. Still, total
Defense Department spending on both wars is down from its peak
in 2008 of about $179.7 billion as the U.S. winds down its
presence in Iraq.  Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
told reporters this month that cost considerations were “right
in the middle” of administration discussions about the pace of
the withdrawals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  