-- 
OCC’s Walsh Says Strict Capital Regulations May Curtail Lending

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-21T19:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/occ-s-walsh-says-strict-capital-regulations-may-curtail-lending.html
John Walsh , acting U.S. comptroller
of the currency, said “overly stringent” capital and liquidity
requirements on banks risks pushing lending to less-regulated
markets.  “We have to be able to figure out how far is too far, and
when to stop,” Walsh said today in remarks prepared for
delivery at a conference in  London . “Pushing certain ‘risky’
activities outside of banks doesn’t make that risk disappear.”  Global regulators at the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  agreed last year to raise the minimum common equity
requirement for banks to 4.5 percent from 2 percent, with an
added buffer of 2.5 percent, for a total of 7 percent of assets
weighted for risk. Basel members also are proposing that so-
called global systemically important financial institutions, or
SIFIs, hold additional capital buffers.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair has
supported international efforts to impose tougher capital rules
on SIFIs to avoid a repeat of the market turmoil that followed
the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “I am concerned, in light of recent experience in the
 United States , that the application of overly stringent
regulatory requirements of all types may again cause lending to
move from the regulated banking sector into other less-regulated
sectors,” Walsh said. That may “reduce the effectiveness of
the enhanced bank regulation and supervision we are working so
hard to implement,” he said.  Wall Street banks are lobbying to limit how much capital
they would be required to hold as regulators weigh whether such
buffers are the best way to avert another financial crisis.  Citigroup, JPMorgan  In the past few weeks,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Operating
Officer John Havens and executives from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  discussed capital charges with lawmakers,
according to people with knowledge of the discussions. Bank
lobbyists gave the Financial Services Forum, a lobby group,
points to raise with lawmakers, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks weren’t public.  “If we draw the circle too narrowly around what we call
‘banking,’ we will unnecessarily restrict legitimate banking
activity and raise its cost,” Walsh said.  Walsh oversees the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, an independent unit within the U.S. Treasury
Department that supervises more than 1,400 national banks. He
became acting comptroller when John Dugan stepped down after the
Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul was enacted in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  