-- 
Oil Gains a Second Day as Euro Crisis Eases, U.S. Crude Supplies Seen Down

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-21T12:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/oil-gains-a-second-day-as-euro-crisis-eases-u-s-crude-supplies-seen-down.html
Oil advanced for a second day in  New
York  as concern eased that Greece will default on its debt and
investors bet a report will show U.S. crude stockpiles dropped
for a third week.  Futures climbed as much as 1.6 percent after Luxembourg’s
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said his Greek counterpart
assured him the government would do everything to ensure
financial aid. Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. raised its Brent
price forecasts by 15 percent as fighting in  Libya  continued to
disrupt supplies. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show
U.S. crude inventories fell for a third week, according to the
median of 12 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The markets right now are under the spell of supply
insecurity on the one side, and sentiment and overall
macroeconomic indicators on the other,” said  Eugen Weinberg ,
head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“The rebound we’re seeing today is moderate considering the
recent slide.”  Oil for July delivery rose as much as $1.48 to $94.74 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $94.53 at
1:35 p.m. London time. The contract expires today. The more
actively traded August future gained $1.25 to $94.88.  Crude in New York, up 21 percent in the past year, has
dropped 17 percent from this year’s settlement high of $113.93,
reached on April 29. A 20 percent decline is one measure used to
define a “ bear market .”  Technical Indicators  Brent oil for August delivery was at $112.49 a barrel, up
80 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday fell $1.52, or 1.3 percent, to $111.69.
Prices have advanced 43 percent the past year.  Oil yesterday fell below its lower Bollinger Band, a
technical signal that prices may have declined too far. The
contract also slid below its 200-day moving average of $92.30 a
barrel, a level that can attract buyers, supporting prices.  “There’s a little bit of optimism leading back into the
market and the chances are that the  Greece  concerns will
probably be solved some way,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who
predicted prices will average $100 a barrel this year. “We feel
oil is due for a bit of a bounce.”  Greek Confidence Vote  Greece’s cabinet faces a confidence vote in parliament
today. Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is seeking the “widest
possible” consensus for a medium-term budget plan, he told
reporters yesterday after meeting European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  in Brussels.  European Union leaders have insisted he gain multi-party
support for austerity measures that are a condition for the aid
needed to avoid default as soon as next month.  Mirae Asset Securities raised its average Brent crude
forecasts for 2011, 2012 and 2013 by 15 percent to $115 a barrel
on the “sustained loss” of Libyan oil supplies, according to a
report e-mailed today. Production in the North African country
has been cut by almost 90 percent since fighting broke out
between rebel forces and troops loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  U.S. inventories dropped 1.63 million barrels, or 0.4
percent, to 363.9 million in the seven days ended June 17,
according to the analysts surveyed before the Energy
Department’s report tomorrow. Nine of the respondents forecast a
decline, two projected a gain and one said there was no change.
The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will report its
own data today.  The third weekly drop in U.S. crude supplies would be the
longest stretch of declines this year, reflecting an increase in
gasoline output to the highest level in nine months. Refineries
probably operated at 86.6 percent of capacity last week, up 0.5
percentage point from the prior week, the survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  