-- 
Mol Falls to Five-Month Low on Croatian Bribery Probe Report

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-06-21T15:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/mol-falls-to-four-month-low-on-report-of-croatian-bribery-probe.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
refiner, fell to the lowest in five months after  Vecernji list 
 reported  a probe into whether its chairman paid Croatian ex-
Premier Ivo Sanader to help gain control of INA Industrija Nafte
d.d. Mol rejected the claims.  Mol’s shares dropped 3.3 percent to 21,250 forint by the 5
p.m. end of trading in Budapest, the lowest closing level since
Jan. 3 and an eighth straight day of declines. The stock has
retreated 11 percent so far in June, the worst monthly drop
since October 2008. Mol led the benchmark BUX index to erase
gains of as much as 0.7 percent earlier today to end little
changed at 22,482.63.  Croatian prosecutors are investigating whether Sanader
accepted bribes from Mol’s Zsolt Hernadi in exchange for control
of  INA , the Croatian newspaper said, citing unidentified
officials in  Austria . The probe is focusing on whether Sanader
allegedly accepted a bribe of 10 million euros ($14 million)
from Mol during negotiations in 2008 and 2009 in exchange for
rights to manage the Croatian refiner, according to the Zagreb-
based newspaper.  “There has not been any payment, or agreement on any
possible payment, with not a single one of the players and
decision-makers of Croatian politics,” Mol spokesman Domokos Szollar said in an interview today.  Negative News  State Prosecutor spokeswoman Martina Mihordin declined
comment when reached by phone today. Sanader’s lawyer didn’t
immediately answer phone calls placed today to his cell phone to
respond to the Vecernji report. Sanader, though his lawyers, has
repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. He is currently in an Austrian
jail in Salzburg awaiting extradition to  Croatia  on suspicion of
corruption involving siphoning funds from state companies.  The bribery allegations added to negative news from its
Croatian subsidiary for Mol after a fire yesterday at INA’s
Sisak refinery, Akos Herczenik, analyst at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Budapest, said.  “I see it as positive that Mol so squarely and so quickly
denied it,” Herczenik said by phone today regarding the bribery
investigation report. “It will still be felt in the next few
days. In the next couple of days the stock may underperform.”  INA’s shares have been suspended from trading on the Zagreb
stock exchange since May 9 as the market regulator claims Mol
has not sufficiently explained its trading activities in recent
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  