-- 
Mol ‘Rejects Every Allegation’ in Croatian Bribery Case

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-06-21T13:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/mol-rejects-every-allegation-in-croatian-bribery-case-1-.html
Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
refiner, rejected allegations that its Chairman Zsolt Hernadi
bribed Croatian Ex-Premier Ivo Sanader to help gain control over
INA Industrija Nafte d.d.  “There has not been any payment, or agreement on any
possible payment, with not a single one of the players and
decision-makers of Croatian politics,” Mol spokesman Domokos Szollar said in an interview today. “We will take strict legal
measures against all who make or spread such allegations.”  Croatian prosecutors are investigating whether Sanader
accepted bribes from Hernadi in exchange for control of INA,
Croatian newspaper  Vecernji list   reported  today, citing
unidentified officials in  Austria . The probe is focusing on
whether Sanader allegedly accepted 10 million euros ($14
million) from Mol during negotiations in 2008 and 2009 in
exchange for rights to manage the Croatian refiner, according to
the Zagreb-based newspaper.  State Prosecutor spokeswoman Martina Mihordin declined
comment when reached by phone today. Calls to Vuk Djuricic,
spokesman for the Office for Suppression of Corruption and
Organized Crime, were not immediately answered.  “Neither directly nor indirectly, neither before nor after
the birth of the shareholders’ agreement” was there any
payment, Mol’s Szollar said. “Mol strictly rejects every
allegation and accusation regarding this issue.”  Sanader’s Lawyer  Sanader’s lawyer didn’t immediately answer phone calls
placed today to his cell phone to respond to the Vecernji
report. Sanader, though his lawyers, has repeatedly denied any
wrongdoing. He is currently in an Austrian jail in Salzburg
awaiting extradition to Croatian on suspicion of corruption
involving siphoning funds from state companies.  The Hungarian refiner has 47.47 percent of INA, while the
Croatian government holds 44.84 percent. Tensions between
Budapest-based Mol and Croatian authorities increased after the
Hungarian company in December made an offer to purchase the
outstanding shares in INA. Croatia claimed it wasn’t notified of
Mol’s intention before the offer.  Mol shares dropped 3.19 percent to 21,300 forint by 2:55
p.m. in Budapest. INA’s shares have been suspended from trading
on the Zagreb stock exchange since May 9 as the market regulator
claims Mol has not sufficiently explained its trading activities
in recent months.  ‘Witch-Hunting’  The current news “appear to be strongly influenced by
politics and may involve some ‘witch-hunting’ elements,” Robert Rethy, an analyst at Wood & Co. brokerage, said in a comment.
“Such news, if confirmed, is clearly not positive and creates
additional headaches for Mol and extra diversions away from the
core operations and management of the group.”  Mol has invested $3.8 billion in INA’s refineries and
production since 2003, when it first bought into the Zagreb-
based refiner.  Croatian government said on June 2 it will seek talks with
Mol to review 2003 and 2009 agreements that gave the Hungarian
refiner control rights over INA. The government today added
Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic to its team of negotiators
with Mol, which also includes the economy and finance ministers.  In September, lawmakers opened an inquiry into how the
Sanader-led government in January 2009 gave control of INA to
the Hungarian company under undisclosed terms. The inquiry over
the shareholding agreement closed without a conclusion, sending
a report on their investigation to the Prosecutor General’s
office.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  