-- 
Tombini Says Brazil Must Remain ‘Vigilant’ Against Global Capital Inflows

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-06-21T04:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/tombini-says-brazil-must-remain-vigilant-against-global-capital-inflows.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said the government needs to remain
“vigilant” in fighting capital inflows that have pressured the
currency, domestic demand and consumer prices in Latin America’s
biggest economy.  Tombini, speaking yesterday at an event in  Porto Alegre ,
said the very “strong” levels of inflows have slowed, in part
at least due to the government’s imposition of capital controls.  “After the very strong first quarter, which made the job
of containing demand to control inflation all that more
difficult, we’ve seen a important reduction in these flows,”
Tombini said.  Near record-low  interest rates  among many of the world’s
developed economies has led to a surge of inflows into emerging
market economies, where policy makers have been raising
borrowing costs this year.  Brazil ’s central bank, led by Tombini,
has raised its benchmark rate four times to 12.25 percent in
2011. Net private capital inflows to emerging economies may
reach $1 trillion in 2011 and rise to $1.1 trillion next year,
according to a June 1 report by the Washington-based  Institute
of International Finance .  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff’s administration on
March 29 increased to 6 percent a tax on new corporate loans and
debt sales abroad by banks. A few days later, it applied the
higher tax to renewed, renegotiated, or transferred loans of up
to two years.  In October, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled to 6
percent a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases.  Inflows, Real  Brazil’s net foreign-currency inflows from trade and
financial transactions have amounted to $39.5 billion this year,
exceeding the total amount of $24 billion received in all of
2010, according to the central bank.  Brazilian policy makers have bought $35.8 billion of U.S.
currency this year through mid-June, more than double the $14
billion they purchased during the same period last year, to
prevent those inflows from extending the real’s appreciation.  Since the end of 2008, Brazil’s currency has gained 45
percent against the dollar, the second-best performance among
the 16 most-traded currencies after  Australia ’s dollar.  The country’s reserves have swelled 16 percent this year to
a record $336 billion.  The real yesterday gained 0.1 percent to 1.5965 per dollar
from 1.5978 on June 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  