-- 
U.K. Police Arrest 19-Year-Old in Hacking Probe

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-21T16:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/london-police-arrest-19-year-old-man-in-sony-cia-hacking-probe.html
London police arrested a 19-year-old
man suspected of being involved in a hacking attack on  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.  The arrest was a “pre-planned intelligence-led operation”
as part of an investigation into hacking of international
business and intelligence agencies, the Metropolitan Police said
in a statement today. Police called it “a significant arrest.”  The police searched a residence in Essex,  England , last
night after the man’s arrest, which “led to the examination of
a significant amount of material.” The man, who wasn’t
identified, is being questioned at a police station.  Police are looking into whether the suspect is associated
with Lulz Security, known as LulzSec, or Anonymous groups.
LulzSec has claimed credit for breaking into websites at Sony
and the  U.S. Senate , while Anonymous said in April it would wage
a cyber war against Tokyo-based Sony for trying to prevent
people from tinkering with PlayStation 3 game consoles. Daichi Yamafuji, a spokesman for Sony, declined to comment.  “Seems the glorious leader of LulzSec got arrested, it’s
all over now... wait... we’re all still here!” the group wrote
on its Twitter feed following the arrest.  The 19-year-old was arrested on suspicion of violating the
Computer Misuse Act and offenses under the Fraud Act, police
said. He is also under suspicion for being involved in hacking
the computers at the U.K.’s Serious Organised Crime Agency.  ‘Quality Entertainment’  LulzSec, which calls itself “the world’s leaders in high-
quality entertainment at your expense,” claimed credit for the
attack on its Twitter feed yesterday. “Tango down - soca.gov.uk
- in the name of #AntiSec,” the group wrote.  Stuart Hadley, a spokesman for SOCA, said the agency was
forced to take its website offline temporarily after being
targeted with a distributed denial of service attack. No
operational data was accessed, he said.  Such attacks require little knowledge and consist of
exhausting a computer’s resources,  London  police have said.  The CIA’s public website was taken down on June 15. LulzSec
claimed credit for the attack, saying on its website, “We don’t
like the U.S. government very much.” A CIA spokesman said at
the time the agency was looking into the matter.  LulzSec denied reports today that they had obtained the
U.K. census records from this year.  ‘Fake LulzSec Releases’  “That wasn’t us -- don’t believe fake LulzSec releases
unless we put out a tweet first,” the group said on Twitter.
“But hey, if someone out there hacked the UK government in the
name of #AntiSec, well done sirs!” it said in a later post.  The  Office of National Statistics  said it has “no evidence
to suggest that any such compromise has occurred.” It is
working “to establish whether there is any substance to this,”
it said in a statement on its  website .  Spanish police arrested three suspected members of the
Anonymous on June 10. The group hacked the websites of  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Spain ’s second-biggest bank, and
Enel SpA, the Italian owner of Spanish power company Endesa,
Spanish police said.  Anonymous, composed of hundreds of hackers and activists in
several countries, gained attention in December when it targeted
EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit,  Visa Inc. (V)  and other companies deemed
hostile to WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that published U.S.
military documents and diplomatic communications on its website.  London police  in January arrested five males, including
three teenagers, as part of a probe of corporate cyber attacks
related to WikiLeaks. Hours later in the U.S., agents of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  executed 40 search warrants in a
similar investigation.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 