-- 
Hong Kong’s May Inflation Rises to 5.2%

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-06-21T08:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/hong-kong-s-may-inflation-rises-to-5-2-.html
Hong Kong ’s inflation accelerated to
a 34-month high in May, pushed up by escalating food and home
rental prices.  Consumer prices gained 5.2 percent from a year earlier,
more than the median 5 percent estimate of 13 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Today’s figure was higher than the 4.6
percent increase in April.  Financial Secretary John Tsang said on  June 9  that
inflation is “heating up” imposing a “challenge” to the city,
as rising global food costs and the introduction of a minimum
wage last month pushes up consumer prices. Hong Kong’s currency
peg to the  U.S. dollar  deprives the city of the monetary tool to
rein in prices through interest rate adjustments.  “The city’s inflation rate will continue to climb,”
Raymond Yeung, a senior economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, said before today’s report.
Droughts in  China  are pushing up food costs and residential
rentals are rising on higher  home prices , he said.  Yeung said inflation may exceed 6 percent by September.  Global food prices jumped 37 percent in May from a year
earlier, according to the Rome-based United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organization. China, a major food supplier to Hong
Kong, experienced a drought along the  Yangtze river  after floods,
which may disrupt  food supply  and drive up prices.  At the same time, Hong Kong’s private housing rentals rose
1.5 percent last month from April to HK$19.9 ($2.56) a square
foot, the highest level in more than 13 years, Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held realtor,
said in a report today.  Subsidies, Waivers  Tsang’s government started subsidizing electricity and
public housing-rental waivers as temporary measures to help
residents cope with rising costs. Those measures may distort
Hong Kong’s consumer-price readings. Excluding such effects,
inflation was 5.1 percent last month, compared with a 4.4
percent in April, today’s report showed.  Hong Kong introduced a HK$28 per-hour  minimum wage  on May 1,
a move that may fuel gains in pay and consumer prices, Tsang
said this month.  The city government raised last month its estimate for
inflation this year to 5.4 percent, from a previous forecast of
4.5 percent, which would be the highest since 1997. It also
increased its economic growth forecast this year to as high as 6
percent from a previous range of 4 percent to 5 percent due to
“robust” domestic demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 Myun9@bloomberg.net 
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  