-- 
Too Much FDA Intervention Equals Too Few Drugs: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/too-much-fda-intervention-equals-too-few-drugs-ramesh-ponnuru.html
The Food and Drug Administration
reports that the U.S. has shortages of 246 drugs -- a record
number. Oncologists and anesthesiologists are increasingly
concerned, with more than 90 percent of the latter saying they
have experienced shortages.  In a  September 2010 survey , by the Institute for Safe
Medication Practices, one in four respondents reported that
shortages had caused medical errors during the previous year.
More alarmingly, one in five reported adverse patient outcomes.  Doctors have had to respond to shortages by substituting
drugs that are not as effective, and by making wrenching
decisions about which patients get access to which drugs. The
consequences can be dire. Cytarabine is a drug that is effective
in the treatment of leukemia and lymphoma -- but it has to be
administered quickly, and it’s one of the drugs in short supply.
One middle-aged woman reportedly fell into a persistent
vegetative state because anesthesiologists ran out of
epinephrine. There are also anecdotal reports of “gray markets,”
which charge high prices for the affected drugs.  What’s behind this shortage? Blame a combination of low
profit margins and government activism.  Organizations for anesthesiologists, oncologists and
pharmacists, together with the ISMP,  issued a report  in November
that gently points a finger at the FDA. Several drug shortages,
it said, “have been precipitated by actual or anticipated action
by the FDA as part of the Unapproved Drugs Initiative,” a plan
that largely goes after medicines that were on the market before
the  Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938  gave the agency its
modern powers. “Some participants noted that the cost and
complexity of completing a New Drug Application (NDA) for those
unapproved drugs is a disincentive for entering or maintaining a
market presence.” The report also cited the “lengthy and
unpredictable” process of getting the FDA to approve changes in
the way medicines are manufactured.  Stepped-Up Enforcement  The FDA, trying to avoid any more of the “tainted drug”
stories that made headlines several years ago, has stepped up
its enforcement of “good manufacturing practices.” In 2009, for
example, the agency announced that companies would have only 15
days to respond to official complaints about their practices. In
2010, the government said that failure to adhere to good
practices could amount to health-care fraud for which corporate
officers could be held criminally liable.  Libertarians such as John Goodman, the president of the
National Center for Policy Analysis, say these policies deserve
a large share of the blame for the shortages. He lays out the
indictment on his blog: “A drug manufacturer must get approval
for how much of a drug it plans to produce, as well as the
timeframe. If a shortage develops (because, say, the FDA shuts
down a competitor’s plant), a drug manufacturer cannot increase
its output of that drug without another round of approvals. Nor
can it alter its timetable production (producing a shortage drug
earlier than planned) without FDA approval.”  Acute Shortages  The shortages are most acute for sterile injectable drugs,
such as the anesthesia drugs thiopental and propofol.  On its
website , the FDA suggests that the special characteristics of
the market for these drugs have caused shortages, and not
anything the agency has done. It points out that these products
are complex and require a long lead time to make, and are also
generic medicines that generate a low profit margin for
manufacturers. Unsurprisingly, competition is not robust in this
field, and with few participants the supply can easily be
disrupted.  An inference the FDA fails to draw is that the fewer
companies there are in the market, the more consequential the
FDA’s decision is to saddle them with added administrative
requirements, and the more likely its enforcement actions will
shrink the number of participants still further.  New Legislation  Congress is considering legislation to address drug
shortages. Senators Bob Casey and  Amy Klobuchar  have introduced
a bill to require drugmakers to notify the FDA when shortages
are possible. Yet presumably the companies aren’t going to draw
unwanted attention by notifying the FDA that its own ham-handed
enforcement is going to lead to shortages. The companies are
also likely to fail to foresee some shortages -- at which point
they can look forward to congressional hearings on their failure
to obey the law. CEOs may well decide that a low-margin line of
business isn’t worth the trouble.  The FDA itself is subject to perverse incentives. Critics
have long noted that it has a bias toward caution in letting new
drugs on the market: It is more likely to get criticized if an
approved drug causes deaths than if the agency indirectly causes
deaths by refusing to approve a drug. Loosening enforcement of
good manufacturing practices for established drugs might reduce
the number of shortages, and thereby save lives. But if it also
leads to a deadly error, people at the FDA are still going to be
fired.  Piecemeal Solutions  It’s hard to think of any simple and comprehensive solution
to counteract this bias, or to address the low profit margins
that also seem to be responsible for shortages. But some
piecemeal efforts could do some good. The FDA’s drug-shortage
experts should be consulted before any product lines are shut
down. The agency should work more closely with the  Drug
Enforcement Administration , whose approval is needed to increase
the supply of ingredients for certain medicines. And the FDA
should get out of the business of telling companies what
quantities to produce -- if it declares a product safe, the
company ought to be allowed to make as much as it wants.  Nobody is yet accusing the FDA of being a death panel. But
the ISMP reports that its respondents “feel unsupported” by the
FDA “and perplexed regarding why the US is experiencing drug
shortages of epic proportion that are often associated with
third-world countries.”  That perplexity is likely to increase. Based on current
trends, today’s record number of drug shortages is going to be
broken soon.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read More  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru in Washington at  rponnuru@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  