-- 
Thoresen Thai Climbs Most in Month After Pledging Extra Dividend Payment

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-06-21T04:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/thoresen-thai-climbs-most-in-month-after-pledging-extra-dividend-payment.html
Thoresen Thai Agencies Pcl (TTA) , a Thai
shipping company, gained the most in almost a month in Bangkok
trading after announcing an interim dividend and rejecting a
request by a group of shareholders to sell warrants.  The shares rose 2.2 percent to 18.60 baht as of 10:58 a.m.
local time, poised for their biggest advance since May 26.  The company will pay a dividend of 0.50 baht per share
after shareholders “expressed the desire for an additional
dividend,” Thoresen Thai said in a regulatory filing today. The
company rejected a request from a group of 75 shareholders to
hold an extraordinary general meeting to consider the sale of
warrants and a change to the company’s fiscal year, it said.  “In terms of shareholder benefits, while it is true that
warrants can be sold before they mature, they are subject to
market trends, making any potential cash returns more volatile
to shareholders than a normal cash dividend,” the company said
in the statement. “The benefit to the company from a warrant
issue is also uncertain.”  Thoresen Thai said earlier this month that a group of
shareholders claiming to hold about 30 percent of the company’s
shares had demanded changes in management. The conflict between
minority shareholders and the company was having an “adverse”
impact on its business, Chief Financial Officer Thitima Rungkwansiriroj said on June 10.  The aggregate percentage of ownership by the group of 75
shareholders was less than 10 percent of Thoresen Thai’s paid-up
share capital, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  