-- 
Los Angeles Is Paying for Self-Supporting Convention Center 26 Years Later

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/los-angeles-is-paying-for-self-supporting-convention-center-26-years-later.html
Los Angeles  taxpayers are footing an
annual bill of almost $14 million for a convention center
expansion that was projected to be self-supporting 26 years ago.  America’s second most-populous city pays $48 million in
annual debt service on $417 million in outstanding bonds for a
1985 addition to the  Convention Center , though only $34.2
million in taxes are allocated to the center. The $14 million
difference is picked up by the city’s general fund, which faced
a deficit of $485 million this year.  The cost came to light as the City Council is being asked
to issue more debt for a $1.4 billion football stadium and
convention center expansion. Anschutz Entertainment Group Inc.,
the company controlled by billionaire Philip Anschutz, wants to
to tear down part of the convention center to make way for the
stadium and build a new addition, paid for with $350 million in
bonds sold by the city.  “We stand by our commitment that this project will not
cost the taxpayers or the city’s general fund any money,”
 Michael Roth , a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  When the 1985 bonds were issued, it was projected that
hotel taxes and revenue from the facility would cover operating
and debt costs, according to a June 17 response to questions
from City Council Member Bill Rosendahl by Miguel Santana, the
city manager, and Gerry Miller, the chief legislative analyst.
The city subsequently increased its hotel levy, with 3.5 percent
of taxable sales allocated to paying the debt, and directed
center revenue to pay operating expenses only.  The city’s past experience with convention-center financing
prompted him to ask the questions, Rosendahl said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Pig in a Poke’  “I don’t want to be sold a pig in a poke,” he said,
referring to the AEG proposal.  The $350 million convention center expansion will cost the
city approximately $25 million in interest expense, according to
the Santana letter. AEG said new revenue from the stadium and
additional contributions from AEG will be enough to repay the
bonds, according to Roth.  The AEG plan for a 72,000-capacity stadium is aimed at
attracting a National Football League team to Los Angeles for
the first time since 1995, when the Raiders returned to Oakland
and the Rams moved to  St. Louis .  A committee of five City Council members has been holding
hearings on the AEG proposal, with the next set for June 30. AEG
has given the city a July 31 deadline to decide on its proposal,
a date Rosendahl called a “negotiating tactic.”  Anschutz, 71, is ranked 34th in the Forbes Magazine list of
richest Americans, with a net worth estimated at $7.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  