-- 
House Leaders Reach Deal on Letting Patent Office Keep Fees

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 
2011-06-21T21:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/house-leaders-reach-deal-on-letting-patent-office-keep-fees.html
House leaders agreed today to give
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office greater control over its
own funding, paving the way for a floor vote on legislation to
overhaul the U.S. patent system.  Under the deal, a special fund would be established to hold
user fees collected in excess of the agency’s budget, ending
lawmakers’ longstanding practice of steering agency fees toward
non-patent purposes. The compromise would ensure that the fund
may only be tapped by the patent office, which would have to
submit a spending plan to Congress to access the money.  “After six years of working towards patent reform, we are
near the finish line,” said Texas Republican Lamar Smith, the
Judiciary Committee chairman who sponsored the measure. “This
maintains congressional oversight, while making sure that fees
collected by the PTO can no longer be diverted.”  Since the passage of a 1990 law requiring the agency to
fund itself, Congress has withheld more than $800 million in
fees collected by the agency. Guaranteed access to all the fees
is the cornerstone of a wide-ranging House bill, H.R. 1249, that
mirrors legislation passed by the Senate on a 95-5 vote in
March.  Debate on the House bill is scheduled to start tomorrow. If
signed into law, the measure would mark the biggest change to
the U.S. patent system since 1952.  Democrats’ Support  While supporting the overall measure, the Obama
administration said it was concerned that the compromise “does
not by itself ensure” that the agency will have full access to
its fees.  “The administration looks forward to working with Congress
to provide additional direction that makes clear that the USPTO
will have timely access to all of the fees collected, subject to
the congressional oversight provisions in the bill,” the
administration said in a statement.  Democratic leaders support the bill. House Minority Whip
Steny Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, said he had no objection to
the new fee language and he hoped the revision would help garner
support for the bill. As a former member of the appropriations
committee, Hoyer said he was "appreciative of the concept of
assuring that there is oversight of the appropriations and
expenditures that agencies make."  Purse Power  The House Judiciary Committee approved the bill 32-3 in
April, backing Smith’s proposal to let the agency set its own
fees and keep all the money it collects. Representatives  Paul Ryan , a  Wisconsin  Republican who heads the Budget Committee, and
Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican who heads the
Appropriations Committee, objected, saying that it would
eliminate congressional oversight and give the “power of the
purse” to President  Barack Obama , a Democrat.  Senators who voted in favor of the bill, backed by the
Obama administration and a broad coalition of business groups,
have protested efforts by House appropriators to strip or alter
the funding provision.  The industry organizations say the patent office needs more
money to properly protect innovation, thereby helping to lure
investment, foster the creation or expansion of businesses and
lead to the hiring of more workers.  Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, said
that while he preferred the Senate’s approach, he was pleased
the House was taking up the bill, “but let’s see what we end up
with.”  "At the end of the day, we’re going to have a good patent
bill," he said.  Application Backlog  The diversion of fees has been linked to an increase in the
number of patent applications awaiting first review by agency
examiners. It takes, on average, about 34 months to complete a
review, and more than 700,000 applications have yet to receive a
first response from the agency.  The compromise reached by the Judiciary and Appropriations
committees has won support from  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest U.S. patent owner; the Financial Services
Roundtable, which lobbies for the banking industry; and the
Coalition for 21st Century Patent Reform, a group that
represents companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and  3M Co. (MMM)   “The coalition will be vigilant as the full implementation
of the commitments made under the agreement is completed,” said
Gary Griswold, 3M’s former chief intellectual property counsel
who now heads the coalition.  Mid-Sized Companies Oppose  A group representing mid-sized technology companies,
including  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA) , was more
skeptical, saying it would oppose the version that’s likely to
come before the House.  The compromise language “does not end fee diversion
permanently and enable USPTO to plan predictably and on a
sustainable basis,” said Brian Pomper, executive director of
the Innovation Alliance. Without it, he said, the bill is “an
unfunded mandate on an important agency that is already
overburdened and under-resourced.”  One lawmaker who played a central role in developing the
original user-fee language, Senator  Tom Coburn , said he opposes
the proposed changes and is weighing his options. If the House
passes a version of the bill that includes alterations to the
fee process, the Oklahoma Republican may block any Senate
action.  “You can’t have patents approved if you don’t give the
patent office money to approve patents,” Coburn said.  First Inventor  Other language in the bill is facing opposition, including
provisions that would grant patents to the first inventor to
file an application, create a new process to review patents
after they’ve been issued, and limit patents on tax-avoidance
strategies.  Republicans Aaron Schock of  Illinois  and James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, and Democrats Maxine Waters of
 California , Dan Boren of  Oklahoma  and Marcy Kaptur of  Ohio  have
proposed dropping a section of the bill that would establish a
special review of patents for finance-related business methods.  The proposal, which is supported by the banking industry,
has drawn objections from DataTreasury Corp., a closely held
company that owns patents related to digital images for checks.
Paul Michel, former chief judge of  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit, has said the proposal improperly establishes
different standards for a specific type of patent.  Other provisions would limit lawsuits in which a
manufacturer is accused of putting expired patent numbers on
packaging; allow for third parties to submit information that
could be used in the review process; and establish satellite
offices the agency could set up nationwide to tap into local
workforces.  The Senate bill is S. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  