-- 
Pakistan Detains Four More Army Officers for Suspected Links to Militants

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-06-22T13:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/pakistan-detains-an-army-officer-for-suspected-links-with-militant-groups.html
Pakistan ’s army says it has detained
four majors as well as a brigadier in an investigation of how
widely an Islamic militant group may have placed supporters
within the country’s nuclear-armed military.  The army is holding the majors in its probe of the Hizb ut-
Tahrir, army spokesman Major General Athar Abbas said in an
exchange of  text messages . The news came a day after the army
confirmed the arrest of Brigadier Ali Khan for alleged links to
Hizb ut-Tahrir, a group that seeks to overthrow governments of
Muslim states and that is banned in Pakistan.  The rare announcement of disciplinary actions against mid-
ranking and senior officers for such ties follows statements by
U.S. officials that Pakistan’s armed forces have connections to
militant organizations. Khan was assigned to Army General
Headquarters in Rawalpindi, Abbas said yesterday.  The arrest of Khan “means that Hizb ut-Tahrir has been
having more success than we realized in its strategy of
penetrating the government structures,” said Arif Jamal, an
independent Pakistani  analyst and author  on Islamic movements.
“Hizb ut-Tahrir works by recruiting within the institutions of
the state -- the army, bureaucracy, politicians -- to eventually
overthrow it from within.”  Khan is the highest-ranking military official known to have
been detained for alleged involvement in militant activities
since Pakistan backed the U.S. effort to dismantle al-Qaeda
after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. While his arrest underscores
the army has been infiltrated, “this Islamist penetration has
not moved beyond the individual level and the Pakistani military
as an institution remains sound,” U.S. political risk
assessment firm  Stratfor  said in an e-mailed statement.  Bin Laden Killing  Abbas declined to comment yesterday on a report by the BBC
Urdu Service that Khan had been detained since disappearing on
May 6, or to discuss other details of what he said is a
continuing investigation. An army colonel and two civilians also
have been arrested as part of Pakistan’s move against Hizb ut-
Tahrir, the Austin, Texas-based Stratfor reported, citing
sources it did not name.  Concerns over possible infiltration of Pakistan’s army, one
of the world’s 10 largest with 600,000 members on active duty,
revived after the May 2 killing by U.S. commandos of al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden in a Pakistani garrison town and the May
15 raid on a naval air station by guerrillas who destroyed high-
tech surveillance aircraft.  Beginning in the weeks before the attack on bin Laden’s
compound 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Islamabad, U.S.
officials have spoken openly about the Pakistani military’s
backing for violent Islamic militant groups.  Proxy Forces  Pakistani and American analysts, including Pakistani
ambassador to the U.S.  Husain Haqqani  and author Ahmed Rashid
have said that the army’s decades-old policy has been to
covertly support selected guerrilla groups as proxy forces in
neighboring  Afghanistan  and the disputed region of Kashmir.  The chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral
Mike Mullen, said April 20 that Pakistan’s main military spy
agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, still “has
a longstanding relationship with the Haqqani network,” a
Taliban faction led by Jalaluddin Haqqani that a recent Defense
Department report called “the most significant threat” to U.S.
forces fighting in eastern Afghanistan.  New CIA Director  Leon Panetta  told the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee May 9 that the Pakistanis “continue to not
take aggressive action” against militants in their bases near
the Afghan border.  The U.S. didn’t disclose the bin Laden raid to Pakistan out
of concern some Pakistani officials would have warned him,
aggravating bilateral tensions. The New York Times this month
reported that Pakistan arrested an army major for aiding the CIA
search for bin Laden. Pakistan’s army denied the report.  U.S. Doubts  U.S. lawmakers have questioned Pakistan’s commitment to
fighting militants and have said further aid should be tied to
actions against al-Qaeda and the Taliban. Pakistani army chief
Ashfaq Parvez Kayani said June 10 he won’t allow the U.S. to
conduct independent espionage operations on the country’s soil.  Only 12 percent of Pakistanis have a  positive view  of the
U.S., according to a May 8-15 survey by the Pew Research
Center’s Global Attitudes Project following the killing of bin
Laden. Most Pakistanis consider the U.S. an enemy, it showed.  While just 14 percent said bin Laden’s death was a good
thing, an even smaller number -- 12 percent -- had a positive
view of al-Qaeda, the survey said. The survey of 1,251
Pakistanis represents 85 percent of the population, Pew said in
a statement yesterday.  ‘Party of Liberation’  Hizb ut-Tahrir , or the Party of Liberation, was founded in
1952 to establish a single Islamic theocracy to rule the world’s
60-plus largely Muslim nations. The party has adherents from
Central Asia to Western Europe, and operates legally in the U.K
and U.S. Germany banned the group in 2003, saying it calls for
the destruction of  Israel  and the killing of Jews. Russia
outlawed it as a terrorist organization in 2006.  The group “does not undertake any physical actions nor any
violent acts,” the organization’s  website  says.  Pakistan’s army announced in 2004 the conviction of two
low-ranking soldiers for joining an Islamic militant attempt to
assassinate the country’s military ruler at the time, General
Pervez Musharraf. The last arrest of officers at Khan’s rank
came in 1995, when a brigadier and other army men were accused
of plotting to overthrow then-Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.  Since 2008 Pakistan has denied accusations by  India  that
Pakistani military officers were behind the three-day siege in
Mumbai by the Lashkar-e-Taiba guerrilla group that killed about
166 people. Pakistan in 2009 detained but has not tried seven
Lashkar militants in that attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  