-- 
CIA Director Panetta Gets Senate Approval as Next U.S. Defense Secretary

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/panetta-approved-to-succeed-gates-as-pentagon-chief-in-100-0-senate-vote.html
The  U.S. Senate  unanimously approved
Central Intelligence Agency director  Leon Panetta  as the
nation’s 23rd defense secretary, to wind down wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  and improve cyber defenses in a time of budget
cutbacks.  Panetta takes his new post on July 1, succeeding  Robert Gates , who was appointed by former President  George W. Bush  and
is retiring from government.  Panetta, 72, is a California Democrat who served in the
U.S. House of Representatives from 1977 to 1993 and then as
budget director and White House chief of staff under President
 Bill Clinton . He has been CIA director since February 2009,
where he oversaw the search for  Osama bin Laden  and the
operation that killed the al-Qaeda leader.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , ranking Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, praised Panetta’s
“extraordinary career of service.”  McCain yesterday urged all senators to vote for Panetta,
and they did, 100-0.  Panetta faces three immediate tasks. The first is
explaining to Congress and then overseeing President  Barack Obama ’s initial plan for withdrawal from Afghanistan. Obama is
scheduled to announce his decision Wednesday night.  The second is overseeing a strategic review of U.S.
military missions as a prelude to a $400 billion reduction in
additional defense spending increases through 2023, as promised
by Obama.  Cyber Strategy  The third is implementing a new “Cyber 3.0” strategy
Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn is scheduled to unveil by
July 1. The strategy refines for military commanders a broad
White House policy that equates such attacks with armed assaults
on the nation.  Panetta’s experience as chairman of the House Budget
Committee and as director of the Office of Management and Budget
would position him as defense secretary to implement the
president’s $400 billion plan.  Still, “Panetta will have to defend military programs he
doesn’t fully understand, which is not a strong position from
which to bargain,” said  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst with
the Arlington, Virginia-based  Lexington Institute,  who’s
followed the nomination.  Economy-Defense ‘Mismatch’  “He knows he can’t resist cuts so strongly that he feeds
ammunition to Republican hawks on the eve of a re-election
campaign,” he said. “The biggest challenge Panetta faces is
that America is generating 23 percent of global economic output
but 46 percent of global military spending. This mismatch can’t
continue indefinitely and yet few people in the military grasp
how big the coming cuts will be,” he said.  Panetta told the Senate Armed Services Committee during his
June 9 nomination hearing that “our challenge will be to design
budgets that eliminate wasteful and duplicative spending while
protecting those core elements that we absolutely need for our
nation’s defense.”  Panetta said he shared Gates’s concern “about the
possibility of hollowing out our force” through “automatic,
across-the-board cuts” rather than careful, program-by-program
decisions.  Panetta also warned about viewing defense spending cuts as
the solution to the nation’s deficits. “Defense is by no means
the causes of the huge deficits we are facing today,” he said.  ‘Next  Pearl Harbor ’  The U.S. faces the “real possibility” of a surprise cyber
attack, Panetta told the committee.  “The next Pearl Harbor we confront could very well be a
cyber attack that cripples our power systems, our grid, our
security systems, our financial systems, our governmental
systems,” Panetta told the panel.  “This is a real possibility in today’s world,” he said.
“As a result, I think we have to aggressively be able to
counter that. It is going to take both defensive measures as
well as aggressive measures to deal with it.”  The Cyber 3.0 strategy is intended to refine a military
response to such an attack.  The White House on May 17 announced that cyber attacks
ranked with military threats against the nation and “when
warranted, the U.S. will respond to hostile acts in cyber space
as we would with any other threats to our country.”  The strategy states that the U.S. reserves “the right to
use all necessary means -- diplomatic, informational, military
and economic -- as appropriate and consistent with international
law,” to defend itself and its allies.  Army General David Petraeus has been nominated by Obama to
succeed Panetta as CIA director.  Editors:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  