-- 
Papandreou Wins Confidence Vote

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-06-22T07:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/papandreou-wins-confidence-vote-raising-rescue-chances.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s victory in a confidence vote bolsters his new
government’s chances of pushing through austerity measures to
secure further international financial aid for the country.  A total of 155 lawmakers supported the motion in the 300-
seat parliament in  Athens  early this morning, with 143 voting
against. Papandreou reshuffled his Cabinet and sought the
approval of the chamber after fending off a revolt within his
socialist Pasok party last week. After the vote, police used
tear gas and stun grenades to disperse thousands of citizens
protesting planned budget cuts.  Attention now turns to whether the premier can push through
parliamentary approval next week of a 78 billion-euro ($112
billion) package of budget cuts to stave off default. European
finance ministers and the  International Monetary Fund  this week
said they would hold back a 12 billion-euro payment due in July
until passage of the plans to cut the deficit, sell state assets
and impose a “crisis levy” on wages.  “Following the Greek government’s victory, we still expect
Greece to be given the July disbursement of 12 billion euros of
EU-IMF funds and an extended program out to 2014,” HSBC
Holdings Plc Chief European Economist  Janet Henry  said in a note
to investors today. “But the pressure is now on the EU to come
up with concrete assurances on financing for the next 12 months
to fill the gap left by the assumed lack of  market access . Only
then is the IMF expected to agree to the next disbursement of
funds.”  Euro, Bonds  The euro was little changed at $1.4399 at 8:45 a.m. in
London, after reaching a one-week high of $1.4423 during trading
yesterday. Greek two-year bonds gained for a third day with the
yield falling 32 basis points to 27.33 percent. The yield on the
10-year bond fell 2 basis points to 16.976 percent.  “This is a solid victory by Papandreou. No defections from
his party,”  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at The Eurasia Group
in London, said by e-mail. “The first hurdle has passed. The
second -- approval of the medium-term fiscal plan -- will be
more difficult but the government should manage to get it
approved.”  European Union leaders have insisted Papandreou secure
multiparty support for the plans. The premier will now meet his
counterparts at a summit in Brussels starting tomorrow that will
discuss a new financing package to shield Greece from record
borrowing costs for as many as three years.  ‘Element of Uncertainty’  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the vote
“removes an element of uncertainty from an already very
difficult situation.” He said in an e-mailed statement from
Brussels it was “good news for  Greece  and for the European
Union as a whole.”  The IMF, contributor of a third of the bailout money for
Greece and the two other euro-area countries that have received
bailouts, Ireland and  Portugal , has warned EU leaders that a
failure to take decisive action on the debt crisis risks
triggering “large global spillovers.”  Acting IMF Managing Director  John Lipsky  said Greece’s
parliament must endorse the measures to restore the country’s
public finances for the fund to continue its aid.  “At the heart of the Greek program is the policy
adjustment,” Lipsky said at the  American Academy  in Berlin
yesterday evening. “If they are not approved, the bedrock of
the program doesn’t exist.”  Crisis Fallout  Fallout from the debt crisis is already affecting markets
outside  Europe . BES Investimento do Brasil SA, the Sao Paulo
unit of Portugal’s largest publicly traded bank, is posting the
biggest slump in the Brazilian  bond market  on concern the parent
may have to repatriate funds. The top U.S. prime money-market
funds have about half their assets in securities issued by
European banks, according to a report by  Fitch Ratings .  “The adjustment itself is still a very daunting prospect
but at least we have some more time,”  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said by phone.
“We have had such a change in mood in just a few days; in the
middle of last week we were on the brink of catastrophe.”  Papandreou, 59, has 155 seats in the 300-seat chamber after
one Pasok deputy on June 14 resigned from the party and declared
himself independent in protest of the government’s economic
policies. Two days later, two socialist lawmakers quit
parliament, prompting Papandreou’s party to demand an emergency
meeting and stoking investor concern that his grip was slipping
and the chance of default growing.  Lack of Growth  “Approving the austerity measures is not going to be a
problem now,” Nikos Christodoulakis, a finance minister with a
previous Pasok government, said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg  Television’s “Countdown.” Asked about the
possibility of default, he said, “I don’t think so. One of the
reasons why Greece has fallen into this debt trap is the lack of
growth. My advice is, try and find growth again.”  Papandreou’s plan wouldn’t work because it wouldn’t restore
growth to the economy, opposition  New Democracy  party leader
Antonis Samaras told lawmakers before the vote. “We want to
change the recipe,” Samaras said. “The Greek government is a
source of instability.”  In an effort to shore up political support, the premier
replaced finance minister  George Papaconstantinou  in the
reshuffle on June 17 with Evangelos Venizelos, his defense
minister and one-time rival for the party leadership.  “Greece’s national unity has become a pre-requisite for
our partners,” Venizelos, 54, said after his first meeting with
European counterparts in Luxembourg two days ago. “It should
have been the nation’s self-preservation instinct.”  Next Vote  Papandreou will hold meetings with his ministers today to
discuss the draft law for the government’s five-year medium-term
fiscal plan, his office said yesterday. That’s one of two laws
that has to be passed by parliament by the end of the month to
qualify for EU aid.  More than 47 percent of 1,208 Greeks surveyed by Kapa
Research SA for  To Vima  newspaper oppose the new austerity
measures and want early elections. Almost 35 percent said the
package should be approved. Protests outside Parliament House
have been held on a daily basis.  Unions have called strikes against the measures. The trade
union at  Public Power Corp SA (PPC)  began rolling 48-hour strikes on
June 20, forcing the company to conduct scheduled power cuts to
prevent a blackout.  Athens Protests  About 10,000 people converged on parliament before the
confidence vote and faced off against riot police and 2-meter
tall steel barricades. The numbers fell to around 3,000 after
the vote, police said. The remaining crowd of mostly young
people hurled water bottles, cans and fruit at police when it
was learned that Papandreou won the vote at about 1 a.m. in
Athens.  Papandreou has promised to call a referendum later this
year on changes to the country’s political system and
constitution to allay demonstrators’ concerns.  Elected in 2009, Papandreou first sought a financial rescue
in April 2010 to avoid default as investors refused to finance a
record budget deficit. The conditions attached to the aid have
helped deepen a slump that has driven the economy into recession
for a third year, lifted unemployment to 15.9 percent and fueled
the popular discontent and unrest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  