-- 
Paris House Market Stalls as Record-High Prices Deter Would-Be Purchasers

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-06-21T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/paris-housing-market-stalls-as-record-high-prices-deter-buyers.html
Paris’s housing market is stalling
as buyers are deterred by record prices following two years of
gains that outstripped  London  and  New York .  Average prices fell by about 3 percent in the first five
months of the year, according to an index compiled by
 Databiens.com  based mainly on reports from the city’s affluent
western districts. While it’s the only gauge so far to register
a drop, other indicators show that transactions are falling and
the time it takes to sell a property has almost doubled from a
year ago.  “The flow of money, which was almost euphoric, has
halted,” said Laurent Lakatos, the founder of London-based
Databiens. “There’s been a pickup in the number of apartments
offered at a discount.”  Home values in the French capital appreciated by about 20
percent last year, the biggest annual increase since at least
1991, the Paris Chamber of Notaries estimates. The surge in
demand lifted prices across the city to a record as fewer owners
offered their houses and apartments for sale and only 2,785
homes were built.  Personal finances are being stretched in Paris as  interest
rates  and energy costs rise. In the last quarter of 2010, the
cost of buying a home in the city rose at the fastest rate
relative to average national disposable incomes since World War
I,  government figures  show.  First-time buyers are turning to lower-priced neighborhoods
in the northeast of the city or the suburbs, according to the
 Paris Chamber of Notaries . High prices are also deterring
potential landlords because they diminish rental income returns.  ‘More Realistic’  “We are starting to see asking prices come down because
properties aren’t shifting,” said Sebastien Kuperfis, a
director of his family’s  Junot Investissements  brokerage chain,
which covers the neighborhoods at the foot of Montmartre. “We
are telling sellers to be more realistic in pricing.”  The average price of a Paris apartment fell to 8,885 euros
a square meter in May from 9,165 euros at the end of 2010, the
Databiens index shows. The figure includes the standard 5
percent broker’s fee. A two-bedroom apartment currently costs
about 753,000 euros ($1.08 million), it estimates.  Home prices  in London and New York were little changed last
year based on prices per square foot.  The number of properties sold fell by 12 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, according to Paris Chamber of
Notaries figures published last month. Transactions are 24
percent below the average for the quarter from 1999 to 2007.  Longer Time  Laforet Immobilier ,  France ’s third-largest property broker
by number of outlets, said its employees took 42 days on average
to sell a home in Paris in the first quarter, up from 23 days a
year earlier.  The market for non-prime properties has slowed because
sellers are holding out for higher prices while buyers are
seeking discounts of as much as 15 percent from asking prices,
said Sebastien de Lafond, the founder of property brokerage
website  MeilleursAgents.com .  “Sellers still have the 20 percent annual growth figures
in their heads,” he said in a telephone interview. “We have
probably reached the peak in terms of prices” and some owners
of non-prime properties may need to lower asking prices by as
much as 5 percent in order to sell them, he said.  Lafond’s  index  hasn’t shown a drop in Paris values, though
monthly growth has slowed to 0.8 percent in April from 2.4
percent in January.  Price Gap Widens  Price differences are widening between the most desirable
locations and less sought-after properties, a sign that the
market is cooling, according to Michel Gouache, director of the
TGA brokerage in Paris’s 13th district, or arrondissement.  Owners of a 102-square-meter (1,100-square-foot) apartment
in the Latin Quarter had to cut the price by 11 percent to sell
it, Gouache said. The property, on the third floor of a building
overlooking the Paradis Latin cabaret tourist attraction and
needing refurbishment, sold for 1.02 million euros, or 10,000
euros a square meter.  By contrast, Gouache sold a similar apartment on nearby
Quai Montebello for 1.98 million euros, or 16,065 euros a square
meter. The sale price exceeded an initial estimate he made six
months earlier by 15 percent because of its prime location,
overlooking the river Seine and with views of Notre Dame
cathedral, he said.  Prices of luxury homes in Paris rose at the fastest rate in
the world in the first quarter, according to an index compiled
by London-based broker Knight Frank LLP. Properties there worth
more than 2 million euros appreciated by 22 percent from a year
earlier, faster than in next-placed  Hong Kong , Helsinki,
 Shanghai  and Beijing, the firm estimated.  “The polarization in the pricing marks a  turning point  in
the market,” said Gouache, who has sold properties in the Latin
Quarter and neighboring 13th arrondissement for 29 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 