-- 
Hedge Funds Pare Bullish Peso Bets as Record Rally Fizzles: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-06-21T22:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/peso-bonds-post-longest-slump-since-february-as-u-s-slows-mexico-credit.html
Hedge funds  and other investors are
cutting their bullish bets on the Mexican peso by the most in 10
months on concern a slowdown in the  U.S. economy  will crimp
demand for the Latin American country’s exports.  Wagers on the peso strengthening against the dollar
outnumbered bets on a decline in the futures market by 48,163
contracts last week, down 47 percent from the same period ended
June 7 and the biggest percentage decline since August,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The slump
in the peso over the past month helped spark a 1.6 percent loss
in dollar terms in local-currency Mexican  government bonds ,
according to Bank of America Corp. Brazilian real-denominated
notes gained 2.7 percent in the same period.  The peso is the second-worst performer among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the past month, with
mounting evidence of a U.S. economic slowdown snapping last
year’s record rally. Foreign investment in the Mexican  bond
market  and a jump in exports to the U.S. spurred a 13.4 percent
advance in the peso over the past two years.  “The uncertainty of the recent months is increasing,”
Eduardo Vazquez, an analyst at  Harbor Intelligence  in Monterrey,
Mexico, said in a telephone interview. “In a base scenario, we
predict that the cycle of appreciation of the peso has ended.”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark notes due in 2024 rose 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 7.19 percent this
month, from a six-month low of 7.03 percent on June 1, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Foreign investors poured $21.4
billion into the  debt market  in the six months through March.  Greek Concerns  The amount that bullish peso contracts outnumber bearish
contracts has tumbled 64 percent from an all-time high of
134,129 on April 19, according to Washington-based CFTC. Futures
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011  forecast  for
U.S. growth for the second time in two months on June 17,
predicting the economy will expand 2.5 percent this year, down
from the 2.8 percent projected in April.  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy, which sends 80 percent of its exports to the
U.S., grew 4.6 percent in the first quarter, less than the 5
percent median forecast in a survey by Bloomberg.  Concern that Greece may default is also curbing demand for
higher-yielding emerging-market assets including Mexican stocks
and bonds, said Aryam Vazquez, a New York-based economist at
Wells Fargo & Co.  Euro-area finance ministers in Luxembourg on June 19 put
off a decision on whether  Greece  will get the full 12 billion
euros ($17 billion) promised for July and pushed for the nation
to press ahead with budget cuts.  ‘Risk Averse’  “There’s a more risk-averse climate worldwide that we’re
seeing, primarily stemming off the crisis in  Europe , and also
deeper slowdown fears here in the U.S.,” Wells Fargo’s Vazquez
said in a telephone interview.  The currency will strengthen 1 percent to 11.73 per U.S.
dollar in the fourth quarter, according to the median estimate
of 26 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Mauro Roca, an emerging-market strategist for Deutsche Bank
AG, said the currency is likely to hold near current levels. He
said the government is less concerned than regional peers about
bringing dollars into the country and fueling gains in the
currency. Roca forecasts the peso will end the year at 11.9 per
U.S. dollar.  “The peso is attractive compared with other currencies in
emerging markets,” Roca said in a telephone interview from  New
York . “It’s clearly a country where there is no risk of  capital
controls . The fundamentals for  Mexico  are still positive in
terms of growth, economic institutions and subdued inflation.”  Rate Outlook  Annual inflation was 3.3 percent in May, up from a five-
year low of 3.04 percent in March. May annual inflation in
 Brazil , Latin America’s biggest economy, was 6.55 percent.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in January fell one basis point to 5 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate by
then. Mexico is the only major Latin American nation to keep its
benchmark lending rate unchanged in the past year. The central
bank left the rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed eight basis
points to 139 at 5:45 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell three basis points to 110, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.8 percent to 11.7775 per  U.S. dollar . The
currency is up 11.2 percent since the end of 2009, the biggest
advance among Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Colombian peso.  “An appreciation like that just isn’t sustainable in the
long term,” Harbor’s Vazquez said. “The reduction in liquidity
in international markets, slower growth in the U.S. and the
problems in Greece are going to prevent a more favorable
scenario from materializing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  