-- 
Bonderman’s IPO Prospects Dim Even as Carlyle Chases Apollo to Public Exit

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-06-21T19:18:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/tpg-s-ipo-prospects-dim-even-as-carlyle-heads-to-public-exit.html
The lure of an initial public
offering has proved irresistible to the biggest buyout firms,
with  Carlyle Group  now lining up to follow KKR & Co. and
Blackstone Group LP to the IPO market. For TPG Capital, the
prospect of cashing in on a stock offering still looks remote.  Four of the six largest U.S. independent buyout firms will
be publicly held once Carlyle completes its sale. Fort Worth,
Texas-based TPG, which has raised more for buyouts than any
other private-equity firm in the past 10 years, according to
Preqin Ltd., has so far balked at going public. Bain Capital
LLC, ranked No. 5, is also closely held.  TPG relies mostly on buyouts for revenue, a deterrent for
stock investors who demand more diverse income streams. The firm
closed its largest fund in 2008, after most of its competitors
raised pools of a similar size. That means TPG has had less time
to turn around troubled investments and distribute profits to
investors, also complicating prospects for an IPO. KKR,
meanwhile, has boosted returns on its biggest pool, raised in
2006, and is marketing its next flagship fund.  TPG hasn’t built a firm “that looks like the others --it’s
not as diversified and is almost entirely focused on private
equity,” said Jeremie Le Febvre, global head of origination for
Triago, which helps private-equity firms raise money. TPG’s
status as a closely held company may be by design, according to
Le Febvre. Co-founders  David Bonderman  and Jim Coulter “prize
privacy” that would be lost with an IPO, he said.  Average Returns  Recent returns at TPG haven’t matched the firm’s early
success. TPG Partners V, raised in 2006, had an average annual
loss of 6.3 percent at the end of the first quarter, according
to data provided by the Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund,
a long-time investor. Fund VI, raised in 2008, had an average
annual loss of 5.9 percent, compared with a negative 0.7 percent
annual rate of return for the median fund started that year.  The first fund, in 1994, delivered an average annual return
of more than 36 percent, according to  Oregon . TPG Partners III,
raised in 2000, had a return of 25 percent.  Capital from a public offering can be used to fund new
businesses, while the shares can help pay for acquisitions and
provide a means of paying off founders or to recruit and retain
employees. An IPO is one of the only ways to raise money for
those purposes as private equity becomes a less lucrative
business.  “The heads of private-equity firms have realized that if
they want to be billionaires, then going public is the only way,
as management fees and fund sizes are shrinking and earnings in
non-public private-equity firms” are falling,  Guy Hands , head
of private-equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners, said in an
interview.  Carlyle Deal  Carlyle, based in  Washington , is poised to file a
registration statement within months and has chosen underwriters
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. to lead the
offering, according to people familiar with the matter. TPG has
discussed an offering and has no plans for a filing, according
to a person familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because the discussions were private.  TPG spokesman  Owen Blicksilver  declined to comment.  Alternative asset managers that resemble buyout firms also
are looking to the public market. Oaktree Capital Management LP,
the investment firm with more than $80 billion under management
that takes control of companies by investing in their distressed
debt, is gearing up to sell a stake to the public, securities
filings show.  Bain Capital   Bain Capital doesn’t see an immediate need for a public
listing because the firm already took steps to manage growth and
transition, according to a person close to the firm. That could
change if the company decides that the benefits of permanent
capital outweigh the reporting requirements and other burdens of
being public, said the person, who requested anonymity because
the management deliberations are private.  The public markets have been far from enthusiastic about
private-equity managers. Of the three firms on the New York
Stock Exchange, KKR and New York-based Apollo Global Management
LLC lost value from the time they sold stakes to investors
through a listing in Amsterdam and a private exchange,
respectively. KKR is up 49 percent since it listed shares on the
New York Stock Exchange last July.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest private-equity manager,
went public in 2007 at the peak of the leveraged-buyout market,
allowing co-founder  Peter G. Peterson  to cash out most of his
stake. The stock is trading at about half its IPO price of $31 a
share even with a 16 percent gain this year.  Mitt Romney   An IPO can also help companies with succession issues.
Senior managers are able to sell their interests at a high
valuation to the public while junior partners, who may not have
the resources to buy them out, receive ownership in the form of
stock or options that vest over time.  Succession is less of a concern at Boston-based Bain, which
successfully dealt with transition once before when one of its
co-founders, GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney, left in
1999. At the time, the firm spread ownership across its top
partners, resulting in a structure where no single stakeholder
receives more than 10 percent of profits.  At TPG, ownership is concentrated in Bonderman’s and
Coulter’s stakes even after the firm sold stakes to foreign
investors earlier this year, because the two co-founders didn’t
sell shares, a person familiar with the matter said.  Such private sales preceded Apollo’s IPO and Carlyle’s
decision to register its shares. TPG, in a letter to investors
apprising them of the stake sales, noted the tendency of buyout
managers to go public, and portrayed their sale as an
alternative for now.  Global Expansion  The firm said it plans to use the money from selling
private stakes to expand internationally and back new teams for
investment strategies outside of TPG’s traditional focus on
buying and selling companies.  While extra funding may help TPG keep up with competitors
in terms of growth, it doesn’t address how its founders -- both
of whom are already billionaires -- may eventually be paid for
their stakes.  Bonderman, 68, and Coulter, 51, met more than two decades
ago when they invested money for the Bass family in  Fort Worth ,
 Texas . The two men struck out on their own to lead a leveraged
buyout of Continental Airlines in 1994, and that transaction --
which netted investors more than 10 times their money -- paved
the way for what became known as Texas Pacific Group.  TPG, which houses most of its executives in  San Francisco ,
later bought Burger King and J. Crew Corp. It also participated
in some of the biggest deals of the LBO boom, including the
record-setting purchase of power producer TXU Corp. for $43.2
billion in 2007.  The firm’s ranks have swelled to more than 275 employees in
14 offices worldwide and it’s currently investing a $19 billion
fund it finished raising in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  