-- 
PNC Challenges Regions, SunTrust With RBC Deal to Expand in U.S. Southeast

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-21T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/pnc-challenges-regions-suntrust-with-rbc-deal-to-expand-in-u-s-southeast.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ’s
$3.62 billion deal to buy  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s U.S. retail
unit thrusts the bank across the U.S. southeast, challenging
local lenders hurt by the real-estate bust.  PNC agreed yesterday to buy Raleigh, North Carolina-based
RBC Bank USA and related credit-card assets in a deal that would
add more than 420 branches in  Alabama , Florida,  Georgia , the
Carolinas and  Virginia  -- most of which is new retail territory
for PNC. The Pittsburgh-based lender’s 2,500 outlets are
primarily in the North, Midwest and Florida.  The Southeast bore much of the brunt of the financial
crisis as subprime lending and falling home prices roiled
housing markets in the area.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  last
reported an annual profit in 2007 and has written off more than
$3 billion in loans since the start of 2009. More than 130 banks
have failed since 2007 in the states PNC is entering.  “PNC comes in after the markets have come under
pressure,” Terry McEvoy, an analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. in
 Portland ,  Maine , said in a phone interview last week. “The
banks have already recognized a significant amount of losses.
PNC would benefit from the recovery in the value of those assets
and the recovery of the economies down there.”  PNC expects the population to increase 6.5 percent and
household income to rise 12.6 percent in RBC Bank USA’s
territory during the next five years, according to a
 presentation  for investors. That compares with average U.S.
growth rates of 3.9 percent and 12.4 percent in population and
income, according to the presentation.  Rohr’s Returns  “There are good growth trends there for sure,” PNC
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Rohr, 62, said
yesterday in an interview. “We’re taking their franchise and
their distribution network and we’re putting a large amount of
product capability in their hands, and I think that will be very
successful in a region that grows like that.” If  interest rates 
go up, the returns will be “significantly greater” than what
PNC expected, Rohr said.  PNC is paying about 97 percent of tangible book value for
RBC Bank USA, a discount of about $112 million according to the
bank. The rise in population, income and inevitable increases in
interest rates will make the investment pay off for PNC, said
McEvoy, who rates the shares “outperform.”  Rising Rates  “A deposit is not as valuable as it is when rates are
higher -- and at some point we will be in that environment,” he
said. “That’s another benefit now of accumulating these assets
on the cheap.”  Competitors include Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,
ranked eighth by deposits among U.S.-based commercial lenders,
and Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions, ranked 10th. After the
RBC deal, PNC is ranked sixth behind U.S. Bancorp. SunTrust has
about 1,665 branches according to its  website  and Regions has
about 1,800.  SunTrust repaid its government bailout funds in March and
returned to quarterly profitability last year for the first time
since 2008 as it set aside less money to cover bad loans.
SunTrust and Regions were among the worst performers in the KBW
Bank Index in 2008 and 2009, dragged down in part by defaults
from real-estate borrowers. This year, PNC is down 6.7 percent
to $56.66 a share, still good enough to rank 10th in the 24-
company KBW index.  Carolina Comeback  “The Atlanta marketplace,  North Carolina , those are all
places that over time will come back again,” Michael Rose, an
analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , said in an interview last week. “It’s hard to see now,
but from a longer-term perspective in looking at your customer
base, that’s where the growth is going to occur.”  SunTrust controls almost 35 percent of all deposits in
Florida and 25 percent in Georgia, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Regions has about 20 percent each in Florida and
Alabama.  “We think competition is good for the communities and
clients,” said Mike McCoy, a spokesman for SunTrust, who said
the circumstances may be an opening for his company. “We would
certainly take advantage of the opportunity to share our service
and our SunTrust story with those clients who may be interested
in making a change.”  Tim Deighton , a spokesman for Regions,
declined to comment.  While PNC’s lack of presence in the area may provide for
more growth, it may also limit potential cost savings from
purchasing RBC Bank USA because it doesn’t have branches in the
region that it can consolidate, Rose said.  Cost-Cutting  BB&T Corp. (BBT) , the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based lender
that controls almost 29 percent of deposits in its home state,
would have been able to take a more aggressive cost-cutting
strategy if it had won the bidding for RBC Bank USA, Rose said.
BB&T, the ninth-largest U.S. commercial bank by deposits, was
also among lenders to show interest in the unit, two people with
knowledge of the matter said in April. BB&T stayed profitable
throughout the financial crisis.  National banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are pushing
into Florida as well, with the New York-based lender planning to
open 375 to 500 more outlets in the state on the theory that
more density will help serve current customers and attract new
ones. For now, said PNC spokesman  Fred Solomon , “we are focused
on completing this transaction and integrating RBC Bank.”  Thwarted Bid  RBC would be PNC’s biggest acquisition since its purchase
of  Ohio ’s National City Corp. in 2009 for about $3.9 billion in
stock. Rohr told investors earlier this year that his bank was
ready for another takeover.  “They’re looking at their experience with National City
where they added thousands of new customers, and they’re looking
to replicate it down in the Southeast,” said R. Scott Siefers,
an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York  who
rates PNC “buy.”  PNC was frustrated in one of its latest attempts at
expansion when its bid for Milwaukee-based Marshall & Ilsley
Corp. in December was trumped by a $4.1 billion offer from Bank
of Montreal, according to two people with knowledge of those
discussions.  Rohr has said in the past that he would like to be among
the top three retail franchises in a market or have a 10 percent
market share in large cities. That could leave open the question
of whether PNC would make another acquisition to reach that
status in the Southeast, Siefers said in a note yesterday.  Rohr revised that outlook after announcing the RBC deal,
saying the bank does not need to be among the top three
franchises to add customers or cross-sell products, and he’s not
planning to “go on a buying spree” to acquire more lenders in
the Southeast.  “We don’t see that at all,” Rohr said in the interview.
“What we’ve found is we can go into a marketplace and be
successful even though we don’t have the largest branch
distribution network because we have a product set that’s very
competitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 