-- 
Point Blank Solutions Directors Offer to Settle SEC Claims Over Fraud

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-21T20:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/point-blank-solutions-directors-offer-to-settle-sec-claims-over-fraud.html
Three  Point Blank Solutions Inc. 
directors accused of standing by while the body-armor maker’s
former top executive looted the firm have offered to settle
claims against them, court papers show.  Lawyers for the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission 
have asked a federal judge in  Florida  to put the agency’s
lawsuit against Jerome Krantz, Cary Chasin and Gary Nadelman on
hold while regulators “consider offers of settlement,”
according to a June 17 court filing.  The accords “would fully resolve this case” if they are
accepted by the SEC, Christopher Martin, one of the agency’s
Miami-based lawyers, said in the filing. Terms of the settlement
offers weren’t made public in the filing.  SEC officials accused Krantz, Chasin and Nadelman, who
served as Point Blank’s independent directors, of aiding a $185
million fraud committed by David H. Brooks, the company’s ex-
chief executive officer. A New York jury convicted Brooks in
September of fraud and obstruction of justice charges over the
accounting-fraud scheme.  The government alleged Brooks misappropriated millions from
 Pompano Beach , Florida-based Point Blank to fund his lavish
lifestyle, which included luxury cars such as a Bentley and a
Ferrari, vacations, art, payments for prostitutes and fees for
his purebred trotting horses. U.S. District Judge Joanna Seybert
hasn’t set Brooks’s sentencing date.  ‘Cooperated Fully’  Regulators allege Krantz, Chasin and Nadelman intentionally
turned a blind eye to Brooks’s actions and allowed him to
manipulate the company’s earnings reports as part of the scheme.
All three directors were old friends and  Long Island neighbors 
of Brooks, the New York Times said in March.  “We have been involved in very serious settlement
discussions,”  Robert Gottlieb , Nadelman’s attorney, said in a
telephone interview today. “We have cooperated fully with the
SEC and are hoping this settlement will be finalized
expeditiously.”  Gerald Russello , one of Krantz’s lawyers, couldn’t
immediately comment on the settlement offers and  Paul Hugel , one
of Chasin’s lawyers, declined to comment.  The SEC filed suit in February in federal court in Miami to
recover ill-gotten profits, impose fines and bar the three
directors from again serving on boards.  Warnings Ignored  Prosecutors contend Brooks and other company insiders lied
about the value of the firm’s inventory of combat vests and used
other financial manipulations to artificially inflate the value
of the company and divert funds, according to court filings.  Krantz, Nadelman and Chasin ignored repeated warnings from
auditors that the company’s inventory figures were questionable
and employees’ complaints about Brooks’s use of a company run by
his wife as one of the firm’s vendors, regulators said in the
41-page complaint.  They noted a decision by  Point Blank ’s auditors at  Grant
Thornton LLP  to step down over questions about inventory figures
didn’t prompt any action by the trio, who served on the board’s
audit committee.  The bullet-proof vest maker, whose customers include the
U.S. military and police agencies, settled the SEC claims
against the firm. Point Blank, which formerly was DHB Industries
Inc., sought  bankruptcy protection  in April 2010.  Point Blank listed assets of $63.9 million and debt of
$68.5 million in its Chapter 11 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in  Delaware . The company is negotiating with a committee of its
creditors over a proposed restructuring plan.  The SEC case is SEC v. Krantz, 11-CV-60432-WPD, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Miami (Florida). The
bankruptcy case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  