-- 
Poland Says May Inflation Was 4.8-4.9% Under Old Methodology

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-06-21T09:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/poland-says-may-inflation-was-4-8-4-9-under-old-methodology.html
Poland ’s May inflation rate, which
jumped to the highest in almost a decade, was boosted
“insignificantly” by a methodological change, the  Central
Statistical Office  said.  Under the old methodology, the rate would have been 0.1 to
0.2 percentage points lower than the 5 percent reported on June
15, said Artur Satora, the office’s spokesman, in an interview
in Warsaw. The new methodology was introduced in January to
comply with European Union standards, increasing the weight of
items vulnerable to seasonal price changes, he said.  “So, as we can see, the new methodology changed the rate
only insignificantly upward,” Satora said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its benchmark seven-day
rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent on June 8, the
fourth increase this year, to curb inflation that has remained
above its 2.5 percent target since October.  While central bankers including Governor  Marek Belka  rushed
to reassure markets they wouldn’t react hastily to the numbers,
policy maker Andrzej Kazmierczak said in a June 17 interview
that monetary tightening may extend into next year.  “I had expected May inflation at 4.7 percent,”
Kazmierczak said in the interview. “The May CPI was probably
this year’s peak and the inflation rate will decline in the
coming months, but at a much slower pace than we thought. I’m
determined to continue monetary-policy tightening, and the May
inflation data only strengthened my determination to do so.”  Last month’s inflation accelerated from 4.5 percent in
April, the statistics office in Warsaw said June 15. The rate
exceeded the 4.6 percent median estimate of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  