-- 
Prada May Mirror Samsonite’s IPO as Shares Fall in Gray Market Trading

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-06-22T03:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/prada-shares-debut-may-mirror-samsonite-as-stock-declines-in-gray-market.html
Prada SpA may decline when it begins
trading this week, following in the footsteps of companies such
as Samsonite International SA that struggled to woo investors in
 Hong Kong  debuts, premarket trading shows.  Prada shares fell as much as 2.5 percent to HK$38.50 to
HK$39 in over-the-counter trading yesterday, said two people
with knowledge of the transactions brokered by  Jefferies Group
Inc. (JEF)  Prada sold shares in the IPO at HK$39.50 each, raising
$2.14 billion.  “The fact that Prada will probably be trading down when it
opens underlines the overall change of sentiment in Hong Kong’s
IPO market,” said Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based IPOX
Schuster LLC, which oversees about $2.5 billion. “You don’t see
the initial pops anymore.”  Shares of the Milan-based luxury-goods maker are scheduled
to start official trading on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on
June 24. Prada priced the stock below the middle point of the
range used to canvass investors after a five-week slump on the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  Samsonite, which raised $1.25 billion
in its IPO after scaling back the sale, dropped 7.7 percent on
its first day of trading last week.  The gray market is an over-the-counter venue for the
unofficial buying and selling of securities between institutions
before their listing on a stock exchange. Prada’s shares were
actively traded in the gray market, said one of the people, who
declined to give a specific figure for the volume.  The Hang Seng Index added 0.3 percent today, paring losses
in the past month to 5.6 percent. The gauge earlier this week
slipped to its lowest level since September.  A spokesman for Prada in Milan declined to comment
yesterday. A call to Jefferies’ Hong Kong office outside of
normal business hours wasn’t answered and a spokeswoman in
 London  wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “The fact that Prada got the deal done is positive. It
wouldn’t be able to do it in  Europe ,” said Schuster. “It’s
still a sensible move for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net 
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  