-- 
Primedia Investor Suits Over KKR Share Buyback Revived by Delaware Court

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/primedia-investor-suits-over-kkr-share-buyback-deals-revived-by-court.html
Primedia Inc. (PRM)  must face claims by
investors that share buybacks unfairly benefited buyout firm KKR
& Co., the controlling shareholder of the publisher of free auto
and real-estate guides, a court ruled.  The  Delaware Supreme Court  reinstated Primedia
shareholders’ lawsuits seeking to recoup monies for the company
tied to the KKR buybacks. The state’s highest court found in a
June 20 ruling that a  Delaware Chancery Court  judge erroneously
threw out the cases last year after concluding investors had to
prove KKR’s actions harmed the company.  “Actual harm to the corporation is not required” for
investors to state breach-of-fiduciary duty claims like those
leveled against KKR, Chief Justice Myron Steele said in a 25-
page ruling.  The decision comes a month after Primedia agreed to sell
itself to an affiliate of TPG Capital, the buyout firm co-
founded by  David Bonderman , in a deal valued at about $525
million. Primedia investors are slated to receive $7.10 in cash
for each share.  KKR officials don’t comment on pending litigation,  Kristi Huller , the firm’s spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.
 Jeff Grossman , a Primedia spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment yesterday.  Joseph Rosenthal, a Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer
representing Primedia investors in the case, didn’t return calls
for comment on the ruling.  Magazine Sale  Norcoss, Georgia-based Primedia once published popular
consumer magazines, such as  Soap Opera Digest , until the company
sold off many of its titles starting in 2002 to wipe out almost
$2 billion in debt. It now focuses on free apartment-rental and
auto-sale publications and related websites.  The company sold about 70 magazines including Motor Trend,
Hot Rod and Surfer to Source Interlink Co., a company controlled
by billionaire investor  Ron Burkle , for about $1.2 billion in
cash in 2007.  Investors alleged that Primedia officials were forced to
sell off profitable magazines to finance the buybacks that
benefited KKR, which owns 58 percent of the publisher’s shares.
Shareholders contend in their suits the buybacks resulted in at
least $150 million in profits for KKR.  The suits also allege that KKR officials had inside
information about Primedia’s earnings and sales of one of the
company’s units that helped them profit from the buybacks.  Investors allege that KKR officials “traded on this
information during period July 8 to Nov. 5, 2002,” Steele noted
in the decision.  No Harm Necessary  Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster ruled in June 2010
investors couldn’t proceed with their derivative claims because
they couldn’t show KKR’s actions caused actual harm to Primedia.  The  Supreme Court  found that Delaware law didn’t require
such a showing and investors may be able to proceed with claims
seeking to recoup KKR’s profits from the buy-back deals. The
court sent the case back to Laster for his reconsideration.  “We find no reasonable public policy ground to restrict
the scope of disgorgement remedy,” Steele said in the ruling.  The Supreme Court case is Kahn and Spiegal v. Kolberg
Kravis Roberts & Co. LP and Primedia Inc., No. 436, 2010,
Delaware Supreme Court (Dover). The chancery court case is In re
Primedia Inc. Derivative Litigation, 1808-N, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  