-- 
Tracey Emin to Design Olympic Posters With Ofili, Craig-Martin

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-06-21T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/tracey-emin-to-design-london-2012-olympic-posters-with-ofili-craig-martin.html
Tracey Emin, the British artist
known for graphic representations of her sex life and aborted
pregnancies, is one of 12 visual artists commissioned to design
posters for the 2012 London  Olympic and Paralympic Games .  The other chosen names include Martin Creed, Chris Ofili,
 Michael Craig-Martin , Howard Hodgkin, Rachel Whiteread and
Bridget Riley, organizers said at a media presentation held at
London’s  Tate Britain .  “It’s a moment when one can show how strong British art is
and has been over the last 20 or 30 years,” said Tate Director
Nicholas Serota, who was on the panel that picked the artists.
“It’s a contribution by the host country to the games.”  The artists will receive a small fee, organizers said,
without saying how much or disclosing the poster budget.  Also present was Sebastian Coe, the ex-Olympic runner who
is the chairman of the  London  Organising Committee for the
 Olympic Games .  Emin, in cowboy boots and gray Bermuda shorts, said the
brief was for the posters to be “really identifiable with what
we do, so for me that could be a bit tricky!”  “I might just draw in landmarks of London -- whether it’s
the London Eye, the Houses of Parliament, bridges,” she said,
“and then within it put very nice words about encouragement,
relief, challenge, all of those kinds of things.”  Her aim, said Emin, was to “not compromise” and, at the
same time, “feel good with what I do.”  Artists with previous Olympic posters to their credit
include  Andy Warhol  and  David Hockney .  Generally, though, Olympic posters have been done by
designers, and are “not interesting to look at now,” said
Craig-Martin, one of the 12 commissioned artists.  “The attractive thing about a poster is the fact that it’s
a highly public thing,” he said. “There’s something wonderful
about having a work that goes out to people in that way.”  The posters, as well as limited-edition prints, will go on
sale in the autumn.  For information and early notification of the print sale,
sign up on  http://www.london2012.com/festival .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 