-- 
Rand Strengthens Against Dollar as Stocks Advance, Commodity Prices Rally

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-21T14:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/rand-strengthens-versus-dollar-as-stocks-and-commodity-prices-rally.html
The rand strengthened, heading for
the strongest in more than a week against the dollar on optimism
a solution to the Greek crisis will be found, boosting investor
appetite for riskier emerging-market assets.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated as much as 0.5 percent
to 6.7469 per dollar and traded 0.3 percent stronger at 6.7581
by 3:57 p.m. in Johannesburg. It declined 0.3 percent to 9.7265
versus the euro.  Emerging-market stocks and commodity prices snapped four
days of declines after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said
yesterday Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  assured him the
government would do everything to ensure financial aid before a
confidence vote. South Africa’s benchmark stock index rallied as
much as 1 percent.  “The rand remains completely at the mercy of the euro-
dollar and today’s Greek parliament vote of confidence,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank, said in a research note. “If, as expected, the
cabinet is approved, then both risky assets and the euro would
be boosted, sending the dollar lower” versus the rand.  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, showing a
statistical correlation of 0.82 over the past month. A value of
1 would mean they moved in lock step. The eurozone accounts for
45 percent of South  Africa ’s exports and 34 percent of its
imports, according to South African Revenue Service data.  Current Account  The rand maintained its advance after the nation’s current-
account deficit widened more than economists’ expectations in
the first quarter. The shortfall in the current account expanded
to 3.1 percent of gross domestic product, the Reserve Bank said
in  Pretoria . The median estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for a deficit of 2.8 percent.  “Expect the focus to rest with movements in the euro-
dollar and developments in  Greece ,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in
a research note before the current-account data was released.
“The domestic data will only be market-moving should they
deviate significantly from consensus.”  Bonds gained, driving yields to the lowest level in a week,
on speculation the central bank won’t raise interest rates in
2011 as it strives to aid a recovery in Africa’s biggest
economy.  The 6.75 percent debt due 2021 climbed 46 cents to 89.30
rand, driving the yield eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, down to 8.37 percent, the lowest since June 13.  Rates  While the South African  Reserve Bank  predicts that
inflation will breach its 3 percent to 6 percent target range in
the first quarter of 2012, it has kept the key interest rate at
5.5 percent this year. The bank won’t raise interest rates to
curb rising prices caused by global oil and food prices, Chief
Economist  Monde Mnyande  said today.  “Local growth prospects remain clouded by considerable
downside risks,” Nedbank analysts led by Dennis Dykes said in a
research note. “The Monetary Policy Committee will probably
remain reluctant to tighten monetary policy too quickly or
aggressively as higher interest rates will do little to contain
inflation but will hurt the economy and  job creation .”  Nedbank expects the first interest-rate increase in the
first quarter of 2012, even after today’s current account data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 