-- 
Reserve Bank Weighs Europe Debt, Mine-Fueled Inflation in Holding Rates

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-21T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/rba-weighs-european-debt-crisis-mining-fueled-inflation-in-holding-rates.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said
it will weigh Europe’s sovereign debt crisis against a pickup in
domestic growth and inflation in deciding when to increase
 interest rates , minutes of its June 7 meeting showed.  “Members judged that it would be prudent to leave the
stance of policy unchanged, pending further data on
international developments,” according to the  minutes  released
today in Sydney. A likely acceleration in inflation from
commodities-led growth  “suggested that further tightening in
monetary policy would be necessary at some point.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has paused at 4.75 percent after
seven increases in the overnight cash rate target from October
2009 to November, moves that helped spur a 21 percent gain in
the currency in the past 12 months. Stevens added  Europe ’s debt
crisis to subdued lending, softer asset prices and the
deflationary effects of the currency’s rise to his reasons for
keeping borrowing costs unchanged.  “The flow of data over the past month had not added any
urgency to the need for an adjustment to policy,” the minutes
showed. “Downside risks to the international economy had become
a little more prominent.”  European finance chiefs have said further aid to save
 Greece  from a default hinges on Prime Minister George Papandreou
passing laws to cut the deficit and sell state assets. They left
open whether the country will get the full 12 billion euros
($17.2 billion) promised for July.  A default by Greece is “almost certain” and may help push
the  U.S. economy  into a recession,  Alan Greenspan , former
Federal Reserve chairman, said in a June 16 interview with
 Charlie Rose  in  New York .  U.S. Growth  The  International Monetary Fund  on June 17 cut its forecast
for U.S. growth in 2011 for the second time in two months,
warning that further setbacks to the recovery pose growing
threats to the world economy, along with potential contagion
from the European debt crisis.  By contrast in Australia, the government forecasts mining
investment of A$76 billion ($80 billion) next fiscal year,
spurring companies to hire workers and prompting the RBA to
predict unemployment will fall to 4.25 percent by December 2013.  “While there had been additional evidence of the coming
strong pick-up in investment in the resources sector, activity
remained quite subdued in some other important parts of the
economy, partly reflecting the board’s earlier actions as well
as the appreciation of the  exchange rate ,” policy makers said.  Gauges of Australian services, construction and
manufacturing all declined in May as the currency reached a
record. A private report last week showed Australian  consumer
confidence  fell in June to the lowest level in two years.  Jobs Report  A government report this month showed the number of full-
time jobs fell by 22,000 in May after dropping 57,200 in April,
the biggest two-month decline in more than two years. The
jobless rate held at 4.9 percent.  The RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases helped
 Australia ’s currency surpass $1.10 last month, the highest level
since it was freely floated in 1983. In contrast, the U.S.
Federal Reserve has kept its main interest rate near zero since
December 2008.  The central bank, in a May 6 policy statement, forecast
growth in the year through to the final quarter of 2011 at 4.25
percent, unchanged from its February estimate. Consumer prices
will rise 3.25 percent over the period, from a previous
prediction of 3 percent, and  core inflation  will quicken to 3
percent from 2.75 percent, it said.  Resources Investment  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion, are proceeding near the Queensland port of Gladstone.
 Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-largest oil producer, and BG
Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, will start
hiring the first of more than 10,000 construction workers needed
for the two projects later this year.  Australian consumer prices surged 1.6 percent in the first
quarter from three months earlier, the biggest increase since
2006, driven by fruit and vegetable costs as torrential rains in
Queensland state shut coal mines and damaged crops. In February,
a cyclone slammed into Queensland’s north coast.  The nation’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first
quarter, the most since 1991, as the floods slashed coal
exports, a June 1 report showed.  Loans provided by Australian banks and finance companies
were flat in April from the previous month, the RBA said in a
May 31 report. Australia’s household savings rate climbed to
11.5 percent from 9.7 percent in the previous quarter, a
government report showed June 1.  “Members observed that the saving ratio was now back to
levels seen in the mid-1980s and that the increase from earlier
unsustainably low levels was a positive development,” the
minutes showed.  Household spending accounts for 54 percent of Australia’s
economy, and a government report this month showed retail sales
rose in April by the most in 17 months, climbing 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  