-- 
Reserve Bank Weighs Europe Debt, Mine-Fueled Inflation in Holding Rates

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-21T03:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/rba-weighs-inflation-against-europe-crisis.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said
it will weigh  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis against a forecast
pickup in domestic growth and inflation in deciding whether to
increase  interest rates , minutes of its June 7 meeting showed.  “Members judged that it would be prudent to leave the
stance of policy unchanged, pending further data on
international developments,” according to the  minutes  released
in Sydney today. A likely acceleration in inflation from
commodities-led growth “suggested that further tightening in
monetary policy would be necessary at some point.”  The Australian dollar fell as RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 
added Europe’s crisis to subdued lending and softer asset prices
as reasons for keeping borrowing costs unchanged. He has held
the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent after seven
increases from October 2009 to November 2010, moves that spurred
a 20 percent gain in the currency in the past year.  “When you’ve got policy already in modestly restrictive
territory, the hurdle to hike is high and one of the
prerequisites is that things settle down globally,” said Su-Lin
Ong, head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “That requires the soft patch
we’re seeing in the U.S. to be temporary and that we get some
kind of resolution in terms of  Greece .”  Local Currency  The Australian currency traded at $1.0552 at 12:21 p.m. in
Sydney compared with $1.0611 before the minutes were released.  “The flow of data over the past month had not added any
urgency to the need for an adjustment to policy,” the minutes
showed. “Downside risks to the international economy had become
a little more prominent.”  European finance chiefs have said further aid to save
Greece from a default hinges on Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
passing laws to cut the deficit and sell state assets. They left
open whether the country will get the full 12 billion euros
($17.2 billion) promised for July.  A default by Greece is “almost certain” and may help push
the  U.S. economy  into a recession,  Alan Greenspan , former
Federal Reserve chairman, said in a June 16 interview with
 Charlie Rose  in  New York .  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its forecast
for U.S. growth in 2011 for the second time in two months,
warning that further setbacks to the recovery pose growing
threats to the world economy, along with potential contagion
from the European debt crisis.  In Australia, the government forecasts mining investment of
A$76 billion ($80 billion) next fiscal year, spurring companies
to hire workers and prompting the RBA to predict unemployment
will fall to 4.25 percent by December 2013.  ‘Quite Subdued’  “While there had been additional evidence of the coming
strong pick-up in investment in the resources sector, activity
remained quite subdued in some other important parts of the
economy, partly reflecting the board’s earlier actions as well
as the appreciation of the  exchange rate ,” policy makers said.  The RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases helped
 Australia ’s currency surpass $1.10 last month, the highest level
since it was freely floated in 1983. In contrast, the U.S.
Federal Reserve has kept its main interest rate near zero since
December 2008.  Gauges of Australian services, construction and
manufacturing all declined in May as the currency reached a
record. A private report last week showed Australian  consumer
confidence  fell in June to the lowest level in two years.  Jobs Report  A government report this month showed the number of full-
time jobs fell by 22,000 in May after dropping 57,200 in April,
the biggest two-month decline in more than two years. The
jobless rate held at 4.9 percent.  The central bank forecast growth in 2011 at 4.25 percent,
in a May 6 policy statement. Consumer prices will rise 3.25
percent over the period and core inflation will quicken to 3
percent from 2.75 percent, it said.  The economy shrank 1.2 percent in the first quarter, the
most since 1991, and consumer prices surged 1.6 percent in the
period, the biggest increase since 2006, as torrential rains in
Queensland state damaged crops and shut coal mines, a government
report showed.  Australia’s household savings rate also climbed to 11.5
percent from 9.7 percent in the three months through March from
the previous quarter, the June 1 report showed.  “Members observed that the saving ratio was now back to
levels seen in the mid-1980s and that the increase from earlier
unsustainably low levels was a positive development,” the
minutes showed today.  Household spending accounts for 54 percent of Australia’s
economy, and a government report this month showed retail sales
rose in April by the most in 17 months, climbing 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  