-- 
Treasuries Decline as Greece Confidence Vote Win Reduces Refuge Appeal

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-21T22:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/treasuries-decline-as-greek-government-is-set-to-win-confidence-vote.html
Treasury 10-year notes dropped for a
third day in the longest losing streak since March after
Greece’s government won a confidence vote, easing the refuge
appeal of  U.S. government debt .  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  garnered the support
of 151 lawmakers in a confidence motion, bolstering his new
government’s chances of pushing through austerity measures to
secure further international financial aid for the country.  “Some of the safety bid comes out of the market as some of
the uncertainty about whether the vote would pass has been
relieved,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, one of 20 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Federal Reserve. “It remains to be
seen how successful the government will be implementing
austerity measures, and even what happens after that.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.99 percent at 6:27 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 10-year note
yields fell on June 16 to 2.88 percent, the lowest level since
December.  Five-year securities slipped before tomorrow’s  Federal
Reserve  monetary-policy decision on speculation the  U.S. economy 
isn’t weak enough to justify yields that touched 2011 lows last
week. U.S. debt pared its drop earlier after the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a report that  Spain ’s efforts to repair
its economy are “incomplete” and risks are “considerable.”  Greece Vote  A total of 155 lawmakers supported the motion in the 300-
seat parliament in  Athens , with 143 voting against, the speaker,
Filippos Petsalnikos, said in remarks carried live state-run
Vouli TV. Papandreou reshuffled his cabinet and sought the
approval of the chamber after fending off a revolt within his
Pasok party last week. That came after opposition parties
rejected his call for a national unity government.  Treasuries were headed for a third monthly gain on
speculation economic growth is slowing as well as concern
nations including  Greece  may struggle to avoid default.
Government debt has returned 0.5 percent in June after advances
of 1.6 percent and 1.2 percent in the previous two months,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The U.S. government must do more to support employment
growth, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  Gross Outlook  “We should not rely solely on job or corporate-direct
payroll tax credits because corporations may not take enough of
that bait,” Gross wrote in a monthly investment outlook
published on Pimco’s website. “Government must step up to the
plate, as it should have in early 2009.”  Nonfarm payrolls grew in May by 54,000, the smallest
increase in eight months, after a gain of 232,000 in the
previous month, the Labor Department reported June 3. The median
forecast of 89 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 165,000. The jobless rate hit a 26-year high of 10.1
percent in October 2009 and was 9.1 percent last month.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes dropped 3.8 percent in
May to a six-month low after a revised 1.8 percent decrease in
the previous month, the National Association of Realtors
reported today. The median forecast of 69 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 5 percent decrease.  Outlook on Fed  While Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably delay the
central bank’s exit from record stimulus, he won’t resort to
additional asset purchases, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  Seventy-nine percent of 58 economists expect Bernanke to
sustain the Fed’s balance sheet at current levels until October
or later, compared with 52 percent who held that view before the
central bank’s last policy meeting in April, according to a
Bloomberg News survey conducted last week.  The FOMC began a two-day session today in  Washington  and is
due to issue a statement tomorrow at about 12:30 p.m., with
Bernanke scheduled to meet the press at 2:15 p.m.  The Fed purchased $4.9 billion of  U.S. debt  maturing from
December 2016 to May 2018 today under the $600 billion second
round of quantitative easing expiring in June.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today in
Washington he sees “a lot of progress” in bipartisan spending
and deficit talks that have been taking place and that the Aug.
2 deadline is “imposed by reality.”  “If the debt ceiling has not been raised by then, then we
would put the U.S. sovereign ratings on rating watch negative.
 Andrew Colquhoun , head of Fitch Ratings’s Asia-Pacific
sovereigns team, said in an interview in  Singapore  today. “We
think it’s very likely that the debt ceiling will be raised in
good time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  