-- 
Treasury 10-Year Notes Fall for Third Straight Day as Greece Concern Eases

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-21T20:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/treasury-10-year-notes-fall-for-third-straight-day-as-greece-concern-eases.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
third straight day in the longest losing streak since March on
speculation  Greece ’s government will survive a confidence vote
and proceed with efforts to contain its debt crisis.  Five-year securities slipped before tomorrow’s  Federal
Reserve  monetary-policy decision on speculation the economy
isn’t weak enough to justify yields that touched 2011 lows last
week.  U.S. debt  pared its drop earlier after the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a report that  Spain ’s efforts to repair
its economy are “incomplete” and risks are “considerable.”  “The moves in the market are still all about the European
peripheral sovereign issues,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “We are still under 3 percent on the
10-year, which shows that fear still remains in the market.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.98 percent at 4:35 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
security due in May 2021 fell 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 8/32.  The 10-year note yields fell on June 16 to 2.88 percent,
the lowest level since December. Yields on five-year notes
climbed one basis point to 1.54 percent today.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.3 percent,
while crude oil for July delivery advanced 0.2 percent to $93.40
a barrel. The euro appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.4405.  Vote in Greece  If Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  survives
today’s confidence vote, he will seek approval in parliament
next week for a five-year economic plan to help persuade
international officials to lend additional financial support.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said yesterday
that Papandreou assured him the government would do everything
to avoid defaulting.  While Spain’s government has implemented a “wide-ranging
policy response” to its sovereign-debt crisis over the past
year, “there can be no letup in the reform momentum,” the IMF
said in its report.  Treasuries were headed for a third monthly gain on
speculation economic growth is slowing as well as concern
nations including Greece may struggle to avoid default.
Government debt has returned 0.5 percent in June after advances
of 1.6 percent and 1.2 percent in the previous two months,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Gross on Employment  The U.S. government must do more to support employment
growth, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  “We should not rely solely on job or corporate-direct
payroll tax credits because corporations may not take enough of
that bait,” Gross wrote in a monthly investment outlook
published on Pimco’s website. “Government must step up to the
plate, as it should have in early 2009.”  Nonfarm payrolls grew in May by 54,000, the smallest
increase in eight months, after a gain of 232,000 in the
previous month, the Labor Department reported June 3. The median
forecast of 89 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 165,000. The jobless rate hit a 26-year high of 10.1
percent in October 2009 and was 9.1 percent last month.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes dropped 3.8 percent in
May to a six-month low after a revised 1.8 percent decrease in
the previous month, the National Association of Realtors
reported today. The median forecast of 69 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 5 percent decrease.  Outlook on Fed  While Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably delay the
central bank’s exit from record stimulus, he won’t resort to
additional asset purchases, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  Seventy-nine percent of 58 economists expect Bernanke to
sustain the Fed’s balance sheet at current levels until October
or later, compared with 52 percent who held that view before the
central bank’s last policy meeting in April, according to a
Bloomberg News survey conducted last week.  The FOMC began a two-day session today in Washington and is
due to issue a statement tomorrow at about 12:30 p.m., with
Bernanke scheduled to meet the press at 2:15 p.m.  The Fed purchased $4.9 billion of U.S. debt maturing from
December 2016 to May 2018 today under the $600 billion second
round of quantitative easing expiring in June.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today in
 Washington  he sees “a lot of progress” in bipartisan spending
and deficit talks that have been taking place and that the Aug.
2 deadline is “imposed by reality.”  “If the debt ceiling has not been raised by then, then we
would put the U.S. sovereign ratings on rating watch negative.
 Andrew Colquhoun , head of Fitch Ratings’s Asia-Pacific
sovereigns team, said in an interview in  Singapore  today. ‘‘We
think it’s very likely that the debt ceiling will be raised in
good time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  