-- 
Regulators Fail to Police Hazardous Food Recalls, Report Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-06-21T20:09:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/regulators-fail-to-police-hazardous-food-recalls-report-says.html
U.S. regulators didn’t take
sufficient steps to protect the country from hazardous imported
food, a  review  by a federal investigator found.  Food companies failed to initiate recalls or properly
communicate essential information, according to the report by
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services inspector
general. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  also didn’t
properly audit firms, waiting as long as three months after the
recall of lead-contaminated pitchers to check whether  Cost Plus
Inc. (CPWM) , with 300 stores in 35 states, pulled all the products.  The report examined 17 of the 40 most serious recalls from
July 1, 2007, to June 30, 2008, before the FDA gained
congressional authority to mandate recalls through an overhaul
of the food safety system. FDA officials outlined a plan
yesterday to work with regulators in other nations to address
increasing imports while Republicans in Congress threaten to cut
the agency’s budget.  “Regrettably FDA’s ability to carry out that law and the
recommendations in this OIG report will be badly impaired if FDA
is starved of critical funding as the House’s agriculture
appropriations legislation would do,” Senator  Tom Harkin ,
Democrat of  Iowa  and chairman of the Senate Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions Committee, said in a statement.  The U.S. House passed a $125 billion spending bill on June
16 that would cut FDA funding 21 percent below the current
fiscal year, at $2.2 billion, partly reflecting a reduction in
food-safety spending. The bill is HR 2112.  The inspector general’s review found two of the 17 recalls
were not initiated until 28 and 102 days after FDA became aware
of the contamination. In 13 of the 17 recalls, communications
didn’t contain essential information on contaminated products.  The FDA didn’t conduct inspections or obtain complete
information on the products in 14 of the recalls. The recalls
were for salmonella, listeria, clostridium botulinum and lead.  The FDA will consider the inspector general’s review as it
implements the new law, the agency wrote in response to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 