-- 
Rheumatoid Arthritis Drugs May Help Curb Diabetes Development, Study Finds

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-21T20:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/rheumatoid-arthritis-drugs-may-help-curb-diabetes-development-study-finds.html
Drugs for rheumatoid arthritis and
psoriasis, led by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Remicade and  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ’ Humira, may stave off diabetes, a study suggests.  Patients using Remicade, Humira or  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Enbrel had
a 38 percent lower risk of developing diabetes, according to the
report in the  Journal of the American Medical Association . Those
on hydroxychloroquine, a generic drug for rheumatoid arthritis
and malaria, had a 46 percent lower risk, the study found.  Rheumatoid arthritis , which damages joints, and  psoriasis ,
marked by thick, itchy skin patches, are inflammatory ailments.
Their treatments may fight diabetes by suppressing the immune
system or slowing the body’s metabolism of insulin, said Daniel
Solomon, a researcher at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston .
The results provide added information on diabetes and may one
day help prevent and control it, the investigators said.  “It may be that certain medicines are more beneficial for
reducing” the risk of diabetes, said Solomon, a rheumatologist
and associate professor at  Harvard Medical School  in Boston, in
a telephone interview. “There are many targets here” for
ongoing research into the condition.  Researchers analyzed the health-care records of 13,906
patients with rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis looking for new
diagnoses of diabetes to come up with their finding. The data
must be confirmed in studies that pit the therapies against each
other, Solomon said. The researchers are working on a study of
hydroxychloroquine in arthritis patients to evaluate its effect
on blood sugar and insulin, he said.  Tailoring Treatments  If the results hold, doctors may use a patient’s diabetes
risk to tailor treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis,
the researchers said. It is unclear if the risks of the potent
drugs, such as infections, will outweigh the diabetes prevention
benefits in patients who don’t have a condition like rheumatoid
arthritis or psoriasis, the researchers said.  The study results build on earlier research and add to the
biological plausibility that treatment of chronic inflammatory
diseases may reduce the risk of diabetes, said Tim Bongartz and
Yogish Kudva, from the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota , in
an editorial that accompanies the study.  “Specific anti-inflammatory agents may exert beneficial
effects on insulin resistance,” they wrote. “Especially for a
chronic disease such as rheumatoid arthritis, which is
associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, it
appears attractive to take advantage” of multiple benefits from
a specific drug that would already be used, they said.  If the dual effect is found, patients may be able to cut
back on diabetes treatment or prevent it from developing, they
said. Additional work would be needed to determine how the drugs
should be used, when they should be started and how long the
benefit lasts, they said.  “Even if treatment of chronic inflammatory disease can
reduce the risk of diabetes, clinicians still will have to learn
how to use specific anti-inflammatory agents to achieve optimal
outcomes for both conditions,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  