-- 
RIM Takeover Beckons Microsoft With Cheapest Multiple: Real M&A

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-06-21T20:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/rim-takeover-beckons-microsoft-with-cheapest-multiple-real-m-a.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  has lost so
much value that an acquirer could pay a 50 percent premium and
still buy the BlackBerry maker for a lower multiple than any
company in the industry.  RIM, once worth $83 billion, fell more than 80 percent from
its record three years ago as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform siphoned off smartphone customers. The
Waterloo, Ontario-based company, which plunged last week after
saying quarterly sales may drop for the first time in nine
years, closed yesterday at $25.89 a share, or 4.7 times earnings
next year. That’s less than any communications-equipment
provider, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, RIM’s co-chief
executive officers, said last week that their commitment to RIM
is “stronger than ever,” the company may now attract  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , BMO Harris Private Banking said. A buyer
would get a smartphone maker that is still dominant among
corporate clients, offers greater security with its own e-mail
servers and generates more free cash versus its market value
than any of its rivals. Paying $40 a share still values RIM at a
discount to comparable companies in the industry.  “Given how significant the deterioration of the stock
price has been, that alone will cause interest,” said Paul Taylor, who oversees $14.5 billion, including RIM shares, as
chief investment officer at BMO Harris in Toronto. “RIM still
has meaningful market share in the U.S. and meaningful market
share internationally, and RIM has an iconic brand.”  Shareholder Value   “It’s not hard to envision a stock price that’s somewhere
between $40 and $50 a share” in an acquisition, he said.  Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman at RIM, declined to comment.  Since peaking in June 2008, RIM’s shareholders lost almost
$70 billion, leaving it with a market capitalization of $13.6
billion yesterday. The 82 percent decline was the biggest among
communications-equipment providers worth at least $10 billion in
the past three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Over that span, Cupertino, California-based Apple advanced
74 percent to become the world’s most valuable technology
company, with a market capitalization of $292 billion.  RIM, which slumped 55 percent this year alone through
yesterday, sells for less than 5 times its per-share earnings of
$5.49 in its fiscal year ending February 2013, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, RIM climbed 10.3 percent to $28.55 in U.S. composite
trading, the biggest gain in 18 months. The advance added about
$1.4 billion to the company’s market value.  Market Share  HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based maker of handsets
using Android and Microsoft operating systems, trades at about 9
times profit, while Apple is valued at 11 times earnings next
year, the data show. Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which has
fallen 48 percent this year on concern it’s also losing share of
smartphone sales, trades at 14.4 times next year’s profit.  RIM’s slump accelerated last week after it released second-
quarter sales and profit forecasts that trailed analysts’
estimates. In a span of about two years, RIM’s market share in
 North America  declined to 13 percent from 54 percent,  Pierre Ferragu , a London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
wrote in a report yesterday.  The company, which is losing out as consumers spurn its
aging models for iPhones and handsets running Android software,
hasn’t introduced a major new BlackBerry since August.  Cheaper Android phones are also making inroads in  Latin
America , Asia and  Europe , threatening the popularity of RIM’s
less expensive BlackBerry models such as the Curve.  Acquisition Cost  “Any device they come out with is likely at best to catch
up with current offerings, not exceed them,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, which
manages $1 billion in Walnut Creek, California. “I wonder if
management completely recognizes the market challenge.”  While RIM’s managers have made it less valuable versus its
earnings than any other smartphone maker, it’s also giving
buyers willing to bet on a turnaround a chance to purchase the
company on the cheap.  At $40 a share, or an almost 55 percent markup to
yesterday’s price, RIM would be valued at 7.29 times next year’s
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s still
less than the average communications equipment provider, which
trades at about 12.3 times profit, the data show.  RIM also generated $2.87 billion in free  cash flow , or cash
from operations after capital expenses, in the past 12 months,
the data show. That equals about 21 percent of its market value,
the highest proportion in the industry.  Potential Bidders  Among potential acquirers, Microsoft could build its share
in smartphones and gain a device to complement its Windows Phone
7 mobile-phone platform, said BMO Harris’s Taylor.  RIM’s customer base will increase to 77 million by the end
of next fiscal year, from 42 million last year, Bernstein’s
Ferragu said. Almost a quarter of those customers will be
corporate users.  Microsoft lost almost half of its own market share for
mobile operating systems in the first quarter, falling to 3.6
percent from 6.8 percent a year earlier, according to Gartner
Inc. The decline comes after the world’s largest software maker
already failed with its Kin smartphone, scrapping the model last
year after less than two months on the market.  RIM would “would bring more critical mass” to Microsoft’s
smartphones, said  Scott Sutherland  at Wedbush Securities Inc. in
San Francisco. “From a valuation perspective and given their
market exposure, it does become interesting at these levels.”  Melissa Havel, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  PC to Mobile  RIM would also help Dell, the world’s second-largest maker
of personal computers, reduce its dependence on PCs as consumers
buy more handheld devices, according to  Stuart Jeffrey , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  Dell’s revenue from desktop PCs has tumbled 32 percent in
the past five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To help counter the decline, Dell last year released its
Venue Pro smartphone, which runs Microsoft’s Windows operating
system. Dell doesn’t disclose its phone sales, according to
 David Frink , a spokesman for the Round Rock, Texas-based
company. He declined to comment on demand for the Venue Pro
since its debut or whether it would bid for RIM.  “Dell is clearly trying to build a handset business and
found it difficult,” said Jeffrey, who is based in New York and
has a “neutral” rating on RIM. “That would be a big strategic
decision on their part.”  ‘Unique Assets’  RIM has also built its own network of e-mail servers that
make sending and receiving messages more secure compared with
other smartphones, according to Jeffrey.  “RIM does have some unique assets,” he said. “There are
clearly some strategic benefits such as the enterprise position
and the security advantages that they’ve got.”  Any takeover may need the approval of Canadian regulators.
Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government in November rejected
Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile takeover
of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
after the province said the sale would cut jobs and tax revenue.  RIM’s 50-year-old co-CEOs are also the company’s biggest
shareholders, with Balsillie holding a 5.9 percent stake and
Lazaridis controlling 5.4 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “Our commitment to RIM is stronger than ever and we know
what we have to do jointly to accomplish and take RIM to the
next stage of growth and success,” Lazaridis said on a
conference call last week. “While I can’t promise that there
won’t be bumps in the road ahead, I can assure you that Jim and
I have never been more committed to the business and that our
interests remain closely aligned with those of our
shareholders.”  Missing the Boat  Lazaridis, who invented the BlackBerry to handle mobile e-
mail, has shared the role of CEO with Balsillie since 1992. They
are also both co-chairmen of RIM.  For  Walter Todd , who helps manage $950 million at Greenwood
Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina, there’s little that
companies such as Microsoft could do to revive RIM beyond
boosting shareholder sentiment with a takeover premium.  “It’s easy to say the stock is cheap and somebody should
buy it,” said Todd. “In reality, the options are a lot less
than people think. You see them missing the boat and being
killed by Apple and Google’s Android. It’s hard to catch up when
you miss the boat.”  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $14.8 billion at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, says further declines
in RIM’s stock will attract more potential buyers.  If the slump “persists you’ll start to see some dance
partners start to circle,” he said. “The stock has been
hammered down to the point that when you look at their tech
footprint, and there’s a revenue model out there, you do get to
a point where you’re almost being paid to take the franchise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 