-- 
Ringgit Rises on Easing Greek Debt Concerns, Inflation Data

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-06-21T09:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ringgit-little-changed-on-greek-confidence-vote-inflation-data.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit advanced to its
highest level in a week as concern that Greece will default
eased, bolstering demand for emerging market assets.  The ringgit rose along with other Asian currencies and
stocks after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  gave
assurance that his government will take the measures to obtain
financial aid. A Malaysian government report tomorrow may show
inflation quickened to 3.3 percent in May from April’s 3.2
percent pace, the fastest in two years, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The easing concern over Greece debt problems is positive
for Asian currencies,” said Calbert Loh, head of treasury at
Bangkok Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “People are also expecting
Malaysia’s consumer price index to creep up.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.0310 per dollar
as of 5:04 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.3 percent yesterday.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  soothed
concern that Greece will default yesterday by saying Papandreou
told him that he would take steps to avoid default before a
confidence vote later today.  Bank Negara  Malaysia forecasts consumer prices will rise
2.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year, compared with 1.7 percent
in 2010, driven by higher commodity and energy prices. The
central bank raised its overnight policy rate to 3 percent from
2.75 percent on May 5.  Borrowing costs may climb to 3.25 percent by the end of
this year, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The bank next meets to review rates on
July 7.  Government bonds  rose. The yield on the 4.262 percent notes
due September 2016 dropped one basis point to 3.51 percent,
according to Bursa Malaysia. Bank Negara will auction 500
million ringgit of 119-day Islamic notes tomorrow, according to
the central bank’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  