-- 
RMG Meeting Banks This Week to Explore IPO Seeking More Than $250 Million

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-21T20:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/rmg-meeting-banks-this-week-to-explore-ipo-seeking-more-than-250-million.html
RMG Networks Inc. is in talks with
banks about an initial public offering that would help it
capitalize on surging demand for video advertisements aimed at
consumers on the go, Chief Executive Officer Garry McGuire said.  The San Francisco-based ad service may try to raise more
than $250 million and is meeting potential financial advisers
this week to consider an IPO filing this year, McGuire said in
an interview. Proceeds may fund acquisitions, he said.  RMG’s network of 200,000 televisions target air travelers,
shoppers on check-out lines and runners in gyms. As some ad
buyers eschew traditional broadcasts with avoidable commercials,
sales in this niche market aimed at captive audiences are
expected to surge 17 percent to $6.47 billion this year,
according to  PQ Media .  “It’s one of the fastest-growing media in the world,”
said Patrick Quinn, CEO of PQ Media, an advertising research
firm based  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  McGuire is also talking to banks and private equity firms
about a financing round that may eliminate the immediate need
for an IPO. He has rebuffed several unsolicited buyout offers.  “We are definitely getting broadcast TV budgets and we’re
seeing a lot of migration from newspapers,” McGuire said. “Our
business is growing astronomically.”  TV Alternatives  Shares of  National CineMedia Inc. (NCMI) , a movie theater
advertising service, declined 23 percent since its Feb. 7, 2007
IPO through the close of trading yesterday. Like RMG, the
company offers an alternative to video ads on broadcast TV.  RMG is profitable and will double revenue this year,
McGuire said, while declining to disclose sales figures. He’s
watching professional-networking site LinkedIn Corp. and radio-
service Pandora Media Inc., two recent technology IPOs, to help
gauge whether it’s the right time to take his company public.  National CineMedia runs promotions on more than 17,000
movie screens nationwide.  Premier Retail Networks Inc.  shows ads
on monitors near cash registers in more than 8,500 U.S. stores
and restaurants. Gannett Co.’s Captivate Network offers air-time
in more than 10,000 elevators worldwide.  RMG’s ads stick with consumers because they can’t change
channels or easily walk away to avoid commercials, said McGuire.
His airport network, for example, captures passengers during
flights.  Ford’s Lincoln Ads  In January,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  began promoting its Lincoln
vehicles to travelers on airlines including Delta Air Lines Inc.
and Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. through RMG, a move that the
carmaker said boosted awareness of the brand.  “We’re extremely happy with the results so far,” said
Susan Venen-Bock, the U.S. media manager for Ford. “Going
forward, we are looking for higher-engagement ideas.”  Besides being hard to tune out, RMG promises advertisers
more screen-time than a typical 30-second TV commercial.
Shoppers, for example, typically spend eight minutes in grocery
checkout lines, McGuire said.  “We are all seeing traditional video advertising dollars
coming our way,” said Scott Lyon, vice president of marketing
at Captivate Network.  To expand its national advertising network, RMG spent $75
million on three acquisitions since 2009, McGuire said. In
April, he bought airport and train display operator Executive
Media Network. He also bought IdeaCast to grow in the  airline
industry  and PharmacyTV to augment the company’s retail
business.  Planned Acquisitions  McGuire wants to do two more deals this year to boost his
coverage across the U.S. and abroad, including emerging markets
in  China  and  India . He has more than  200 smaller rivals  to
review as he considers potential takeover targets.  New smartphone technology also helps RMG lure customers,
McGuire said. Among other services, RMG enables consumers to
text numbers advertised on its displays to receive offers from
daily-deal website Groupon Inc. It shares revenues merchants
collect on related sales, McGuire said.  At an RJ’s Market in  San Francisco , shoppers can watch an
ad for The New York Times’ mobile application while on the
checkout line, then tap their phones to a tag on the display to
download the app. Businesses pay RMG $1 every time an app is
downloaded from one of its displays, using what is known as
 near field communication  technology, McGuire said.  Double Revenue  “Most of our advertising campaigns in the next three years
will be NFC enabled,” McGuire said. He plans to expand this
feature to offer tags near 75,000 monitors by the end of the
year, from about 1,200 now. “It makes every ad campaign twice
the size. It could double our revenues three years out.”  The tags are powered by technology from  Blue Bite  LLC, a
mobile-marketing company based in  New York .  RMG investors include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, DAG
Ventures LLC, Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC, AOL Inc.’s
Chairman and CEO  Tim Armstrong , and former San Francisco
Examiner publisher William R. Hearst. National CineMedia is also
an investor.  “It’s a huge growth area,” said Elisa Steele, a board
member at RMG and Chief Marketing Officer at Yahoo! Inc. “We’ve
only begun to see the innovation here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 