-- 
Rory McIlroy Is Favored to Win British Open Over Woods After U.S. Open

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/rory-mcilroy-is-favored-to-win-british-open-over-woods-after-u-s-open.html
Rory McIlroy is favored to win
golf’s  British Open  next month after his eight-stroke victory at
the U.S. Open, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  McIlroy, who at 22 is the youngest major champion since
Tiger Woods in 1997, opened as a 6-1 favorite at the  Las Vegas
Hilton’s Race and Sports Book .  McIlroy, of Northern Ireland, set 12 U.S. Open records in
his win at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
including the lowest winning score in the tournament’s 111-year
history at 16-under par. His victory came two months after he
blew a four-shot lead during the final round at the Masters
Tournament, the first major of the season.  “Rory is the well-deserved favorite coming off his
dominating performance in the  U.S. Open ,”  Jeff Sherman , the
assistant manager at the Las Vegas Hilton, said in an e-mail.
“He very well could be heading into the Open Championship with
two majors in hand had he not given away the Masters.”  Lee Westwood of  England  is the second-favorite at 10-1,
followed by Woods and Luke Donald, the No. 1 golfer in the
 Official World Golf Ranking , at 15-1.  The British Open, the season’s third major championship, is
scheduled for July 14-17 at Royal St. George’s Golf Club in
Sandwich on the English coast, 77 miles (124 kilometers)
southeast of  London .  Third in 2010  During his post-tournament news conference two days ago,
McIlroy three times referred to winning his first major and said
he planned to add to that tally. McIlroy has finished third or
better in three of his past four majors. He tied for third at
last year’s British Open at  St. Andrews  in  Scotland  even after
following a first-round 63 with an 80.  “I’m going to take three weeks off, I think, get myself
ready for the Open Championship,” McIlroy said after shooting
four straight rounds in the 60s to win the U.S. Open. “I want
to give myself a great chance to prepare well for that and
hopefully give myself a good chance to win.”  The last player to win consecutive major championships was
Ireland’s Padraig Harrington, who in 2008 captured the British
Open and PGA Championship. Woods was the last golfer to win the
U.S. Open and British Open in the same year, in 2000, when he
also won the  PGA Championship .  Woods, 35, last week missed the U.S. Open for the first
time since 1994 as he recovers from leg injuries. He hasn’t won
a tournament since November 2009 and has fallen to 17th in the
world rankings, 13 spots behind McIlroy. Woods captured the last
of his 14 major titles at the 2008 U.S. Open.  Head to Head  Woods’s opening Las Vegas odds to win the British Open are
the same as they were for the U.S. Open when he pulled out.  “Hopefully he can get healthy and can get back playing
good golf, because the game of golf is a better place with him
playing well,” McIlroy said. “It would be great to be able to
get in contention one day, whether it be a major or just a
regular event and go down the stretch with him because I’ve
never really had that experience.”  During Woods’s dry spell, the past five major titles have
been won by non-American players for the first time in history.  Martin Kaymer  of  Germany , the 2010 PGA Championship winner,
has 20-1 odds of winning the British Open next month, followed
by Phil Mickelson of the U.S. at 25-1. Mickelson has had one
top-20 finish at the British Open since he placed third in 2004,
his best career performance at the tournament.  Jason Day 30-1  Australia ’s 23-year-old Jason Day has 30-1 odds to win
after runner-up finishes at the Masters and U.S. Open. Also at
30-1 are  Sergio Garcia  of  Spain  and Graeme McDowell of  Northern
Ireland , the 2010 U.S. Open champion.  McIlroy said while he didn’t expect to get his first major
title by this stage of his career, he’s excited to challenge for
more. At the same time, he shrugs off comparisons to Woods, who
has 71 U.S. PGA Tour wins and is four major titles behind record
holder  Jack Nicklaus .  Woods has missed the cut for weekend play six times since
turning professional in 1996, while McIlroy has six missed cuts
in PGA Tour events over three years playing in the U.S.  “It’s nice that people say, ‘He could be this’ or ‘He
could be that’ or ‘He could win 20 major championships’, but at
the end of the day I’ve won one,” McIlroy said. “I just want
to add to that tally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  