-- 
Russian Passenger Plane Crash Kills at Least 44 People; Eight Are Injured

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-21T12:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/russian-passenger-plane-crash-kills-at-least-44-people-eight-survive.html
A passenger plane en route from
Moscow crashed on a highway in northern  Russia , killing 44
people and injuring eight as it tried to land in fog.  The Tupolev 134 operated by RusAir broke apart and burst
into flames when it hit the road short of the runway in
Petrozavodsk before midnight, Federal Aviation Agency spokesman
Sergei Izvolsky said by phone. Petrozavodsk is about 700
kilometers (435 miles) north of the Russian capital, near the
Finnish border.  Eight foreigners, including four U.S.-Russian dual
nationals, a Swedish and a Dutch citizen and two Ukrainians,
were among those killed, Irina Andrianova, an Emergency Ministry
spokeswoman, said in a recording posted on the ministry website.
The crash was probably caused by a combination of pilot error
and bad weather, Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov said,
according to RIA Novosti.  "Unfortunately, it reminds one of the recent disaster
suffered by the Polish plane above Smolensk," Ivanov said,
according to the state-run RIA news service. Polish President
 Lech Kaczynski  and 95 other people including the country’s
political and military leaders died in April 2010 when a Polish
aircraft crashed as it tried to land in fog in Smolensk, Russia.  52 on Board  Investigators have discounted the possibility that the
plane crashed because the lights on the airport runway weren’t
working properly, RIA reported, citing an unnamed Transport
Ministry official. The news service earlier cited Moscow-based
 RusAir  as saying this was a possible cause of the accident.  RusAir, which caters to business travel and organizes
charter flights, declined comment when called by Bloomberg News.
Information on its website about its fleet was inaccessible.  The plane was carrying 43 passengers and nine crew members,
according to the Emergency Ministry. The Tupolev 134 has a
capacity of 76 passengers.  It was the deadliest commercial airline disaster in Russia
since September 2008, when an Aeroflot-Nord Boeing 737 crashed
near Perm, killing 88 people, according to the Aviation Safety
Network’s  website .  The plane was making its final approach in “adverse
weather conditions,” the Interfax news agency reported, citing
Alexei Kuzmitsky, head of the Petrozavodsk airport. Fog shrouded
the airport at the time, the agency said, citing a person it
didn’t identify.  Compliance Investigation  The regional transport prosecutor’s office is investigating
safety compliance at the Petrozavodsk airport, according to RIA.  The eight survivors were taken to local hospitals and are
in serious condition, the ministry said. Both of the plane’s
flight-data recorders were recovered.  Images from the crash site posted on RIA Novosti’s  website 
showed one of the plane’s engines amid broken-up debris near
several houses.  Russia has been improving its airline-safety record, the
 International Air Transport Association   said in a statement  on
its website issued June 20, hours before the crash. Still, it
said “concerns remain with the continued operation of some
Russian-built equipment that doesn’t comply with” standards
issued by the  International Civil Aviation Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  