-- 
Russia RTS Futures Advance as Oil Gains, Unemployment Falls More Than Seen

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-06-21T22:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/russia-rts-futures-advance-as-oil-gains-unemployment-falls.html
Russia ’s RTS index futures rose,
signaling shares may advance for a second day in Moscow, as oil
gained and reports showed unemployment fell more than forecast
while fixed-capital investment surged in May.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September rose 0.3 percent yesterday. The Market Vectors Russia
ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian shares, rose 1.4
percent. Lukoil’s American depositary receipts gained 0.8
percent. Gazprom’s ADRs rose 1.6 percent.  “Russia stands to benefit from almost any kind of chaos on
the international markets, as people want to invest in real
things, such as oil,” Elena Matrosova, a Moscow-based economist
at BDO International, a financial adviser that lists the central
bank among its clients, said in a telephone interview. “Any oil
price volatility has an immediate impact on Russian equities
prices.”  Oil, Russia’s top export, climbed in advance of an Energy
Department report on U.S. supplies today that is expected show
inventories fell for a third week.  Inventories dropped 1.83 million barrels, or 0.5 percent,
to 363.7 million in the seven days ended June 17, according to
the median of 16 analyst estimates before today’s Energy
Department report. Thirteen of the respondents forecast a
decline, two projected a gain and one said there would be no
change.  Oil for July delivery expired at $93.40 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have advanced 20 percent in
the past year. The more actively traded August contract gained
54 cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle at $94.17 a barrel.  Russian Economy  Russia’s jobless rate dropped to 6.4 percent in May, the
lowest since September 2008, from 7.2 percent in April, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed report
yesterday. The median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was 7 percent. Fixed-capital investment surged 7.4
percent from a year earlier, the most in 2011, beating the 4
percent forecast. Retail sales rose 5.5 percent from a year
earlier last month, exceeding economists’ estimate of 5.4
percent.  “Rosstat has released economic data for May that reveal an
unexpected surge in investment, robust growth in consumption
accompanied by a declining savings rate and labor market
tightening,” Aleksandra Evtifyeva, a Moscow-based analyst at
VTB Capital, said in an e-mailed report. “It remains to be seen
how sustainable the recent surge in investment is.”  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose for the first day in seven
yesterday, snapping the longest losing streak since October
2008. The 30-stock gauge advanced 0.6 percent to 1,635.38 at the
6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, its first increase since June 9. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index increased 0.8 percent to 1,872.45.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, also produces
metals including steel, copper, nickel, palladium and aluminum.
Oil and natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 0.6 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  