-- 
Ryanair Considering 200-Plus Orders for China’s C919 Plane

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-21T16:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ryanair-explores-0rder-for-200-plus-c919-jets-from-china-s-comac.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, said it’s exploring a requirement for
at least 200 single-aisle jets with Commercial Aircraft Corp. of
 China  after signing an accord to help develop the C919 model.  Ryanair is interested in a variant of the plane that would
carry about 200 people and be available from 2018. The Irish
company, which will have 300  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s by 2013, could move
to a mixed fleet if the economies offered by a new entrant can
at least match those of the current fleet and the price is right,
Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in an interview.  Comac plans test flights for the C919 in 2014, with service
entry by 2016. The jet, which seats about 150 people, aims to
pry open the Airbus-Boeing duopoly in a single-aisle market
that’s the largest part of the civil aviation industry. Ryanair
said it’s also in discussions with the U.S. company about its
need to replace older planes and that the accord with Comac, as
the Chinese company is known, won’t threaten that relationship.  “The preference ultimately for Ryanair would be to have the
same fleet of 737s, so this is perhaps more of a warning shot at
Boeing in relation to pricing,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst
at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “The industry is still in
fairly bullish mode from the manufacturer perspective, so it
doesn’t look like Boeing will be in any rush to do a deal.”  ‘Deep Knowledge’  Ryanair could also take out 200 options for narrow-body
jets, O’Leary said at a press conference in Paris. Boeing said
it would be “inappropriate” to comment on the Dublin-based
carrier’s intentions, though it is a “greatly valued” customer.  “We have a deep knowledge and understanding of Ryanair’s
operations and fleet requirements based on many years of close,
successful partnership,” Michael Tull, a spokesman for Chicago-
based Boeing, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  By teaming up with Ryanair to develop the C919, Comac has
indicated that it’s “quite serious” about penetrating the
single-aisle market, according to Goodbody’s Hughes, who has a
“buy” recommendation on the Irish carrier’s stock.  “You would have to see a few orders for the C919 before
people are convinced that they are going to be there for the
long term,” he added.  ‘Very Large Order’  O’Leary said that he’ll place “a very large order” if Comac
meet’s Ryanair’s demands. The C919 will be as much as 15 percent
more fuel-efficient than existing models, the Chinese company’s
sales and marketing manager, Chen Jin, said in March.  “We’ve no interest in trying to muscle Boeing, because we
can’t,” he said. “But clearly with the development of the C919
there’s a credible low-cost alternative to the 737 and the
 Airbus A320 .”  Because Ryanair needs one cabin-crew member per 50 people,
expanding its aircraft to 199 seats from the current 189 would
avoid the need for additional staff and hit a “sweet-spot” for
per-passenger costs, he said. The carrier wants Boeing to tailor
a future 737 variant for the same number of seats, he added.  Ryanair said in 2009 it had pulled out of a deal to buy 200
additional 737s after failing to agree unspecified terms with
Boeing, despite having settled on a price for the aircraft.  Airbus SAS, based in Toulouse in southern  France , has been
offering carriers a version of its A320 single-aisle plane with
new engines, slated for service at the end of 2015. The company
has picked up more than 500 firm orders or commitments for the
aircraft since announcing the plan at the end of 2010.  Boeing has yet to decide whether to follow its European
rival down the re-engining path or build an all-new aircraft.  Order Optimism  Comac’s chief designer, Wu Guanghui, said yesterday that
the C919, China’s first passenger jet, may attract 50 to 100
more orders in 2011, revising guidance for that number of
contracts in total for the full year issued in March.  While there have been are some glitches, the program is “on
schedule,” Wu said following the formal signing of an agreement
with engine supplier  CFM International , a joint venture of
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF)  of France.  As of March 31, Ryanair had 272 Boeing 737-800s in its
fleet, with firm orders for an additional 40. That makes the
Irish carrier the model’s No. 2 operator after Southwest
Airlines Co., which has 553, according to research firm Ascend.  British Airways signed a memorandum of understanding with
Comac at the Farnborough Air Show in Britain last July, agreeing
to initiate talks about “future aircraft needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  