-- 
Saab Won’t Abandon Indian Gripen Effort, Has Patience in Brazil

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-06-21T10:33:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/saab-won-t-abandon-indian-gripen-effort-has-patience-in-brazil.html
Saab AB (SAABB) , the Swedish maker of
defense equipment, said it hasn’t abandoned efforts to sell its
Gripen fighter jet to India, even after the model was removed
from a competition that also ejected two U.S. contenders.  “We are monitoring the situation, and we have not packed up
our things and left,” Haakan Buskhe, chief executive officer at
the Linkoeping-based company, told journalists at the  Paris Air
Show  today. “We have an extremely good aircraft and we have not
given up.”  India is Saab’s biggest target for the Gripen besides
 Brazil . The aircraft was eliminated in April from the six-way
contest to replace its aging fleet of MiG-21s, along with  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s F/A-18 Super Hornet and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-16.
Lockheed may seek to claw its way back into the contest by
offering its latest warplane, the F-35 stealth fighter.  Brazil will probably pick a winner in a contest worth at
least $5 billion later this year. Saab is competing with the
Super Hornet and France’s Rafale, made by  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ,
for a 36-aircraft order.  The contest is more complex than in India, which is seeking
an “off-the-shelf” aircraft, Buskhe said, as Saab would be
willing to transfer technology to Brazil as part of winning bid.  “We have the cash to wait another 10 years,” Buskhe said
of the Brazilian tender. Saab has net liquidity of about 4
billion kronor ($626 million), according to the company.  Buskhe said his company stands to benefit from government
cuts to defense spending because they force armies to review the
equipment and contracts they have, opening an avenue for
companies such as Saab to establish new orders.  “It may sound strange, but the defense cuts are beneficial
to us,” Buskhe said at the press briefing. “When money is not
an issue, you don’t change habits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  