-- 
SABMiller Said to Seek $10 Billion Debt for Foster’s Bid

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-06-21T16:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/sabmiller-said-to-fund-foster-s-bid-with-about-10-billion-bonds-loans.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, plans to fund its bid for  Foster’s
Group Ltd. (FGL)  with about $10 billion of debt, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the situation.  The maker of Peroni said today it will pursue Foster’s
after  Australia ’s biggest beer company rejected its A$9.5
billion ($10 billion) cash offer. An acquisition of the
Melbourne-based brewer would be SABMiller’s biggest, giving it
about 50 percent of Australia’s beer market, including the top-
selling Victoria Bitter.  SABMiller will use existing resources and new debt to pay
for the deal, according to a statement today.  Chief Financial Officer Malcolm Wyman told investors in a
conference call today the brewer won’t sacrifice its investment-
grade rating to fund the takeover.  “It’s comfortable and leaves us with a  credit rating 
which is an investment-grade,” Wyman said. Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings rank SABMiller’s debt BBB+. Moody’s Investors
Service rates it Baa1.  The deal will increase SABMiller’s debt to about three
times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, Wyman told investors. Absent the acquisition, the
 leverage ratio  would be one time for the year ending March 2012.  The cost of insuring SABMiller’s senior bonds rose to the
highest in two years, with credit-default swaps surging 18 basis
points to 100.5, according to CMA.  Beth Longcroft, a SABMiller spokeswoman, declined to
elaborate on the financing.  The London-based company said it hired JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Moelis & Co., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Morgan
Stanley as advisers for the takeover.  SABMiller signed a $2.5 billion five-year refinancing
revolving credit facility in April, agreeing to pay an initial
interest of 60 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate to draw the funds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  