-- 
Salgado Says Surge in Interest Costs Is Within Budget Forecast

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-06-21T20:06:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/salgado-says-surge-in-interest-costs-is-within-budget-forecast.html
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said a surge in the country’s interest costs won’t put
the deficit target at risk as the budget includes “very
conservative” estimates for financing costs.  “Our budget is based on a very conservative estimate,”
Salgado said in a telephone interview today in Madrid.
“Traditionally, we have never needed to use the whole amount
that’s allowed for in the budget.”  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield surged to the highest in a
decade last week on increasing expectations of a Greek default,
and the Treasury paid more than 6 percent on average to sell 15-
year bonds. The Socialist government is fighting to shield the
economy from the contagion of the sovereign debt crisis with the
deepest austerity measures in three decades, changes to labor
rules and asset sales.  The sale of state lottery operator  Sociedad Estatal
Loterias y Apuestas del Estado  will be an “extraordinary
success,” Salgado said, even after Telefonica SA, the country’s
largest phone company, pulled an initial public offering for its
call center business on June 10, citing market conditions. The
listing is expected in the first week of November, she said.  Even as interest costs surge, Salgado said she is sticking
to her forecasts for economic growth of 1.3 percent this year
and 2.3 percent in 2012. First-quarter GDP “doesn’t
contradict” the government’s forecast, she said.  She also expects regional governments to meet their joint
budget-deficit target of 1.3 percent of GDP this year. That
shortfall, together with the central government’s deficit and
the balance of the social security system, makes up the total
public-sector deficit that is targeted at 6 percent of GDP this
year, down from 9.2 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at   mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  