-- 
Scene Last Night: Spector, Shakespeare, Chelsea Clinton, Liev

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-21T17:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/scene-last-night-warren-spector-william-shakespeare-chelsea-clinton.html
A crowd in sundresses and khakis
partied yesterday on behalf of the  Public Theater ’s Shakespeare
in the Park and raised $1.3 million to support the distribution
of free tickets this summer season.  Rachel Nichols stood near the entrance of the  Delacorte
Theater  with her boyfriend, UBS structured credit trader Mark McCauley, and the Public Theater’s chairman, Warren Spector.  “She’s starring in two new movies,” said Spector, the
former co-president of Bear Stearns, now chairman of Tashtego
Films and an able publicist.  There’s “Conan the Barbarian,” and “Bird of the Air,”
a romantic comedy Spector is producing.  “I don’t have to kill anyone in it,” Nichols noted.  “She’s only lethal as a heart breaker,” Spector added.  Then the trio moved on to cocktails and supper followed by
a performance of “All’s Well That Ends Well.” That captured
the mood for  Chelsea Clinton  and Marc Mezvinsky, who left
holding hands.  Steve Martin , Lily Rabe, Hamish Linklater, Josh Charles and
Mandy Patinkin also made appearances.  Others went on to dancing and dessert at the cutely scenic
Belvedere Castle. Maura Tierney and Rob Morrow (wearing yellow
sneakers) ended the evening sitting on a step admiring the
stillness of the park.  It’s Important  At the supper,  Liev Schreiber  and  Oskar Eustis , the
artistic director of the Public, delivered tributes to the
honorees, Time Warner and Gail Merrifield Papp, the widow of the
founder of the Public and Shakespeare in the Park, Joseph Papp.  Speaking of her husband’s vision of free theater for New
Yorkers, she said: “He once said, it’s as important as free
access to the  New York Public Library .”  Once the trays of pink macaroons had been emptied,
volunteers herded guests into their theater seats so they could
watch others have fun, though this did not include the lovely,
lonely Helena. She sits and weeps as everyone on stage dances a
fabulous waltz.  The crowd received the production warmly. “It’s the best
’All’s Well That Ends Well’ I’ve seen,” said actor Ben Shenkman
after the performance, “and that means I can never see another
one.”  Those who stayed past midnight at Belvedere Castle had the
chance to see the play’s stars, Annie Parisse (Helena) and Andre Holland (Bertram) in street clothes hanging out with cast
members and friends.  Many left with a Penguin Classics tote bag containing a
copy of the play and a chocolate bar.  ‘Broadway Bares’  “Broadway Bares,” the theater industry’s annual soft-
core flesh fest, played two sold-out performances Sunday night,
raising a record $1,015,985 for Broadway Cares/Equity Fights
AIDS.  Presented at Roseland Ballroom, “Broadway Bares XXI:
Masterpiece!” took the art world as its inspiration, with Josh
Rhodes directing and 200 dancers participating.  Beth Leavel -- currently appearing in “Baby It’s You!” --
opened with “Going, Going, Gone,” written by Matthew Sklar and
Chad Bequelin and backed by an array of barely clad chorus boys.
The song had its fair share of raunchy lyrics and tone,
including a half-naked Jesus bursting out of “The Last
Supper.” None of the lyrics is quotable here.  One dance took off from Rene Magritte, incorporating aerial
stunts using the artist’s signature umbrellas.  Broadway vet Hunter Foster wove in topical humor. Targets
included Anthony Weiner, Lady Gaga, “Glee,” Tracy Morgan and
Brooke Shields.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 