-- 
MSCI Delays Decision on Upgrading U.A.E., Qatar to Emerging-Market Status

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-06-22T11:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/msci-delays-decision-on-upgrading-u-a-e-qatar-to-emerging-market-status.html
MSCI Inc., whose stock indexes are
tracked by investors with about $3 trillion in assets, delayed
until December its decision on whether to raise the  United Arab
Emirates  and Qatar to emerging-market status.  South Korea and  Taiwan  failed to win the developed-market
designation from MSCI, which currently considers them emerging
markets, according to a statement yesterday. The two countries,
Asia’s biggest developing stock markets after China and  India ,
will be evaluated again for a shift in 2012.  Introduction of delivery-versus-payment, a program for
completing stock transactions, may help lift U.A.E. and Qatar
from their frontier-market rankings. MSCI’s delay of the
decision will allow more time for investors to assess the impact
of the changes, the New York-based index provider said.  “The new system has been implemented; however, the MSCI
criteria include a period of market participant assessment and
feedback,” said Remy Briand, the global head of index research
at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  “That’s really why we have this extension of the
review: In order for various institutional investors to actually
experience their trades and settlement through the new system
over a period of time. We will review and get feedback over the
next few months.”  Emerging-Market Index  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  retreated 1.8 percent, the most
since May 23, at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate.  Abu Dhabi ’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and Qatar’s QE Index were little changed.  “The market reaction in the U.A.E. is showing exactly how
little anybody had positioned for this; nobody had put on huge
trades, hence the lack of a big reaction,” said Ibrahim Masood,
who helps manage about $400 million at Mashreqbank PSC.  Equities in U.A.E. are valued at about $110 billion, while
Qatar’s are worth about $121 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  has fallen 5.3 percent this year.
Stocks from South Korea and Taiwan are included in the $7.89
trillion MSCI Emerging Market Index, which lost 3.3 percent this
year through yesterday.  An upgrade of the U.A.E. and Qatar is likely to draw more
investors as fund managers buy their shares to mirror MSCI’s
indexes.  Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index has surged 64 percent in
dollar terms since MSCI announced the country’s promotion to
developed-market status on June 16, 2009, compared with a 36
percent gain for the MSCI World Index.  Foreign Ownership Limits  MSCI in its statement cited “stringent foreign ownership
limits” such as limited availability of shares to foreign
investors as remaining concerns for the countries. “This point
has been more strongly voiced for the Qatari market,” the index
provider said.  Under existing U.A.E. law, foreign companies must have
nationals as their sponsors and are limited to a maximum 49
percent ownership of businesses, except in free zones. Qatar
caps overseas ownership at 25 percent.  “Qatar needs to do something on the foreign ownership
limits; that much is clear,” Masood said. Qatar’s bourse today
said the country will continue to improve market infrastructure
and that the MSCI decision is “irrelevant” to the Persian Gulf
country’s economic strength.  “This is a good outcome for the U.A.E. and Qatar as the
MSCI has been clear and transparent in its decision,” Arindam Das, regional head at HSBC Securities Services, a unit of HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in an e-mailed statement. “It has also
differentiated between the two markets so that both are clear on
the action needed before they can be included.”  So-called frontier markets typically have less-developed
economies and financial markets than emerging markets, and have
more restrictions on foreign stock ownership.  South Korea , Taiwan  South Korea and Taiwan weren’t upgraded amid issues
including the lack of full currency convertibility and
“rigidity” of the countries’ investor identification systems,
MSCI said. Korea also has “anti-competitive” practices
relating to stock market data, MSCI said.  MSCI is requesting that South Korea scrap a rule that the
index compiler seek approval from Korea Exchange Inc. in order
to list futures and options overseas based on the MSCI Korea
Index, Lee Joo Hwan, head of the market data team at  Korea
Exchange Inc. , said by phone today.  The bourse continues to believe that’s an irrelevant issue
for upgrading the nation to developed status, Kong Do Hyun, an
exchange spokesman, said by phone separately. The bourse will
continue consultations with MSCI, he added.  “Both sides are trying to understand each other’s
position, but we haven’t reached an agreement yet,” Chin Ping Chia, Hong Kong-based head of research for MSCI in  Asia , said in
a phone interview.  Kospi, Taiex  The index provider’s decision yesterday means South Korea
and Taiwan, the world’s 13th- and 14th biggest stock markets,
will lose out on purchases by investors who are restricted to
developed-nation equities because of their perceived lower risk.
South Korea was already assigned “developed” status by  FTSE
Group , a rival index compiler, in September 2009.  “It won’t be a drag on the Korean market as expectations
weren’t too high this time,” Han Sang Soo, a  fund manager  at
Samsung Asset Management Co. in  Seoul , which oversees about $30
billion in assets. “Still, I think it’s only a matter of time
until the promotion takes place because many of the market’s
characteristics are already meeting the advanced standards.”  European Crisis  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 0.8 percent in
Seoul. Taiwan’s Taiex Index added 0.3 percent.  “We are not surprised by the outcome but it doesn’t mean
we don’t care,” Michael Lin, spokesman for the  Taiwan Stock
Exchange , said today by phone. “We have been having discussions
with investors and are constantly trying to improve areas where
they deem it’s inconvenient for them.”  MSCI said the sovereign-debt crisis that has infected
European economies such as  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  hasn’t
affected the accessibility and investability of those equity
markets, and no changes are currently being considered to the
market classification status of their country indexes.  Standard & Poor’s  on June 13 cut Greece by three levels to
CCC, the world’s lowest debt grade. Ireland and Portugal also
sought emergency loans in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  