-- 
SEC Should Free 'Fab' Tourre, Target Big Fish: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/sec-should-free-fab-tourre-target-big-fish-william-d-cohan.html
Those hoping for a measure of
justice for the Wall Street executives who brought us the
financial crisis won’t be finding it anytime soon in the
downtown Manhattan federal courtroom of Judge Barbara S. Jones.  What you’ll find there instead is the continuation of
the Securities and Exchange Commission’s ridiculous civil
lawsuit against Fabrice Tourre, the  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  executive director who, at 28, shepherded to market in
April 2007 Goldman’s infamous Abacus 2007-AC1 synthetic
collateralized debt obligation. The deal was done at the
behest of hedge fund manager John Paulson (who made a
bundle) and a pair of foolish European banks (who lost
one).  Jones should have thrown out the case against
“Fabulous Fab” when she had the chance last week, because
it is beyond absurd to single out for punishment one member
of the Goldman team for putting together a deal for several
highly sophisticated investors on the grounds that they
weren’t sufficiently informed that some of them would make
money while others would lose money. In every trade, there
is a winner and a loser. That is the very nature of a
market.  What’s more, by 2007, synthetic CDOs similar to Abacus
had been packaged hundreds of times across  Wall Street  by
nearly every major firm. Although it is fair to wonder why
such outright gambling in the form of synthetic CDOs was
permitted at all on Wall Street -- Hello, SEC, are you
there? -- it is unfair for Tourre to be singled out by the
regulators for doing his job.  Largest SEC Penalty  Goldman, a party to the original lawsuit filed by the
SEC in April 2010, settled with the agency nearly a year
ago for $550 million -- the largest penalty paid by a Wall
Street firm to the SEC -- but admitted only that its
 marketing materials  for the Abacus deal “contained
incomplete information.”  At the time Goldman settled, Tourre rightly refused to
go along -- after all, Goldman’s lawyers had vetted and
approved the marketing materials, and he was just one
member of a larger team. He decided to fight to clear his
name, which had been badly tarnished by being included in
the SEC lawsuit in the first place and by the hours he
spent testifying before Senator  Carl Levin ’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations.  E-Mails to Girlfriends  Tourre was further embarrassed by Goldman’s decision
to release his  personal e-mails  to his two girlfriends, one
in  New York  and the other in London. Goldman was thoughtful
enough to translate Tourre’s e-mails into English from
French. Asked at the Senate hearing why Goldman would
choose to release Tourre’s personal e-mails,  Lloyd Blankfein , Goldman’s chief executive officer, essentially
claimed ignorance.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, was not
impressed by Blankfein’s answer. “If I worked for Goldman
Sachs,” Coburn responded, “I’d be real worried that
somebody has made a decision he’s going to be a whipping
boy, he’s the guy that’s getting hung out to dry, because
nobody else had their personal e-mails released.” Coburn
was right: Tourre has been made the scapegoat.  Judge Jones, however, doesn’t seem to agree. Instead
of tossing the case entirely last week -- as Tourre’s
lawyers at  Allen & Overy  suggested she do on the narrow
grounds that the U.S. does not have jurisdiction because
the investors who bought the Abacus deal were foreign banks
-- she allowed the case to proceed, while limiting the
charges against him. The two sides’ lawyers are set to meet
with a magistrate on June 27 to discuss next steps.  Betting Against Housing  How did we get to this point? As usual, the story
starts with an idea. Throughout 2006, Paulson had been
looking for ways to increase aggressively his macro bet
that the housing market would collapse. Repeatedly, and in
many different forms, Goldman helped Paulson do so. (In
December 2006, Goldman ended up mimicking Paulson’s short
against the mortgage market, eventually making billions.)  The Abacus deal allowed Paulson to bet $1 billion that
securities tied to the mortgage market would collapse. The
CDO Goldman created was not composed of actual home
mortgages but rather of a series of bets on how home
mortgages would perform.  A Simple Idea  Although the architecture of the deal was highly
complex, the idea behind it was simple: If the people who
took out the mortgages continued to pay them, the security
would keep its value. If, on the other hand, homeowners
started defaulting on their mortgages, the security would
lose value because investors would not get their contracted
cash payments on the securities they bought. That is what
happened, of course, just as Paulson thought it would.  As was the custom with synthetic CDOs, an independent
entity, ACA Management LLC, helped Goldman put together the
deal and was ostensibly responsible for choosing the
securities to be referenced in it.  Of course, the deal would only happen if Tourre and
Goldman could find investors willing to take the opposite
bet from Paulson. Tourre found two eager European banks:
the Dusseldorf-based IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG, which
ended up losing $150 million, and  ABN Amro  NV, a large
Dutch bank that later that year was purchased by a
consortium of banks led by the Royal Bank of  Scotland . RBS,
of course, hit trouble and is now 84 percent owned by the
British government.  Banks Go Bust  ABN Amro got involved in the deal when it agreed --
for a fee of about $1.5 million a year -- to insure 96
percent of the risk ACA Capital Holdings Inc., an affiliate
of ACA Management, assumed by investing $951 million on the
long side of the deal. When ACA Capital went bust in early
2008, ABN Amro had to cover most of ACA’s obligation
regarding Abacus, losing close to $1 billion in the
process.  The SEC’s case against Goldman -- and now Tourre alone
-- was no slam-dunk. One of the SEC’s beefs against them
was that they had not properly disclosed Paulson’s role in
the deal to ACA and the two European banks. But that’s a
bunch of bunk. For instance, ACA was no innocent victim,
but had transformed itself in 2004 from an insurer of
municipal bonds to a big investor in risky CDOs after
getting a $115 million equity infusion from a Bear Stearns
private-equity fund, which became ACA’s largest investor.  Ski-Lodge Meeting  Furthermore, documents show that Paolo Pellegrini,
 John Paulson ’s partner, and Laura Schwartz, a managing
director at ACA, had meetings together -- including on Jan.
27, 2007, at the bar at a ski resort in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming  -- where the main topic of conversation was the
composition of the portfolio that went into Abacus.
According to CNBC, in his  deposition  with the SEC,
Pellegrini said explicitly that he told ACA of Paulson’s
intention to short the Abacus deal. (Pellegrini has not
responded to my requests for a comment, and his deposition
is not available to the public.)  Other documents show Paulson and ACA agreeing on which
securities to include in Abacus and seem to call into
question the SEC’s contention that ACA was misled. (What’s
left of ACA is suing Goldman separately.)  Vetting the Portfolio  IKB was no babe in the woods either. Another e-mail,
sent on March 12, 2007, by Joerg Zimmerman, a vice
president at the bank, to a Goldman banker in  London  who
was working with Tourre on the deal, revealed that IKB,
too, had some say in what securities Abacus referenced.
“Did you hear something on my request to remove Fremont and
New Cen serviced bonds?” Zimmerman asked, referring to two
mortgage-origination companies that were having severe
financial difficulties and that Zimmerman wanted removed
from the Abacus portfolio. The final Abacus deal did not
contain any mortgages originated by Fremont or New Century.
(Zimmerman did not respond to an e-mail request for
comment.)  A former IKB credit officer, James Fairrie,  told  the
Financial Times that the pressure from higher-ups to buy
CDOs from Wall Street was intense. “If I delayed things
more than 24 hours, someone else would have bought the
deal,” he said.  Another CDO investor told the newspaper that IKB was
known to be a patsy. “IKB had an army of Ph.D. types to
look at CDO deals and analyse them,” he said. “But Wall
Street knew that they didn’t get it. When you saw them turn
up at conferences there was always a pack of bankers
following them.”  Enough is enough. The SEC should drop what’s left of
the Abacus lawsuit, free Fab and use its scarce resources
to pursue the real criminals of the financial crisis: The
top Wall Street executives who greedily led their firms to
ruin, taking the economy with them.  (William D. Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
 wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  