-- 
Republicans Plan Vote to Restrict Funds for U.S. Military Mission in Libya

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-22T21:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/senators-offer-resolution-supporting-u-s-libya-military-mission.html
House Republicans  plan to vote this
week on restricting spending for U.S. military involvement in
Libya to activities not directly involved in hostilities,
lawmakers said.  House Republicans who attended a closed caucus said a
resolution presented by House Speaker  John Boehner  to limit U.S.
forces to non-combat activities didn’t go far enough because it
wouldn’t impose any spending restrictions.  “We have the ability to restrict funding,” Representative
Tom Rooney, a Florida Republican, told reporters after the
caucus. Members are anxious to find “what limitations we could
put on the administration with regard to funding,” he said.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, earlier in the day voiced
doubt that an alternative resolution to authorize U.S. military
support for the allied bombardment of forces loyal to Libyan
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  would pass the House.  “I don’t think that’s where the House is,” Boehner told
reporters after an earlier caucus of House Republicans.  At the second caucus, Boehner presented House members two
alternatives on Libya: a bipartisan resolution introduced in the
Senate that supports U.S. involvement in a mission commanded by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and one that would bar
“hostilities” by U.S. ships and planes.  During the closed session, members sought stronger language
because “a lot of people want to just cut off the funding,”
said Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a
California Republican. “That’s what our power is.”  No Bombing Drones  The option under discussion would limit spending for U.S.
military-support activities, such as aerial refueling,
reconnaissance and search and rescue, McKeon said.  “It would not have funding for hostilities,” so “the
drones couldn’t be used for bombing,” he said of U.S.-operated
drones that have been used for reconnaissance and to fire
missiles at ground targets.  Boehner spokesman  Michael Steel  said in an e-mail that the
House will consider the Senate resolution and “a stand-alone
funding limitation” for the 2012 fiscal year, “which will cut
off funding for hostilities, but not leave our NATO allies in
the lurch.”  Both resolutions will be debated this week as Boehner gives
lawmakers a chance to protest President Barack Obama’s failure
to seek congressional authorization for the military mission.  Giving Qaddafi ‘Hope’  In the Senate, Democratic Whip  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said
a House vote to bar U.S. funds for combat operations would
“give hope” to Qaddafi that he can survive and “undermine the
effort of innocent people in Libya risking their lives” to
topple his dictatorship.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
the resolution by Democratic Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts 
and Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  authorizing the
mission for up to a year would win passage in the chamber.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, predicted the Senate would give “approval of some
sort” for the Libya mission.  McConnell, who spoke to reporters at a breakfast sponsored
by the Christian Science Monitor, said he tends to “defer” to
McCain on defense matters. Still, there are differences of
opinion among Senate Republicans about Libya, he said.  The Senate  resolution  would authorize the Obama
administration to continue providing air and naval support to
the allied bombing campaign, though it would bar the deployment
of U.S. ground troops.  No ‘Blank Check’  “This is not a blank check for the president,” said
Kerry, chairman of the  Foreign Relations Committee , in remarks
prepared for delivery yesterday on the Senate floor. “This
resolution authorizes the limited use of American forces in a
supporting role” to the allied mission.  Boehner says Obama violated the 1973 War Powers Resolution
by failing to get congressional authorization for the  Libya 
mission. The law requires presidents to notify Congress within
48 hours of the start of hostilities and to get permission for a
conflict that lasts longer than 60 to 90 days.  In response to a June 3 House-passed resolution’s demand
for a justification of the mission, Obama said U.S. support for
the NATO-led operation didn’t constitute hostilities under the
War Powers Resolution.  “The Obama administration’s claim that targeted bombings,
missile strikes and other military actions in Libya do not
constitute ‘hostilities’ under the War Powers Resolution is not
credible,” Boehner said in a statement.  ‘Murky Areas’  McConnell said he is “not prepared to have an argument yet
with the president on this subject,” as “these are always
murky areas.”  The alternative  resolution  Boehner offered yesterday would
have required a withdrawal of U.S. forces from “hostilities”
and limit military involvement to search and rescue, aerial
refueling and reconnaissance flights.  Besides providing such support, U.S. pilots have flown 735
missions to attack ground targets since March 31, the Defense
Department said. U.S. aircraft are flying about a quarter of all
aerial missions and 10 percent of those that involve bombing
ground targets, according to Defense Department figures.  Representative Dennis Kucinich, an Ohio Democrat who
attracted 87 Republican votes for his failed June 3 resolution
to end U.S. support for the mission, said last week he would try
again to cut off all funds for it.  Kucinich said yesterday the resolutions coming before the
House means “members are going to be able to choose to
prosecute the war or not,” and “that is an important moment.”  Evolving Mission  The NATO bombardment of Libya began in March as an effort
to protect civilians in rebel-controlled areas from being
attacked by forces loyal to Qaddafi. It has evolved into an
effort to depose Qaddafi through military pressure that
complements the rebel campaign. After initially leading the
campaign, U.S. air forces turned command over to NATO.  “There were legitimate reasons for establishing a no-fly
zone over Libya and forcing Qaddafi to keep his most potent
weapons out of the fight,” Kerry said in his prepared floor
remarks. “The justification is clear and compelling.”  Besides McCain, the resolution is co-sponsored by four
other Republicans:  Jon Kyl  of Arizona,  Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina , Roy Blunt of Missouri and  Mark Kirk  of  Illinois .  Four other Democrats, including Durbin and Armed Services
Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , co-sponsored the
resolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  