-- 
Cochran Racks Up Capital Gains Amid More Than 200 Stock Trades

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/senator-cochran-racks-up-capital-gains-amid-more-than-200-trades-of-stocks.html
Senator Thad Cochran bought shares
of  Crimson Exploration Inc. (CXPO) , a Houston-based  oil company , in two
trades a week apart last fall. The shares climbed for six weeks
and Cochran sold them on Dec. 15 for a profit.  The Crimson transactions were just a few of the
approximately 230 share trades the  Mississippi  Republican
reported in his personal 2010 financial disclosure released last
week. Cochran held dozens of the stocks for only a few days or
weeks, and some companies’ shares were bought and sold
repeatedly throughout the year.  “All of the senator’s investments are handled by outside
brokers and he’s not personally involved in any of that,” said
Cochran’s spokesman Chris Gallegos. He declined to provide
details on the overall performance of the account or give the
name of Cochran’s broker or brokerage firm.  Investment managers say it’s unlikely Cochran is beating
the market by buying and selling so many shares.  “The taxes and the trading costs associated with the
senator’s strategy are a major negative factor; however, the
inevitable mis-timing of the market is what will ultimately do
him in,” said Darius Gagne, a principal at Quantum Wealth
Management in  Culver City ,  California .  Cochran has served in the Senate since 1978 and is the
ranking Republican on the Senate Appropriations Committee. He
also serves on the Agriculture and Rules committees. He owned
shares in about 110 companies through the year, among them 34
energy companies and major consumer companies such as  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG) ,  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Broad Ranges  The financial disclosure forms require lawmakers to report
holdings and transactions in broad ranges so it’s impossible to
tell exactly how many shares Cochran bought or sold in any one
company -- or how much money he made or lost.  Cochran’s overall assets are valued between $786,000 and
$3.26 million, according to his disclosure. That includes
interest in family-owned real estate partnerships and a cabin in
Oxford, Mississippi. The stock account is valued between
$109,000 and $1.5 million, the disclosures showed.  Cochran’s buying in 2010 began with a purchase of shares in
 Energy XXI (Bermuda) Ltd. (EXXI) , an oil-exploration company. The stock
jumped 40 percent in two weeks and Cochran sold some of his
shares on Jan. 15. He sold more in February and again in April,
just as the price went into a month-long decline. On Nov. 18,
Cochran’s broker bought into Energy XXI again at a higher price
than he sold the senator’s stock just six months earlier.  Good Timing  The timing of many of the trades worked to the senator’s
advantage.  On Jan. 21, 2010, his broker sold shares in  Anixter
International Inc. (AXE) , a distributor of specialty wire and cables
for voice and data products. The stock slid for about two weeks,
from $45.76 to $40.73 on Feb. 2, when Cochran bought them back.  Then, on Feb. 22, he sold them again for $43 for a quick
profit. His disclosure showed he had a capital gain of between
$1,000 and $2,500 for Anixter.  “Active trading like this rarely adds value,” said Craig
Larsen, a certified financial planner based in St. Charles,
 Illinois . “My guess is that over time it will be negative,
significantly so, especially after taxes.”  In all, Cochran earned  capital gains  of between $37,300 and
$118,300 on the trades of at least 41 companies. If he held the
securities for less than a year, he’d owe tax on those gains at
the individual rate, which would be 28 percent if he has no
income beyond his Senate salary and could be as high as 33
percent.  Capital Gains  He reported capital gains of zero to $200 on the stock of
55 companies, according to the report. His spokesman declined to
say if he lost money on those trades.  The dates of the purchases and sales suggest that at times,
he did.  Cochran reported buying shares of  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s
biggest biotechnology company, on April 1. The closing stock
price that day was $60.80. The stock then topped $61 and started
to fall until it reported profits on April 21. The company’s
shares were downgraded by  Bank of America Corp . and Cochran’s
broker sold at the month’s low price of $58.16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 Afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  