-- 
Serena Williams Cries With Joy After Wimbledon Win in Comeback From Injury

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-21T18:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/serena-williams-cries-with-joy-after-wimbledon-win-in-comback-from-injury.html
By her own recollection,  Serena Williams  hasn’t been emotional like this, especially after a
win.  Returning from almost a year out because of injuries to her
feet and blood clots in her lungs, she found her appearance on
Centre Court at  Wimbledon , where she had her last success, too
much, she said. The American beat Aravane Rezai of France 6-3,
3-6, 6-1 to maintain her record of never losing in the first
round of a major, capping it with her 13th ace.  That’s when she broke down.  “It just hit me at the end of the match,” Williams said
in a news conference.  “I’m not a crier.”  The four-time champion sat down in her chair and sobbed in
her towel. She had missed 49 weeks after she claimed her 13th
Grand Slam single title a year ago at the All England Club with
a win over the now second-seeded  Vera Zvonareva  of  Russia .  Williams hurt her foot by walking through glass shortly
after that win, and needed two operations last year. Then came
treatment on blood clots on her lungs in February.  “I didn’t expect to have the emotions,” Williams said.
She recalled coming close to crying after a match once before,
when she won her first Grand Slam title at the 1999  U.S. Open .  The former top-ranked player, now 29 years old and seeded
No. 7, described her treatment for the blood clots as a “near-
death experience.”  While on her way to a party in  Los Angeles , Williams was
sent to the hospital by her physiotherapist when she had
difficulty breathing.  In an interview last week in Eastbourne,  England , she said
the experience changed her outlook on tennis and life.  Mental Moments  “I think my toughest moment was just mental,” she said.
“I went through so much and I thought, ‘Will I be able to play
tennis again? Do I even want to play tennis again, or do I just
want to get healthy again?’ That was the first and foremost
thing on my mind.”  Williams said she was able to play Wimbledon after getting
a “healthy report from my doctor.” She has to wear compression
socks when flying, and also has to get an injection before
boarding an airplane.  Williams dropped serve in the opening game against Rezai,
as an alarm went off on Centre Court and she foot faulted. After
Rezai held serve for a 2-0 lead, the American won the next five
games, finding rhythm on her serve and ground strokes. Rezai
took the second set, as Williams made 11 unforced errors and
produced only five winners. The Frenchwoman, who has dropped to
No. 61 from a career-high No. 15 in October, had six errors and
10 winners.  Final Ace  Williams broke serve in the fourth game of the final set as
Rezai hit a backhand wide. Watched by her parents, Oracene Price
and Richard Williams, Serena took a 5-1 lead. The ace on her
first match point gained her a spot in the second round against
 Romania ’s Simona Halep.  After dominating the women’s tour through last year’s
Wimbledon, Serena dropped out of the top 10 last month and is
now ranked 25th. Because of her success on the grass courts in
London, she’s seeded No. 7. That means she won’t play any top-
eight player before the quarterfinals. Her sister Venus, who is
seeded 23rd, won her first round yesterday in straight sets
against Akgul Amanmuradova of Uzbekistan. The sisters can only
meet in the final.  The Williams sisters have won nine of the last 11 Wimbledon
singles titles. Top seed  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark and
Zvonareva haven’t won any. Second-ranked  Kim Clijsters , who’s
won four majors, is out with an injury.  Williams said she didn’t think she would have had the same
reaction if her return had happened at a different Grand Slam.  “It’s Wimbledon,” Williams said. “It doesn’t get bigger
than this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  