-- 
Isner Wins Rerun of Longest Match; Federer, Djokovic Advance at Wimbledon

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-22T00:18:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/serena-williams-starts-wimbledon-comeback-with-three-set-win-over-rezai.html
No marathon this time, just a
straight-set win for  John Isner  at Wimbledon on a day when  Roger Federer ,  Novak Djokovic  and Serena Williams also moved into the
second round at the Grand Slam tournament.  Isner defeated Nicolas Mahut 7-6 (7-4), 6-2, 7-6 (8-6)
yesterday in a rematch of the longest contest in tennis history.
A year after playing for 11 hours, 5 minutes over three days and
183 games, Isner of the U.S. and Mahut of  France  played for just
more than two hours on Court 3 at the All  England  Club in
London.  The total yesterday, minus the tiebreakers, was 34 games,
half as many as Mahut took in losing the final set in 2010 when
Isner won 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (7-9), 7-6 (7-3), 70-68.  “I’m happy to get through this one,” Isner said in a news
conference. “It’s a nice feeling I don’t have to sleep on
finishing this match.”  The first-round contest finished just before 8:30 p.m.
local time. Last year’s third set alone, at 8 hours, 11 minutes,
was four times as long as yesterday’s match.  Federer started pursuit of his seventh Wimbledon title with
a 7-6 (7-2), 6-4, 6-2 defeat of Mikhail Kukushkin, from
 Kazakhstan . Williams, the defending women’s champion, began her
comeback to Grand Slam tennis after illness and injury by
beating France’s Aravane Rezai 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 on Centre Court.  Federer is trying to win his record-extending 17th Grand
Slam men’s singles championship, and would equal a mark held by
William Renshaw and Pete Sampras should he win another title on
the grass courts in London. He’s also looking for redemption,
after failing to reach the final last year for the first time
since 2003, losing to runner-up Tomas Berdych in the
quarterfinals.  ‘Never Easy’  “The first rounds here at Wimbledon on Centre Court are
never easy,” Federer told a news conference. “They’re somewhat
nerve-wracking because you don’t get a chance to practice on the
centre courts here.”  Five-time champion  Venus Williams  opens Centre Court play
today against  Japan ’s Kimiko Date-Krumm, while men’s defending
champion Rafael Nadal of Spain faces Ryan Sweeting of the U.S.
American Andy Roddick takes on Romania’s Victor Hanescu.  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed from Britain, meets Germany’s Tobias
Kamke on the No. 1 Court.  Djokovic, the Australian Open champion and second seed who
has lost only one match this season, eased past France’s Jeremy Chardy, 6-4, 6-1, 6-1. Djokovic was beaten by Federer in the
semifinals of the  French Open , which ended his run of 41
straight victories since the start of this season.  If the 24-year-old Serb reaches his first Wimbledon final,
or if Nadal doesn’t win the title, Djokovic will be guaranteed
the top spot on the ATP World Tour after the tournament finishes
July 3.  Roddick, Wozniacki  Roddick got past Andreas Beck of Germany 6-4, 7-6 (8-6), 6-
3 in the first round yesterday and women’s top seed  Caroline Wozniacki  lost just three games in beating Spain’s Arantxa Parra Santonja. Robin Soderling, the men’s fifth seed from Sweden,
defeated Germany’s Philipp Petzschner, 6-4, 6-4, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5),
and seventh-seeded David Ferrer of Spain beat France’s Benoit
Paire.  Serena Williams ’s victory was emotional. The American had
missed almost a year after winning her fourth Wimbledon title
last year. The 29-year-old had a foot injury that required two
operations and underwent treatment for blood clots in her lungs
in February.  Williams returned to the women’s tour last week at
Eastbourne, England, where she lost in three sets to Vera Zvonareva in the second round. Williams cried in her towel after
she won the match against Rezai with her 13th ace.  Emotional Exit  “I didn’t expect to have any emotions,” she said. “I
just expected to walk off, but I was pretty excited.”  Samantha Stosur, last year’s French Open runner-up and the
No. 10 seed from  Australia , was upset by Hungary’s Melinda Czink, 6-3, 6-4. Third-seeded Li Na, the first Chinese player to
gain a Grand Slam title at the French Open earlier this month,
beat Alla Kudryavtseva of  Russia  6-3, 6-3.  Former champion Maria Sharapova defeated Anna Chakvetadze
6-2, 6-1 to improve to 7-0 against her fellow 24-year-old
Russian. Eighth seed Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic,
 Germany ’s  Andrea Petkovic  and Russia’s Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
also advanced.  Former world No. 1 Jelena Jankovic lost to Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez. The Spaniard improved to 3-1 lifetime against
the No. 15-ranked Jankovic, from Serbia, with the 5-7, 6-4, 6-3
victory.  Roddick, a three-time runner-up, maintained his record of
never losing a first-round match at Wimbledon. His contest with
the 25-year-old Beck was postponed from the day before because
of rain at the end of the day.  ‘Big Breaker’  The 28-year-old American won 6-4, 7-6 (8-6), 6-3. He said
taking the second-set tiebreaker was the difference.  “I felt like I was serving well,” Roddick said. “I felt
like I was playing better than him. Last thing I wanted was to
feel that way and be even. That was a big breaker for me.”  Argentina’s Juan Martin del Potro, the 2009 U.S. Open
champion, beat Italy’s Flavio Cipolla in three sets. James Blake, an American who climbed as high as No. 4 in the world in
November 2006, lost in the opening round in five sets to  Marcos Baghdatis , the 32nd seed from Cyprus.  Bernard Tomic upset 29th-seeded Nikolay Davydenko of Russia
and fellow Australian  Lleyton Hewitt , the 2002 champion, beat
Kei Nishikori of Japan in five sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  