-- 
Shanda Games May Buy IPhone Software Publishers, Diversifying From Android

-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h
-- 
2011-06-21T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/shanda-may-buy-iphone-game-publishers-diversify-from-android.html
Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , China’s third-
biggest operator of online games, plans to buy companies that
develop titles for users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to expand its
mobile-game division, Chief Executive Officer Alan Tan said.  Acquisitions and in-house game development will allow
Shanda to offer its first iPhone titles in 2012, Tan said in a
June 20 interview in Hong Kong.  Shanda is boosting development of games for handsets and
social-networking sites such as Facebook Inc.’s after losing
market share for computer-based titles in China to rivals
including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  Last year, the Shanghai-based
company spent about $200 million on acquisitions, including the
purchase of Mochi Media Inc., a U.S. publisher of games that run
on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.  “We have a very good track record on buying companies,”
Tan said. Shanda is making Android and iPhone versions of its
computer-based games including “World of Legend,” he said.  NetEase.com (NTES)  Inc., based in Beijing, accounted for 15.3
percent of China’s online games market in 2010 to become the
second-biggest operator locally, overtaking Shanda, whose market
share dropped to 13.6 percent, according to data from research
company iResearch.  Industry leader Tencent’s market share rose to 29.1
percent, according to iResearch.  Shanda is also seeking to boost sales from new computer-
based games such as “Dragon Nest” and “Legend of Immortals,”
Tan said. The company still derives more than 90 percent of its
revenue from PC-based titles.  Shanda will offer games for the social networking sites run
by Facebook, Tencent, Sina Corp. and Renren Inc., Tan said
earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  