-- 
Shire Drug for Rare Swelling Disease Faces Scrutiny by FDA

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-06-21T20:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/shire-drug-for-rare-swelling-disease-faces-scrutiny-by-fda-3-.html
Shire Plc (SHP) ’s experimental treatment
for a genetic swelling disease may offer a more convenient
option for patients, according to U.S. regulators weighing
whether to clear the competitor to  CSL Ltd. (CSL) ’s Berinert and  Dyax
Inc. (DYAX) ’s Kalbitor.  Self-administered injections of Shire’s icatibant eased
symptoms of people with hereditary angioedema in studies
reviewed in a Food and Drug Administration staff report released
today. Outside advisers to the agency will discuss the findings
and make recommendations on approval at a June 23 public  meeting 
in Silver Spring, Maryland.  Hereditary angioedema, or HAE, is estimated to affect one
of every 50,000 people, according to the  National Institutes of
Health . Patients have low levels or improper functioning of a
protein called C1 inhibitor, causing attacks of inflammation in
the limbs, face, intestinal tract and windpipe. Icatibant,
marketed in  Europe  as Firazyr, would be the first treatment that
patients can take by themselves without a doctor.  “The majority of patients reported ease and a preference
for self-administration,” FDA staff said in the report. “The
frequency and nature of the reported adverse events, including
local injection site reactions, were similar to those observed
for the injections administered by a health-care professional.”  Pregnancy Concern  Studies in dogs and rabbits raise concerns about potential
dangers for pregnant women, the FDA said. While safety data in
people haven’t confirmed this risk, the agency is interested in
a clinical trial examining icatibant’s effect on reproductive
hormones.  American depositary receipts of Dublin-based Shire, each
representing three ordinary shares,  rose  43 cents to $90.08 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Firazyr had revenue of $11 million last year after being
introduced in Europe in 2008. The average  estimate  of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg calls for sales of the medicine
to reach $120 million in 2015.  CSL, of Melbourne, won FDA approval for Berinert in October
2009. Two months later, the agency cleared Kalbitor from
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Dyax. ViroPharma Inc., of Exton,
Pennsylvania, sells a medicine called Cinryze to prevent attacks
of HAE. A fifth drug for the disease is under development by
 Pharming Group NV (PHARM)  of Leiden, the Netherlands, and  Santarus Inc. (SNTS) 
of  San Diego .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ; 