-- 
Siemens Willing to Finance Cape Wind as U.S. Postpones Backing, CFO Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-06-21T19:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/siemens-willing-to-finance-cape-wind-as-u-s-postpones-backing-cfo-says.html
Siemens AG,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, is willing to provide financing for the
first U.S. offshore-wind farm even though the Energy Department
has delayed support, the company’s chief financial officer said.  “We’ve always made it clear that we are not only willing
but also capable of helping to support the whole project,”
Josef Kaeser said in an interview in  Washington  today.  Siemens of Munich has offered to provide debt and equity
financing for the proposed Cape Wind project, which would be
located off the Massachusetts coast and cost about $2.6 billion.
The U.S. Energy Department said last month it had put a loan-
guarantee application for Cape Wind on hold to focus on other
projects that could begin construction before a Sept. 30
deadline.  Cape Wind, which was opposed by the late Senator Edward Kennedy of  Massachusetts  and members of his family, would
have a capacity of as much as 468 megawatts of electricity from
 wind turbines  located about 5 miles (8 kilometers) from Cape Cod.
The project may be difficult to finance without government backing,
Jerome Guillet, managing director of Green Giraffe Energy Bankers 
of Paris and a Cape Wind adviser, told Bloomberg Government this
month.  “I don’t have any doubt” that Cape Wind will continue to
move forward, Kaeser said.  “Sweet Spot”  Wind and natural gas are “sweet-spot” businesses for
Siemens, Kaeser said.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  of Charlotte,  North
Carolina , said in March it would use 73 Siemens wind turbines
for a wind farm in  Kansas . Siemens announced last year that it
was investing $135 million in a gas-turbine production plant in
Charlotte.  The “most efficient contribution” to the U.S. energy
infrastructure “would be in the gas-turbine and gas power-plant
environment,” Kaeser said. He said he isn’t concerned about
potential U.S. regulations associated with natural-gas drilling.  “The EPA and the government needs to do what it’s got to
do,” Kaeser said. “We are not really concerned about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  