-- 
Smith & Nephew, Hurtigruten, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-06-21T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/smith-nephew-htc-hurtigruten-google-intellectual-property.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s largest
maker of shoulder and knee implants, lost in  Arthrex Inc. ’s
appeal of a $4.7 million patent-infringement award.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  yesterday overturned the February 2010 jury verdict
that had found Arthrex’s RetroButton device to fix a graft to a
bone infringed a Smith & Nephew patent. Smith & Nephew
“presented insufficient evidence at trial to support” an
infringement finding, the appeals court said in the decision
posted on the court’s website.  The dispute between London-based Smith & Nephew and Naples,
Florida-based Arthrex is over the attachment of the grafts used
to replace the anterior cruciate ligament in the knee. It’s one
of the most commonly injured ligaments during athletic activity.
The grafts are ligaments taken from other parts of the body,
typically the hamstring, patella or Achilles region.  Smith & Nephew is “currently evaluating our options for
the next steps,” said Joe Metzger, a spokesman for the company.  A separate Smith & Nephew retrial against Arthrex over a
patent on suture anchors began June 13 in federal court in
 Portland ,  Oregon . Smith & Nephew had won a $14.7 million verdict
in 2008 against Arthrex in that case before the Federal Circuit
in 2009 ordered a new trial after determining the judge erred in
his interpretation of the patent.  The case  yesterday is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc.,
2010-1427, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v.
Arthrex Inc., 07cv335, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Marshall).  The Oregon case is Smith & Nephew Inc. v. Arthrex Inc.,
04cv29, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  HTC Corp. (2498)  Sued in U.K. by  Germany ’s IPCom Over 3G-Device Patent  HTC Corp., the world’s largest maker of mobile phones that
use Google Inc.’s Android operating system, was sued in Britain
by  IPCom GmbH & Co.  over claims its products violate a European
patent.  The lawsuit, filed June 17 in the High Court in  London ,
came a day after the same patent was found by a U.K. judge to be
valid and infringed by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones by volume.  “We offered a fair and reasonable license” to HTC,
Bernhard Frohwitter, IPCom’s managing director, said in an e-
mail. The new case targets HTC’s 3G devices, he said.  IPCom, based in Pullach, Germany, seeks royalties from a
family of mobile-technology patents it acquired in 2007 from
Robert Bosch GmbH, the world’s largest automotive supplier.
IPCom bought the patents after Bosch failed to license them to
Nokia in 2003.  Linda Mills, a spokeswoman for Taiwan-based HTC, declined
to comment when reached yesterday by e-mail.  IPCom seeks a declaration of infringement against HTC and
an inquiry into how much profit was generated by the company’s
disputed products, according to court records in the case.  Since last week’s ruling, Nokia’s shares fell to a 13-year
low. IPCom claims the patent is vital to the Finnish company’s
handset sales -- a claim that Nokia rejected.  Diagnostic Medical Test Patents Draw High Court Scrutiny  The U.S.  Supreme Court , accepting a case that will shape
the burgeoning business of personalized medicine, agreed to
consider what types of diagnostic medical tests can be patented.  The justices agreed yesterday to hear an appeal from the
Mayo Clinic, which is challenging a lower court decision backing
two patents for determining the dosage of medicines to treat
stomach diseases. The ruling cleared the patents’ owner,
Prometheus Laboratories Inc., to press an infringement suit
against two Mayo units.  Patent protection is important for companies that are
focusing on personalized medicine, including  Myriad Genetics
Inc. (MYGN)  and  Novartis AG. (NOVN)  The field involves determining whether a
patient is genetically susceptible to a particular disease or
would be especially responsive to certain medicines.  The case will test the scope of the U.S. patent laws. Mayo
contends the two Prometheus patents cover natural phenomena,
which the Supreme Court previously said can’t be patented.
Prometheus says its discoveries involve the application of a law
of nature, not the law itself.  “The patents do not claim or preempt any purely natural
phenomenon,” Prometheus argued in court papers. The company
said in May that it was being acquired by  Nestle SA. (NESN)   The two patents cover a method for determining the proper
dosage of medicines to maximize effectiveness while limiting
toxic side effects. Doctors can use the method to treat
inflammatory bowel diseases including Crohn’s disease and
ulcerative colitis.  The Mayo Clinic, a not-for-profit medical practice based in
Rochester, Minnesota, had licensed the patents prior to 2004,
when it created its own test.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which
specializes in patent issues, overturned a trial judge’s
conclusion that the patents were invalid.  The Federal Circuit also is considering if Myriad’s
diagnostic claims are eligible for patent protection as part of
a review of a decision involving patents for tests to determine
if a person is more likely to get breast cancer.  The primary part of that case revolves around the issue of
whether genetic sequences, isolated from the body, can be
patented or if they are something that occurs in nature.  Myriad, Novartis, Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings’s
Monogram Biosciences and  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX)  all have urged that
diagnostic methods be patentable. Monogram and Genomic Health
told the Supreme Court in 2009 that they would have difficulty
getting funding without patent protection.  The annual market for diagnostic tests and drugs tailored
to individuals may reach $42 billion by 2015, according to a
2009 report from  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .  The case is Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus
Laboratories, 10-1150, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Hurtigruten, NRK, Telenor Cruise Broadcast Available for Free  Hurtigruten ASA (HRG) , the operator of Norway’s coastal ship
line, is presently the hit of the nation’s national broadcast
system, with more than half the country’s population tuning in
to watch  a live broadcast of the trip  one of its ships -- the
NordNorge -- is making from Bergen to Kirkenes, in Norway’s far
north.  Telenor ASA (TEL) , a Fornebu, Norway-based telecommunications
company, is providing satellite transmission capacity to the
broadcaster for the program, Broadband TV News  reported .  The broadcast, available as streaming video on the
Norwegian Broadcasting Corp.  website , covers the entirety of the
8,043-minute cruise that covers 1,460 nautical miles (1,680
miles). The Norwegian network, known as NRK, is also making
segments of the cruise available for downloading using the
BitTorrent protocol.  According to the NRK website, the broadcast and the
streaming video are available under a  Creative Commons
Attribution ShareAlike license . This means that all the footage
of the midnight sun, the snow-topped mountains, the fjords, the
flag-waving crowds and brass bands performing at each stop can
be used, distributed and remixed -- even for commercial purposes
-- for free, as long as the footage is attributed to the
network.  Whoever makes and submits the best mash-up project using
the trip footage is eligible to win a 1,000 euro ($1,430) gift
card, NRK said  in a posting  on the English-language section of
its blog.  The broadcast/streaming video will run until the NordNorge
docks in Kirkenes, Norway, at about 9:45 a.m. local time
tomorrow.  Google Scans 250,000 Out-of-Copyright British Library Books  Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the world’s biggest Internet search
engine, plans to scan 250,000 out-of-copyright books for the
British Library as it expands its digital book program with more
libraries.  Mountain View, California-based Google, which has already
made available on the Internet more than 13 million books
through deals with libraries, will scan texts from the 18th and
19th centuries over three years, according to spokesman Peter
Barron.  “The public domain material is an important part of the
world’s heritage and we’re proud to be working with the British
Library to open it up to millions of people in the U.K. and
abroad,” Barron said in a statement.  Google will fund the cost of the scanning program. The
search engine has agreements with more than 40 libraries to scan
their collections. In the U.S., the company has been seeking to
scan out-of-print books still protected by copyright law.  The British Library formerly had a partnership with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to make available 65,000 books. “It’s not the
beginning of our partnerships, and it’s certainly not the end,”
said Lynne Brindley, chief executive of the British Library.  Google is trying to rehabilitate its image in Europe after
years of rankling regulators, artists, publishers and privacy
advocates in the region. The company has pledged increased
hiring, more respect for intellectual property and improved
privacy safeguards to win over critics.  Europe is home to some of Google’s most loyal customers.
Its search engine had an 88 percent market share in March,
compared with 66 percent in the U.S., where Yahoo! Inc. and
Microsoft Corp.’s Bing are stronger competitors, according to
 comScore Inc. , an Internet marketing research company based in
Reston, Virginia.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Pendleton Mills Sues Pendleton Round-Up for Infringing Mark  Pendleton Woolen Mills, the Oregon company that won fame as
a producer of  Indian trade blankets , sued the sponsor of the
101-year-old Pendleton Round-Up rodeo for trademark
infringement.  The suit, filed in federal court in Portland, Oregon,
accused the Pendleton Round-Up Association of selling  bottled
fragrances  that infringe the mill’s marks. According to court
papers, the Round-Up Association has been a Pendleton licensee
since 1997, covering sales of  apparel .  Products made under this agreement are co-branded with the
mill’s and the Round-Up Association’s marks, the mill said in
its pleadings.  The fragrances don’t come under this agreement, and the use
of the mill’s mark on them is “likely to cause confusion,
mistake and deception as to the affiliation, connection or
association” of the Round-Up with the mill, according to the
complaint. According to the Let ‘er Buck website, Let ‘er Buck
 was introduced  as the official fragrance of the Round-Up in 2010  The Round Up Association didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment. The  rodeo  will take place Sept.
14-17, according to the association’s website.  The mill asked the court to bar the Round-Up Association
from further unauthorized use of its mark, and for an award of
the profits the association derived from its alleged
infringement.  Additionally, it seeks money damages, attorney fees,
litigation costs and an order requiring the association to
abandon its application to register “Pendleton Round-Up” with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in classes to which it
doesn’t have a license.  Pendleton Woolen Mills is represented by  Vicki L. Smith  and
 Parna A. Mehrbani  of Portland’s Lane Powell PC.  The case is Pendleton Woolen Mills Inc., v. The Round-Up
Association, 3:11-cv-00592-AC, U.S. District Court, District of
Oregon (Portland).  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  USPTO Names Mary Boney Denison to Trademark Operations Post  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office named Mary Boney
Denison deputy commissioner for trademark operation, the office
said in a  statement .  Denison is a founding partner of Washington-based  Manelli
Denison & Selter PLLC , where she principally did trademark
litigation and application work.  Before she started her firm, she was a partner in the now-
defunct San Francisco firm of Graham & James. She has also
practiced with  New York ’s Smith, Steibel, Alexander & Saskor.  At the USPTO, she will oversee the examination and
processing of trademark applications.  She has an undergraduate degree from Duke University and a
law degree from the University of  North Carolina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 