-- 
Snail’s Pace in U.S. Senate Poses Hurdle to Debt-Reduction Push

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-21T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/snail-s-pace-u-s-senate-has-pared-down-agenda-as-default-deadline-looms.html
Just 18 measures have cleared
Congress and become law this year, and only four of those
originated in the Senate -- including two that named
courthouses.  About one-third of the chamber’s time has been taken up by
inactive “quorum calls.” Debate on one small-business measure
took a month, and a handful of languishing White House nominees
withdrew their names because of delayed Senate action, including
Nobel Laureate and Federal Reserve board pick  Peter Diamond .  “It looks like the pace has slowed to a crawl,” said
former North Dakota Senator  Byron Dorgan , a onetime Democratic
leader who retired in January. “Whether it’s nominations or
legislation, it seems there’s very little effort by some to meet
in the middle and compromise.”  The Senate was devised by the nation’s founding fathers to
move slowly. This year, its inaction is especially notable, and
overcoming Senate dysfunction will be one of the final hurdles
confronting lawmakers seeking a deal to lift the ceiling to
avoid a default on more than $14 trillion in  U.S. debt .  Beyond the debt limit, the chamber faces unfinished
business on energy, immigration, transportation and education.  Senators offer various reasons for their chamber’s slow
pace, including increased partisanship, re-election politics,
and the decline of centrists willing to compromise.  All in Play  Each of those elements can play a role in slowing the
legislative calendar. The major challenge facing this Senate is
that all of them are in play.  Senator  Mike Lee  of Utah, a first-term Republican, said
he’s surprised to see the Senate spending so much time doing so
little. “It’s what someone could perhaps call filler,” he
said. “I’m not calling all of it that, but it’s odd to me that
given the enormity of what we’re facing that we’re not having
more debate and discussion focused on the debt.”  He rejects the criticism of those who say Tea Party-backed
freshmen -- including himself -- won’t bend on policy and are
the logjam’s chief cause. “Compromise has two sides,” he said.
“If the Democrats’ idea of compromise is that we have to move
and they don’t, that’s not going to work for me.”  Gang Efforts  In an effort to jumpstart legislation, some senators have
formed small, bipartisan “gangs,” which tend to begin with
vows to reach agreements and end in acrimony. The so-called
“Gang of Six,” created to broker a deal on lifting the debt
ceiling, stalled amid disagreements and has been superseded by
the bipartisan group of Senate and House members working with
Vice President  Joe Biden .  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said both
parties bear blame for the Senate’s inaction. He also said
negotiations over  deficit reduction  and lifting the debt ceiling
are taking “all of the oxygen” out of the air. “Neither side
of the aisle really wants there to be a robust debate, tough
votes to be taken on where we go as a country,” Corker said.
“Basically, we are cooling our heels.”  In 2010, the Senate’s record included passage of a health-
care overhaul, a rewrite of financial-services rules and a $60
billion measure funding the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.  This January, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, heralded changes designed to speed Senate work and
forge a bipartisan truce.  ‘Gentleman’s Agreement’  They hatched a “gentleman’s agreement” to curb the
minority party’s use of the filibuster -- endless debate -- to
block legislation. In exchange, Reid agreed to allow more debate
on Republican amendments to bills. They also pushed through a
measure to abolish the secret “holds” that allow a single
senator to anonymously block a nominee.  Those moves, Republicans said, are being undermined by
Reid’s decision to embrace a timid agenda.  With the seats of 23 Democratic senators up for  election 
next year, and only 10 Republicans, Reid has shielded Democrats
from taking tough votes, said Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican. After criticizing a House-passed budget blueprint
that included $6 trillion in spending cuts and a plan to
privatize Medicare, Democrats never introduced their own plan,
sparing their side criticism over fiscal choices and preventing
Republicans from offering amendments that might be used against
Democrats, he said.  ‘It’s Irresponsible’  “The less votes the Democrats cast, the less they can be
challenged in the next election,” Grassley said. “It’s no way
to run a railroad and it’s irresponsible not to do things that
are more beefy.”  Democrats say such criticism is unfair. The Senate has
approved a $34.6 billion measure for the  Federal Aviation
Administration , an overhaul of  patent law  and other measures
that are awaiting House action. Republicans also continue to
obstruct some legislation and slow action on others, said  Jon
Summers , a Reid spokesman.  The Senate “is not functioning well, the way it should,
obviously, when you’ve got threats of filibuster, preventing,
slowing down or obstructing,” said Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat.  The Reid-McConnell accord on filibusters had limits: It
didn’t address efforts to block legislation on a final vote and
didn’t end the ability of a single senator to hold up action.  Patriot Act  That happened last month when freshman Senator Rand Paul, a
Kentucky Republican, stalled renewal of the Patriot Act, which
gives law enforcement powers for terrorism investigations, until
Reid and McConnell agreed to allow him to introduce two
amendments. Those amendments failed and the new version of the
Patriot Act passed just hours before the old law expired.  Republican leaders are continuing to thwart a vote on
former Edison International Chief Executive Officer  John Bryson ,
Obama’s choice for Commerce Department Secretary until the White
House forwards pending trade deals for South Korea, Panama and
Colombia. They also say they won’t approve anyone to head a new
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, part of the financial
overhaul, until the bureau’s powers are restructured.  The stalemate is a relief to some, coming after Democratic
passage of major initiatives in 2009 and 2010. “If the
legislature must be in session, be thankful when it doesn’t do
much,’ said David Boaz, executive vice president of the  Cato
Institute  in Washington, which promotes limited government.  David Rohde , a political scientist at  Duke University  in
Durham,  North Carolina , said Senate inaction is driven in part
by the departure in recent elections of political moderates such
as Republican Senator Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island and
Democratic Senator  Evan Bayh  of Indiana.  “The reason that the Senate has become more polarized is
that less extreme members have been replaced by more extreme
members,” Rohde said.  The lack of Senate action poses risks for Democrats, said
Alan Brinkley, a history professor at  Columbia University  in New
York, because they aren’t offering policy alternatives, he said.  “The difference between the two parties is that the
Republicans have a program -- an ambitious and controversial
one,” said Brinkley. “The Democrats don’t really have any
goals as far as I can see, besides stopping the Republicans.”  Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Don Frederick  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ,
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  