-- 
Solar Companies Race to Finish Projects as Tax Grants Expire

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-21T21:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/solar-companies-race-to-finish-projects-as-tax-grants-expire.html
U.S. renewable energy developers are
racing to complete projects amid concern banks won’t fill the
gap in financing once a program of tax credits expires in
December, said Arno Harris, head of Sharp Corp.’s solar unit.  “The U.S. has 30 gigawatts of utility-scale solar in the
pipeline,” Harris, chief executive officer of Recurrent Energy,
the solar project unit of  Osaka , Japan-based Sharp, told a
conference in  New York  today. “All of that is at risk.
Financing could drop off a cliff.”  Solar power installations climbed 66 percent in the first
quarter as panel prices fell and developers accelerated work on
projects before the end of the tax grant program, according to a
Solar Energy Industries Association  report  published June 16.
 U.S. Treasury  grants have helped finance most renewable energy
projects since the banking crisis cut lending and the recession
reduced demand for tax credits to offset corporate income.  The  U.S. Treasury  started granting tax credits to renewable
energy developers as part of the government’s 2009 stimulus
package. They provide up to a third of a project’s total cost up
front, rather than as an ongoing credit. Before the tax grants
were introduced, developers had to rely on banks to match
companies that needed tax credits with those that didn’t have
much profit to offset.  Economic growth will need to pick up before demand for tax
offsets grows, said Eric Silverman, a partner at law firm
Milbank Tweed, Hadley & McCoy LLP in New York, which helps
finance projects.  “There’s just so much demand for tax equity and it’s not
cheap,” Silverman said at the Renewable Energy Finance Forum.
“There are serious storm clouds on the horizon.”  Geothermal and wind power developers are also concerned
about the end of the tax grant program, said Dita Bronicki, CEO
of  Ormat Technologies Inc. (ORA) , which builds and operates geothermal
plants.  “The grant program was a lifeline,” Bronicki said today
in an interview. “We have a portfolio of projects that we hope
to get done by the expiration but we also have to plan for a
delay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  