-- 
South African 7-Year Borrowing Costs Fall to Lowest in 5 Months at Auction

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-06-21T13:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/south-african-7-year-borrowing-costs-fall-to-lowest-in-5-months-at-auction.html
South Africa ’s seven-year borrowing
costs fell to a five-month low at a government debt auction on
speculation the central bank won’t raise interest rates in 2011
as it strives to aid a recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank auctioned 1 billion rand
($148 million) of 8 percent bonds due 2018 at an average yield
of 8.235 percent, 1.5 basis points, or 0.015 percentage point,
lower than at the previous auction of the debt on May 3, and the
lowest since the Jan. 11 sale according to central bank data on
Bloomberg. Investors bid for 2.5 times the amount on offer,
compared with 1.9 times at the previous sale.  While the  Reserve Bank  predicts that inflation will breach
its 3 percent to 6 percent target range in the first quarter of
2012, it has kept the key interest rate at 5.5 percent this
year. The bank won’t raise interest rates to curb rising prices
caused by global oil and food prices, central bank Chief
Economist  Monde Mnyande  said today.  “Local growth prospects remain clouded by considerable
downside risks,” Nedbank analysts led by Dennis Dykes said in a
research note. “The Monetary Policy Committee will probably
remain reluctant to tighten monetary policy too quickly or
aggressively as higher interest rates will do little to contain
inflation but will hurt the economy and  job creation .”  Nedbank expects the first interest-rate increase in the
first quarter of 2012, even after central bank data today showed
 consumer spending  is increasing and the current account deficit
widened more than economists’ expectations.  ‘Strong’ Auction  The central bank also auctioned 1.1 billion rand of 2021
bonds at an average yield of 8.365 percent. Investors bid for
2.9 times the amount offered, it said.  “Today’s auction was very strong, one of the strongest in
recent weeks,”  Leon Myburgh  and Coura Fall, Johannesburg-based
analysts at  Citibank NA , said in a research note. “Today’s
result is consistent with the reasonably bullish bias in the
market since yesterday from good demand from offshore
accounts.”  Foreign investors were net buyers of 405 million rand of
South African bonds yesterday, according to data compiled by JSE
Ltd., which manages the nation’s equity and debt markets.  Household spending increased an annualized 5.2 percent in
the first quarter, compared with 4.8 percent in the previous
three months, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said in its
Quarterly Bulletin today. The shortfall in the current account,
the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, expanded to
3.1 percent of gross domestic product from a revised 1 percent
in the previous three months, more than the 2.8 percent median
estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  