-- 
South African Consumer Spending Rises in First Quarter as Economy Recovers

-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 
2011-06-21T09:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/south-african-consumer-spending-surges-as-economy-recovers.html
South African consumer spending,
which accounts for two-thirds of demand in the country, and
investment rose in the first quarter, reinforcing the recovery
in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  Household spending increased an annualized 5.2 percent,
compared with 4.8 percent in the previous three months, the
Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly Bulletin
today. Growth in gross domestic expenditure accelerated to an
annualized 8.3 percent from 2.4 percent as  government spending 
surged and companies built up inventories, it said.  “The brisk consumption expenditure mirrored a further
increase in real disposable income as property income and
compensation of employees trended higher,” the central bank
said. Government spending growth of 9.5 percent was driven by
the purchase of military planes, it said.  Domestic spending had been slower to recover from a
recession in 2009 than manufacturing as job losses mounted and
 household debt  remained near record levels. The economy’s 4.8
percent annualized growth in the first quarter was driven by a
14.5 percent surge in manufacturing. Retail sales advanced 9.8
percent in April, while the consumer confidence index rose to 11
in the second quarter from 9 in the first.  Interest Rates   A recovery in spending may prompt the Reserve Bank to raise
its benchmark rate from a 30-year low of 5.5 percent as
inflation begins to pick up. The central bank has forecast
inflation, which was 4.2 percent in April, will breach the 3
percent to 6 percent target in the first quarter of next year as
international food and fuel costs and domestic energy prices
climb.  “Obviously the central bank can no longer say domestic
demand is weak,” said Michael Kafe, an economist at Morgan
Stanley in Johannesburg. “Real wage payments in  South Africa 
have gone up in the last two years so it is not surprising that
spending has held up. On the whole, these are very solid growth
rates.”  Disposable income grew 5.4 percent in the first quarter
compared with 5 percent in the previous three months, the
central bank said. Spending on durable goods, such as cars,
jumped 21.5 percent.  While crude oil fell to its lowest in four months in  New
York  yesterday, it has gained about 10 percent over the past
year. South Africa’s power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. may
raise electricity tariffs 25.8 percent for the year through
March 2012, according to the country’s energy regulator.  Rand Strength  A 39 percent gain in the rand against the dollar since the
end of 2008 helped contain the pass-through to domestic prices,
the central bank said. The rand strengthened 0.3 percent to
6.7632 against the dollar as of 10:40 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Rising wages are also adding to pressure on inflation,
although the pace of increase in pay has moderated compared with
previous years, the central bank said. Wage settlements averaged
8.2 percent in the first quarter, the bank said, citing data
from Andrew Levy Employment Publications.  Household debt eased to 76.8 percent of disposable income
in the first quarter from 77.6 percent in the previous three
months.  Gross fixed capital formation, including state-owned
companies and the government, increased 3.1 percent, up from 1.5
percent in the three months through December, the Reserve Bank
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 