-- 
South Africa Economic Growth Curbed by Jobs, Not Rand, Bank Economist Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-21T08:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/south-africa-economic-growth-curbed-by-jobs-not-rand-bank-economist-says.html
South Africa ’s economic growth is
being held back by insufficient infrastructure and a one-in-four
jobless rate rather than a strong rand, said  Monde Mnyande , the
central bank’s chief economist.  “Infrastructural and capacity constraints coupled with
persistent high levels of unemployment continue to limit the
growth potential of our country,” Mnyande said in a
presentation in Johannesburg today.  The argument made by labor unions that the currency of
 Africa ’s biggest economy is too strong and is making exports
uncompetitive “doesn’t really tally” with its highest growth
rate since the since the end of a recession in 2009, Mnyande
said. “We’d like the rand to be in balance, which I don’t know
where it should be, honestly,” he said.  South Africa’s gross domestic product grew 4.8 percent in
the first quarter, equaling its fastest pace since the recession
ended in the third quarter of 2009. The rand has strengthened 39
percent against the dollar since the end of 2008.  South African coal and iron-ore exports have been limited
by a lack of transport capacity. A shortfall in electricity
supply prompted Rio Tinto Group to scrap an aluminum-smelter
project in 2009 and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest
mining company, to partially close its Bayside aluminum smelter
in 2008.  Inflation Causes  While the South African Reserve Bank predicts that
inflation will breach its 3 percent to 6 percent target range in
the first quarter of 2012, it has kept its key interest rate at
5.5 percent this year. Rising prices are caused by global oil
and food prices rather than local demand, it argues.  The rand gained 0.3 percent to 6.7602 against the dollar at
9:56 a.m. in Johannesburg trading.  Continued growth will depend on the central bank curbing
price increases domestically, Mnyande said.  “It is mostly agreed that stable monetary policy and
subsequent price and financial stability achieved through
inflation-targeting are prerequisites for sustained long-running
economic growth with less cyclical volatility,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 