-- 
South Africa’s Economy Added 47,000 Non-Farm Jobs in Quarter, Agency Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-06-21T09:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/south-africa-s-economy-added-47-000-non-farm-jobs-in-quarter-agency-says.html
South Africa , which has the highest
unemployment rate of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg, added
47,000 non-farm jobs in the first quarter, as growth in  Africa ’s
largest economy gathered pace.  Employment in formal, non-agricultural industries increased
0.6 percent to 8.298 million from the final three months of last
year, when it expanded 1.2 percent, the Pretoria-based
 Statistics South Africa  said on its website today. The data was
based on a survey of companies that are registered to pay tax.  “The South African labor market is beginning to gain
momentum,” Shireen Darmalingam, an economist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender, said in a note to clients.
“This bodes well for economic growth in the coming quarters. We
could start seeing the  unemployment rate  improve as the year
unfolds.”  The economy grew at its fastest pace in a year in the first
quarter, expanding 4.8 percent, spurred by the lowest  interest
rates  in three decades. The National Treasury estimates a 7
percent annual growth rate is needed over the next decade to
meet the government’s goal of creating 5 million jobs and
slashing unemployment to 15 percent by 2020.  “The jobs goal is extremely ambitious and likely
unrealistic,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a June 17
report. “Without faster and sustained growth, the general
situation will deteriorate once again as employment will fail to
keep pace with the growth in the labor force.”  Financial Crisis  South African companies cut their workforces after the
global financial crisis hit, lifting the jobless rate to a peak
of 25.3 percent in the third quarter of last year. The rate
stood at 25 percent in the first quarter of 2011, when the
number of people with jobs fell by 14,000 to 13.1 million
according to a separate quarterly  Labor Force  Survey, released
on May 5, which includes informal businesses.  “The economy continues to recover from the global economic
recession, which made us lose over a million jobs,” President
 Jacob Zuma  said in a June 14 address to lawmakers in  Cape Town .
“We are particularly pleased with the growth in formal
employment, which provides better opportunities for most working
people.”  Workers in formal employment on average earned an estimated
12,244 rand ($1,810) a month before tax and other deductions in
the first quarter, 9.3 percent more than in the same period a
year ago, the statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 