-- 
South Africa’s Current Account Gap Widens in First Quarter as Exports Fall

-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 
2011-06-21T09:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/south-african-current-account-deficit-widens-as-exports-decline.html
South Africa’s current account
deficit widened in the first quarter as weaker global demand and
a drop in coal shipments eased growth in exports, while
increased  consumer spending  boosted imports.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, expanded to 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product from a revised 1 percent in the previous three
months, the Reserve Bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin released
in  Pretoria  today. The surplus on the trade account slumped to
22 billion rand ($3.25 billion) from 75.5 billion rand, it said.  “The value of exports leveled off in response to weaker
international demand for domestically produced goods, whereas an
expansion in gross domestic expenditure contributed to an
increase in the value of merchandise imports,” the bank said.  The deficit has narrowed from 7.1 percent of GDP in 2008,
easing  South Africa ’s reliance on foreign portfolio investment
to fund the gap and fueling a 39 percent rally in the rand
against the dollar since the end of that year.  The surplus on the financial account surged to 55.1 billion
rand in the first quarter from 2.6 billion rand after the
government issued global bonds and commercial lenders
repatriated money held with foreign banks, the Reserve Bank
said.  Weak Exports  The rand may come under pressure in the second half of the
year, weakening to about 7.5 to the dollar, as capital inflows
start to wane, Michael Kafe, an economist at Morgan Stanley in
Johannesburg, said by phone. The rand strengthened 0.1 percent
to 6.7714 by 11:17 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a current account deficit of 2.8 percent of GDP. The
shortfall grew to an annualized 87.8 billion rand in the first
quarter from 27.5 billion rand in the previous three months, the
central bank said.  Mining exports dropped during the first quarter after a
decline in production, particularly at coal mines that were
soaked by heavy rains, the central bank said.  Total export volumes slid 3.6 percent in the first quarter,
compared with growth of 3.4 percent in the previous three
months, the  Reserve Bank  said. Import volumes increased in the
first quarter, rising by 3.1 percent, the bank said.  Foreign portfolio investment recorded an inflow of 20.8
billion rand in the first quarter compared with an outflow of
10.4 billion rand in the previous three months, the Reserve Bank
said. The issuance of international bonds offset foreigners
selling a net 10.1 billion rand of stocks and bonds, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 