-- 
Stradivarius at $15.9 Million Means Investors Bet on Violins

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-22T04:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/stradivarius-for-15-9-million-means-fund-eyeing-violins-116-fold-return.html
The first time Satu Vanska held the
Australian Chamber Orchestra’s $1.8 million Stradivarius and
played the opening notes of Jean Sibelius’s violin concerto, she
knew she wanted it.  “The thought that it could be yours, it makes you a little
nervous -- and very happy,” Vanska, 32, assistant leader of the
Sydney-based orchestra, said in a telephone interview.  The violin, a composite of two made by  Antonio Stradivari 
in 1728 and 1729, is the first asset of a new  fund  set up by the
orchestra that gives investors the chance to speculate on the
value of rare musical instruments. Auction house Tarisio sold a
1721 Stradivarius called the Lady Blunt on Monday for a record
9.8 million pounds ($15.9 million), 116 times the 84,000 pounds
it fetched at Sotheby’s in 1971.  “Violins appear to be quite a good investment,” said
 Kathryn Graddy , a professor of economics at  Brandeis University 
in  Waltham ,  Massachusetts . “The returns are comparable to art,
lower than stock returns but slightly higher on average than
bonds. They are in a sense a safe haven because the returns are
steady and not as volatile as art.”  Violins made by Stradivari and his contemporary Giuseppe
‘del Gesu’ Guarneri averaged gains of 6.9 percent a year between
1980 and 2006, compared with an average advance of more than 9
percent in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  and about 6.6 percent from U.S.
treasuries, Graddy wrote in a  study  published in 2008.  Russell Crowe’s Teacher  The new fund is the brainchild of Richard Tognetti, the
orchestra’s artistic director, who taught actor  Russell Crowe  to
play the violin for the film “Master and Commander.” He wanted
to find a way to make some of the world’s best instruments
available to the orchestra, which gets most of its funding from
ticket sales and sponsorship.  The minimum investment is A$50,000 ($53,000) and the fund
will terminate in 2021, when the instruments will be sold and
the money disbursed unless investors vote to extend it, the
orchestra’s website says.  “None of the musicians can afford to buy any of these fine
instruments,” Tognetti, 45, said in a telephone interview.
“Even way below a Stradivarius, you’re in an amount of money
that is beyond what we earn.”  Tognetti plays a 1743 ‘del Gesu’ called the  Carrodus ,
valued at $10.5 million, that was bought by an anonymous
benefactor for $6.6 million in 2006, according to the website.  The orchestra’s new Stradivarius has “quite a powerful
sound that carries all the way to the end of the concert hall,”
Vanska said. “At the same time, it’s very sweet and brilliant,
and that’s a very nice combination.”  Russian Overtures  Decreasing supply and increasing demand from markets such
as  Russia  may accelerate the gains for fine violins, many of
which are almost 300 years old, said  Steven Smith , a director at
London-based dealer  J & A Beare Ltd. , which sold the
Stradivarius to the orchestra.  “Prices are going up more steeply than they were, and I
would expect that that’s very likely to continue,” Smith said
in a telephone interview. “The supply and demand situation is
getting much, much tougher.”  Stradivari and Guaneri worked in the northern Italian city
of Cremona during the 17th and 18th centuries. About 650
Stradivari violins and 135 del Gesu violins survive, according
to the Chicago-based  Stradivari Society . That makes them
increasingly valuable and relatively illiquid, Graddy said.  “Compared to real estate and even art, the market for
high-end violins is ‘thin’ and many violins are sold through
dealers rather than auctions,” she wrote in the 2008 report.  Lady Blunt  The Lady Blunt, auctioned on Monday, was one of 19
Stradivarius instruments owned by the Tokyo-based Nippon Music
Foundation. The proceeds of the sale will go to the
organization’s parent, the Nippon Foundation, for its
Northeastern Japan Earthquake and Tsunami Relief Fund.  The Australian Chamber Orchestra, which tours  Australia  and
performs at international venues, has raised A$1.6 million so
far for its fund and aims to reach as much as A$10 million to
buy instruments, said Jessica Block, the ensemble’s deputy
general manager. Investors will be able to sell units to the
orchestra every three years, starting in July 2014. They can
sell to other investors approved by the fund’s trustees at any
time. There are no fees.  Right Note  “There’s no point denying that there is a philanthropic
element to this,” said Block, a trustee of the fund. “We need
people to hold on to their units as long as possible. We needed
to make it attractive enough so that people wouldn’t think that
it was a donation dressed up as an investment.”  Block declined to say how many investors the fund has.  Guido Belgiorno-Nettis, chairman of the orchestra’s board
and joint managing director of Sydney-based Transfield Holdings
Ltd., helped design the fund and invested A$200,000 with his
wife Michelle.  “It’s a good place to park some cash,” Belgiorno-Nettis
said in a telephone interview. “The instruments are rare and
therefore it’s very unlikely you’re going to lose your money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 