-- 
Surging Crime Under Chavez Fuels Venezuela Armored Car Boom

-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-06-21T19:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/surging-crime-under-chavez-fuels-venezuela-armored-car-boom.html
Luis Fuenmayor, a Caracas-based
airline pilot, said he never considered armoring his Chevrolet
Tahoe because of the $28,000 price tag. He changed his mind when
two armed motorcyclists robbed him of his watch in traffic.  “It seemed expensive at first, but then I realized that,
more than an investment, it’s a necessary cost,” Fuenmayor, 50,
said in an interview. While the protection gives a greater sense
of security, it isn’t a “panacea,” he said.  Since President  Hugo Chavez  took power in 1999, Venezuela
has seen a near tripling in homicides, allowing the country to
overtake  Colombia  as  South America ’s murder capital in the most-
recent United Nations study of  global crime trends . That spells
brisk business for security firms, which are adding middle-class
Venezuelans to their traditional corporate clients, according to
Ingrid Suarez, manager at armored-car company  Blindcorp.  The
number of businesses in Caracas that prepare vehicles against
attack has swelled to about 47 from 12 five years ago, she said.  The rise in violent crime reflects a broader breakdown in
the rule of law. Criminals, many involved in the nation’s
burgeoning drug trade, operate with “complete impunity,” said
Roberto Briceno, who heads the  Venezuelan Violence Observatory, 
a Caracas-based group that tracks crime.  The country’s justice system is beset by corruption and
political interference, making it the  least accountable  in a
ranking of 66 nations published this month by the World Justice
Project, a Washington-based group supported by jurists and
businesses that seek to strengthen the rule of law globally.  Murder Rate  Homicides nationwide rose to 17,600 last year from 16,047
in 2009 and 5,968 in 1999, according to the Venezuelan Violence
Observatory. That took the country’s murder rate to 57 per
100,000 inhabitants from 25 in 1999. Chavez’s government put the
number lower, though still above the Latin American average. In
the U.S., the murder rate was 5 per 100,000 in 2009.  Among the companies profiting from the crime spree is
Liege, Belgium-based  Carat Security Group , the world’s largest
commercial armored vehicle provider, according to its website.
Carat’s Centigon  Venezuela  unit bulletproofs about 20 privately
owned vehicles each month, said Eduardo Ibarra, the unit’s
managing director.  That’s more business than Carat does in  Brazil , where the
population is over six times Venezuela’s 29 million, Ibarra
said. Venezuela has now surpassed guerrilla-plagued Colombia as
the company’s most-profitable in Latin America, he said.  “Our business here hasn’t stopped growing since we entered
in 2002,” said Ibarra.  Business Costs  The proliferation of crime adds to the difficulties of
doing business in a country where companies must contend with
currency controls, frequent blackouts and an inflation rate that
at 22.8 percent in May was the highest among 78 economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “When you start a business in Venezuela, a significant
part of your costs are in security, costs that you have to
incorporate into prices,” said Victor Maldonado, president of
the  Caracas Chamber of Commerce . “We are less competitive
because we have so much crime.”  Chavez, 56, devalued the bolivar for the second time in a
year on Jan. 1 by 40 percent, eliminating the preferential
 exchange rate  for so-called essential goods such as food and
medicine.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 30 basis
points to 1,151 today, the most of any developing nation in
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  The fear of becoming a victim of violence runs deep. The
 Country Club , a golf club in Caracas, held a Father’s Day raffle
June 19 that awarded a prize of an armoring service. Tickets
cost 250 bolivars, or $58 at the official exchange rate.  Public Concern  Surveys show crime has been the biggest concern for
Venezuelans seven years running and was the main reason given by
wealthy citizens for wanting to leave the country, according to
Luis Vicente Leon, head of  Caracas-based pollster Datanalisis .  “Those who have left did so because of crime,” Leon said
in an interview. “Going through a kidnapping or robbery is the
difference between wanting to emigrate and acting on it.”  Venezuela was given the maximum score of five in  FTI
Consulting ’s Latin Security Index for 2010, which measures
security for businesses, meaning it is a “very dangerous
country,” according to the Baltimore-based consulting company.
Venezuela was considered the region’s most dangerous nation
after  Haiti , and was designated with a red light meaning that
crime is getting worse.  “Venezuela looks like Colombia 10 years ago,” Frank Holder, FTI’s chairman for  Latin America , said in a phone
interview from Miami. “They switched places.”  Kidnappings in Colombia, which has a population of 44
million, plummeted to 282 in 2010 from 2,882 in 2002, when then-
President  Alvaro Uribe  began a U.S.-backed crackdown on drug-
financed guerrilla groups. Last year, Colombia reported 15,459
homicides and a murder rate of 34 per 100,000 people.  Government Response  Chavez’s government disputes the private estimates by the
Venezuelan Violence Observatory, though it hasn’t published
official crime figures since 2005, Briceno said.  Interior and Justice Minister Tarek El Aissami told
lawmakers Feb. 8 that the nation’s homicide rate was 48 per
100,000 in 2010. While recognizing that crime in Venezuela is
above the Latin American average, El Aissami cited an increase
in spending on security programs as proof that the government is
taking the public’s concerns seriously.  Vice President Elias Jaua said that the number of
 kidnappings  in the country fell 39 percent to 174 in the first
quarter of this year. “We are on the right path to reducing
crime,” Jaua said May 30 in comments transmitted by state TV.  A UN report published last year found the country’s murder
rate of 47 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2008 was the  fourth-
highest  in the world, behind  Honduras ,  Jamaica  and  El Salvador .  Rental Business  For those who don’t have their own armored vehicle,
companies such as  Alquiblind.com  hire them out. The Caracas-
based company has had a boom in its service for party-going
teenagers, said owner Luis Esclusa.  “We transport the father to drop off and pick up his child
from the party,” Esclusa, 39, said in an interview. “And we
keep a security guard at the site to protect against
kidnappings.”  The price of the service is about 2,700 bolivars ($628),
said Esclusa.  German Garcia Velutini, head of Caracas-based  Vencred 
brokerage, didn’t invest in personal security until after he was
kidnapped as he left his office in January 2009 and held for
ransom for 11 months. Now, he’s armored all of his family’s
vehicles and hired bodyguards.  “Before, I was worried about my children crashing their
cars,” Velutini said in an interview. “Now the risk is that
they’ll be robbed or kidnapped.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  