-- 
Swiss Stocks Rise as Syngenta, Swatch, Cie. Financiere Richemont Advance

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-06-21T16:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/swiss-stocks-rise-as-syngenta-swatch-cie-financiere-richemont-advance.html
Swiss stocks climbed for the first
time in five days on speculation that the European Union will
find a way to resolve Greece’s debt crisis.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest producer of crop-
protection chemicals, rose 3.6 percent.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the
maker Omega watches, and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, which
makes Montblanc pens, both jumped more than 3 percent.
 Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)  increased 2.8 percent after the
settling claims for its role in last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil
spill.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies gained 0.9 percent to 6,171.01 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. Even so, the measure has declined 8.1 percent
since its high this year on Feb. 18, as U.S. manufacturing and
jobs reports fueled concern that the recovery in the world’s
largest economy is faltering and as investors speculated that
 Greece  will default on its debt. The broader Swiss Performance
Index rose 1 percent today.  “There’s a chance that there will be some sort of an
agreement by mid-July,” said Dieter Buchholz, head of equities
at Falcon Bank Ltd. in Zurich. “Then we could see an
improvement in  market sentiment .”  Tonight’s confidence vote for Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou may determine whether Greece becomes the first euro-
area country to default and caps a week of turmoil for
Papandreou, who has fended off a revolt from within his ruling
Pasok party. EU leaders have insisted that the Greek prime
minister secure multiparty support for austerity measures.  S&P reaffirmed that it will probably treat a voluntary debt
restructuring for Greece as a default,  Moritz Kraemer , its head
of European sovereign ratings told German newspaper Die Welt.  U.S. Economy  Swiss stocks extended their gains after a measure of U.S.
home sales met economists’ estimates. Purchases of existing
homes in May fell 3.8 percent to a 4.81 million annual pace, in
line with the 4.8 million median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  The  Federal Reserve , which begins a two-day meeting today
in Washington, is forecast to keep  interest rates  near zero.  Syngenta jumped 3.6 percent to 278.90 Swiss francs after
saying that sales growth in the second quarter has been
“robust.” The company also forecast that sales of pesticides,
seeds and other products to its crop markets will more than
double to $17 billion after 2015 from $8 billion now.  Swatch surged 3.2 percent to 405.20 francs and Cie.
Financiere Richemont soared 3.9 percent to 53.10 francs.  Weatherford, Sika  Weatherford gained 2.8 percent to 14.65 francs after the
company said it agreed to pay BP Plc $75 million to cover its
liability for any current or future claims from the spill, which
was the world’s largest accidental slick. The company will fund
the settlement from insurance policies it held at the time of
the accident.  Sika AG (SIK) , Europe’s biggest maker of chemicals used in
construction, climbed 2.8 percent to 2,034 francs after the
company announced that Jan Jenisch will succeed Ernst Baertschi
as chief executive officer.  “As Sika’s board of directors has taken exactly half a
year to decide who will be the next CEO and was never in a
hurry, we assume it has now chosen the best candidate,” wrote
Patrick Appenzeller, an analyst at Helvea AG, in a note to
clients today.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, rose 2.1 percent to 9.66 francs as a gauge of
technology companies was among the best performers of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, rising 2.1
percent.  Basilea dropped 1.4 percent to 66.40 francs after  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, lowered his price
estimate for the company to 76 francs from 80 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 