-- 
U.K. Budget Deficit Narrows as Revenue Growth From Taxes Outpaces Spending

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-21T12:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-k-budget-deficit-narrows-on-revenue-growth.html
Britain’s budget deficit narrowed to
17.4 billion pounds ($28.2 billion) in May as a jump in tax
receipts outpaced growth in  government spending .  The shortfall compared with 18.5 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London 
today. The median of 12 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a deficit of 17 billion pounds. Revenue rose 8.2 percent,
boosted by January’s increase in value-added tax to 20 percent.
Spending grew 2.2 percent.  While the figures provide a boost for Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , doubts remain over whether he can meet
his goal of reducing the deficit to 122 billion pounds in the
current fiscal year amid weaker-than-forecast growth and
resistance to the cuts from labor unions. The budget gap in the
first two months was 1.5 billion pounds higher than a year
earlier at 27.4 billion pounds.  “Overall, the figures provide a clear warning that the
weakness of the economy could derail the government’s deficit-
reduction plans and will add fuel to the debate over whether it
should scale back the size and speed of the fiscal tightening,”
said  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at  Capital
Economics  in London.  The pound was little changed against the dollar at $1.6205
as of 1.07 p.m. in London.  ‘Plan B’  The government has staked its reputation on eliminating the
bulk of the deficit by 2015. Prime Minister David Cameron
yesterday dismissed opposition  Labour Party  calls to slow the
pace of cuts, saying “a Plan B would stand for bankruptcy.”  The shortfall, which reached a record 11 percent of gross
domestic product in the aftermath of the recession, is projected
to narrow to 7.9 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal
year that began in April, according to  Office for Budget
Responsibility , the fiscal watchdog that produces forecasts for
the Treasury.  The squeeze has put Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition on
collision course with labor unions. About 750,000 public-sector
workers are set to take part in a national strike on June 30 to
protest against government plans to curb their pension rights.  Labour says efforts to narrow the deficit risk becoming
self-defeating as the cuts hit  consumer confidence  and hold back
economic growth.  ‘Too Fast’  The government is “cutting too far and too fast” and
should repeat the one-time tax on banker bonuses levied by the
previous Labour administration, Angela Eagle, who speaks for the
party on Treasury affairs, said in a statement.  Today’s figures show that revenue growth over the first two
months was weaker than the OBR’s forecasts for the full fiscal
year, while spending is increasing more quickly than predicted,
mainly as a result of higher debt-interest payments.  In a commentary released today, the OBR said spending
estimates are often revised “considerably” in later months. It
also noted that receipts growth in April was depressed by a
year-earlier boost from the bank bonus tax and said the pace
would accelerate.  High  oil prices  and Osborne’s decision to increase taxes on
oil-production profits will boost offshore  corporation tax  by as
much as 50 percent while income tax in January and February next
year will reflect the “delayed impact” of the new 50 percent
top tax rate, it said.  The cash measure of the deficit was 11.1 billion pounds
last month, compared with a median forecast of 6.6 billion
pounds. The shortfall including government support for banks was
15.2 billion pounds.  The government revised the deficit for the fiscal year that
ended in March to 143.2 billion pounds, 3.8 billion pounds more
than previously estimated. The revision reflected updates to
national accounts data, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  