-- 
U.K. Pound Weakens Versus Euro as BOE’s Fisher Says More Stimulus Possible

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-21T15:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-k-pound-weakens-versus-euro-as-boe-s-fisher-says-more-stimulus-possible.html
The pound weakened versus the euro
after Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said
officials haven’t ruled out adding to their bond-purchase
program if needed to support the economy.  Sterling depreciated against all but two of its 16 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, losing most against the
Swedish krona. More stimulus is “still very much on the table
as one of our potential policy actions and it hasn’t been ruled
out,” Fisher said at a conference in London this morning. Data
today showed Britain’s budget deficit narrowed less than
forecast to 17.4 billion pounds ($28.2 billion) in May.  “It should be a sterling sell,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. “The
market had factored out further chances of quantitative easing,
especially given some of the inflation rhetoric over the past
few months from the more hawkish members of the Monetary Policy
Committee. The BOE is shifting away from hawkishness to
dovishness as a general theme.”  The pound depreciated 0.5 percent to 88.72 pence per euro
as of 4:35 p.m. in  London , after sliding to 88.77 pence, the
weakest intraday level since June 10. Sterling was 0.2 percent
higher at $1.6229 after touching $1.6255, its strongest since
June 15. The British currency was little changed at 130.02 yen.  The U.K. currency may slide below $1.60 and weaken through
90 pence per euro, Jones said.  Gilts Auction  The central bank publishes the minutes of its most recent
policy meeting tomorrow. It held rates at a record low 0.5
percent for a 28th month to support the recovery, even as
inflation held at the fastest pace since October 2008 last
month.  Policy makers voted 6-3 to keep  interest rates  on hold in
May.  Andrew Sentance  maintained his call for a half-point
increase in the key rate, while Chief Economist Spencer Dale and
 Martin Weale  continued a push for a quarter-point increase.
Governor  Mervyn King  and the other five members of the Monetary
Policy Committee voted for no change.  Adam Posen  kept up a call
for more bond purchases.  “Investors will be looking for indications from the June
BOE minutes that the prospect for early hikes has weakened
further now that Andrew Sentance is no longer a member of the
MPC,” wrote  Valentin Marinov , a London-based currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in a research report today.  Gilts were little changed, with the 10-year yield at 3.22
percent. The U.K. auctioned 4.75 billion pounds of notes
maturing in January 2016 at an average yield of 1.963 percent.
Investors bid for 1.56 times the securities offered.  U.K. government bonds have returned 2.7 percent this year,
compared with a 3.3 percent gain on Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  The U.K. budget shortfall shrank from 18.5 billion pounds a
year earlier, according to the  Office for National Statistics .
It was still wider than the 17 billion-pound median estimate of
12 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Government revenue rose 8.2
percent and spending grew 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 