-- 
Economist John Kay to Review Equity-Market Workings for U.K. Government

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-k-asks-economist-john-kay-to-review-equity-market-mechanics.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
has asked the economist John Kay to review how the equity market
functions and suggest ways to give better long-term incentives
to companies and strengthen shareholder involvement.  Cable has been a persistent critic of the finance industry,
attacking “spivs and gamblers” in a speech last year and
arguing that the focus on short-term results and daily price
movements leads managers to make poor decisions. Kay, author of
“The Truth About Markets” and a visiting professor at the
 London  School of Economics, helped popularize the phrase
“casino banking” in the aftermath of the financial crisis.  As well as examining how to encourage long-term thinking,
Kay has been asked to find ways of strengthening the engagement
of institutional investors and increase corporate transparency.
In  recent columns in the Financial Times  newspaper, he has
called for new insolvency rules, greater responsibilities for
company directors and better business ethics.  “The financial crisis has raised justifiable concerns
about whether there are systemic flaws in the way companies are
owned and managed in the U.K.,” Cable will tell an  Association
of British Insurers  conference today, according to extracts of
his speech released by his office. “About executives being
given incentives to pursue strategies not in the long-term
interest of their shareholders; about shareholders allowing
takeovers that destroy value.”  The investigation comes out of a review Cable’s department
has been conducting into the whole of corporate governance in
the U.K., taking in issues including pay and takeover rules. Kay
has been asked to report back to Cable next year.  “Equity markets are a principal mechanism of control and
accountability for boards and senior managers, and a means by
which individuals and households provide for retirement and
other long-term financial goals,” Kay said in a statement.  “The review will examine how these capital-market
disciplines contribute to the achievement of such goals and to
the community more generally by enhancing the competitiveness
and long-term performance of British business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 