-- 
U.K. Must Remove Barriers to Chinese Investment, Ambassador Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-06-21T13:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-k-must-remove-barriers-to-chinese-investment-ambassador-says.html
Britain needs to remove barriers to
investment from  China  and encourage Chinese companies to bid for
major infrastructure projects such as high-speed rail,
ambassador Liu Xiaoming said as he announced details of a visit
by Premier  Wen Jiabao  to the U.K. between June 25 and 27.  Wen will attend the U.K. launch of the new MG6 Magnette car
at the Longbridge, Birmingham, plant of Shanghai-based SAIC
Motor Corp. Ltd during his visit, Liu said. The car, which is
designed in the U.K., built in China and assembled at
Longbridge, provides a model of how British and Chinese
businesses can work together, Liu said.  “There’s a lot of talk about getting more Chinese
investment but we need more action,” Liu told reporters in
 London  today. “The visit by Premier Wen to the MG factory will
symbolise Chinese commitment to expanding cooperation with the
U.K.”  Liu said that when he worked in provincial government he
went out of his way to encourage foreign companies to bid for
projects, giving details of expected returns along with tax
breaks and other incentives. Negative U.K. media coverage of
Chinese investment, restrictions on visas and a lack of clarity
on rules for inward investment are forcing Chinese companies to
look elsewhere, he said.  “Chinese businesses will compare -- why should they invest
in the U.K., not France,  Germany  or other economies?” Liu said.
“We really need to identify flagship projects and high-speed
rail might be one of them.”  China has “the knowledge, expertise and experience” to
assist with the building of the high-speed line, which will link
London to the Midlands and north of  England , Liu said.  Wen will hold talks with Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
make a “major speech” at the Royal Society in London as well
as visiting MG, Liu said. The premier will also indulge his
interest in William Shakespeare with a visit to the playwright’s
 birthplace  in Stratford-upon-Avon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 