-- 
Existing-Home Sales in U.S. Fell in May to Six-Month Low, May Be at Bottom

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-21T20:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-s-existing-home-sales-hit-six-month-low.html
Sales of existing U.S. homes
decreased in May to the lowest level in six months, a sign that
the housing market is lagging other parts of the economy.  Purchases of existing homes fell 3.8 percent to a 4.81
million annual pace last month, in line with the 4.8 million
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, data
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . Preliminary figures showing a jump in contract
signings suggest May will prove to be the weakest sales month of
the year, according to the group’s chief economist.  An  unemployment rate  hovering around 9 percent and tight
credit standards mean it may take years to absorb the 1.8
million distressed properties on the market that are weighing
down home values. Persistent weakness in the housing market is
one reason why Federal Reserve policy makers are likely to
maintain record stimulus when they meet this week.  “There is no real let-up in the weakness,” said  David Semmens , an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York.
“Distressed sales are going to be weighing down prices
further.”  The median sales price declined from a year earlier and 31
percent of transactions were of distressed dwellings.  Stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
higher for a fourth day, as concern about  Greece ’s debt crisis
eased. The  S&P 500  climbed 1.3 percent to 1,295.52 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York.  Estimates for home sales ranged from 4.5 million to 5.18
million, according to the median of 69 forecasts in the
Bloomberg survey. Purchases reached a record 7.08 million in
2005, and slumped to a 13-year low of 4.91 million last year.  Cash Transactions  Of all purchases, cash transactions accounted for about 30
percent, NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a news
conference today as the figures were released. The Realtors
group began tracking the monthly figure in August 2008, and the
share on a yearly basis before that was around 10 percent, Yun
has said.  Distressed sales, which comprise foreclosures and short
sales, in which the lender agrees to a transaction for less than
the balance of the mortgage, accounted for a smaller share of
the total in May than in recent months because the market for
non-distressed properties is usually stronger during this time
of year, Yun said.  May sales will probably turn out to be “the low point of
the year,” Yun said in the press conference. Pending sales,
which are based on contract signings, look to be up around 15
percent for May, Yun said based on incomplete data. The report
is due next week.  By Region  Existing-home sales decreased in three of four regions in
May, led by a 6.4 percent drop in the Midwest.  The median sales price fell 4.6 percent last month from May
2010 to $166,500.  The number of previously owned homes on the market fell to
3.72 million in May from 3.76 million the previous month. At the
current sales pace, it would take 9.3 months to sell those
houses, compared with 9 months at the end of April. Supply in
the eight months to nine months range is consistent with stable
 home prices , the group has said.  The 1.8 million of inventory of distressed homes nationwide
would take about three years to sell at the current pace,  Daren
Blomquist , communications manager at RealtyTrac Inc., said last
week.  Competition from existing homes selling at discounted
prices is hurting builders. Sales of new properties dropped 5.3
percent in May to a 306,000 annual pace, economists said ahead
of a June 23 report from the Commerce Department. A record-low
323,000 new homes were sold last year.  ‘Very Weak’  “We still see housing demand at very weak levels,” Bill
Wheat, chief financial officer at D.R. Horton Inc. the second-
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, said last month at a
housing conference in  New York . “It could still be a struggle
in 2012.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been among those
forecasting that the recent slowdown in growth will prove
temporary as commodity prices retreat. At the same time, the
central bank should maintain record stimulus to bolster a
“frustratingly slow” recovery, he said this month. Officials
are scheduled to meet in Washington today and tomorrow to
determine the course of policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  