-- 
U.S. Stock Exchanges Ask SEC to Postpone Market-Access Rules to November

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-06-21T20:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-s-stock-exchanges-ask-sec-to-delay-market-access-rules-until-november.html
The four largest U.S. stock market
operators asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to delay
implementation of rules governing how brokers send orders to
venues, which includes a ban on unsupervised market access given
to some high-frequency traders.  NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , Bats Global Markets
and Direct Edge Holdings Inc. asked the regulator for an
extension until Nov. 30 from the current deadline of July 14,
according to a letter dated yesterday obtained by Bloomberg
News. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
a trade organization for brokers, banks and asset managers, also
 asked  for an extension for all securities firms in April.  Regulators are trying to prevent computer-driven trading
strategies and erroneous orders from causing market routs and
increasing risks to brokers and the financial system. The
market-access rules will  require  brokers to implement financial
and risk controls for all securities orders before those trading
requests are sent to exchanges and other venues.  The exchanges said in the letter that a “number of
interpretative issues” regarding the rule must be resolved and
that they need time to “complete the development and
implementation of the compliance controls.”  Lower Fees  Their request would apply only to securities firms that
route orders on behalf of other brokers, not those sending
orders to markets directly, they said. Sifma asked for a delay
for all securities firms.  John Jacobs, director of operations at Lime Brokerage LLC,
a subsidiary of Wedbush Inc., said he agreed the SEC should
extend the deadline to give brokers more time to comply with the
rule. Many brokers use other securities firms to send orders to
exchanges to get the benefit of better fees or rebates based on
that firm’s trading volume. Exchanges such as Nasdaq Stock
Market and NYSE Arca, run by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , have different  fees 
for brokers that send them a certain amount of shares per month.  “There’s still a fair amount of pushback from aggregators
and those who benefit from the aggregation” of trading volume
about some of the new rule’s requirements, Jacobs said.  Brokers that receive an order from a mutual or pension fund
must run risk checks to make sure the request doesn’t exceed a
client’s account limits, isn’t erroneous and doesn’t fall afoul
of securities rules. Under the SEC proposal, if that broker
sends the order to another broker for execution, the second firm
must run its own set of checks, even if the original securities
firm already performed a similar analysis. Some, but not all,
checks can be delegated to the first firm.  ‘Naked’ Access  The rule, which the SEC  approved  in November, includes a
ban on unfiltered or “naked” access, in which brokers allow
clients to make unsupervised trades on  stock exchanges , using
the securities firm’s identification number, a practice that
Boston-based research firm  Aite Group LLC  said accounted for two
of every five shares traded in 2009.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for New York-based NYSE
Euronext, and Stacie Fleming of Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats
declined to comment. Robert Madden of Nasdaq OMX in New York
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment. Michael Boccio of
Sloane & Co., which represents  Jersey City , New Jersey-based
Direct Edge, said the market operator co-signed the letter.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on
whether implementation would be delayed.  Credit Thresholds  The SEC rule will force firms providing clients with direct
access to exchanges to analyze customer credit thresholds,
ensure that orders don’t violate short-sale rules, check for
manipulative activity and prevent errant trades before those
orders are sent to the market, Gerard Citera, an expert on
regulation at Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, said at a private panel
at Nasdaq OMX in February. Chief executive officers at broker-
dealers must certify their firms’ controls, he said.  Many brokers don’t want another broker to check orders
they’ve already vetted, New York-based Jacobs said. Lime, which
Los Angeles-based Wedbush agreed to buy on June 13, is ready for
the new rules, he said.  While the four  exchange operators  said they’re making their
request “on behalf of all routing broker-dealers,” they
highlighted the “unique responsibilities and limitations” they
face through the routing brokers they operate as subsidiaries.
These brokers are run as facilities of an exchange and must
receive regulatory approvals for all rules they institute.  Worse Prices  The brokers are used to allow exchanges to comply with
rules requiring them to avoid trading at a price inferior to the
best available price on another market by  sending orders  to the
other venue. While many larger brokers prefer making their own
routing decisions, this service by exchanges offers an
alternative and is used by many smaller and medium-size firms.  The exchanges told the SEC that their routing brokers
currently have no discretion to reject orders they’re required
to route elsewhere if the buy or sell requests are deemed
erroneous or shouldn’t be allowed for another reason. They need
to build the controls that would allow them to comply with the
 market-access rule , they said.  The exchanges also said the rules may cost more to
implement than the SEC initially projected. They added that the
regulator’s limitation on the products and services an
exchange’s routing broker can offer “has had the effect of
limiting the availability of sources of revenue to offset the
costs of compliance with regulatory requirements,” including
the  market-access  rule.  Exchanges could choose not to offer routing services. They
aren’t obligated by the SEC to provide them.  A delay in the market-access rules would give brokers in
equities, options and fixed-income products more time to prepare
their trading and compliance systems, Jacobs said.  “One of the disconnects we’re seeing is that people don’t
understand this also applies to internal order flow at a broker-
dealer,” Jacobs said. “If the block sales trader is trading on
behalf of a customer, that order flow must be programmatically
risk managed. People erroneously think this is only about naked
access and that’s not the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  