-- 
U.S. Must Help Asean Countries Build South China Sea Defenses, McCain Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-21T08:30:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-s-must-help-asean-countries-build-south-china-sea-defenses-mccain-says.html
The U.S. must help Southeast Asian
countries build up naval defenses to counter “aggressive”
Chinese actions in the South  China  Sea, Senator  John McCain  said
in a speech.  The U.S. should aid the 10-member Association of Southeast
Asian Nations to “build up their maritime defense and detection
capabilities to develop and deploy basic systems such as early-
warning radar and coastal security vessels,” he said, according
to a transcript of a  speech  yesterday to the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  Tensions in the disputed waters have increased over the
past month as the Philippines and Vietnam said Chinese ships had
harassed their oil and gas survey vessels.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ,  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  and Vietnam Oil & Gas
Group, known as PetroVietnam, have operations in areas of the
 South China Sea  claimed by China.  McCain, an Arizona Republican and ranking member of the
Senate Armed Forces Committee, said “the aggressive behavior of
China and the unsubstantiated territorial claims that it seeks
to advance” are “exacerbating tensions” in the waters.  “China has always committed to resolving the South China
Sea issue through bilateral negotiations,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing today. “China does
what it says. China has been working to constructively solve the
South China Sea issues in a peaceful manner.”  ‘Bad Example’  Vietnam and China conducted a two-day joint patrol of the
countries’ delineated maritime border in the Gulf of Tonkin,
Vietnam News reported, citing Vietnam’s Deputy Chief of the
Naval Staff Colonel Nguyen Van Kiem. The 11th joint patrol
between the countries began June 19 and included two vessels
from each navy, the paper said.  An unsigned  editorial  in the Chinese state-owned Global
Times today said Vietnam “has been gaining the most benefits
from undersea natural gas and oil exploitation” and is
“setting a bad example in  Southeast Asia .”  “If Vietnam continues to provoke China in this region,
China will first deal with it with maritime police forces, and
if necessary, strike back with naval forces,” the editorial
said, adding that China would also take back islands occupied by
Vietnam. “If Vietnam wants to start a war, China has the
confidence to destroy invading Vietnam battleships, despite
possible objections from the international community.”  McCain called on President Barack Obama’s administration to
clarify the U.S. position on territorial claims and “what
actions we are prepared to take to support our policies and
partners.”  ‘Decisive Role’  “The events now unfolding in the South China Sea will play
a decisive role in shaping the development of the Asia-Pacific
region in this century,” he said.  Senators  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat and a former
Secretary of the Navy, and James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican,
submitted a resolution on June 13 condemning what they described
as “the use of force” by Chinese vessels.  The U.S., which has patrolled Asia-Pacific waters since
World War II, has defense treaties with the  Philippines  and
 Thailand , and guarantees Taiwan’s security. The U.S. Navy has
said it will conduct joint training exercises with both the
Philippines and Vietnam over the next two months.  World War II Vessel  The U.S. sold a 378-foot Coast Guard vessel equipped with a
helicopter launching pad and missile system to the Philippines
earlier this year that will be its largest naval vessel when
delivered in August, according to a May 12 statement by the
Philippine Navy. The BRP Rajah Humabon, currently the biggest
Philippines vessel, was  built in 1943  and used by the U.S.
against German submarines in World War II.  Chinese ships have rammed survey vessels operated by
PetroVietnam twice in the past month, according to  Vietnam ’s
foreign ministry, with one incident occurring in an area where
Calgary-based Talisman Energy planned a seismic program this
year. China has disputed that version of events, saying it’s
committed to maintaining peace in the seas.  The personnel in the China Marine Surveillance force will
rise to 15,000 by 2020 from 9,000 now, the China Daily  reported 
June 17, citing an unidentified official with the agency. The
number of surveillance vessels operated by the CMS will increase
from 260 to 350, the report said.  In addition to the CMS, China has four other civilian
maritime forces, including a fishery protection fleet that has
grown by an average of 100 vessels a year since 2005, according
to a report last year by  China Daily .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  