-- 
U.S. Company Swaps Decline by Most in 3 Months Amid Greek Vote

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-06-21T21:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/u-s-company-credit-swaps-decline-by-most-since-november-before-greek-vote.html
The cost of protecting U.S.
corporate bonds from default fell by the most in three months as
the Greek government faces a confidence vote that may result in
its avoiding a default.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.9 basis points to a
mid-price of 96.6 basis points as of 5:21 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. That’s the
largest drop since March 18.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said  Greece  has the
support of the European Union and faced tough talks with its
European partners to emerge from its financial crisis. Saving
Greece was the priority, he said, easing investor concern that
the country may default and roil global credit markets. The
credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves, has declined from 100.5 on June 16, the highest level
since October.  “If we give up in the middle of the road, history will
judge us harshly,” Papandreou said as a three-day debate on a
vote of confidence in his government drew to a close today.
“The impression the political class in this country gives is
that it hasn’t understood the seriousness of the crisis.”  Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index, which rises as
investor confidence improves and falls as it deteriorates, added
0.7 percentage point to 100.4 percent of face value, according
to Markit.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  