-- 
Muddy Waters Target Urges Action

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-21T04:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/muddy-waters-target-urges-action.html
Orient Paper Inc. (ONP) , a target of
short-seller  Muddy Waters  LLC last year, urged overseas-listed
Chinese companies to increase transparency after its shares fell
60 percent following the critical report.  After the  Muddy Waters June 28 analysis  that labeled Orient
a fraud, the company appointed Loeb & Loeb LLP, Deloitte &
Touche Financial Advisory Services and TransAsia Layers to probe
the allegations. That four-month investigation found no evidence
to support the short-seller’s claims.  Chinese companies “should conduct the third-party
independent investigation like we did, they should do it even
better than us in order to shut others’ mouths,” Liu Zhenyong,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baoding, Hebei-based
Orient Paper, said yesterday in a phone interview. Liu said he
may consider taking legal action against Muddy Waters.  Regulators and investors have increased scrutiny of Chinese
companies amid accounting allegations.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , a
Chinese tree-plantation owner, plunged 85 percent in two weeks
since Muddy Waters, an investment firm run by Carson Block
that’s betting against the stock, said the forestry company
overstated its timber holdings. Paulson & Co, its biggest
shareholder, said in a filing yesterday that it sold all of its
34.7 million shares.  Muddy Waters said in its 2010 report that Orient Paper
overstated its 2008 revenue by 27 times and assets by at least
10 times and misappropriated about $30 million. Since then,
Orient Paper shares have dropped to a year-low of $3.31, down 78
percent from its high in January 2010. Block put a “strong
sell” rating on the stock in his original report with a target
price of less than $1.  “The market clearly doesn’t believe Orient Paper,” Block
said in an e-mailed response to questions last night. “Orient
Paper never addressed many of our allegations, and it took
months to address the few that it did.”  ‘Prove We Are Clean’  Liu, the biggest shareholder with 28 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, said in the interview he is
“worried investors have lost their confidence as share prices
are falling.”  Chinese stocks listed in the U.S. have fallen 48 percent
this year, according to the Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers
Index of 78 companies. Shanghai-based ShengdaTech Inc. has
fallen the most, down 94 percent, after it set up a committee on
March 15 to investigate “potentially serious discrepancies and
unexplained issues” in its financial records.  Block made money as the stock fell because he had a short
position, as disclosed in the report. Short selling is the sale
of borrowed shares with the hope of profiting when they fall.  No Contact  Orient Paper has not been in contact with Block since after
the report was published and he responded to an email, Orient
Paper Chief Financial Officer Winston Yen said in an interview.  “Even after the independent investigation, he has never
tried to contact us to ask about it,” Yen said.  The company will start a 360,000-metric-ton-a-year
 production line  this year to boost capacity of packaging paper
and other products to 600,000 tons, Liu said. The line was
delayed because of the Muddy Waters report, he said.  Muddy Waters said in a June 2 report that Sino-Forest was a
“fraud” and overstated its concessions in  China . Sino-Forest
has established an independent committee to investigate the
allegations and appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist.
The company says the report is “inaccurate, spurious and
defamatory.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  