-- 
Hulu’s Board Said to Consider Options After Approach by Unnamed Suitor

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/hulu-board-said-to-consider-options-after-approach-by-suitor.html
Hulu LLC, the video-streaming
service owned by News Corp.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and NBC Universal,
was approached by a potential buyer and will consider its
options, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  The board hasn’t made a decision on whether to sell, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. The Los
Angeles-based company views the overture as more serious than
previous ones, the person said. Yahoo Inc. recently approached
the company about a purchase, the  Los Angeles  Times reported.  A new owner may provide capital for Hulu to acquire films
and TV shows and challenge  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the dominant
subscription streaming service. Hulu never went forward with a
planned IPO that envisioned a $2 billion value for the company.
A sale may also clear the way for Chief Executive Officer  Jason Kilar , who has clashed with his board, to set his own direction.  Technology companies, which have been trying to expand into
television, may be more interested than media companies, said
 Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los
Angeles.  Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday
an approach by a potential buyer.  NBC and News Corp.’s Fox introduced Hulu in October 2007 to
attract Internet users to their TV programs. The advertising-
supported service allowed people to watch previously broadcast
TV shows for free online.  Hulu received a $100 million investment from Providence
Equity Partners when it was introduced. Disney, based in
Burbank, California, became an investor in April 2009.  In June 2010, the company announced the Hulu Plus paid
service that offers current and archived TV shows on computers,
cell phones,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and TV sets.  Netflix Challenger  In November, the company lowered the $9.99 trial price by
20 percent to $7.99 to compete with Netflix.  Hulu Plus will have 1 million paying subscribers by year-
end, Kilar, 40, said in an April blog post. The company expects
to pay about $300 million for content in 2011, he wrote.  Netflix said that month it had 23 million paying
subscribers in the U.S. and Canada. Netflix, based in Los Gatos,
California, offers online viewing for $7.99 a month, as well as
DVD rentals by mail on a subscription basis.  Hulu’s board includes Kilar and representatives from
Disney, Providence and Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , according to
the company’s website.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  agreed to give up
management control of Hulu when it purchased NBC Universal while
continuing to provide content.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for New York-based News Corp.,
declined to comment.  Zenia Mucha , a Disney spokeswoman, and
Kathy Kelly-Brown, a spokeswoman for NBC Universal in  New York ,
didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.  Dana Lengkeek, spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo, declined to comment on the Los Angeles Times report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  