-- 
Universal Music Taps Kanye West Manager Roberson to Restart Geffen Label

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-06-21T19:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/universal-music-taps-kanye-west-manager-roberson-to-restart-geffen-label.html
Universal Music  Group hired Gee Roberson, manager of rap artists including Kanye West and Nicki
Minaj, to restart the company’s Geffen Records.  Roberson will be chairman of New York-based Geffen,
Universal Music, part of Paris-based  Vivendi SA (VIV) , said today in
an e-mailed statement. He reports to Interscope Geffen A&M
Chairman Jimmy Iovine.  Record companies are reviving well-known labels to recruit
artists and build connections with customers. EMI Group last
week restarted I.R.S. Records, formerly home to R.E.M. and The
Go-Go’s. At Geffen, Roberson will work to expand direct digital
sales to consumers, merchandising, touring and management.  Roberson started in the industry at Jay-Z’s Roc-A-Fella
Records in New York and rose to senior vice president in charge
of scouting and artist development. At Geffen, he will also
oversee creative direction and operations, Universal Music said.
He will manage about a dozen employees and is currently hiring,
the world’s largest music company said.  “Gee has a unique combination of talents that the  music
industry  really needs running a record company today” Iovine
said in the statement.  Vivendi rose 47 cents to 18.93 euros today in Paris
trading. The stock has declined 6.3 percent this year.  At Roc-A-Fella, Roberson helped oversee releases, from Jay-
Z and others, that cumulatively sold more than 25 million
copies, Universal Music said. He also served at  Warner Music
Group Corp. (WMG) ’s Atlantic Records as senior vice president of
recruiting and development in the urban music group.  Roberson is also co-chief executive officer of HipHop Since
1978, a management company with clients that include Lil’ Wayne,
Drake and Young Jeezy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  