-- 
Huntsman, Ex-Envoy to China, Enters ’12 Presidential Race Invoking Reagan

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-21T23:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/huntsman-to-enter-presidential-race-as-un-cola-republican-in-2012-field.html
Jon Huntsman Jr., the former Utah
governor and Obama administration envoy to China, formally
announced his presidential bid today, positioning himself as an
unconventional fresh face in a crowded Republican field.  At a New Jersey park with the Statue of Liberty looming in
the background, Huntsman invoked former President  Ronald Reagan ,
promising a campaign based on themes of American renewal that
would draw respectful yet clear contrasts with President  Barack Obama , until recently Huntsman’s boss.  “What we now need is leadership that trusts in our
strength,” Huntsman said, “leadership that knows we need more
than hope, leadership that knows we need answers.”  Huntsman said Reagan, who announced his successful 1980
presidential bid at the same spot, “assured us we could ‘make
America great again,’ and through his leadership, he did.”  “I stand in his shadow, as well as the shadow of this
magnificent monument to our liberty,” Huntsman said.  Huntsman, 51, later traded his suit and tie for a checked
shirt and campaigned in  New Hampshire , an early-voting state in
the nomination process in which independents can hold sway. At a
rally in Exeter, he called for “broad and bold changes to our
 tax code  and regulatory policies” to “reignite the powerful
job-creating engine of our economy: the industry, innovation,
reliability and trailblazing genius of Americans and their
enterprises.”  ‘Manage the End’  He also urged a turning inward on foreign policy, including
steps to “manage the end” to conflicts abroad.  “It’s not that we wish to disengage from the world --
don’t get me wrong,” Huntsman said, “but rather that we
believe the best long-term national security strategy is
rebuilding our core right here at home.”  Speaking to reporters later, Huntsman declined to say what
he wanted to hear in the speech Obama will give tomorrow on U.S.
troop withdrawals from  Afghanistan . He did say the fate of the
U.S. wouldn’t be dictated by what happens there.  “Despite the threat from elements that don’t like us, I’m
not sure that the future of our country is necessarily going to
be fought on the prairies of Afghanistan,” Huntsman said. “Our
future is pretty much going to be determined with the major
trading partners of the world. It will be about competitiveness
in the 21st century.”  Romney Comparison  Among Huntsman’s biggest challenges is setting himself
apart from  Mitt Romney , another telegenic former governor with a
reputation as a fiscal conservative and social moderate. Both
men also are Mormons. Romney is the front runner for the
Republican nomination in most polls as he embarks on his second
presidential run, and as Massachusetts’ former governor he
enjoys a regional advantage in the New Hampshire primary race.  Fergus Cullen, a former chairman of the New Hampshire
 Republican Party , said of Huntsman: “As the rest of the field
is trying to differentiate themselves from Mitt Romney, he’s got
as big a job as anyone.”  Huntsman, who was joined by his wife, Mary Kaye, and six of
their seven children, never mentioned Romney in his candidacy
speech. Yet an introductory video shown before he spoke
contained a veiled swipe at Romney stemming from the
Massachusetts health-care law enacted during his governorship --
and which Obama has said was a model for the federal statute,
unpopular among Republicans, that Congress passed last year.  ‘Not Government-Run’  The video’s narrator, actor  Brian Dennehy , listed among
Huntsman’s attributes that as  Utah ’s governor he took on health
care and “did it right: no mandates, free market-based, not
government-run.”  “Ah,” the voice intoned, “if others had only chosen that
path.”  Huntsman’s video also suggested criticism of Romney based
on both men’s past corporate experience. It said Huntsman, a
former executive at Huntsman Corp., the chemical company that
started as his family’s business in 1970 in  Salt Lake City ,
“built things, built jobs -- didn’t just buy them.”  In campaigning, Romney touts his experience creating jobs
in part as co-founder of the Boston-based private equity firm
Bain Capital LLC, a firm that invested in other companies for
profit.  Huntsman’s link to Huntsman Corp., which has operations
headquarters near Houston, poses a potential political liability
for him. The company’s rapid expansion in  China  could offer a
target for rivals who are focusing on U.S. unemployment as a key
theme in the 2012 presidential race.  Motocross Rider  His bid to offer himself as a new kind of candidate was
part of the aim of the visually striking yet cryptic series of
 videos  his campaign released over the last week that show a
motocross rider driving through desert brush. Each flashes a
quirky biographical fact about Huntsman across the screen: that
he was once in a band called Wizard; that his seven children
include one adopted from China and one from  India ; that he rides
motocross to relax.  The last installment was shown to supporters and media
today before his candidacy announcement and later before he
spoke at the Exeter rally. Along with its apparent efforts to
differentiate him from Romney, it previewed some of Huntsman’s
likely campaign arguments, including calling him “the ultimate
conservative -- forever pro-life,” someone who is “no
mainstream politician,” and “the guy who can win -- decent,
calm, wise, firm and disciplined.”  “This guy is different,” it concluded.  Republican ‘Un-Cola’  That pitch could appeal to a broad swath of Republicans and
independent voters, strategists said.  “He’s the un-cola of the Republican candidates at a time
when people are looking for somebody different,” said
Republican strategist Mark McKinnon, a onetime adviser to former
President  George W. Bush  who isn’t affiliated with any
presidential candidate. “He’s shaping a new message.”  Huntsman is seen as a centrist within his party, which other
Republican strategists said could stymie his presidential bid.
He angered some Republican activists as governor of Utah by
expressing support for civil unions for same-sex couples,
comprehensive immigration legislation and a cap-and-trade regime
to curb  carbon emissions , a position he has since backed away
from.  “Our primaries are dominated by conservative voters --
mostly economic, but a lot of social conservatives too,” said
Frank Donatelli, who worked as an adviser to Reagan. Former New
York Mayor Rudy Giuliani’s unsuccessful 2008 presidential bid
showed “it’s difficult -- not impossible, in my judgment, but
difficult -- for a social moderate to get the Republican
nomination.”  ‘High Road’  The campaign will take “the high road,” Huntsman promised
during his speech. “I don’t think you need to run down
someone’s reputation in order to run for the office of
president,” he said, decrying what he called the “corrosive”
nature of today’s political debates.  The Obama campaign wasted little time in challenging
Huntsman. “Like the other Republican candidates, instead of
proposing a plan that will allow middle-class families to
reclaim their economic security, Governor Huntsman is proposing
a return to the failed economic policies that led us into the
recession,”  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman for the president’s re-
election bid, said in a statement.  ‘Re-invention Tour’  Debbie Wasserman Schultz, chairwoman of the  Democratic
National Committee  and a U.S. representative from  Florida , said
Huntsman was on a “re-invention tour,” trying to bill himself
as unconventional even though he shares much in common with his
Republican rivals.  “Sadly,  Jon Huntsman  is not different -- having reversed
himself on the positions he took as governor he’s now become a
typical, Mitt Romney-like politician whose ambition is more
important than his principles,” she said in a statement.  Huntsman also faced barbs from his right. Republican
presidential candidate Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania
senator whose signature issue is his opposition to abortion
rights, released a Web advertisement criticizing him for failing
to sign the “pro-life pledge” by the anti-abortion-rights
group Susan B. Anthony List.  In his remarks to reporters on board a campaign plane after
the New Hampshire rally, Huntsman said his policy isn’t to sign
pledges.  “Your record should say everything about who you are and
where you’re going. I don’t need to sign a pledge,” Huntsman
said.  His campaign later released a statement saying Huntsman
signed anti-abortion legislation as governor and “has lived
it,” having adopted two abandoned children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  