-- 
FIFA’s Valcke Won’t Face Charges for Qatar E-Mail Claim, Soccer Group Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-21T17:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/valcke-won-t-face-charges-for-e-mail-comments-on-qatar-fifa-says.html
FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke 
won’t face internal charges for sending an e-mail that claimed
Qatar “bought” the right to host the 2022 World Cup, soccer’s
governing body said.  Valcke’s e-mail was revealed last month by former FIFA Vice
President  Jack Warner , who quit from all his soccer roles
yesterday amid a bribery investigation into him and Mohamed Bin Hammam, the head of Asian soccer from Qatar who was a candidate
for the FIFA presidency. They both deny wrongdoing.  “There are no pending issues to discuss in this regard and
the FIFA president and  FIFA  secretary general look forward to
working together in full confidence and trust in the next four-
year cycle, as they have done for the past four years,” FIFA
said in an e-mailed statement.  Valcke said after Warner revealed the private e-mail that
he meant Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied,
natural gas, used its funds to “heavily promote their bid all
around the world in a very efficient manner.”  The e-mail, supplied to the media by Warner and typed by
Valcke, referred to Bin Hammam and FIFA President Sepp Blatter
by their initials, MBH and JSB.  “For MBH, I never understood why he was running,” Valcke
wrote. “If really he thought he had a chance or just being an
extreme way to express how much he does not like anymore JSB. Or
he thought you can buy FIFA as they bought the”  World Cup .  Qatar Wins  Qatar, a desert state smaller than  Connecticut , was the
surprise winner of the hosting rights to the event, beating bids
from the U.S.,  Australia ,  Japan  and  Korea . American officials
estimate the event to be worth $5 billion.  Valcke, FIFA’s highest non-elected official, has said he
won’t comment further to anyone other than Qatari officials.
Qatar has denied claims it paid for votes from some of FIFA’s
executive committee.  Blatter won a fourth term as president as the sole
candidate on June 1 following Bin Hammam’s withdrawal amid the
bribery claim. Days before the election Blatter refused to
answer whether it was appropriate for Valcke to have made those
comments.  According to FIFA’s statutes only its president can appoint
or remove the general secretary from office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  