-- 
Venezuelan Overnight Rate Sinks Toward Zero on Chavez Push to Spur Lending

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-06-21T19:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/venezuelan-overnight-rate-sinks-toward-zero-on-chavez-push-to-spur-lending.html
Venezuela ’s overnight bank lending
rate fell to the lowest since 2008 as President  Hugo Chavez ’s
push to boost bank lending swelled the amount of cash in the
financial system.  The rate at which banks lend to each other declined to an
average of 0.09 percent today from 0.1 percent yesterday, said
an official at the  central bank , who asked not to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly. That’s the lowest
level since June 20, 2008. The rate has fallen for 8 consecutive
days from 10.5 percent on June 9.  “There’s an excess of liquidity in the system so there
aren’t any banks looking to borrow in the market,” said Jose
Grasso, president of Softline Consultores, a Caracas-based
banking research and consulting firm. “Banks are more focused
on lending than borrowing right now.”  Chavez ordered the central bank to reduce  reserve
requirements  in April to free up as much as 10 billion bolivars
($2.3 billion) to be used for lending to build homes in a bid to
pare an estimated 2 million unit housing deficit. Bank lending
rose 33.8 percent from a year earlier in May, according to
Softline.  The monetary base, which measures the amount of bolivars in
circulation, has risen 10 percent in nominal terms this year to
324.3 billion bolivars on June 10, the latest available data
from the central bank show. The overnight rate has averaged 9.7
percent in 2011 and 6.3 percent in June.  Government plans to sell an additional 45 billion bolivars
of debt this year will likely drain liquidity from the system
and cause the rate to rise,  Asdrubal Oliveros , director at the
economic research and consulting firm Ecoanalitica, said.  “These high liquidity levels indicate that the government
will increase spending and have no problem selling the bolivar-
denominated debt to be issued locally to banks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  