-- 
Virgin Atlantic Pilots Vote in Favor of Strike in Pay Dispute; No Date Set

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-21T16:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/virgin-atlantic-pilots-vote-in-favor-of-strike-in-pay-dispute-no-date-set.html
Pilots at  Richard Branson ’s Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd., the second-biggest long-haul carrier
based at London’s Heathrow airport, have voted to go on strike
in a dispute with the airline over pay.  About 97 percent of pilots voted in favor of  strike action ,
with a 94 percent participation rate in the vote, the British
Airlines Pilots Association said today in a statement on its
website. The union, which represents about 85 percent of Virgin
Atlantic’s 750 pilots, said it hadn’t yet set any strike dates
so that Branson could intervene in the dispute.  “The size of the poll and the huge majority for action
should send a clear message to Sir Richard Branson,” Balpa
General Secretary Jim McAuslan said in the statement. “Pilots
are prepared to strike. We have absolute resolve to secure a
fair settlement.”  Pilots, who haven’t had a salary increase since 2008,
rejected Virgin’s offer of a pay rise of 4 percent this year and
by 3 percent next year and in 2013. The airline froze salaries
in order to cut costs and help it survive a slump in demand for
 air travel  in the wake of the global recession.  Virgin Atlantic said today that it made “an industry
leading offer” to BALPA, and that once the union had properly
explained the deal to its members a strike would be averted. The
airline also said it has contingency plans in place that would
minimize the impact on customers of any industrial action.  Annual Loss  Virgin Atlantic had a net loss of 125.2 million pounds
($202 million) in the 12 months ended Feb. 28, 2010, the most
recent period for which figures are available, versus a 36
million-pound profit a year earlier. Sales fell 11 percent to
1.98 billion pounds.  The airline’s CEO Steve Ridgway said in an interview June
15 that he was confident of averting a walkout and that the
pilots didn’t want to go on strike. Balpa hasn’t carried out a
strike at any airline in 32 years.  A series of strikes by flight attendants at Virgin’s
Heathrow neighbor British Airways last year cost that airline
about 150 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  