-- 
NLRB Proposes Removing ‘Unnecessary Barriers’ to Union Votes

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-06-21T19:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/votes-to-unionize-would-be-harder-to-block-under-proposed-rules-from-nlrb.html
Companies would have less time and
opportunity to block unions under a proposed U.S. rule that
would speed voting in labor elections.  The  proposed rule  issued today by the  National Labor
Relations Board , an agency that investigates unfair labor
practices, would bring changes sought by unions, such as faster
hearing deadlines and streamlined procedures.  The push for quicker elections is a victory for unions
after defeats at the hands of Republican governors seeking to
curb public-employee unions. It’s also a sign of the NLRB’s pro-
labor bent since President Barack Obama’s appointees have become
a majority, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “We knew it was only a matter of time before the
administration used the regulatory process to tilt the playing
field in organized labor’s favor,”  Michael Eastman , executive
director of labor-law policy with the Chamber in Washington, the
nation’s largest business lobbying group, said in an e-mail.  The NLRB said in a statement that its proposal would
eliminate “unnecessary barriers,” reduce litigation and
consolidate the review of challenges. “Resolving representation
questions quickly, fairly and accurately has been an overriding
goal of American labor law for more than 75 years,” NLRB
Chairman Wilma Liebman said today in a statement.  Boeing Dispute  The NLRB’s rule may have a broader effect than a complaint
filed by its general counsel in April that said  Boeing Co. (BA) , the
world’s largest aerospace company, improperly retaliated against
union workers in Washington state by opening a non-union plant
in  South Carolina . The Chicago-based company has denied such a
motivation for adding the plant, and Republican lawmakers have
said they may move to cut off the agency’s funding.  “This is likely to be a huge controversy, such as it’s
become with Boeing,” Nelson Lichtenstein, a professor of
history at the  University of California  in  Santa Barbara  and
head of its center that studies labor issues, said in an
interview. The change will be only “moderately useful to the
unions,” he said.  The NLRB conducted 1,633 union-representation elections in
the year ended Sept. 30, 2009, the most recent period posted on
the agency’s website. Of cases closed in the period, employees
chose to join a union in 64 percent of the votes.  The proposed rule may staunch a decline in union
membership, according to Peter Schaumber, a former NLRB member
chairman appointed by President  George W. Bush .  “It will give them a better chance of winning elections,”
Schaumber said in an e-mail.  Union Decline  Union membership in the U.S. fell to 11.9 percent of the
workforce last year, from 12.3 percent in 2009, the Labor
Department said in January. Representation by unions has fallen
since the agency began collecting data in 1983, when 20.1
percent of the workforce was organized.  The NLRB said it intends to hold a public hearing on the
proposed election rules on July 18 and July 19 in Washington.  Wisconsin ’s Governor  Scott Walker  is among Republicans who
have moved to rein in government workers’ unions this year.
Walker won legislation in March that requires annual
recertification votes by a majority of all members for public-
employees union representation and makes payment of membership
dues voluntary. Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  Cullen Werwie, Walker’s spokesman, and Mike Schrimpf, a
spokesman for the  Republican Governors Association , didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment on the NLRB
decision.  Florida ’s Governor  “If we want to create jobs and a vibrant economy, we need
policies that will foster growth, not stifle it,” Lane Wright,
a spokesman for Florida’s Republican Governor  Rick Scott , said
in an e-mailed statement.  Among changes proposed by the NLRB are permitting
electronic filing of petitions, deferring “litigation of most
voter eligibility issues until after the election” and
consolidating appeals to the board “into a single post-election
appeals process,” the agency said in the statement.  Unions say companies delay elections to gain time to
pressure workers.  “Too many workers have seen their efforts to join together
on the job defeated by costly litigation and delaying tactics by
their employer,” Mary Kay Henry, president of the  Service
Employees International Union , said in a statement.  Dissenting Member  The proposed rule will force elections “in 10 to 21 days
after the filing” of a petition to create a union, according to
Brian Hayes, the NLRB’s only Republican member and the dissenter
in a 3-1 vote on the planned changes.  Deadlines that tight will “effectively eviscerate an
employer’s legitimate opportunity to express its views about
collective bargaining,” Hayes wrote in his dissent.  The median time for a union election is now 38 days from
petition to the vote, according to the NLRB.  The proposal will help level the playing field between
management and labor, Kate Bronfenbrenner, director of labor-
education research at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,  New York ,
said in an interview.  “Employers are emboldened and feel they can do whatever
they want and can declare war on workers when they try to
organize,” Bronfenbrenner said in an interview. “There’s going
to be a huge reaction” to the NLRB’s proposal, she said.  ‘Card-Check’ Measure  Unions have sought NLRB action to speed elections since
losing their fight in Congress for “card-check” legislation.
The measure, backed by Obama, would have let workers form a
union without an election if a majority of employees signed
cards backing the move. While companies now can permit the card-
check procedure, most demand elections.  The NLRB issued its proposal a day after the U.S. Labor
Department proposed requiring companies to make more detailed
disclosures about consultants hired to help counter union
organizing. Currently, employers have to provide that
information only if the consultants contact employees directly.  “The proposed rules by the Labor Department and NLRB,
coming one day apart, are an attempt to give unions the upper
hand by limiting the ability of employers to exercise their free
speech rights,” Eastman of the Chamber said.  The NLRB rule “would help give workers the same ability to
bargain for wages and benefits now enjoyed by CEOs, whose pay
has skyrocketed while their employees continue to struggle,”
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said in a
statement.  Republican’s Statement  Representative  John Kline , a Republican from  Minnesota ,
said in a statement that “the Obama NLRB continues to push an
activist agenda at the expense of our nation’s workforce.”  Unions have said Obama, elected with their support, hasn’t
done enough to back their goals and the enthusiasm of members
has waned as he faces re-election next year.  “It will be more challenging this time than it was last
time to motivate our members,”  Richard Trumka , president of the
AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, said in a June 1
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  