-- 
Wal-Mart Class-Action Ruling Gives Employers Shield From High-Dollar Suits

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/wal-mart-ruling-gives-employers-shield-from-high-dollar-suits.html
The U.S. Supreme Court gave the
country’s largest companies a new shield from multibillion-
dollar lawsuits, as the justices rejected a bid to sue  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  on behalf of more than a million female workers.  The ruling limits the ability of plaintiffs’ lawyers to win
large awards through a single lawsuit, particularly against
employers. It’s the second such step this year from the court,
which in April said companies can channel customer and employee
grievances into arbitration without the possibility of class
actions.  The latest decision will have its most direct effect on
job-bias cases. Five of the court’s nine justices said class-
action status is incompatible with a nationwide suit alleging
local store managers had too much discretion over hiring and
promotion.  The ruling makes pursuit of discrimination class actions
“very difficult,” said  David Sanford , a  Washington  lawyer who
won a $175 million settlement in a gender-bias suit against
Novartis AG. “It hasn’t closed the door, but it’s made the
challenge much harder.”  Units of  Cigna Corp. (CI) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Publicis Group SA,  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST)  all face gender discrimination complaints that
seek class-action status. Sanford’s firm is pressing several of
those cases, including the suits against Cigna and Bayer.  Appeals Court Ruling  (For a related story on the Supreme Court ruling's impact 
on class action litigation, click here. For a story on how the 
decision may affect company bias policies, click here. And for 
a related story on how the plaintiffs in the Wal-Mart case plan 
on pursuing their claims, click here.)  The high court was unanimous in overturning a federal
appeals court ruling that approved the class action. All nine
justices said the lower court was wrong to apply the relatively
loose rules that apply when plaintiffs seek an end to bias,
rather than the more stringent standards that govern class
actions seeking damages.  Five justices went further and threw out the class-action
bid altogether. Writing for that majority, Justice  Antonin Scalia  said plaintiffs’ lawyers failed to identify a common
corporate policy that affected workers at thousands of Wal-Mart
and Sam’s Club stores across the country. He pointed to an
earlier Supreme Court decision requiring workers to show a
“specific employment practice” that produced the
discrimination.  The workers “have identified no ‘specific employment
practice’ -- much less one that ties all their 1.5 million
claims together,” Scalia  wrote . “Merely showing that Wal-
Mart’s policy of discretion has produced an overall sex-based
disparity does not suffice.”  ‘Baseless’ Claim  The ruling “made clear that the theory that the
plaintiffs’ lawyers in this case have pursued in this case all
along is baseless,” said Wal-Mart’s lead lawyer,  Theodore Boutrous  of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Los Angeles .  The women’s lawyers said they would seek to move ahead with
claims on behalf of aggrieved workers, either as individuals or
as part of smaller groups.  “This case is not over,” said  Brad Seligman , one of the
two lead attorneys for the workers. “Wal-Mart is not off the
hook. There are thousands of claims of discrimination that
remain to be filed.”  Women’s and civil rights organization called the ruling a
major setback for workers seeking to enforce anti-discrimination
laws. National Women’s Law Center co-president Marcia Greenberger said the ruling is a “devastating decision undoing
the rights of millions of women across the country to come
together and hold their employers accountable for their
discriminatory practices.”  2007 Ruling  The comments echoed the criticism that greeted a 2007
Supreme Court ruling that curbed lawsuits by workers claiming
they were underpaid because of discrimination that occurred
years earlier. President  Barack Obama  later signed legislation
overturning that decision.  Some Democrats, including House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California , called on Congress to similarly address
yesterday’s decision. Pelosi said lawmakers should act “boldly
and strongly.” The ruling “sets back the cause of equality for
women and for all Americans in the workplace and in our
society,” she said in a statement.  Reaction was muted in the Obama administration, which opted
not to take a position in the Supreme Court case.  Jay Carney ,
the White House spokesman, said administration lawyers would
study the case to determine its impact.  Every Woman  Filed in 2001, the suit aimed to cover every woman who
worked at the retailer’s Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club’s stores at any
point since December 1998, including those not hired until years
after the suit was filed.  The women pressing the suit claimed they and colleagues
across the country were victimized by Wal-Mart’s practice of
letting local managers make subjective decisions about pay and
promotions. More than 100 Wal-Mart employees filed sworn
 statements  saying they were paid less and given fewer
opportunities for promotion than male colleagues.  The ruling “is a big win for very large companies,” said
the lawyer who argued the case for the workers, Joseph Sellers
of Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC. The message from the
court is that “there are companies that are too big to be held
accountable in a single forum for these kinds of practices.”  Boutrous, the Wal-Mart lawyer, said the latest ruling gave
companies an appropriate level of legal protection at a time
when most companies have nondiscrimination policies and are
eager to see women and racial minorities advance.  “The plaintiffs’ lawyers have been relying on outdated
theories of discrimination law here that focused on the
situation 30, 40 years ago, when there were still expressly
discriminatory policies in society,” he said. “We’re far
beyond that now.”  The case is  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-277.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 