-- 
Wal-Mart Women Vow to Press Bias Fight in Lower Court, U.S. Rights Agency

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-06-21T20:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/wal-mart-women-vow-to-press-bias-fight-in-lower-court-u-s-rights-agency.html
The women who sought to sue  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  for gender bias on behalf of 1.5 million co-workers
said they will press their fight against the nation’s largest
private employer in smaller lawsuits in lower courts and claims
with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.  The U.S. Supreme Court yesterday said the women failed to
prove the world’s largest retailer had a nationwide policy that
led to gender discrimination. The court deprived them of the
leverage a nationwide suit brings, both in pooled legal
resources and a potential multibillion-dollar verdict, forcing
them to pursue claims on their own.  “When I go back to work tomorrow, I’m going to let them
know we are still fighting,” said Christine Kwapnoski, an
assistant manager at a Sam’s Club in Concord,  California . She
had accused a male manager of yelling at female employees and
telling her to “doll up” by wearing more makeup and dressing
better while working on a loading dock.  Wal-Mart may now face thousands of lawsuits nationwide and
claims of discrimination before federal agencies as plaintiffs’
lawyers fan out to courts across the country to file new
complaints on behalf of members of the failed group suit.  Kwapnoski and others pressing their suit claimed they were
victimized by Wal-Mart’s practice of letting local managers make
subjective decisions about pay and promotions. More than 100
employees filed sworn statements saying they were paid less and
given fewer opportunities for promotion than male colleagues.  Women seeking advancement were required to commit in
writing to overnight shifts for two years, while men were only
required to rotate through such positions on a six-month basis,
one former worker claimed.  Retail for Housewives  (For a related story on the  Supreme Court  ruling’s impact
on class action litigation, click here. To read a story on how
it may affect defenses against employee claims, click here. For
a story on how the decision may affect company bias policies,
click here.)  When one woman inquired about the higher wages paid to men
who had the same or less seniority, she was told that “retail
is for housewives who just need to earn extra money,” and “he
has a family to support,” according to one declaration by a
former Wal-Mart employee in Florida.  Wal-Mart said yesterday that the high court ruling
“effectively ends this class-action lawsuit.”  “As the majority made clear, the plaintiffs’ claims were
worlds away from showing a companywide pay and promotion
policy,” Wal-Mart, led by Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke,
said in a statement.  Wal-Mart rose 25 cents to $53.29 in New York Stock Exchange
trading.  The workers “provide no convincing proof of a companywide
discriminatory pay and promotion policy,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  wrote for the majority. All nine justices voted to
overturn a lower-court ruling that approved the class action,
with four of them saying they would have ordered further
proceedings.  Unbalanced Promotions  Betty Dukes, another lead plaintiff who began working at a
Pittsburg, California-based Wal-Mart store in 1994, said she
noticed early in her career that “it was not balanced” when it
came to promotions.  “The men at my store were being promoted more often than
the woman for the same positions, and many of those positions
were never openly posted,” she said in a telephone interview.
Promotion opportunities were disclosed by management, which was
predominantly male, she said.  Filed in 2001, the suit aimed to cover every woman who
worked at the retailer’s Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club’s stores at any
point since December 1998, including those not hired until years
after the suit was filed. A federal appeals court had let the
suit go forward on behalf of women who were working at Wal-Mart
at the time the suit was filed.  Twenty Companies  More than 20 companies supported Wal-Mart at the Supreme
Court, including  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   The Supreme Court ruling limits the ability of plaintiffs’
lawyers to win multimillion-dollar damages through a single
lawsuit, particularly against employers. Units of  Cigna Corp. (CI) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Publicis
Group SA,  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  all face gender
discrimination complaints that seek class-action status.  Four justices -- Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer,  Sonia Sotomayor  and Elena Kagan -- said they would have returned the
case to a lower court and let the workers try to press a class
action using a different legal theory.  The lead attorneys for the plaintiffs are Joseph Sellers of
Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll and  Brad Seligman  of the Impact
Fund, which describes itself as a foundation that handles public
interest litigation.  Aggrieved Workers  They said they would seek a way around the Supreme Court
ruling, moving ahead with claims on behalf of aggrieved workers,
either as individuals or as part of smaller groups.  “This case is not over,” said Seligman. “Wal-Mart is not
off the hook. There are thousands of claims of discrimination
that remain to be filed.”  The case was one of the most closely watched Supreme Court
business disputes in years, in part because the justices hadn’t
looked at the standards for certifying a class-action suit in
more than a decade.  Women’s advocates called on Congress to enact new
legislation protecting the rights of female workers in light of
the high court decision.  “With this decision, the Supreme Court has assisted Wal-
Mart in its efforts to systematically dole out promotions and
pay raises on the basis of sex,” said Terry O’Neill, president
of the National Organization for Women.  Washington  Protest  At a protest against the ruling today in front of the
Supreme Court in Washington, about 100 demonstrators called for
passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation intended to
address pay inequity issues tied to gender.  Allison Grady, a protester with the Feminists Majority
Foundation, said the demonstrators “wanted to be able to show
that we were standing with the women of Wal-Mart.”  White House spokesman Jay Carney yesterday declined to
comment on the case, while saying President Barack Obama
supports proposed federal legislation to ensure pay equity for
women in the workplace.  “We still are determined to go forward to present our case
in court,” said Dukes, the lead named plaintiff in the case.
“We believe we will prevail there.”  She and her co-plaintiffs alleged the world’s biggest
retailer discriminated against them on the basis of their sex by
denying them equal pay or promotions, in violation of 1964 civil
rights law. The court didn’t rule the company discriminated.  Stephanie Odle, 39, who initiated the lawsuit after being
fired from a Sam’s Club in 1999, said yesterday was a “great
day” for big business.  “It shows how the legal system works,” Odle said in a
telephone interview. “But I know in my heart that I made a
difference. I didn’t get the outcome we wanted, but the minute
that we filed the lawsuit, we started getting changes in pay and
promotions.”  Trumped-Up Charge  Odle was working as an assistant manager in a Sam’s Club in
Lubbock, Texas, when she was fired.  “They trumped up a charge and terminated me to give the
job to a man,” she claimed.  Odle now owns her own business in Norman, Oklahoma. She was
one of the original six plaintiffs who pursued the class action
against Wal-Mart. She was dropped as a named plaintiff after a
lower court decided all the class representatives needed to be
from California.  Odle said she worked for Sam’s Club for eight years, in
stores in several states.  “I’ve seen the discrimination, no matter what state you’re
in, no matter what region,” she said. “I gave up my right to
sue individually” while the class action was pending, Odle
said. “Now I go back and sue them individually.”  ‘Range of Options’  “We had prepared for a whole range of options,” attorney
Sellers said in an interview. “We began weeks ago preparing
thousands of charges to be filed with the EEOC,” referring to
the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which pursues
workplace claims on behalf of employees.  Lawyers for the woman will try to pursue “some more
narrowly drawn, tailored classes,” the lawyer said. “The case
becomes splintered. You end up with multiple cases where Wal-
Mart’s practices are being challenged.”  Federal lawsuits and claims before the EEOC won’t be
stopped by the statute of limitations, which places a time limit
on lawsuits, he said, because it was delayed while the proposed
class action was pending.  Sellers and co-counsel Seligman said they would be pursuing
individual actions against the company, and possibly smaller
class actions.  They may also go back to the federal court in  San Francisco 
where the claim was originally filed, seeking a narrowly drawn
case of California plaintiffs, he said, and bringing lawsuits
with different arguments in different jurisdictions.  “This will be a multi-front sort of battle,” he said.
“There are a number of options still available -- none of them
are as efficient” as a nationwide class action.  Contingency Fee  Since class action litigation is prosecuted on a
contingency fee basis -- lawyers get paid when the client wins -
- lawyers for the plaintiffs said they will continue to finance
the litigation.  “We’re in it to see this thing to a successful
conclusion,” Sellers said, adding that $3 million in expenses
have already been paid. “Millions of dollars in attorneys fees
have been expended and we haven’t been paid a penny.”  The cost of defending thousands of lawsuits in hundreds of
courthouses may be expensive for Wal-Mart as well.  “Wal-Mart may regret the day” it sought a rejection of
class certification, Seligman said. “Wal-Mart is not off the
hook.”  The case is  Wal-Mart Stores  v. Dukes, 10-00277, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr at the U.S. Supreme Court in Washington
at   gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  and. 