-- 
Wal-Mart, Barclays, Primary Global, JPMorgan in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-06-21T11:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/wal-mart-barclays-primary-global-jpmorgan-3m-in-court-news.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , in a  ruling 
that will mean new limits on class-action suits, ruled that Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. can’t be sued for discrimination on behalf of
potentially a million female workers.  The justices said the lawyers pressing the case failed to
point to a common corporate policy that led to gender
discrimination against workers at thousands of Wal-Mart and
Sam’s Club stores across the country.  The workers “provide no convincing proof of a companywide
discriminatory pay and promotion policy,” Justice Antonin
Scalia wrote for five members of the court. The justices were
unanimous on some aspects of the opinion and divided on others.  The company, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, said in a
statement that the ruling “effectively ends this class-action
lawsuit.”  “As the majority made clear, the plaintiffs’ claims were
worlds away from showing a companywide pay and promotion
policy,” Wal-Mart said.  The ruling may help companies facing similar suits. Units
of  Cigna Corp. (CI) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) , Publicis Group SA,  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) 
all face gender discrimination complaints that seek class-action
status. More than 20 companies supported Wal-Mart at the Supreme
Court, including  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , Bank of America
Corp.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)   Four justices -- Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer,  Sonia
Sotomayor  and Elena Kagan -- said they would have returned the
case to a lower court and let the workers try to press ahead
with a class action under a different legal theory.  The women’s lawyers said they would seek to press ahead
with claims on behalf of aggrieved workers, either as
individuals or as part of smaller groups.  “This case is not over,” said Brad Seligman, one of the
two lead attorneys for the workers. “Wal-Mart is not off the
hook. There are thousands of claims of discrimination that
remain to be filed.”  The case was one of the most closely watched Supreme Court
business disputes in years, in part because the justices hadn’t
looked at the standards for certifying a class-action suit in 12
years. Billions of dollars were at stake for Wal-Mart, the
world’s largest private employer.  The case is Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, 10-277, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  For a related story, click here.  Banks Can’t Block Theflyonthewall.com Reports, Court Rules  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  can’t use  New York  law to block
 Theflyonthewall.com , an online financial news service, from
issuing immediate reports about changes in their stock ratings,
a federal appeals court ruled.  The appeals panel yesterday in Manhattan reversed a lower
court ruling that had blocked Theflyonthewall.com, based in
Summit, New Jersey, from reporting the upgrades or downgrades of
stocks for two hours or until half an hour after the opening of
the New York Stock Exchange.  The injunction U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan
issued last year relied on New York state law, which permits
plaintiffs to sue based for the misappropriation of so-called
hot news.  “We conclude that in this case, a firm’s ability to make
news -- by issuing a recommendation that is likely to affect the
market price of a security -- does not give rise to a right for
it to control who breaks that news and how,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Robert Sack wrote on behalf of two judges on the three-judge
panel.  In a statement, Theflyonthewall.com called the ruling “a
complete victory in its long-running battle with the investment
firms.”  Glenn Ostrager, lead counsel for Theflyonthewall.com, said
in the statement that he is pleased the appeals court clarified
the law governing the publication of hot news.
Theflyonthewall.com will continue to publish its daily news
feeds, the company said in the statement.  “We are disappointed in the court’s decision, and we are
reviewing the decision to determine our next steps,” Benjamin
Marks, a lawyer for the banks, said in a statement. “Each of
the plaintiffs remains committed to protecting their equity
research against unauthorized appropriation. We note that the
appellate court left undisturbed the trial court’s determination
that Theflyonthewall.com had infringed copyrights in equity
research and left in place the injunction against further such
infringement.”  The case is Barclays Capital Inc. v. Theflyonthewall.com
Inc., 10-1372, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Hedge Fund Expert-Networker Convicted in Insider Trade Case  Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert networking
firm Primary Global Research LLC, was convicted in the third
trial to result from a U.S. government crackdown on insider
trading tied to hedge funds.  Jiau, 43, who provided industry information to financial
clients, was convicted of one count each of conspiracy and
securities fraud in Manhattan federal court for passing inside
tips about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to
hedge fund managers.  A sentencing date was scheduled for Sept. 21. Jiau’s
lawyer, Joanna Hendon, said she would file an appeal after the
sentencing.  Jiau, of Freemont, California, was one of several dozen
people charged in overlapping insider rings stemming from the
probe of New York-based hedge fund Galleon Group LLC. The cases
implicated hedge funds, banks, technology firms and consultants
such as Jiau.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Climate-Change Suit Against Utilities Rejected by Top Court  States can’t invoke federal law to force utilities to cut
greenhouse-gas emissions, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled, shutting
off one avenue for groups that advocate bolder steps against
climate change.  The unanimous ruling is a victory for five companies --
American Electric Power Co.,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,  Xcel Energy
Inc. (XEL) ,  Southern Co. (SO)  and the government-owned Tennessee Valley
Authority -- that had been sued by six U.S. states, including
California, and the city of New York.  The states, which sought a cap on emissions, argued that
carbon dioxide spewed by the utilities is a public nuisance
because it causes climate change. The justices  said  the
Environmental Protection Agency was better equipped than federal
judges to assess the costs and benefits of reducing greenhouse
gases.  “It is altogether fitting that Congress designated an
expert agency, here, EPA, as best suited to serve as primary
regulator of greenhouse-gas emissions,” Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg said for the court. Justice Sonia Sotomayor didn’t take
part in the case.  Through the federal Clean Air Act, Congress has entrusted
the EPA and state regulators to determine greenhouse-gas
regulations for industries, according to the court.  The ruling bolsters EPA’s position as the focal point for
curbing heat-trapping emissions from vehicles and industrial
polluters such as power plants, according to David Doniger,
policy director for the climate center at the Natural Resources
Defense Council, an environmental group based in New York.  The Obama administration joined the power industry in
urging rejection of the suit.  The ruling reverberates beyond the power industry. Trade
groups representing automakers, oil companies, farmers, mining
companies, chemical companies and manufacturers all urged the
court to dismiss the suits, in some cases saying their members
might face similar claims.  The case is American Electric Power v. Connecticut, 10-174.
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Ex-Langbar CEO Gets One Year in Jail for Misleading Market  Geoffrey Stuart Pearson, the former chief executive officer
of a Bermuda-based investment company at the center of a fraud
scandal, was sentenced to a year in prison for making misleading
statements about its assets.  Pearson, 63, was found guilty of three counts of making
misleading statements to the financial markets after a five-week
trial at a London criminal court, according to a statement
yesterday from the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, which prosecuted
the case. Pearson, who was acquitted of 10 other charges, was
also barred from working as a company director for five years,
the SFO said.  The jury found that Pearson lied to the market, saying that
Langbar International Ltd. had assets held by  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) 
and others in order to boost its share price. He also falsely
stated the company had an asset value of 357 million pounds
($578 million), according to the agency’s statement.  Pearson’s lawyer, Shula de Jersey, said the former CEO has
helped to recover 38 million pounds in a related civil lawsuit.  The judge recognized “Mr. Pearson was, for a substantial
part of time, himself a victim of deception by the principals in
this fraud, none of whom have ever been arrested, and this was
the basis upon which he was sentenced,” de Jersey said.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  JPMorgan, RBS Sued by Federal Agency Over Mortgage Bonds  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
units were sued by the federal agency that regulates credit
unions, seeking to recover money lost on mortgage-backed
securities.  The National Credit Union Administration Board, or NCUA,
accused the institutions of packaging and selling mortgage bonds
with loans that didn’t meet underwriting guidelines. The bonds,
sold to federally chartered credit unions, were rated AAA when
issued, according to the agency.  A material percentage amount of the loans included in the
bonds “were all but certain to become delinquent or default
shortly after origination,” the regulator said in two
complaints filed in federal court in Kansas City, Kansas. It
didn’t specify the amount of money sought.  JPMorgan sold credit unions almost $213 million of mortgage
bonds using sale documents that contained untrue statements or
lacked important information, according to one complaint. RBS
used documents with the same flaws to sell credit unions about
$138 million of bonds, the NCUA said in the other complaint.  The NCUA wants the banks to help cover losses tied to the
failures of at least four federal credit unions that bought the
securities, including U.S. Central Federal Credit Union, which
was placed into conservatorship in 2009. The agency is
liquidating the credit unions.  The prospectuses for the bond sales contained “untrue
statements of material fact or omitted material facts,” in
violation of U.S. securities laws, according to the NCUA.  Michael Geller, a spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS, and
Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment yesterday.  The cases are National Credit Union Administration Board v.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 11-cv-02341, and National Credit
Union Administration Board v. RBS Securities Inc., 11-cv-02340,
U.S. District Court, District Of Kansas (Kansas City).  David Lerner Associates Sued Over $6.8 Billion in REITs  David Lerner Associates Inc. was sued by investors who
claimed it acted negligently in the sale and underwriting of
more than $6.8 billion in shares of the Apple Real Estate
Investment Trusts.  The brokerage firm, known for its founder’s “Take a tip
from Poppy” advertising slogan, misstated the business model of
the REITS and misrepresented the value of shares and returns for
investors, according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Newark, New Jersey.  During the past seven years, the firm collected more than
$600 million in fees and commissions while five Apple REITs made
more than $6 billion in proceeds, according to the complaint.
The firm has marketed the REITs as appropriate for conservative
investors and claims they have never lost money by investing in
hotels, the complaint said.  “In fact, investors who have acquired interests in the
Apple REITs have incurred substantial unrealized losses because
their interests are worth far less than the price paid by
investors to acquire them,” according to the complaint, filed
by Stanley and Debra Kronberg of Mahwah, New Jersey.  Joseph C. Pickard, the firm’s general counsel, said in an
e-mailed statement that the claims are “frivolous” and were
filed by “attorneys seeking a quick payday.”  “The allegations are baseless and rife with falsehoods,
distortions and misleading statements, and we look forward to
the opportunity to be vindicated in a court of law,” he said.  The case is Kronberg v. David Lerner Associates Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  3M Sues Porton Capital, CEO Harvey Boulter Over ‘Blackmail’  3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of Scotch tape, sued Porton Capital Inc.
and its chief executive officer, Harvey Boulter, in New York
state court, accusing them of trying to extort $30 million in
connection with a lawsuit in the U.K. over 3M’s purchase of a
medical technology company.  Porton and Ploughshare Innovations Ltd., two of the
shareholders who sold their stakes in the technology company,
sued 3M in London over the deal. The trial began last week and
is expected to continue into July, St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M
said yesterday in a New York State Supreme Court filing.
Ploughshare is a unit controlled by the British Ministry of
Defense, according to the suit.  “Instead of awaiting the outcome of the pending
litigation, defendants and their investors have engaged in an
unlawful campaign to blackmail 3M into paying $30 million in
order to avoid the continuation of the campaign,” the company
said in its complaint.  3M also said in its complaint that the “defendants seek to
publicly defame 3M and its chairman/CEO.” George W. Buckley is
the chairman and chief executive officer.  “I got what my client believes was a ransom demand,”
William Brewer, the lawyer for 3M who filed the suit in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  Brewer said the defendants implied that a settlement
unfavorable to them would hurt 3M’s chances to do business in
the U.K.  “He broke the rules of settlement under confidentiality,
which in most places in the world is both unprofessional and
unethical for a lawyer of his supposed standing,” Boulter said
in an e-mail. “To publicly characterize a settlement
negotiation as blackmail is shameful of Mr. Brewer.”  The trial centers on 3M’s acquisition of Acolyte Biomedica
Ltd., which was developing products to detect microorganisms,
according to the complaint.  The case is 3M Co. v. Boulter, 651708/2011, Supreme Court
of the State of New York (New York County).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  TCW Group Asks Judge to Throw Out Gundlach’s Contract Claims  TCW Group Inc. asked a judge to throw out breach-of-
contract claims by its former investment chief  Jeffrey Gundlach ,
who said he was fired in 2009 so the company wouldn’t have pay
him as much as $1.25 billion in fees.  Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Carl West said at a
hearing yesterday that summary judgment wasn’t the appropriate
way to resolve Gundlach’s claims. West issued a tentative
decision before the hearing denying TCW’s request for a ruling
that Gundlach has no claim because he had no contract, and took
the matter under submission without issuing a final order.  “There was an agreement here and what this agreement was
isn’t entirely clear,” West said at the hearing. “A jury is
going to have to determine what the terms were.”  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE) , sued
Gundlach and three other ex-employees in January 2010 after more
than half of its fixed-income professionals joined Gundlach’s
new firm, DoubleLine Capital Inc. TCW seeks more than $200
million in damages, claiming Gundlach stole its trade secrets as
he plotted to start his own business.  Gundlach filed counterclaims a month later, saying he was
dismissed so that TCW wouldn’t have to pay $600 million to $1.25
billion in future management and performance fees from the funds
his group managed.  John Quinn, a lawyer for TCW, said at the hearing that
Gundlach was never promised any specific amount or percentage of
the fees and that he received what was left from his group’s
share of the fees after he had paid all the expenses of his
group. It was “gross oversimplification” to say that Gundlach
was entitled to a percentage of TCW’s fees, Quinn said.  Mark Helm, a lawyer for DoubleLine, said TCW had been
paying Gundlach and Gundlach had been working under an agreement
and that the only dispute was what the terms of the contract
were.  The jury trial is scheduled to start July 25.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Jeffrey Gundlach,
BC429385, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  For more, click here.  Merrill Must Face Group Lawsuit Over Mortgage Securities  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit must face a
group lawsuit by union and public employee retirement funds over
mortgage-backed securities, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff  in Manhattan certified a
class of buyers of 301 tranches of mortgage-backed securities in
18 separate offerings from February 2006 through September 2007.
Rakoff also granted the investors’ request to appoint New York-
based Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP as lead lawyers
for the class.  “After careful consideration, and for reasons that will be
stated in a forthcoming written opinion, the court hereby grants
both motions,” Rakoff wrote in an order released June 16.  In the litigation, filed in 2008, the investors accuse
Merrill of issuing offering documents for $16.5 billion of
certificates that omitted material facts and contained untrue
statements, including that the underlying mortgages complied
with the stated underwriting guidelines. Rakoff’s certifying of
the class is a boon to the investors because it means they don’t
have to sue individually.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment.  The named plaintiffs in the case include the Mississippi
Public Employees’ Retirement System, the Los Angeles County
Employees Retirement Association, the Wyoming State Treasurer,
the Connecticut Carpenters Pension Fund and the Connecticut
Carpenters Annuity Fund.  The case is Public Employees’ Retirement System of
Mississippi v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 08-10841, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rambus Says Hynix, Micron Conspired Illegally as Trial Opens  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  carried
out an “unlawful conspiracy” to drive  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  out of the
computer memory market, a Rambus lawyer said as an antitrust
trial began yesterday in California.  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, is seeking as much
as $12.9 billion from Hynix and Micron over Rambus-designed
dynamic random access memory, or RDRAM, chips. The $4.3 billion
in damages sought by Rambus against the two companies would be
automatically tripled under California law, according to Rambus.
The chip manufacturers deny the claims.  Hynix and Micron engaged in “a secret and unlawful
conspiracy to kill a revolutionary technology, make billions of
dollars and hang onto power,” Rambus lawyer Bart Williams told
jurors. “The conspiracy worked,” he said. “Rather than win
the race to become the next industry standard,” RDRAM “was
condemned to a smaller market share.”  Micron and Hynix are scheduled to present their arguments
today.  Rambus claims Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix and Boise,
Idaho-based Micron inflated the price of RDRAM chips and
collusively underpriced their own SDRAM and DDR chips to
undercut competition from Rambus.  Micron General Counsel Rod Lewis said in an e-mailed
statement that Rambus’s case in one example of its “continued
attempts to place blame on third parties for its failure to
compete successfully in the marketplace.” RDRAM failed because
it was less efficient and more costly to produce and implement
than its competitors, Lewis said.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc., 04-
431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  First American Gets Supreme Court Hearing in Kickback Suit  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to consider halting a suit
that accuses  First American Financial Corp. (FAF)  of operating an
illegal title-insurance kickback scheme and seeks hundreds of
millions of dollars on behalf of homebuyers.  The justices yesterday granted an appeal by First American,
the second-largest U.S. title insurer, which is seeking to block
the suit in a federal court in California.  The suit centers on First American’s ownership stake in
thousands of title agencies across the country. The company is
accused of acquiring those interests in exchange for promises
that the agencies would refer customers to a First American unit
that sells title insurance.  First American argued in its appeal that consumers can’t
sue under the 1974 U.S. Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act,
which bars kickbacks, unless they claim they paid higher fees as
a result. A federal appeals court in San Francisco rejected that
contention, letting the suit proceed.  The Supreme Court will hear the case in its next term
beginning in October.  First American is based in Santa Ana, California.  The case is First American Financial v. Edwards, 10-708,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  PPL Gets U.S. High Court Hearing on $50 Million Montana Award  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review a decision
requiring a  PPL Corp. (PPL)  unit to pay more than $50 million to
Montana for the use of riverbeds under the company’s
hydroelectric facilities.  PPL Montana is appealing a Montana Supreme Court ruling
that said the state owns the riverbeds and is entitled to demand
rent payments. The company argues in its appeal that the
riverbeds are owned either by private parties or the federal
government.  A Montana state trial court ordered the company to pay $40
million in past rent, plus an unspecified amount for rent
starting in 2008. PPL Montana last year recorded a pretax charge
of $56 million to cover estimated payments through the first
quarter of 2010. The company said last month that its total
accrued loss as of March 31, 2011, was $78 million.  The justices agreed to hear the appeal against the advice
of the Obama administration, which urged rejection without a
hearing.  The dispute centers on dams on the upper Missouri, Madison
and Clark Fork rivers. PPL is based in Allentown, Pennsylvania.  The case is PPL Montana v. Montana, 10-218, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  On the Docket  Trial of Ex-Deutsche Bank Chief Breuer to Start August 18  The trial of  Rolf Breuer , former chief executive officer of
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , is scheduled to start Aug. 18, the Munich
Regional Court said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Breuer
is charged with attempted fraud for allegedly lying when
testifying in a court case brought by Leo Kirch against him and
the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  