-- 
Walgreen Tumbles On Leaving Express Scripts

-- B y   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-06-21T14:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/walgreen-to-leave-express-scripts-network.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, fell the most in three months in  New York  after
failing to renew a contract with benefits manager  Express
Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , valued at more than $5 billion in annual sales.  The agreement, which ends as of Jan. 1, collapsed partly
because Express Scripts wanted to cut reimbursement rates to
“unacceptable levels,” Walgreen said today. St. Louis-based
Express Scripts responded that it’s "prepared" for a pharmacy
network without Walgreen, now its largest retailer, and that the
change will have little impact on patients.  The Express Scripts partnership would account for about 7
percent of Walgreen’s $72 billion in sales this year, according
to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The chain is
vying with  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD)  for consumers
hurt by the increasing jobless rate and fuel costs.  Walgreen’s announcement “appears to be more public
posturing than legitimate circumstance as we believe it is in
the best interest of both companies to come to terms on this
issue,”  Arthur Henderson , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in
Nashville, said today in a note. "An eventual deal with Walgreen
seems likely."  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , fell $2.81, or 6.2
percent, $42.37 at 9:40 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the most in intraday trading since March 22.  Express Scripts, the third-biggest pharmacy benefits
manager behind CVS Caremark and  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) ,
fell as much as 3.3 percent.  Many Choices  "We would prefer that Walgreens participate in our network,
but only if its costs are in line with other participating
pharmacies," David Whitrap, a spokesman for Express Scripts,
said today in an e-mailed statement. The company has more than
60,000 pharmacies in its network, giving customers ample choice,
he said.  Walgreen also said today third-quarter profit rose to 65
cents a share, compared with the 63-cent average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income in the quarter surged 30
percent to $603 million from $463 million, or 47 cents a share,
a year earlier.  “The long-term ramifications of accepting Express Scripts’
proposal with below market rates and minimal predictability for
the services we provide would have been much worse than any
short-term impact to our earnings,” Walgreen Chief Financial
Officer Wade Miquelon said in the statement.  Third-quarter sales climbed 6.8 percent to $18.4 billion in
the period ended May 31. Prescription sales, which make up
almost two-thirds of total revenue, advanced 6.4 percent.  The shares dropped the most in more than two years in
March, after profit failed to improve as much as some analysts’
anticipated. Walgreen said rising commodity costs, including
fuel, ate into earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  