-- 
FedEx Joins Ford in House Tax Chief’s Portfolio, Witness Chairs

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-06-22T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/ways-and-means-chairman-holds-shares-of-companies-before-panel.html
Since becoming chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee in January, Representative Dave Camp
has invited executives from 13 publicly traded companies to
testify on tax and trade policy. The chairman owned shares in
six of them.  Camp, a 57-year-old Michigan Republican, owned stocks and
bonds issued by dozens of individual companies, according to his
annual personal  financial disclosure form , which was filed June
15 and covers the year ending Dec. 31, 2010.  So far this year, executives from  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  have testified before his
panel. The chief financial officers of United Technologies,
Caterpillar and Zimmer testified May 12 on burdens that the tax
code imposes on U.S. multinational companies.  “To try to pull off this image of holding an impartial
educational hearing and then bring in the very same executives
representing the companies in which you have a personal
investment, that’s not something I hear very often,” said Craig Holman, government affairs lobbyist for  Public Citizen .  Camp’s decision to invite representatives of the companies
to appear at Ways and Means is a conflict of interest that
doesn’t break the law or House rules, said Holman, whose
Washington-based advocacy group supports stronger campaign
finance and lobbying laws.  Timing of Purchases  Camp spokeswoman Megan Piwowar declined to discuss the
timing of Camp’s stock purchases and sales and other decision-
making in his investment portfolio, as well as how decisions
were made on issuing invitations to testify before the Ways and
Means Committee.  “The report is filed in full compliance with House rules
and speaks for itself,” Piwowar said in an e-mail yesterday.  In response to a question on another subject, Camp said
yesterday in  Washington  that it was important to hear
businesses’ perspective on tax policy.  “We’re actually doing a novel thing,” he said at a
meeting of chief financial officers sponsored by the Wall Street
Journal. “We’re having employers and job creators tell us what
they think we ought to do.”  Holman said that hearings with executives from companies in
which Camp owns shares don’t serve the public interest of
seeking a broad range of opinions on policy.  Camp’s Portfolio  “We might as well just listen to Dave Camp,” Holman said.
“Why do we bother bringing in anyone else?”  Camp’s annual financial disclosure filing shows he had
holdings in eight of the 15 companies in a coalition of U.S.
multinational businesses lobbying Congress for a tax break on
profits earned overseas. Those in Camp’s portfolio were  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , EMC Corp.,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  All are
advocating a repatriation tax holiday.  Camp bought and sold shares in dozens of stocks in 2010,
according to the report. He made nine separate purchases of
Procter & Gamble, eight purchases of  American Express Co. (AXP)  and
seven purchases of The  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  On six occasions, he bought
shares of  Visa Inc. (V) , and on three occasions, he sold Visa
shares.  His largest single stock holding was in  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ,
in which he held between $250,001 and $500,000. The company is
based in Camp’s hometown of Midland, Michigan.  Federal lawmakers report their finances in income ranges.
Camp’s report for 2010 shows assets of between $4.21 million and
$10.3 million. His report for 2009 shows assets of between $2.97
million and $10.5 million.  The biggest change in the period was the transfer of assets
out of a trust that listed Camp’s father-in-law, Robert Keil, as
the grantor. He died in 2010.  Disclosure reports for House and Senate members’ 2010
finances were due in mid-May and most were publicly disclosed on
June 15. Camp received a brief extension.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  