-- 
World Bank Sees Ukraine’s Economy Expanding 4.5% This Year

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-06-21T11:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/world-bank-sees-ukraine-s-economy-expanding-4-5-this-year-1-.html
Ukraine’s economy will expand 4.5
percent this year and 5 percent next as domestic demand
increases faster than expected, according to the  World Bank .  Rising retail sales and construction will help “domestic
demand recover more strongly than initially expected,” World
Bank economist Ruslan Piontkivskyi told reporters today in the
capital, Kiev. Inflation will accelerate to 11.4 percent this
year before slowing to 10 percent in 2012, he said.  The current account deficit will widen to 4 percent of
gross domestic product from 2.1 percent in 2010 as the price and
volume of energy imports increase, Piontkivskyi said.  The  International Monetary Fund  approved a three-year,
$15.6 billion loan program for Ukraine last year to help finance
the  budget deficit  and bolster currency reserves. Ukraine has
received $3.4 billion in two payments, with the third delayed
because the Cabinet hasn’t fulfilled its pledge to raise the
 retirement age  and increase natural gas prices for households.  The IMF mission is scheduled to visit Ukraine in September
for the second program review, Interfax-Ukraine newswire
reported today, citing Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov .  Rising natural gas prices will increase losses at state-
owned NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, making it “very difficult” for the
government to meet its goal of cutting the government budget
deficit to 3.5 percent of economic output, Piontkivskyi said.  While Ukraine’s economy is recovering, fiscal policy must
be “prudent” as the country prepares for parliamentary
elections in 2012, said Martin Raiser, head of the World Bank
office in Kiev.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 