-- 
Yahoo Bet on Alibaba Shows Risk in China’s Legal Gray Areas

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-06-22T12:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/yahoo-s-alibaba-spinoff-losses-show-dangers-of-china-s-legal-gray-areas.html
Yahoo! Inc. and  Japan ’s  Softbank
Corp. (9984) , eager for a slice of profits in China’s Internet
industry, found that even a seemingly safe way around
restrictions can turn risky and threaten the value of their
stake in the country’s biggest e-commerce provider.  Yahoo and Softbank, major shareholders of online-commerce
company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., have been bypassing the
restrictions by contracting with Chinese partners to provide
technical services in exchange for a share of revenue.  The tactic worked until Alibaba Group’s online payment
service, Alipay, applied for an operating license under China’s
new rules for payment service providers. Regulators balked and
asked Alipay to prove it had no contractual ties to foreign
investors, according to domestic media including the People’s
Daily and the Nanfang Daily.  That Chinese officials hadn’t challenged the investments
earlier is characteristic of a regulatory environment fraught
with inconsistent enforcement, broadly worded rules and a lack
of transparency, said lawyers including Tom Shoesmith, head of
law firm Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP’s  China  practice.  “Western businesses come into China and they want to know
what the rules are,” Shoesmith said. “There’s the technically
correct answer, there’s the practical answer, and then the third
one is, ‘Who cares anyway?’ Sometimes the answer is ‘Who cares
anyway?’ until you get busted.”  Jack Ma  As Alibaba founder Jack Ma haggles with the shareholders,
including Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, over compensation
for the soured investment, the share price of  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) ,
Alibaba’s publicly traded unit, remains close to a two-year low.  In a joint statement today, Yahoo, Softbank and Alibaba
said “substantive” progress has been made toward an agreement
on Alipay.  “Our objective is to reach an agreement in a timely
manner,” the companies said. No further comments would be made
“until it is appropriate to do so,” they said.  Alibaba.com rose 5.6 percent to HK$11.98 at 4 p.m. in Hong
Kong trading, and Softbank advanced 4.4 percent to 2,985 yen in
 Tokyo . Yahoo gained 2.4 percent to $15.35 Nasdaq Stock Market
trading yesterday.  Unclear regulations are one of the top five obstacles for
American investors in China, which also include intellectual
property infringement, according to the  2011 White Paper  by the
American Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China.  Ted Dean, the chamber’s chairman, said there is often a
lack of regulatory clarity in government approvals for products
and licenses.  ‘Where’s That?’  “There are cases where in actuality the government is
operating on internal guidance that foreign companies don’t have
access to or discover after the fact,” Dean said. “Or the
guidance is communicated to them in the approval process orally
and you ask, ‘Where’s that in the law?’”  The result was usually lost business or increased costs for
the companies to discover unpublished rules, Dean said.  Authorities in the southern city of Shenzhen slapped a 13.7
million yuan ($2.1 million) tax bill on a  Hong Kong  individual
for selling a local shipping and storage asset to a Singaporean
company.  Brendan Kelly, a Shanghai-based tax partner at Baker &
McKenzie LLP, said the legal basis for the Shenzhen tax bureau’s
assessment is questionable under China’s 3 1/2-year-old tax code
because the relevant tax avoidance laws so far apply to
corporations and not to individuals.  Reluctant to Sue  Foreign investors are reluctant to sue, even if the law is
on their side, because it’s often viewed as counterproductive
and harmful to their relationship with regulators, Kelly said.  “You figure you’ll pay for it some other way down the
line,” he said. “There are so many gray areas in the law.”  China’s national security review for foreign mergers and
acquisitions, which came into effect in March, is already
stalling deals because even authorities aren’t sure how it
applies, said Lester Ross, a Beijing-based partner at Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP.  The  regulations define  sectors such as agricultural
products and infrastructure facilities as broadly relating to
national security. Transactions less than $300 million that
otherwise could have been dealt with at the local level are now
being referred to the commerce ministry for review, Ross said.  “In part because the national security regulation is at
minimum vague and at worst broader than the published version
indicates, local governments are paralyzed,” Ross said.  Burned Investors  Services-for-revenue contracts like the one used by Yahoo
and Softbank to tap domestic profits put off-limits by China’s
 rules  have burned investors before. Foreign companies
circumventing restrictions on investing in China’s
telecommunications networks had their structures declared
illegal in the late 1990s.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. spent at least 1.19 billion
yuan ($184 million) compensating foreign partners including
Sprint Corp. and Deutsche Telekom AG, according to its 2001
interim results.  U.S.-listed Chinese companies like Baidu Inc. and Sina
Corp. today use the same structure as Yahoo and Softbank, by
arranging software licensing and other service contracts in
exchange for a share of revenue with foreign investors.  As of April , 42 percent of U.S.-listed Chinese companies
used the so-called variable-interest entities structure, or VIE,
according to Paul Gillis, a visiting accounting professor at
 Peking University  who cited a paper written by Fredrik Oqvist, a
former student at the university. The companies are concentrated
in the Internet sector because of its restricted nature.  Educational Companies  They also include educational companies such as  New
Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc. which used a VIE in
part because foreign ownership of primary and middle schools in
China is prohibited, according to the company’s 2006 U.S.
 listing prospectus .  “Investors are at risk of losing their investments if
Chinese officials decide to strictly enforce laws that prohibit
foreign investment in certain sectors,” Gillis wrote in an e-
mail about Alibaba’s experience.  Delaware-incorporated  Buddha Steel Inc. (AGVO)  was forced to
 withdraw  its application for a $38 million U.S. listing in March
after officials in northeastern China’s Hebei province said its
VIE contravened foreign investment rules. Buddha Steel canceled
its contractual relationships with a Hebei-based cold-rolled
steel manufacturer after the government’s objection.  Alibaba’s Hong Kong-listed unit Alibaba.com didn’t try to
hide the questionable legal status of the VIEs in its 2007 Hong
Kong listing prospectus.  No Assurance  “We cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree
that these arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration,
or other regulatory requirements,” the company said in
describing its risk factors.  In response to questions about the loss of Alipay, Yahoo
founder and Alibaba Group board member Jerry Yang told analysts
on May 25 that “based on our own inquiries and various
interactions” with the People’s Bank of China, the company had
come to believe the regulator was planning a “different”
regulatory structure surrounding online payment companies.  Alibaba spokesman John Spelich declined to confirm Alipay
Chief Financial Officer Jing Xiandong’s comments,  reported  by
the Nanfang Daily on June 16, that the central bank had asked
Alipay for documentation showing that it wasn’t operating under
a VIE structure. The PBOC didn’t respond to a faxed request to
confirm it had objected to Alipay’s VIE.  In a letter to clients, Shoesmith wrote that Buddha Steel’s
experience was probably a one-off occurrence for the very reason
that the nation’s Internet “crown jewels” would be affected by
any crackdown.  “This is rule of law with Chinese characteristics,” said
Shoesmith. “It leaves lots of discretion to the government to
decide on a case-by-case basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  