-- 
Rambus Chip Failure Due to Flaws, Not Plot, Hynix Tells Jury

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-21T23:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-21/hynix-semiconductor-argues-against-rambus-s-antitrust-claims-at-trial.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  memory chips failed in
the marketplace because computer makers found them technically
inferior and too expensive, not because of a conspiracy among
rival companies,  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and Micron Technology
Inc. said at a trial of Rambus’s antitrust lawsuit.  Rambus-designed chips hit the memory market with “a
whimper and not a bang” and survived only as a “niche
product,” Hynix lawyer Kenneth L. Nissly told jurors today in
California state court in  San Francisco .  Rambus, based in Sunnyvale, California, is seeking as much
as $12.9 billion from Hynix and Micron based on arguments they
conspired to thwart its dynamic random access memory, or DRAM,
chips. The $4.3 billion in damages sought by Rambus against the
two companies would be automatically tripled under  California 
law, according to Rambus.  Nissly made an argument that chipmakers have used with some
success defending themselves against patent claims brought by
Rambus. He said that before any of the chips at issue were
produced, Rambus “had at its core” a plan to sue Hynix and
Micron and destroy documents to hide that strategy.  “We’re talking about setting out to destroy documents so
they don’t get used in litigation,” Nissly said.  Rambus claims Hynix, based in Ichon,  South Korea , and
Micron, based in Boise,  Idaho , inflated the price of Rambus-
designed DRAM, or RDRAM, chips and collusively underpriced their
own Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory, or SDRAM, and
Double Data Rate, or DDR, chips to undercut competition.  Hynix Guilty Plea  Micron’s lawyer,  William Price , sought to downplay the
importance of a  U.S. Department of Justice  probe in which Hynix 
pleaded guilty and paid a $185 million fine in 2005 to resolve 
price-fixing claims. In 2004, a Micron salesman pleaded guilty to
obstructing the government probe.  The Justice Department investigation is a “distraction”
and an “unrelated investigation about manipulating the price”
of memory chips, Price said. The probe concerned artificially
raising prices, which is “exactly the opposite of what Rambus
is saying,” Price said.  Price attacked an e-mail exchange Rambus cited in its
opening arguments as evidence of a plot against the company. The
2001 e-mails were between Linda Turner, then a vice president of
international sales at Micron, and members of her staff citing
the declining prices of standardized DDR chips manufactured by
Samsung Electronics Ltd. and Hynix.  ‘No Problem!’  In response to a staff member’s statement that the
declining prices are “scary,” Turner wrote: “No problem! We
want DDR to explode into the marketplace so have actually been
requesting Infineon, Samsung and Hynix to lower their DDR
pricing to help it become a standard (and drive Rambus away
completely).”  Turner’s e-mail is a “sarcastic” reply, Price said. He
said jurors must decide for themselves whether it represents
evidence of the alleged conspiracy or is instead “gallows
humor” about the competitive pricing Micron faced.  After opening arguments concluded, Superior Court Judge
James McBride instructed the jury that the Justice Department
investigation concerned DRAM and not specifically RDRAM.  The first witness to testify for Rambus was Dae Soo Kim, a
former Hynix senior vice president in charge of worldwide sales
and marketing. In a videotape shown to the jury today, Dae Soo
Kim said he pleaded guilty in the U.S. price-fixing
investigation and served eight months in prison.  The case is Rambus Inc. v.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , 04-
431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  