-- LA Dodgers Secret Deal Can’t Be Used in Divorce: Judge
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-04-15T21:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/la-dodgers-secret-deal-can-t-be-used-in-divorce-judge.html
Secret Major League Baseball
documents concerning the $2 billion sale of the Los Angeles
Dodgers can’t be used by former team owner Frank McCourt’s ex-
wife to challenge their divorce settlement, a judge ruled.  Any documents written for use during confidential mediation
sessions between the Dodgers, Frank McCourt and league officials
will remain secret, the judge who oversaw the team’s bankruptcy
ruled today. By seeking to obtain the documents, Jamie McCourt
tried to evade a federal bankruptcy court order to keep the
mediation confidential, said U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross
in Wilmington, Delaware.  “This is my order and I am enforcing it because it was an
essential ingredient in the success” in ending the Dodgers’
bankruptcy, Gross said.  The Dodgers left bankruptcy last year after Frank McCourt
sold the team for a record $2 billion to a group including
Guggenheim Partners and its top executive Mark Walter and ex-
basketball player Magic Johnson.  After the team was sold, Jamie McCourt filed court papers
saying her $131 million divorce settlement was based on fraud
and asked that it be set aside. In her request, McCourt, who is
an attorney, said Frank McCourt declared under penalty of
perjury in August, 2001 that the fair market value of their
assets was less than $300 million.  Sale Price  About six months later, the team was sold for more than $2
billion.  Frank McCourt and the league struck a deal in mediation
that Gross said led to the successful sale. The most important
part of that deal involved a set of special terms governing the
auction of the team. MLB considered the special terms so secret
that they were never made part of the team’s bankruptcy or
submitted to Gross for his approval.  Attorneys for the Dodgers and the baseball league were in
court today to ask Gross for an emergency ruling to keep the
special terms and any other mediation documents from being used
by Jamie McCourt to reopen her divorce case.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  