-- Absolute CEO Says Growth to Accelerate After Samsung Win
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-15T20:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/absolute-ceo-says-growth-to-accelerate-after-samsung-win.html
Absolute Software Corp. (ABT) , the maker
of theft-recovery software installed on a billion  laptop
computers  since 2005, says growth is about to speed up from
demand in the $300 billion smartphone industry.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest smartphone
maker, agreed April 3 to put the software in its newest
smartphone and tablet, sending Absolute stock surging 16
percent. The Vancouver-based company plans to use the deal as a
springboard to more recognition and contracts.  “This has really raised Absolute’s profile quite
tremendously,” John Livingston, the company’s founder and chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve set
the stage for rapid acceleration of business growth.”  Since 2005, Absolute has struck deals with computer makers
including  Dell (DELL)  Inc. and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  to install its
Persistence software at no cost on devices during assembly.
Absolute then sells to companies, schools, hospitals and
government agencies a three-year protection plan, which starts
at about $50 a year for computers.  Now Absolute is turning its attention to security for
mobile devices, with fees starting at $14 a year. The shift in
focus was inevitable as computer customers increasingly employ
mobile devices, Livingston said.  “We absolutely had to make a move to tablets and
smartphones,” said Livingston, 53, who was teaching at the
British Columbia Institute of Technology when he founded
Absolute in 1995. “Customers were asking for it.”  Bookings Boost  Sales last fiscal year, which ended June 30, climbed 9.7
percent to C$74.6 million ($74 million). Bookings, or sales
contracts, were $88.7 million, a figure that is expected to
decline this fiscal year as computer orders from schools and
universities slow, the company said in February.  As the contract with Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung kicks
in, it will help boost bookings to $110 million in fiscal 2015,
which begins in July, said Thanos Moschopoulos, a BMO Capital
Markets analyst in Toronto. The bookings growth rate will be in
the “low teens” over the next two years, he said.  The shares fell 2.6 percent to C$5.99 in Toronto trading.
The stock has gained 62 percent since Nov. 6, when it hit a 14-
month low. Of nine analysts who track the stock, five rate it a
buy and four a hold. After reporting a loss of C$1.42 million
last fiscal year, Absolute has reported profits in the first two
quarters of the current year.  Absolute’s software stands out because it’s “self-
healing,” as Livingston puts it. Even if a sophisticated thief
deletes all data from the laptop, smartphone or tablet, the
moment that device reconnects to the Internet, the software
reinstalls itself and sends a signal back to Absolute’s
headquarters.  ‘Unique Differentiator’  That’s a feature no competitor has yet been able to match,
Moschopoulos said.  “No one does theft recovery and data protection the way
they do,” said Moschopoulos, who raised his rating to the
equivalent of a buy after the Samsung announcement. “No one has
a persistence agent burned into the hardware the way they do.
That’s their unique differentiator.”  While it competes with Good Technology Inc. and MobileIron
Inc. in offering device management systems, Absolute is probably
the only company offering the self-healing, embedded software,
said Richard Tse, an analyst at Cormark Securities in Toronto.  Good Technology has worked with companies and governments
to keep data and applications secure across many platforms,
including Samsung devices, CEO Christy Wyatt said in a
statement. Ojas Rege, a vice president at Mobile Iron, said the
company is also working with Samsung and focuses on corporate
customers rather than with device manufacturers.  Former FBI  Absolute’s team of 50 investigators, made up of former
agents from the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and other
top law-enforcement outfits, use a combination of Global
Positioning System technology, customized Wi-Fi data and
Internet protocol addresses to track down stolen devices. So
far, they’ve recovered 28,000 gadgets, Livingston says. Working
with Absolute’s investigators, police can then move in to arrest
the thieves.  Samsung will probably sell at least 60 million Galaxy S4
phones this year, after they went on sale last month, according
to Tong Yang Securities. Google Inc.’s Android, the operating
software Samsung uses, accounted for 70 percent of all
smartphones sold worldwide in the fourth quarter of 2012,
according to IDC.  Android Entree  Absolute may use the Samsung contract as an entree to
negotiations with other Android players, said BMO’s
Moschopoulos.  “From a competitive perspective, if you’re HTC you’d say,
’Why don’t we do this too?’” said BMO’s Moschopoulos. “I would
expect that they’re talking to a number of other tablet and
smartphone manufacturers.”  Livingston says he’s focusing on his newest client for now,
given its size and significance. The companies didn’t disclose
financial terms of their agreement. Livingston declined to
comment on whether Absolute has held discussions with  HTC Corp. (2498) 
or other Android manufacturers, or with iPhone maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “This Samsung deal is a huge deal,” he said. “We’re not
in a rush at the moment to get our technology onto other devices
because Samsung is so prolific.”  Apple spokeswoman  Natalie Harrison  declined to comment.  “HTC does not comment on rumor and speculation,” Tom
Harlin, a spokesman for the company, said in a statement.
“However, we do work with some of the top enterprise and
security solutions in the industry.”  Challenging BlackBerry  Having surfaced as the top contender in the consumer
smartphone market Apple helped invent, Samsung is now
challenging industry pioneer BlackBerry’s hold on corporate
users. While phonemakers don’t regularly provide details on
their business customers, BlackBerry counts some of the world’s
largest banks and government agencies among its customers.  “Our competitors are scrambling to imitate the BlackBerry
gold standard for enterprise security,”  David Smith , the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company’s executive vice president of
enterprise mobile computing, said in a statement. The BlackBerry
Protect software, which tracks lost phones and keeps information
secure, is embedded in the device’s operating system, he said.  Business Users  Samsung’s KNOX software, which includes Absolute’s product,
will be marketed to business customers, who are asking for
corporate-level security features as its devices become more
popular among business users.  “That is what Samsung KNOX and Absolute deliver,” the
Korean company said in a statement when the deal was announced.  Absolute’s market value of C$256 million makes it a
takeover target, said Moschopoulos. Its second-biggest investor
is Crescendo Partners LP, an activist hedge fund with a track
record of pushing for deals to boost shareholder returns, he
said.  Eric Rosenfeld, chief executive officer of Crescendo, sits
on the board of Absolute along with Greg Monaghan, a managing
director at the New York-based firm. Rosenfeld said he thinks
the company’s potential is undervalued given that customers
typically pay right away for their three-year contracts.  “The company gets the cash up front for many of their
sales, and then it’s recognized as income over years,”
Rosenfeld said in an interview. “What we focus on is  cash flow ,
and the company is a very strong cash-flow generator.”  Rosenfeld said his investment in Absolute is open-ended and
is focused on creating value, not necessarily triggering a sale
of Absolute.  Livingston, for his part, said he tries to ignore the
market chatter.  “We don’t pay too much credence to that rumor and
innuendo,” he said. “We’ve got great technology, we’ve just
got embedded in Samsung, we’re so focused on driving the
business, growing the customer base and making sure the world
knows that Persistence technology is something they want and
need to secure their devices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  