-- Acorda’s Ampyra Improves Walking in Stroke Patients
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-15T20:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/acorda-s-ampyra-improves-walking-in-stroke-patients.html
Acorda Therapeutics Inc. (ACOR) , maker of
the drug Ampyra to improve walking in multiple sclerosis
patients, rose to its highest value in more than two years after
the company said a small study showed the medicine also helped
people who have had strokes.  Acorda gained 13 percent to $35.50 at the close in New
York, the shares’ highest value since September 2010. The stock
has risen 43 percent this year.  Ampyra, approved in 2010 for use in MS, showed a
“significant improvement” in walking speed over 25 feet among
stroke patients, Chief Executive Officer Ron Cohen said in a
telephone interview. Based on the results, the Ardsley, New
York-based company plans to proceed with further studies.  “The results show a sign of activity, and suggest that
Ampyra has a reasonable chance of securing a label for improving
walking disability following a stroke,” Phil Nadeau, an analyst
with Cowen & Co. in New York, wrote today in a note to clients.
“Very few investors have attributed value to Ampyra’s utility
in stroke.”  About 795,000 people in the U.S. have a stroke each year,
according to the  American Stroke Association . About half of the
7 million Americans who suffered a stroke have trouble walking
and there are no available therapies, Cohen said.  “We have a small proof-of-concept study that appears
encouraging,” Cohen said. “It looks a lot like the original MS
data, so we’re encouraged, but we have a ways to go.”  Further Studies  The company also tested Ampyra in  cerebral palsy , a group
of disorders affecting movement. Those data, from a smaller
study than in stroke, are being analyzed, the company said today
in a statement.  Ampyra drew $266.1 million in 2012  revenue  for Acorda, and
analysts  estimate  it may grow to $404.7 million in 2016,
according to the average of three analysts’ projections compiled
by Bloomberg. Acorda has a partnership with  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,
which sells the drug outside the U.S. for MS.  Ampyra, given as a pill twice a day, works to improve
conduction of nerve signals when myelin, the protective covering
around nerves, has been damaged. It does so by blocking
potassium channels, providing a layer of insulation to help make
up for myelin damage seen in multiple sclerosis, stroke and
cerebral palsy, Cohen said.  “When you damage the myelin, you leak potassium from the
inside of the nerve to the outside and that leakage drains
current out of the middle of the nerve,” Cohen said. “The drug
blocks potassium channels so potassium doesn’t leak.”  Initial Look  The data today, from a trial of 83 patients who suffered a
stroke at least six months before starting the clinical trial,
are from an initial look at the study, and the company is still
analyzing the results.  The drug’s safety was consistent with what was shown in
trials of its use in MS, Acorda said. The most common side
effects were dizziness, fatigue and insomnia.  In addition to showing improvements on a timed 25-foot
walk, patients taking Ampyra also showed a positive change
compared with placebo on the Functional Independence Measurement
scale, a gauge of patients’ ability to perform daily tasks.  “We have been following a path that is ruthlessly dictated
by data,” Cohen said. “To have it actually look in humans as
it did in animals is pretty exciting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  