-- Taiwan Bonds Rise on Asian Growth Concern; Local Dollar Gains
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-04-15T08:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/taiwan-bonds-rise-on-asian-growth-concern-local-dollar-steady.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds advanced
as investors sought the relative safety of fixed-income
securities on concern Asian nations are struggling to boost
economic growth. The local dollar was little changed.  The Taiex Index of shares extended last week’s decline,
when global funds sold $543 million more local stocks than they
bought, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gross domestic
product growth in  China , Taiwan’s biggest overseas market,
unexpectedly eased in the first quarter as factory output
weakened, a sign the nation’s recovery from the slowest
expansion in 13 years has lost momentum.  “Economic data continues to paint a picture of a
relatively weak recovery for  Asia ,” said Samson Tu, a Taipei-
based  fund manager  at Uni-President Assets Management Corp.,
which oversees $700 million. “Looks like China’s rebound is
going to be slow as expected.”  The yield on the 0.875 percent notes due January 2018
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.964
percent in Taipei, according to Gretai Securities Market.  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.2 percent to NT$29.927 against its
U.S. counterpart, Taipei Forex Inc. prices show. The central
bank has sold the local dollar in the run-up to the close on
most days in the past year, according to traders who asked not
to be identified.  Forwards, Volatility  One-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.2 percent to
NT$29.88, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts touched
NT$30.10 on April 9, the lowest level since July 27. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, fell 26 basis points to 3.63 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending  rate was little changed at
0.385 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  China’s first-quarter GDP rose 7.7 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing today.
That compares with the 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 41 analysts and 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter.
March industrial production gained less than estimated while
retail-sales growth matched forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  