-- Takeda’s Actos Diabetes Drug Tied to Cancer, Jury Is Told
-- B y   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/takeda-s-actos-diabetes-drug-tied-to-cancer-jury-is-told.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , Asia’s
biggest drugmaker, hid the cancer risks of its Actos drug to
protect billions in sales, a jury was told in the first of more
than 3,000 lawsuits over the diabetes medication to go to trial.  While Takeda’s internal Actos studies uncovered links to
bladder cancer as early as 2004, the company didn’t alert U.S.
regulators until seven years later, Michael Miller, a lawyer for
plaintiff Jack Cooper, told a state court jury in Los Angeles
yesterday. The company kept quiet to protect more than $1.6
billion in annual Actos sales, he added.  “Selling diabetes drugs is big business in America,”
Miller said in closing arguments in the trial of Cooper’s suit
against Takeda. “There’s a lot of money to be made. But
companies are not allowed to downplay the risk. Patient safety
is the No. 1 thing.”  Jurors may begin deliberating as early as today over
whether Takeda should be held liable for failing to properly
warn patients and their doctors that Actos could cause bladder
cancer. The company’s defense lawyers are slated to give their
closings arguments prior to the jury’s deliberations.  In January, Takeda won U.S. regulatory approval for Nesina,
a new diabetes drug to replace Actos, which lost patent
protection last year. Sales of Actos peaked in the year ended
March 2011 at $4.5 billion for Takeda and accounted for 27
percent of the company’s revenue at the time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  3,000 Suits  Takeda is facing more than 3,000 suits alleging Actos
caused bladder cancer or other ailments among patients,
according to court records. Cooper’s suit is among those that
have been gathered before Judge Kenneth Freeman in Los Angeles.
There are other cases in state court in  Illinois , according to
court dockets.  More than 1,200 suits have been consolidated before a
federal judge in  Louisiana  for pretrial information exchanges.
The first federal case is set for trial in January 2014,
according to court filings.  Cooper, a former Pacific Bell Telephone Co. cable splicer
who took Actos for more than two years, was diagnosed with
bladder cancer in November 2011 and “is gravely ill,”
according to Freeman, who put the case on an expedited basis
because of Cooper’s condition.  Bladder Cancer  During the almost two-month trial, Miller produced internal
Takeda e-mails in which executives urged their colleagues to
persuade the U.S. Food and Drug Administration not to demand
increased warnings about bladder cancer on Actos’s label.  “Actos is the most important product for Takeda and
therefore we need to manage this issue very carefully and
successfully not to cause any damage for this product
globally,” Takeda executive Kiyoshi Kitazawa said in an e-mail.  Even after FDA officials asked the drugmaker in 2005 and
2006 to update warnings about Actos’ health risks, Takeda
executives “stalled and delayed,” Miller said. That’s because
the company “was making $1.6 billion a year” on the drug, he
added.  Under U.S. law, its Takeda’s responsibility to fully
disclose their products’ risks, Miller told jurors.  ‘Company’s Responsibility’  “It’s the company’s responsibility and it’s fair,” he
said. “The FDA is not making $1.6 billion a year on this drug.
The FDA doesn’t have 800 sales representatives out on the
street” talking about the medication with doctors, Miller
added.  In their defense, Takeda officials have noted the FDA found
Actos to be safe and effective and say there’s no proof that it
causes bladder cancer.  In opening statements, the company’s lawyers told jurors
that its likely Cooper developed bladder cancer as a result of
factors other taking Actos.  The disease is the fourth most-common cancer among men
after prostate, lung and colon cancer, according to the Bladder
Cancer Advocacy Network.  The case is Cooper v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals America Inc.,
CGC-12-518535, California Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Valerie Reitman in Los Angeles;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  