-- Alibaba’s Operating System to Be Adopted by Five Handset Makers
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-15T16:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/alibaba-s-operating-system-to-be-adopted-by-five-handset-makers.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. is
working with five Chinese handset makers to use its operating
system as the nation’s biggest e-commerce company competes with
 Google (GOOG)  Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  for mobile device users.  The company, based in Hangzhou, will pay the handset makers
a fee of 1  yuan  (16 cents) a month for every phone they sell
with the Alibaba Mobile Operating System, or AMOS, as long as
the owner continues using the software, according to  Alizila 
website, operated by Alibaba. It also will encourage developers
to create apps for AMOS through a 1 billion-yuan fund using
revenue sharing and other incentives.  Alibaba is expanding into mobile devices and cloud
computing as more online shoppers order from smartphones and
tablets. A Chinese government research institute said last month
the nation’s smartphone makers are “heavily dependent” on
Google’s Android software and that is hampering the development
of the domestic industry.  “Alibaba is a potential competitor to Google to some
extent,” said  Duncan Clark , the Beijing-based chairman of BDA
 China  Ltd., which advises technology companies. “The mobile
operating system will give it a competitive advantage to defend
its position.”  Tencent, Acer  The company’s billionaire founder, Jack Ma, said last month
Alibaba may use acquisitions to boost growth through apps
because it hasn’t been able to keep up with Tencent’s WeChat
messaging service. WeChat had more than 300 million users by
January.  China has more than 300 local Android-handset
manufacturers, accounting for 97.7 percent of domestically
produced smartphones, said a February report from the China
Academy of Telecommunication Research.  Alibaba’s announcement comes seven months after  Acer Inc. (2353) 
canceled a press conference to introduce a new smartphone using
an older version of the software called Aliyun. The five new
makers announced yesterday, with brand names including Konka and
Zopo, will introduce six new handsets featuring AMOS, Alibaba
said.  Haier Electronics Group Co. and Beijing Tianyu
Communication Equipment Co. previously used AMOS software.  Alibaba also said it created a new sales channel for AMOS
phones on Taobao Marketplace, its e-commerce platform that
connects individual buyers and sellers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  