-- Halogen Software Set to Break 18-Month Canadian Tech IPO Drought
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-15T17:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/halogen-software-set-to-break-18-month-canadian-tech-ipo-drought.html
Halogen Software Inc., a Canadian
maker of software that assesses employee performance, is set to
break an 18-month drought of initial public offerings in the
country’s technology industry.  Halogen and shareholder JMI Equity Fund VI seek to raise
about C$50 million ($49 million) by selling shares in the
Ottawa-based company, said two people familiar with the sale,
who asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t public.
The IPO is expected to be priced in May, the people said.  Halogen, whose U.S. customers include  Quaker Chemical Corp. (KWR) 
and clothing manufacturer Carhartt Inc., is looking to tap
investor interest in technology firms as falling commodity
prices prompt Canadian investors to look outside the metals and
mining industry for better returns.  It would be  Canada ’s first technology IPO since  Avigilon
Corp. (AVO) ’s share sale of about C$25 million in November 2011.
Avigilon, a maker of high-tech surveillance gear, has almost
tripled in the past year while the 59-company Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Materials  Index (STMATR)  has fallen 27 percent.  Halogen, which sells automated employee-evaluation software
to customers in health care, education and financial services,
aims to use some of its proceeds to expand its North American
sales and marketing, and grow in the U.K. and  Australia , the
company said in an April 2 regulatory filing. Canaccord
Financial Inc. and Stifel Nicolaus Canada Inc. lead a group of
banks on the sale.  Tim Foran, a Halogen spokesman at investor relations firm
TMX Equicom in Toronto, declined to comment.  Mitel Largest  Halogen would be the largest technology IPO by a Canadian
company since  Mitel Networks Corp. (MITL)  sold $147 million in its
April 2010 initial share sale, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mitel is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Canada’s technology sector has fallen on hard times in
recent years.  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) , once  North America ’s
largest maker of telecommunications equipment, filed for
bankruptcy in 2009 and was sold off in chunks. The value of
 BlackBerry (BB)  has dropped 90 percent from its mid-2008 peak as the
smartphone maker struggled to compete with rivals led by Apple
Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  