-- Altana Takes Another Look as Rockwood Sells Divisions
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/altana-takes-another-look-as-rockwood-sells-divisions.html
Altana AG, the German specialty
chemicals maker owned by billionaire Susanne Klatten, may look
again at buying parts of U.S. rival  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC)  after
it abandoned a bid for the whole company in 2008.  “There are parts that interest us and parts that don’t
interest us,” Chief Executive Officer Matthias Wolfgruber, 59,
said in an interview at Altana’s headquarters in Wesel. “When a
specialty chemicals asset comes on the market we will look at it
and if we have an interest we will join the bidding.”  Altana, which Klatten delisted from the stock market in
2010, aims to add a fifth division and has 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) available for purchases. The company, which is also
expanding its pigments, coatings, additives and electronic
insulation materials units and plans a sixth production site in
 China , systematically screens the market for targets that can
reach a leading position in their segment, the CEO said.  “We are searching,” said Wolfgruber, who studied
chemistry and did a research  fellowship  at the  University of
California , Berkeley. “The difficulty is that it’s not just
about knowing what you want, there has to be the readiness to
sell at the right price,” he said, adding that “it’s often the
case that units aren’t strategic for another company but they
have good earnings and so they don’t give them up.”  Additive Businesses  Rockwood Chairman and CEO Seifi Ghasemi said in February he
hired Lazard as he’s exploring options for three of his five
units. The company, based in Princeton,  New Jersey , may sell its
additives unit as well as titanium-dioxide operations and a
ceramics business. Ceramics wouldn’t be a good fit for Altana as
it’s more an engineering technology than a chemicals business,
Wolfgruber said.  “Altana would be interested in real specialty businesses
and wouldn’t look at anything that is a commodity,” said Markus Mayer, a analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who used to cover
Altana when it was traded on the stock market. “Rockwood has
some nice additive businesses. Iron-oxide pigments would make
sense. Wood treatment would be interesting too.”  Rockwood’s performance additives unit has annual sales of
$731.5 million and a margin of 17 percent, based on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The
division makes iron-oxide pigments and clay-based additives and
is the number two globally in those businesses. It also makes
ingredients for wood protection, where it is the leading
producer, Rockwood has said.  China Investments  Altana abandoned a bid for Rockwood in 2008 after the
potential purchase leaked to the press, sending Rockwood’s price
soaring, Wolfgruber said. The bid was abandoned early that year,
which in hindsight was probably better because the global
financial crisis came a few months later, the CEO said.  Altana is also investing into its existing four business
units, Wolfgruber said. A new production site in China is
planned to make wire enamel for electric motors, in which the
German company will invest a low “two-digit-million” euro
amount, the CEO said.  The factory will be in  Tongling  in the Anhui province and
will be Altana’s sixth production site in the country.  There is potential to expand the  Actega  unit, which makes
coatings and sealings for the packaging industry, in  Asia ,
Wolfgruber said. Consumers in China are increasingly switching
to packaged food from unpackaged produce bought at markets,
spurring demand for sealing compounds.  As well as looking for larger deals, the company, which has
bought about 30 companies in the last 10 years, will continue to
make smaller bolt-on purchases, the CEO said. In December he
agreed to buy Chemical Corporation of America Inc.’s wax
additive operations, with annual sales of $17 million, and in
May, Altana bought Marbo Group’s casting resins business for
encapsulation and coating of electronic components.  Klatten’s Reach  Altana’s roots go back to 1873 when  Heinrich Byk  founded an
eponymous company to produce chemicals for industrial use in
Berlin. In 1941, Guenther Quandt, Klatten’s grandfather, took
over a majority stake in Byk. From 1977, the company became part
of the newly formed Altana.  Klatten,  Germany ’s richest woman and an heiress of the
Quandt family that holds about 47 percent in Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG, offered about 910 million euros in cash for the rest
of Altana AG in 2008.   Altana, which predicts sales to rise 1 percent to 5 percent
this year amid stable profit margins, said its forecast doesn’t
include any potential acquisitions. The company posted earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 323.2
million euros on revenue of 1.7 billion euros in 2012.  Asked how much he would spend to add a fifth division,
Wolfgruber said that any deal only makes sense if the price is
right and he doesn’t pay too much.  “In economics it’s about growth and margins and the
optimal combination of those,” he said. “You can only create
value with a certain price. If you pay more you can’t create any
more value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  