-- Anadarko Joins 3M as Planned CEO Hiring Hits 13-Year High
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2013-04-15T18:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/anadarko-joins-3m-as-planned-ceo-hiring-hits-13-year-high.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,  3M Co. (MMM) 
and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  were among a record percentage of
companies last year replacing chief executive officers as part
of organized succession planning, according to a new study.  While high-profile CEO replacements at  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  attracted headlines because they occurred after the
predecessor was forced to resign, about 72 percent of
appointments were planned in 2012, according to  Booz & Co. ’s
annual CEO study of the world’s 2,500 largest public companies.
That’s the most since Booz began the survey in 2000.  “Boards are taking a much more active role in the
selection of the CEO,” said Gary Neilson, a senior partner at
Booz and one of the study authors. “They are getting ahead of
the game in terms of improving their succession process.”  Directors are responding as large institutional investors
such as the California State Teachers’ Retirement System,
corporate governance experts and new rules on succession
planning disclosure force them to look ahead for CEO retirements
and departures and identify replacements earlier.  Forced appointments were behind 19 percent of the 300 new
CEOs selected last year, the second lowest since the study
started in 2000, Booz said. In 2006, only 46 percent of
placements were planned, compared with 69 percent in 2011. Last
year, internal candidates accounted for 71 percent of CEO
placements and a quarter had worked at the same company their
entire career, the Booz study found.  Outsider Hiring  “Insiders appear to perform better than outsiders,” said
Ken Favaro, a senior partner at Booz and another study author.
“The message isn’t, ’Thou shalt not hire an outsider.’ But it
should be, ’Thou shall be very careful about when one wants to
make an exception.’ It’s always a question about how much the
board wants to shake up the process.”  According to another  study  by executive recruiter  Spencer
Stuart , 54 percent of new CEOs at S&P 500 companies last year
were planned and another 19 percent were related to either a
retirement or poor health. Three percent of CEOs were ousted and
16 percent stepped down, the study found. Twenty-seven of the 37
CEOs who left S&P 500 companies last year were replaced by
executives from within the same company,  Spencer Stuart  also
reported.  At 15 percent, 2012 had the second-highest percentage of
CEOs departing, according to the Booz report. The study also
found that 81 percent of the companies that hired a new CEO
picked a leader from the same country where the company has its
headquarters and 55 percent were in the same industry.  Booz, which advises companies on executive appointments and
other management tasks, also found that only 5 percent of new
CEOs last year were women, up slightly from 3 percent in the
previous three years.  CEO turnover will probably increase as companies stabilize
after the global recession because many found it “risky to
change the jockey when the horse is sick,” Favaro said. Now
boards are more comfortable making a change, he said.  “We hope people will put even more emphasis on planned
CEOs,” Neilson said. “Coming from inside is often a good idea
because internal folks have better returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  