-- Midas Asset Says It Will Dump Mando Stake After Bailout Plan
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-15T08:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/mando-tumbles-on-plan-to-bail-out-halla-engineering-seoul-mover.html
Midas International Asset
Management Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Heo Pil Seok said the
 fund manager  plans to sell its  Mando Corp. (060980)  holdings after the
auto-parts maker said it will bail out a construction affiliate.  “We will sell off all of the company’s  shares ,” Heo said
in reference to Midas Asset’s Mando holdings, in a telephone
interview today. “This issue clearly invades shareholders’
profits.”  Midas Asset is the first institutional  investor  to publicly
voice opposition to the auto-parts maker’s plans to rescue a
fellow unit of Chairman Chung Mong Won’s Halla Group. Mando
plunged by the 15 percent daily limit in Seoul trading today as
concern intensified over Mando’s use of funds, with at least
seven brokerages cutting their investment ratings on the company
since the plan was disclosed last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mando said April 12 that it and a wholly owned unit plan to
invest 378.6 billion won ($339 million) -- that’s 76 percent
more than Mando’s cash and near cash as of Dec. 31 -- buying new
shares of  Halla Engineering & Construction Corp. (014790)  Both Mando and
Halla Engineering are headed by Chairman Chung. Mando also
counts Halla Engineering as its biggest shareholder.  “The investment amount is a big amount compared with
Mando’s size, and also it’s questionable whether things will end
at this,” Heo said. “Therefore, I think the right thing to do
is empty out our holdings.”  Midas owns more than 20,000 Mando shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Drop  Mando, South Korea’s third-largest maker of auto parts,
plunged 14,900 won to 84,600 won at the close on the Korea
Exchange, its steepest drop since the stock’s 2010 initial
public offering. Mando was the  worst performer  by percentage
change on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index today.  South Korea ’s National Pension Service, the country’s
biggest investor with about $350 billion in assets as of
January, will review the Mando case “in a direction that boosts
shareholders’ value, and react accordingly,” it said in an e-
mail.  The service, which declined to provide further details, is
Mando’s third-largest shareholder with a stake of about 8.6
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are up in arms and I expect the shares to
continue struggling for some time,” Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst
at NH Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said by phone today.
“The investment has nothing to do with Mando’s main business of
making auto parts and it also goes against the new government’s
policy to ban cross shareholdings.”  Mando’s investment plan runs against President Park Geun Hye’s pledges to limit cross shareholdings among South Korean
family-run industrial groups,  known locally as the chaebol.
Mando is 20 percent owned by Halla Engineering, whose biggest
shareholder is Chung.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  