-- ANZ Vietnam Sees Dollar-Bond Sales Topping 2012: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-16T07:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/anz-vietnam-sees-dollar-bond-sales-topping-2012-southeast-asia.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  plans to arrange overseas corporate bond sales by
Vietnamese companies this year that will exceed last year’s
total as the nation’s improving economy lures global investors.  ANZ is working to manage “a handful” of dollar-
denominated corporate bonds that are expected to top the
country’s $250 million issued last year, Phan Thi Thanh Binh,
head of global markets for  Vietnam , said in an interview in
Hanoi April 12. Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank For Industry
and Trade, or  VietinBank (CTG) , was the only issuer of international
dollar bonds in 2012. The first overseas bond sale this year
could take place as early as the third quarter, Binh said.  “There is increasing interest now for Vietnamese paper and
we don’t have enough of the papers out there for investors,”
Binh said, declining to name the issuers. “The stable currency
is a very important factor for foreign investors. Interest rates
are coming down.”  Vietnam’s corporate  bond market  is set to pick up as the
country’s economy stabilizes and companies need capital amid a
credit crunch after national growth slumped to its slowest pace
since 1999 last year. The economy grew 5.03 percent in 2012 and
the  World Bank  predicts expansion of 5.2 percent this year.  Vietnam’s macroeconomic stability “will persist” and the
“risk of a sharp economic shock is low,” Matt Hildebrandt, a
Singapore-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co, wrote in e-
mailed report April 9.  Improving Economy  The  economy  is improving after  inflation  slowed to a six-
month low in March and exports climbed 20 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier. The dong has been steady at about
20,900 per dollar this year. The yield on benchmark five-year
local-currency government bonds slid to 8.5 percent on March 29,
the lowest since February 2009.  “There are some special features of the Vietnamese bond
market making it a rational policy for private companies to seek
financing on international markets,” Alan Pham, chief economist
at VinaCapital Group in  Ho Chi Minh City , said via e-mail today.
“The state is borrowing so much that it takes up a large share
of domestic credit available. The private sector has to make do
with what is left over.”  Vietnam’s government sold almost 65.5 trillion dong of
bonds in the first quarter, or 34 percent of its 2013 plan, the
Ministry of Finance said in a statement April 10. The government
will boost domestic debt sales this year to about 150 trillion
dong as its revenue dropped 2.6 percent while expenditures rose
6 percent in the first quarter, the ministry said. It sold a
record 141 trillion dong of securities last year.  Corporate Plans  Bank for Investment & Development of Vietnam last year
planned to sell $500 million of dollar-denominated bonds
overseas, Quach Hung Hiep, a deputy general director at the bank
known as BIDV, said in July. The company has not completed the
sale yet, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vingroup JSC (VIC) , Vietnam’s biggest property developer, pulled
a planned overseas sale of as much as $300 million of bonds
because of high yields, Chief Executive Officer Le Thi Thu Thuy
said in December. The developer plans to pursue a strategic
investor or go back to the bond market when yields are more
attractive, Thuy said.  Interest from international investors for Vietnamese bonds
overall is increasing, ANZ’s Binh said. “Last year, we didn’t
see many inquiries on Vietnam overall, but now we’re getting
more inquiries about Vietnam’s notes.”  Yield Premiums  The average yield premiums on dollar bonds for Vietnamese
borrowers was 323 basis points more than Treasuries on April 15,
compared to a 308 basis-point spread for Chinese issuers and a
273 basis-point spread in  Indonesia , according to HSBC Holdings
Plc indexes. Dollar bond spreads in Vietnam on April 11 fell to
a December 2010 low, according to HSBC. Borrowing costs for
Vietnamese issuers also fell to a record-low of 3.79 percent on
April 12, according to HSBC indexes.  The Vietnamese government has sold two international bonds,
$1 billion of notes in January 2010 and $750 million of bonds in
October 2005.  Vietnamese companies may prefer to issue corporate bonds to
boost their visibility and establish benchmarks for further
debt. The country’s banks have been reluctant to lend on concern
about non-performing loans that plague the financial system and
relatively high interest rates.  The bad-debt ratio dropped to 6 percent of outstanding
loans as of Feb. 28, from “about 8 percent” last year, Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the Government Office, said that day.  Lending Slowdown  Bank lending slowed this year after growing 9 percent in
2012, which was the slowest pace in at least two decades. The
monetary authority will promote credit flows to spur economic
growth, it said on April 4, reiterating its target of 12
percent.  The central bank cut  interest rates  last month, the seventh
policy easing since the start of 2012. The monetary authority
has struggled to spur lending that slowed on concern over non-
performing loans. The refinancing rate is now 8 percent compared
with 15 percent at the end of 2011.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung formed a steering committee
last month to restructure banks by 2015. The government will
discuss the establishment of a debt asset management company at
a meeting at the end of this month as part of its plan to
overhaul the banking system.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  