-- Harvard.xxx a Brand Cautionary Tale as Web Adds New Names
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-04-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/harvard-xxx-a-brand-cautionary-tale-as-web-adds-new-names.html
Harvard University  paid as much as
$299 to register the last time the World Wide Web’s global
overseer added a domain name to familiar ones including  .com
and .net. Rather than seeking a new opportunity, it signed up to
keep harvard.xxx from being used as a porn site.  As the Internet’s first major expansion since 2004 adds
suffixes including .fail and .sex to the existing 22 names to
the right of the dot, brand owners such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  may be similarly forced to pay up to prevent
cybersquatting on a massive scale, said Daniel Jaffe, executive
vice president of the Association of National Advertisers, a
trade group whose members wield 10,000 brands.  “The pressure to defensively register is tremendous,”
Jaffe said in an interview. “We have major, major trademark
concerns.”  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers,
the non-profit that manages the Web’s address system under a
contract with the U.S. Commerce Department, each week unveils a
batch of new domains it has cleared from among 1,930
applications. They include some from major corporations such as
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Amazon.com Inc.  Each new suffix creates millions of possible addresses to
be sold by registries. There are  106 million  variations in .com
alone, according to  Verisign Inc. (VRSN) , the Reston, Virginia-based
global registry for .com and other domains.  Los Angeles-based Icann as of April 5 had  cleared  93 new
names, mainly in non-Roman script such as Chinese or Arabic.  Brand Protection  Icann, which is charging $185,000 for rights to a new
right-of-the-dot name, is expanding the Web over qualms from the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission and brand-name companies including
Coca-Cola, Ford, Procter & Gamble, General Electric Co. and
Johnson & Johnson.  The companies, in a 2011 petition to the Commerce
Department, said domain expansion would require them to spend
“ever-greater amounts of time and resources simply to protect
their brands.”  Although Congress passed a  law in 1999  barring
cybersquatting -- the speculating in Web addresses of companies
or brands with the intent to sell those for a profit -- not all
nations followed and companies have waged costly battles.  The nonprofit has portrayed the expansion as a way to allow
companies and other brand owners to create specific online
identifiers. Copyright holders have protections under the new
system,  Brad White , an Icann spokesman, said in an e-mail.  New measures “were put in place to help rights holders
protect their marks and to mitigate the need for defensive
registrations,” White said.  Scam Opportunities  The protections haven’t been tested, nor have systems for
removing domain names that are found to violate trademarks, said
Jaffe, of the advertisers’ group.  “Many of our members have thousands if not tens of
thousands of trademarks,” Jaffe said. “Even the richest
companies cannot afford to protect all of their prized brands.”  At Icann’s meeting last week in Beijing, countries told the
group to ensure those selling and using new domains comply with
laws and safeguard certain generic names -- among them .money,
.pay, and .save as well as .poker, .book and .weather.  Under Icann procedures, the non-profit’s board is to
consider the advice from the governmental committee, which has
representatives from the U.S., U.K.,  Germany ,  China ,  Japan  and
the European Commission.  “The expansion could create opportunities for scammers to
defraud consumers online, shrink law enforcement’s ability to
catch scam artists, and divert the resources of legitimate
businesses into litigating and protecting their own good
names,” Julie Brill, a Federal Trade Commission member, said in
a March 20  speech  to the Association of National Advertisers.  Trademark Violations  Harvard was among “10 or 20” universities paying to
protect their academic brands after .xxx was added in 2011, at a
cost of $162 and $299 for each address, so they couldn’t be used
as online destinations for sexually explicit material, Stuart Lawley, chief executive officer of ICM Registry Ltd. that sells
.xxx Web addresses, said in an interview.  University officials remain vigilant. The school “may
register its name with some of these new domains and take other
steps as necessary in order to protect Harvard’s trademark
rights,” Kevin Galvin, a Harvard spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, which has applied through
Icann for .ford and .lincoln, hasn’t publicly discussed what it
may do when other domains go live, Scott Monty, global head of
social media, said in an interview.  “We’re going to watch that space and see how it plays
out,” Monty said.  Petro Kacur, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, in an
e-mail declined to comment.  Protecting .Corp  For Lawley, of the  Palm Beach , Florida-based .xxx registry,
the small number of schools that moved to ward off bawdy Web
links shows “it wasn’t a huge thing” to have a new set of Web
addresses available.  About 70,000 of the initial 210,000 registrations were
defensive, Lawley said. He said the registry on its own blocked
about 10,000 names from being used, including kings, queens and
celebrities such as  Kim Kardashian  and Lawley’s neighbor,
retired basketball player  Michael Jordan .  The wholesale price charged by ICM for defensive registry
was $162, and applicants may pay as much as $299, Lawley said.  Risk-averse companies may defensively register in some but
not necessarily all new domains, Josh Bourne, a managing partner
at FairWinds Partners LLC, a Washington-based advisory group on
domain-name strategy, said in an interview.  “If you’re IBM there’s a pretty clear business reason to
register ibm.tech, ibm.careers, ibm.eco or ibm.blog,” he said.
“There’s scant returns from registering ibm.tattoo or
ibm.ninja.”  Still, Bourne said, nervous companies may flinch before
unsavory associations. He spun an imaginary conversation at
Milan-based  Prada SpA (1913) : “Have we thought about prada.sucks? Tell
me we’re registering prada.sucks.”  Prada declined to provide an on-the-record statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  