-- As Tax Day Passes, the Tax Grope Begins
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-04-15T22:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/as-tax-day-passes-the-tax-grope-begins.html
First comes  Tax Day , then comes the
Tax Grope.  That is the attitude of Americans toward tax authorities.
Citizens have resigned themselves to the new rates, official and
public, that will apply this year to long-agreed-upon
definitions of  taxable  income. Traditional income is fair game.  The taxpayer is alert, though, to something else: future
arbitrary impingement by a tax authority in an unexpected way.
Sometimes the intrusion comes from an expected party, more
uncomfortable and irritating than fatal. But sometimes, the
intrusion shocks either by its scale or because it comes as a
total surprise.  The grope image goes back to the revolutionary pamphleteer
Thomas Paine, who wrote of “the  Greedy Hand  of government.”
Back in the 1960s the business writer John Brooks sketched out
the grope concept further, writing of the intruding taxing
authority approaching as an unwanted suitor, with a “ghastly
expression of benignity.”  The most obvious recent grope has been overseas: the
garnishment of bank accounts in  Cyprus . The depositors simply
didn’t expect to pay for the euro’s failings from this part of
their fiscal selves. Another Cyprus-related tax grab is a  levy 
just proposed by the German government’s senior economics
advisers on those who own valuable houses in countries that ask
for bailouts. When, say, an Englishman bought his villa in
 Portugal , he probably expected to pay taxes on the vacation
home, but not this extra surcharge.  Budget Portents  Portents of possible impingements on Americans are evident,
too, in President  Barack Obama ’s budget.  Into the category of mild grope falls the indexing of
certain tax penalties to inflation. Americans are accustomed to
some of these penalties being fixed, such as amounts for traffic
tickets. Under the administration plan, the penalties will no
longer be fixed: They may rise with inflation and, an added zap,
may be rounded up “to the next hundred dollars.”  Yes, you read that right: The government is rounding to the
nearest “hundred,” not the nearest “dollar.”  Another historically safe zone for taxpayers has been their
employer’s portion of the cost of health insurance. What
employers pay for their insurance hasn’t traditionally been
included in individuals’ taxable income. Now it might be, as the
Treasury lets us know in “General Explanations of the
Administration’s Fiscal Year 2014 Revenue Proposals,” the  cheat
sheet  on the White House’s fresh intentions published along with
the White House budget.  The intended effect is to drive up citizens’ total taxable
income and subject more of their income to top rates. And this
is a double grope, for in this case the administration also
proposes applying the Buffett rule, named after  Warren Buffett ’s
suggestion that rich Americans be taxed at a rate no lower than
their secretaries. The Fair Share Tax would raise rates again on
income to ensure that the rate the wealthy pay on their newly
broadened taxable income isn’t too low.  The administration’s Buffett rule also increases taxation
on capital gains and dividends. The Treasury boldly  states  that
dividends and long-term capital gains, which are taxed at a
maximum rate of 23.8 percent, should be taxed at higher rates by
imposing a new minimum Fair Share Tax of 30 percent on high
earners. Thus does Treasury try to push dividends and capital
gains, heretofore not subject to the alternative minimum tax,
into an AMT-style trap.  Retirement Limits  The area most Americans consider untouchable is their
 retirement accounts , their IRAs and 401(k)s, which aren’t
subject to tax until withdrawal. Slipping money into an
individual retirement account has sometimes been difficult, but
most Americans assume that their treasure may germinate
undisturbed. Many people maintain several such accounts, valued
souvenirs of otherwise painfully remembered job changes.
Thoughts of these nest eggs growing safely kept many a citizen
sane through the ruction of 2009, 2010 and 2011.  This budget would  crack  the eggs. The Treasury explanation
explicitly challenges that principle of undisturbed accrual:
“The current law limitations on retirement contributions and
benefits for each plan in which a taxpayer may participate do
not adequately limit the extent to which a taxpayer can
accumulate amounts in a tax-favored arrangement through the use
of multiple plans,” the Treasury  writes .  Page 18 of the budget suggests that an IRA or 401(k) ample
enough to provide pensions of more than $205,000 a year is too
high. New penalties apply to money in the plan exceeding a
“maximum permitted accumulation.” This reduces whatever benefit
was there from compounding. The suggested limit on such savings
would be $3 million.  Still these lines should chill even citizens whose 401(k)s
fall short of that amount. After all, authorities could lower
the limit later, as happened with the erstwhile rich-man’s levy,
the alternative minimum tax.  The White House is using executive power to push again for,
or even force via regulation, tax increases it has failed to win
from Congress. The federal government, desperate for cash, is
ready to act as European leaders have acted.  If we seek an explanation why U.S. markets reacted to a
small action involving bank accounts on a Mediterranean island,
the Obama budget is it.  Cyprus  signaled not only  Europe ’s
challenges but also a Great Grope that is commencing here.  (Amity Shlaes, a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author of
“Coolidge.” She is the director of the Four Percent Growth
Project at the Bush Institute. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 