-- Tata Motors Drops in U.S. as China Slowdown Sinks ADRs
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-15T20:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/tata-motors-drops-in-u-s-as-china-slowdown-sinks-adrs.html
Indian stocks  in New York fell to
the lowest level since November as slowing Chinese growth
clouded the global economic outlook.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  sank the
most in two months and  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  dropped to a 2013 low.  The Bank of New York Mellon  index  of Indian companies’
American depositary receipts slid 2.3 percent to 998.68, after
tumbling 8.6 percent April 12.  Tata Motors (TTM)  dropped after Moody’s
Investors Service said the company’s share of the passenger-
vehicle market has declined. ADRs of Infosys, the South Asian
nation’s second-largest software services exporter, extended
last week’s 17 percent loss after projecting revenue growth that
fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Indian ADRs defied a 0.6 percent rally in the S&P BSE  India 
Sensex India in Mumbai, as domestic equities climbed on
speculation slowing inflation will spur interest-rate cuts.
 China’s economy , Asia’s largest, expanded 7.7 percent from a
year earlier in the first quarter, below the 8 percent median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg and slowing from a
7.9 percent rate in the previous three months.  Indian ADRs slipped in “a global selloff, which is caused
mostly by  China ’s weaker GDP data as well as soft U.S. data,”
Gregory Lesko, managing director at Deltec Asset Management LLC
where he helps manage about $750 million, said by e-mail in New
York. “Tata had some negative comment from Moody’s, and  Infosys (INFY) 
followed through after its bad forecast numbers given last
week.”  Discount Swells  Tata Motors’ ADRs fell 4.8 percent to $24.01 in New York
yesterday for the steepest one-day loss since Feb. 14. The ADRs
traded 2.9 percent  below  the company’s Indian shares, the widest
discount since Jan. 23. Each ADR represents five underlying
shares in the Mumbai-based automaker. The  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  slipped 1.9 percent in a second day of declines.  The company’s share of the passenger-vehicle market has
dropped to 11.8 percent from 14.2 percent since the year ended
March 31, Moody’s Associate Analyst George Teng wrote in a
report today. Longer-term erosion of market share will lead to
weaker operating performance and key financial metrics,
according to the note.  Infosys slid 3.2 percent to $41.71 in New York, the lowest
level since Dec. 27. The 3 percent discount on the ADRs to the
company’s domestic stock was the  most  in nine months.  Antique Stock Broking Ltd. cut its  recommendation  on
Infosys to hold from buy, while Kim Eng Securities Pte Ltd.
downgraded it to sell from buy today after the Bangalore-based
company said sales in the year that started April 1 will grow as
much as 10 percent, missing the median 13 percent estimated by
66 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  