-- Australians Endure Nervous Wait as Scott Breaks Masters Drought
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-15T05:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/australians-endure-nervous-wait-as-scott-breaks-masters-drought.html
Australians endured a nervous wait
before lauding a defining moment in the nation’s sporting
history as Adam Scott secured the country’s first win at golf’s
 Masters Tournament .  Scott, 32, beat  Angel Cabrera  of  Argentina  in a playoff at
Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia , yesterday to
become the first Australian to take the winner’s green jacket in
the major championship’s 77 editions. It was also his first
victory at the sport’s four biggest tournaments.  “I have never been so nervous in my life,” Dale Durant,
the chief executive officer of the Sanctuary Cove Golf and
Country Club on the  Gold Coast  where Scott is the touring
professional, said in a telephone interview. “It’s fantastic to
see him win a major as everyone expected him to be the man to
break through. He’s had a few near misses and his time has
finally come.”  The Masters had been the only one of the four majors that
had never been won by an Australian. Until yesterday, Geoff Ogilvy’s victory at the 2006  U.S. Open  had been the country’s
most-recent success.  Scott and Jason Day, who finished two shots off the lead in
third yesterday, tied for second in 2011.  Greg Norman  was a
runner-up three times in Augusta, most famously in 1996, when he
blew a six-shot lead in the final round and was beaten by  Nick Faldo . Australians Jack Newton (1980) and Bruce Crampton (1972)
also finished second at the Masters.  Beer With Norman  Scott said he plans to share a celebratory beer with the
58-year-old Norman, whom he described as an “icon” who
inspired a generation of Australian golfers.  “A phone conversation isn’t going to do it for us,” Scott
said at a news conference. “We are really close.”  According to Norman, whose two major victories came at the
British Open in 1986 and 1993, Scott fulfilled the major-winning
potential he first showed as a teenager.  “What happened today I observed in the eyes of Adam when
he was 15,” Norman posted on Twitter. “He deserves everything
he gets from this win. Proud of him.”  Norman, who lives in  Florida , added on his  Facebook page 
that he had been “on the edge of my seat all afternoon”
watching the Masters.  Marc Leishman was the third of the four Australians who
began the tournament to still be in contention for the victory
on the final day. Leishman finished in a tie for fourth place
with  Tiger Woods  at 5-under.  ‘Huge Opportunity’  “We’ve finally got a green jacket and we’ve clearly got
the talent to go on to many more major wins,” Brian Thorburn,
CEO of the PGA of  Australia , said in a statement. “Beyond
today, this will open up plenty of doors for Adam and Australian
golf. All of Australia is talking about golf today, and that’s a
huge opportunity for our game.”  Politicians were among those to lead the plaudits after
Scott sealed the victory with a 12-foot birdie putt on the
second playoff hole at 9:38 a.m. on Australia’s east coast.
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  all posted their congratulations
on Twitter.  The Australian Broadcasting Corp. interrupted a radio
interview with Gillard to give updates on Scott’s progress.
Sanctuary Cove CEO Durant said he started watching at 4:20 a.m.,
and his wife kept him updated as he was driving to the
clubhouse, where he watched the final six holes.  “ Adam Scott ’s triumph at Augusta immediately joins the
ranks of the truly great Australian sporting moments,” Gillard
said in an e-mailed statement. Scott “held his nerve and
prevailed in the most intense pressure imaginable on any
sporting field.”  ‘Magnificent Monday’  Golf Australia wrote on Twitter that it was “quite simply,
the most magnificent Monday imaginable” after Scott ended
Australia’s wait for a win at Augusta by becoming the 10th
Australian to secure a major championship. It came nine months
after he blew a four-shot lead with four holes to play at the
British Open and lost out by one stroke.  The victory is also likely to send him atop BRW’s annual
list of the top 50 sports earners in Australia, the magazine
said on its website. Scott, who picked up the winner’s check of
$1.44 million, earned A$10.5 million ($10.9 million) last year
according to BRW, putting him third on the list behind
basketballer Andrew Bogut on A$13.5 million and Formula One
driver  Mark Webber , who earned A$12 million.  Incentive clauses in Scott’s endorsement contracts with
companies including Rolex Group and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz
are likely to put him on top, BRW said.  The recognition and rewards that come with his Masters win
are no more than Scott deserves, according to the PGA of
Australia’s Thorburn.  “For years he’s carried the weight of expectation and
answered countless questions about when his time would come,”
Thorburn added. “Finally, it’s here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  