-- Banco do Brasil Unit’s $6.2 Billion IPO Halted for 30 Days
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-04-15T21:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/banco-do-brasil-unit-s-6-2-billion-ipo-suspended-for-30-days.html
Banco do Brasil SA ’s 12.2 billion-
real ($6.2 billion) initial public offering of an insurance unit
on the  Sao Paulo  exchange was suspended for 30 days by  Brazil ’s
securities regulator.  The suspension resulted from the use of “irregular
publicity material,” the regulator known as the CVM said today
in a statement distributed by e-mail. A CVM press official said
the bank on at least one occasion advertised the offering before
it was approved by the regulator. A spokesman for the Brasilia-
based lender declined to comment.  Banco do Brasil, Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
said earlier this month its insurance unit, BB Seguridade
Participacoes SA, planned to sell as much as 675 million of its
existing voting shares for 15 reais to 18 reais apiece. The IPO
would be the largest in  Latin America  since July 2009, when
Banco Santander Brasil SA raised $7.5 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The suspension may help the offering as the Sao Paulo
exchange is at a very bad moment,” with Brazilian stocks
sliding, Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at consulting firm
Empiricus Research, said by phone from Sao Paulo. He said that
while Banco do Brasil’s shares may suffer after the regulator’s
decision, “the offering fundamentals won’t change as the
suspension wasn’t motivated by a serious reason.”  Banco do Brasil  fell  1.8 percent to close at 27.85 reais in
Sao Paulo, the first decline in seven trading days. The shares
have  climbed  30 percent since Nov. 26, when it announced plans
for the unit’s IPO, compared with an 8 percent drop in the 69-
company Bovespa index over the same period.  BB Seguridade planned to price the shares on April 23 and
start trading two days later, according to the prospectus. Banco
do Brasil’s investment-banking unit is managing the offering. BB
Seguridade controls all Banco do Brasil’s insurance business,
including joint ventures with Madrid-based  Mapfre SA. (MAP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  