-- Barcelona, PSG Maintain Title Momentum With Wins; Napoli Draws
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-15T00:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/barcelona-psg-maintain-title-momentum-with-wins-napoli-draws.html
Barcelona beat Real Zaragoza 3-0 to
stay on course for a 22nd La Liga soccer title as the top three
teams won in Spain. Napoli missed the chance to close within six
points of Italian leader Juventus by tying AC Milan.  Thiago Alcantara opened the scoring for Barcelona last
night before Cristian Tello added the others. Cristiano Ronaldo
scored twice as Real Madrid also had a 3-0 away win, at Athletic
Bilbao. Third-place Atletico Madrid earlier beat Granada 5-0 at
home, with Radamel Falcao getting two goals.  Barcelona, which was without injured world player of the
year  Lionel Messi , tops the standings with 81 points, a lead of
13 over defending champion Real with seven games remaining.
Third-place Atletico is three points further back.  In Italy, Napoli was unable to increase the pressure on
Juventus atop the standings as it was held to a 1-1 draw by 10-
man AC Milan, which lost goalscorer Mathieu Flamini to a second-
half red card. Goran Pandev scored Juventus’s goal to make it
1-1 four minutes after Flamini’s 29th-minute opener.  Juventus, which leads with 71 points ahead of Napoli on 63,
visits Lazio tonight.  Paris Saint-Germain won 1-0 at Troyes two days ago to
maintain its momentum atop the French league, which it leads by
nine points. Lyon beat Toulouse 3-1 yesterday to move up to
third before second-place Marseille drew at Lille in the night
game. PSG has 67 points with Marseille on 58 and Lyon 56.  Bayern Munich , which clinched its 23rd German league
championship the previous weekend, beat Nuremberg 4-0 two days
ago, while  Borussia Dortmund  had a 6-1 victory at Greuther
Fuerth. Bayern has 78 points, 20 clear of Dortmund.  In the Dutch league, Ajax extended its lead at the top to
five points with a 3-2 win at  PSV Eindhoven  yesterday, when
fourth-place Feyenoord drew 1-1 at  RKC Waalwijk .  Defending champion Ajax has 66 points, followed by Vitesse
Arnhem, which drew 3-3 at  Roda JC  two days ago. PSV and
Feyenoord both have 60 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 