-- Barclays Received Most U.K. Bank Customer Complaints, FCA Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-04-15T11:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/barclays-received-most-u-k-bank-customer-complaints-fca-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  topped the list of the
most-complained about U.K. financial institutions in the second
half of last year, according to data compiled by the markets
regulator.  The bank, based in London, received 414,302 complaints, a
six percent decrease from the first half of 2012, the Financial
Conduct Authority said in an e-mailed statement today. Lloyds
TSB Bank Plc was second with 349,386, a 19 percent decline.  U.K. banks have been buffeted by a series of consumer
scandals in recent years, including improper sales of loan
insurance and some derivatives products. The sales of the loan
insurance, known as PPI, topped the list of complaints, followed
by checking accounts, general insurance products, credit cards,
and  savings accounts .  “The publication of the complaints data lays bare the
track record of the U.K.’s financial institutions when it comes
to resolving customer conflicts,” FCA Chief Executive Officer
Martin Wheatley said. “When I meet with the bosses of the
financial institutions they frequently tell me that they don’t
want to be at the top of the table.”  Barclays said in a statement that it is continuing to make
improvements to its  customer service  and has seen complaints
fall by 184,000 in comparison to 2010.  “Our sole focus is on helping our customers and getting it
right so they don’t feel the need to complain in the first
place,”  the bank said in a statement. “These actions will
make a big difference going forward.”  The overall number of complaints rose 1 percent to more
than 3.4 million between July and December last year, while the
number of issues raised about banking products decreased to
728,284, the lowest since the second half of 2006, the regulator
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  