-- Barroso to Push Tax-Evasion Fight Globally in New York Speech
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-04-15T11:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/barroso-to-push-tax-evasion-fight-globally-in-new-york-speech.html
The European Union is working to
make tax systems around the world more fair as the 27-nation
bloc moves to clamp down on  tax evasion , European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  will say today in a speech in New York.  “He will say that the European Union is working to ensure
greater fairness within the European economy but also globally,
taking one very topical example -- tax evasion and recalling
that it costs the EU 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) every year
and that the global bill for tax evasion is much higher,” Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen, spokeswoman for Barroso, told reporters today
in Brussels.  “This is money the president will say that should be
available to spend on education, skills, health-care and
infrastructure investment in both developed and developing
countries,” Ahrenkilde-Hansen said. Barroso is scheduled to
address the  United Nations General Assembly  at 9:30 a.m. local
time in New York.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  last week put  tax havens  on
the agenda of the next meeting of the bloc’s leaders on May 22,
calling tax evasion “a serious problem for countries that need
resources to restore sound public finances.”  “I welcome the important new political signals coming from
many European countries on tackling tax evasion head-on and
addressing bank secrecy,”  Van Rompuy  said in an Internet video
message on April 12. “We must seize the increased political
momentum to address this crucial problem.”  Bank Details  Nine EU countries are backing an initiative for automatic
sharing of bank details across borders, and the 27-nation bloc
is nearing updates to a savings-tax accord as holdouts Austria
and Luxembourg signal willingness to compromise, EU Tax
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said on April 13 in Dublin.  The six biggest EU nations have won support from the
Netherlands, Belgium and  Romania  for their proposal to adopt the
U.S.’s FATCA information-exchange program, Semeta said.
Finance Minister Luc Friedenof Luxembourg, which last week
dropped its resistance to giving up its banking-secrecy rules,
said over the weekend that he wants Europe to win broader global
support for the initiative within the Group of 20 nations.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  