-- Betfair Rises After CVC Holds Possible Offer Talks: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-04-15T10:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/betfair-rises-after-cvc-holds-possible-offer-talks-london-mover.html
Betfair Group Plc (BET) , a U.K.-based
online gambling operator, rose the most in two and a half years
today after CVC Capital Partners Ltd. said it has held talks
regarding a possible offer for the company.  The shares rose as much as 15.2 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since October 2010, to 806 pence.  CVC said today it has held preliminary discussions with
investors Richard Koch, Antony Ball and partners “regarding
options in respect of Betfair, which could include an offer.”
The deadline for a firm intention is May 13 and it isn’t certain
any offer will be made, CVC said. Koch holds about 6.5 percent
of Betfair’s shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sky News reported yesterday that CVC is considering a 750
million pounds ($1.15 billion) offer for the gambling operator.
Today’s share price jump puts the market value at 800 million
pounds.  “Betfair is highly cash generative and is sitting on a
large cash pile, we assume this is at the core of its potential
attraction to CVC,” Ivor Jones, an analyst with Numis who rates
the  stock buy , said in a note today. “It is difficult to see
how Betfair could be worth as much to a leveraged buyer as it
could be to a bookmaker with synergies to extract. We would not
consider it inevitable that it is taken over.”  Exciting Development  Betfair today “strongly advised” shareholders to take no
action. “I believe Betfair is currently going through one of
the most exciting phases in its development,” Chairman Gerald Corbett said today in a statement.  Betfair said last month that third-quarter revenue in the
U.K. rose 6 percent and said it was confident that its
underlying full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization will be in line with forecasts of 65 million
pounds to 70 million pounds.  The stock was up 10 percent at 771.5 pence as of 10:44 a.m.
More than 311,000 shares traded in  London , almost 1 1/2 times
the three-month daily average.  Of 19 analysts who share data with Bloomberg, eight advise
buying the stock, eight have a hold recommendation and three
recommend selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 