-- Bird Flu Surge in China Spurs H7N9 Pandemic Vaccine Preparations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-15T06:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/bird-flu-surge-in-china-spurs-h7n9-pandemic-vaccine-preparations.html
A surge in bird flu cases in China
increases the pandemic potential of the H7N9 strain, according
to a Beijing-based supplier of influenza vaccines to the Chinese
government.  Sinovac Biotech Ltd. (SVA) , the first company to win regulatory
approval for a swine flu shot in 2009, is preparing to make
immunizations against the new virus that’s infected dozens of
people in China and killed 13. The Nasdaq-traded company will
hold off producing the shots until it’s received an order from
the state, said Chief Executive Officer Yin Weidong.  Flu labs around the world are developing vaccine seed
strains to serve as a template for bulk immunization production,
should it be required. While there is no evidence that H7N9 is
spreading easily among people, it hasn’t been detected in humans
before, so they have no natural immunity. That raises global
public health concerns, researchers at the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta said last week.  “The risk of this becoming a pandemic is increasing,” Yin
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in the
Chinese capital, where a second H7N9 infection was reported
today.  Over the past two months, 61 H7N9 cases and 13 deaths have
been reported by health authorities, mostly in  China ’s eastern
provinces. About half the infections occurred this month,
suggesting the pace of transmission is increasing.  The H5N1 bird flu strain, which killed at least 371 people
in Asia and  Africa  over the past decade, hasn’t acquired the
ability to spread easily among people. In 2009, a novel swine
flu virus, known as H1N1, touched off the first influenza
pandemic in 41 years, showing how diseases of livestock can
spill over into human populations, causing a contagion.  Bigger Threat  “This is a much more serious outbreak than H5N1, which
from 2003 until now only infected 43 people in China,” Yin said.  Sinovac has notified its suppliers that it may need to
order additional fertilized chicken eggs to produce H7N9 vaccine,
Yin said. The company doesn’t usually require the eggs in the
second half of the year, when the bulk of Sinovac’s seasonal- flu
vaccine  has been produced, he said.  Under an agreement with  China’s Food and Drug
Administration , a Sinovac vaccine for pandemic flu doesn’t need
to undergo clinical testing because its production methods have
already been approved and the pandemic flu vaccine would
represent only a change in the viral strain, he said.  Ready in July  Based on typical vaccine development and production
schedules, a batch could be ready for commercial use by late
July, Yin said, adding that he is urging the  World Health
Organization  and its affiliated labs to expedite the preparation
of seed strains.  Sinovac has the capacity to produce about 30 million to 40
million doses of flu vaccine annually, said Yin, who founded the
company in 2001 to make immunizations for hepatitis. The price
to the Chinese government is about 20  yuan  ($3.23) a piece, he
added.  The company’s egg-based manufacturing process can supply
vaccines with or without an aluminum-based chemical additive,
called an adjuvant, which heightens the immune response. It is
also able to make vaccines based on either whole or split
viruses, Yin said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  