-- Birmingham Sells Water Bonds Trailing Market Return: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-04-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/birmingham-sells-water-bonds-trailing-market-return-muni-deals.html
The Water Works Board of
Birmingham, the seat of bankrupt Jefferson County,  Alabama , is
selling $154 million of bonds as such revenue debt delivers the
year’s worst returns.  Most of the tax-exempt debt will refund 2006 water and
sewer bonds, said Moody’s Investors Service, which rates the
securities Aa2, third-highest. About $72 million will pay for
water-system improvements, deal documents show. The offer, set
for this week, is the issuer’s largest since May 2009.  The system serves municipalities in Jefferson County and
adjacent counties, bond documents say. About 59 percent of its
customers are served by the sewer system in Jefferson County,
which in 2011 filed the nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy
because of $3.1 billion in sewer debt  Because of questions about payments on the county debt
going forward, “there is and may continue to be limited
liquidity” in the bonds of the city water board and other
municipalities in Jefferson County, the deal documents say.  In March 2012, the water works sold 10-year tax-exempt
bonds yielding 2.84 percent and paid 0.53 percentage point more
than similarly rated utility revenue bonds, according to a
Bloomberg Fair Value index.  “We’ve shown we’re very prudent, and it’s a great
investment,” Michael Johnson, the board’s assistant general
manager for finance and administration, said by phone. The board
would like to receive interest rates below 4.5 percent, he said.  Standard & Poor’s last month raised its rating of the water
works to AA, third-highest, because of its “strong financial
profile” and ample funds to cover debt service, it said.  Water and sewer bonds are earning 0.6 percent this year
through April 11, the lowest among revenue-bond areas, according
to Barclays Plc indexes. Debt from Alabama is returning 1.1
percent, beating the broader market at 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  