-- Blackstone’s LogiCor Plans to Double Size of Warehouse Portfolio
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-04-15T12:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/blackstone-s-logicor-plans-to-double-size-of-warehouse-portfolio.html
LogiCor,  Blackstone Group LP’s (BX) 
European warehouse owner and operator, plans to double its
portfolio through 2015 as it seeks to profit from rising rents
and values, Chief Executive Officer Mo Barzegar said.  The London-based company bought 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) of warehouses and distribution centers in the U.K.,
Poland and France since starting up last year, Barzegar, who is
also LogiCor’s president, said in an interview. The company owns
2.5 million square meters (26 million square feet) of logistics
space.  “ Europe  presents a really attractive opportunity because
it is a highly fragmented market in terms of ownership of real
estate,” he said. “There is an opportunity to create a pan-
European provider of modern logistics facilities that has access
to capital, can provide quality space to customers and, frankly,
provides an alternative in the marketplace.”  Europe’s income-producing warehouses were sold at yields of
7.5 percent at the end of 2012, up from 7.4 percent a year
earlier, according to broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , indicating
a decline in prices. Rents and values for warehouses will rise
in some European markets because businesses will move out of
obsolete buildings and  Internet-retail  companies will lease more
warehouses for deliveries and returns, Barzegar said.  “Because of our access to equity, we can acquire all-cash
and put debt on it later,” he said in a telephone interview
April 11. “Once you get over 100 million euros, we are
definitely very, very competitive because of our ability to move
quickly and close quickly.”  LogiCor wants to buy warehouses in Germany and possibly in
in Spain, northern Italy,  Belgium , the Netherlands and
Luxembourg, Barzegar said. Blackstone, based in  New York , is the
world’s largest private equity firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  