-- Minmetals Land Plans Dollar Bond Sale After Borrowing Costs Drop
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-04-15T07:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/bond-risk-increases-in-asia-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Minmetals Land Ltd. (230)  is planning to
sell dollar-denominated bonds after premiums on Asian debt in
the U.S. currency tumbled last week amid record issuance.  The real-estate developer plans to meet investors in Hong
Kong,  Singapore  and  London  from today to discuss the offering,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the details are private.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) 
also hired banks to arrange investor talks, another person said.  Dollar bond sales in Asia outside of  Japan  surged to a
record $8 billion last week with the Republic of  Indonesia  and
China National Petroleum Corp. leading issuance, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Spreads narrowed 7 basis points to
277, the biggest weekly rally since the period ending Jan. 4,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  “Supply will come thick and fast so we need to make sure
deals get priced at market-clearing levels,” said Tim Jagger, a
Singapore-based fixed-income portfolio manager at Aviva
Investors Asia Pte, which managed $282 billion of debt assets
globally as of September. “We’re going to get more supply out
of the Chinese state-owned enterprise space for sure. And some
of the larger benchmark China property names haven’t come out
yet.”  Minmetals Land’s senior notes will be issued by unit
Minmetals Land Capital Ltd. and will include a keepwell deed
from China Minmetals Corp., which controls the company, the
person familiar with the matter said.  Credit Risk  A keepwell deed is an agreement whereby the parent company
of an issuer promises to maintain the borrower’s solvency while
stopping short of guaranteeing payments.  San Miguel , the largest Philippine food and drinks company,
will meet fixed-income investors in Singapore and Hong Kong from
tomorrow after hiring  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , Bank of America Corp., DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Deutsche
Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc, the person familiar with
that matter said.  San Miguel President Ramon Ang didn’t immediately reply to
mobile-phone messages today, seeking comment on any sale.  The sale would be the first for the company since raising
$600 million from convertible bonds two years ago, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. San Miguel is also marketing a $1.3 billion
five-year loan in general syndication, a person familiar with
the matter said last week.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in the
region fell 7.9 basis points last week, the most in more than a
month, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 1 basis point to 115 basis
points as of 8:51 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is set for its highest close
since April 10, according to CMA.  Japan, Australia  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 2 basis points to
91 as of 9:44 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The benchmark has fallen 68 basis points this year and is
trading near lows last seen in November 2010, according to
Citigroup and CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was little changed at 111
basis points as of 10:16 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The benchmark has ranged from 102.3
basis points to 127.5 basis points since Dec. 31, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  