-- Boston Bomb Attack No Excuse for Media Speculation
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-04-15T21:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/boston-bomb-attack-no-excuse-for-media-speculation.html
As if to provide a warning to
commentators, prognosticators, ax-grinders, think-tankers and
television analysts about the dangers of petty speculation, the
 New York  Times columnist Nicholas Kristof  posted   this thought  on
Twitter a few minutes after today’s apparent bomb attack in
 Boston : “explosion is a reminder that ATF needs a director.
Shame on Senate Republicans for blocking apptment.”  Part of talking for a living is knowing when to shut up. It
is obviously true that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives needs a director. It might even be true that
Republicans could try a lot harder to put a director in place.
But after an explosion about which we know almost nothing, and
in the face of sudden, violent death at the finish line of the
Boston Marathon, this is not the time to guess about the
perpetrators or to recommend policy fixes that would prevent
such attacks from taking place. It certainly is no time to
suggest that a political party you happen not to like is to
blame for a tragedy about which you know nothing.  I don’t mean to single out Kristof (who has already
apologized and taken the post down). In an era in which none of
us like to leave anything unsaid, and in which technology offers
us the opportunity to say things fast, we often succumb to the
urge to speculate. Shortly after the 2011 shootings in  Norway , I
asked publicly whether a Mumbai-type attack had visited  Europe ,
the implication being that Muslim terrorists were behind the
atrocity. It was perfectly plausible to suggest that Muslim
terrorists were to blame -- except that they weren’t. I learned
my lesson.  Tomorrow or the next day, when law enforcement officers and
journalists have done their work, there will be time to analyze
and criticize and learn from whatever it is we just saw. But not
today. Please, let’s wait to find out who did this and why it
happened.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  