-- Bovespa Index Falls as China Slowdown Saps Commodities
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-15T21:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/bovespa-futures-fall-as-china-slowdown-saps-commodities.html
The Bovespa index sank the most
since September 2011 as commodities prices plunged amid concern
that slower growth in  China ,  Brazil ’s top trading partner, will
curb demand for raw materials.  Iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE5) , whose top export market is
China, fell to the lowest since July 2009. Steelmaker  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  slumped the most since October
as the MSCI Brazil/Materials Index posted the biggest drop among
10 industry groups.  Banco do Brasil SA  slid after Brazil’s
securities regulator suspended the $6.2 billion initial public
offering of its insurance unit for 30 days.  The Bovespa tumbled 3.7 percent to 52,949.93 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. All 69  stocks  on the gauge dropped. The
real weakened 1.6 percent to 2.0013 per dollar. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials lost 2.3 percent to the
lowest since July.  “The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has been pretty weak lately, and on a day
like today, with bad news coming from abroad, things get even
worse,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage
Clear Corretora, said in a telephone interview. “Economic data
in Brazil have pointed to slow growth and fast inflation, and
until we see things improving, the Bovespa might keep falling
further.”  The Bovespa has declined 6.9 percent in the past month.  China Slowdown  China’s economy unexpectedly lost momentum in the first
quarter, expanding 7.7 percent from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said. That compares with the 8 percent
median forecast among economists surveyed by Bloomberg and 7.9
percent in the prior quarter. Industrial output rose 8.9 percent
in March from a year earlier, slower than the median estimate of
10.1 percent.  Vale fell 6.5 percent to 30.80 reais. Usiminas, as Usinas
Siderurgicas is also known, sank 6.3 percent to 10.29 reais. Oil
producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA tumbled 13 percent
to 1.35 reais.  Banco do Brasil lost 1.8 percent to 27.85 reais.  Homebuilder  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  fell 7.2 percent to
2.19 reais, leading losses by companies that sell on credit,
amid speculation Brazil’s central bank will raise interest rates
at the policy meeting scheduled for April 16-17.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega and central bank President
Alexandre Tombini signaled last week that Brazil’s monetary
authority will increase the target lending rate from a record
low 7.25 percent after a report showed annual inflation
accelerated above its target range for the first time since
November 2011. Mantega said on April 12 that Brazil may take
“unpopular measures” to rein in prices.  Rate Outlook  “Recent statements from various members of the government,
especially the central bank, once again indicate that there is
room for an interest-rate change,”  Roberto Padovani , the chief
economist at Votorantim Corretora, said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo.  The Bovespa has retreated 16 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China
has lost 9.7 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 10.6 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 9.9 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.67 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.46 billion reais this year
through April 11, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  