-- BP Fails to Sell North Forties; Azeri Crude Exports Drop in May
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-04-15T16:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/bp-fails-to-sell-north-forties-azeri-crude-exports-drop-in-may.html
BP Plc failed to sell North Sea
Forties crude while  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  bid
unsuccessfully for the grade.  Shipments of Azeri Light blend from  Georgia ’s Black Sea
port of Supsa in May will be two cargoes of 600,000 barrels
each, down from four lots this month, according to two traders
with knowledge of the loading plan.  North Sea  BP offered Forties for loading May 1 to May 3 at $1.15
discount to the cash cost of Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk
for June, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window.  Glencore bid for May 4 to May 8 cargo at 50 cents less than
Dated Brent, the survey showed. That compares with a deal on
April 11 at minus 60 cents.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days narrowed by 39 cents to a discount of 23 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the least since April 8.  Brent for May settlement traded at $100.47 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $101.66 in the previous session. The June
contract was $100.47 at the same time today, at parity to May.  The Buzzard share in Forties blend dropped to 45 percent
for the week ending April 7, from 46 percent a week earlier, BP
said on its website.  Mediterranean/Urals  Petraco SpA failed to buy Russian Urals even as it bid at a
higher level than the previous trade, the survey of brokers
monitoring Platts showed. The company bid at a discount of $1.85
a barrel to Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Rotterdam,
that’s 10 cents more than the deal on April 9.  Total SA also bid unsuccessfully for the grade at $2.15
less than the benchmark, according to the survey.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
narrowed by 2 cents to 61 cents a barrel, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was the least since Feb. 1. In northwest
 Europe , the  discount  was at $2.07 a barrel compared with $2.09
at the previous session’s close.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend dropped 20 cents to $3.15
a barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nigeria’s Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta
threatened to bomb mosques and assassinate Muslim clerics, a
week after saying it killed 15 security personnel in the
southern oil-producing Bayelsa state.  The Angolan crude loading program for June is expected to
be released tomorrow while that of Nigeria is due later this
week, according to four people with knowledge of the export plan
who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  