-- BP Official Says He Wasn’t to Blame for Rig Explosion
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/bp-official-says-oil-rig-crew-raised-no-safety-concerns.html
The  BP Plc (BP/)  official who oversaw
operations at the Macondo well testified he wasn’t responsible
for the fatal blast that ripped through the rig and sent
millions of barrels of oil pouring into the  Gulf of Mexico .  John Guide , the well-team leader for the Macondo project,
denied yesterday that he made drilling decisions, including to
forgo extra well stabilizers, that critics contend may have
increased the chances of an explosion. Guide said those
decisions were made by other BP officials.  “I don’t think I did anything to cause the blowout,”
Guide told U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. “I
don’t think I could have done anything different.”  Lawyers for the U.S. and  oil-spill  victims contend in the
non-jury trial that BP was over budget and behind schedule on
the deep-water Macondo well off the  Louisiana  coast, prompting
the  oil company  to cut corners and ignore safety tests showing
the well was unstable.  Guide offered his testimony as Barbier began overseeing the
eighth week of a trial in which spill victims and the U.S. are
asking him to determine liability for the Deepwater Horizon
explosion and the resulting offshore spill, the worst in U.S.
history.  Liability Trial  The April 20, 2010, blast killed 11 workers and sent waves
of oil into the Gulf, killing fish and waterfowl. The accident
sparked hundreds of lawsuits against well owner BP; Houston-
based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ; and Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG) , the Deepwater Horizon’s owner.  The liability trial began Feb. 25. Barbier must decide
whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For London-based BP, a finding of gross negligence would
mean the company might be liable to the U.S. for more than $17
billion in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified
punitive damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5
billion settlement the company reached with most private-party
plaintiffs last year.  Transocean and Halliburton could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs if the companies are found
to have handled their duties on the rig in a grossly negligent
manner.  The government and spill victims also allege Halliburton’s
cement job was defective and that Transocean employees made a
series of missteps on the rig, including disabling safety
systems, failing to properly maintain the installation and not
adequately training its crew to handle crisis situations.  Safety Issues  Lawyers for the government and spill victims produced
witnesses earlier in the trial to testify BP officials misled
federal regulators about conditions at the Macondo well and
forged ahead with “unsafe and dangerous” drilling operations
before the fatal explosion.  Guide, a Houston-based engineer who served as drilling
superintendent of the Deepwater Horizon from April 2009 until
the time of the accident, is accused of making decisions about
the well’s handling that have been criticized by other witnesses
in the case and in outside probes of the explosion and spill.  Steve Robinson , BP’s vice president of drilling and
completion, testified last week that Guide overrode a BP
engineering team’s recommendations to triple the number of
stabilizers used in the well and to clear the hole of debris
before it was sealed with cement.  Both procedures could have ensured a better cement job and
that could have helped seal the well against leaks, multiple
witnesses have said during the trial.  ‘Engineering Practice’  Guide countered in his testimony yesterday that there is no
set rule on the number of stabilizers, or centralizers, required
to help secure the drilling line and such equipment can make it
hard for safety systems designed to prevent blowouts to operate
properly.  Guide said the extra centralizers also weren’t the right
type, weren’t on-site and would have taken ten hours to install,
leaving the drilling hole open during that time.  “I just don’t think that’s good engineering practice,” he
said. No one from the engineering team expressed concerns about
forgoing the additional centralizers, Guide added.  “Was your decision, engineering judgment, based on the
cost of these centralizers?”  Hariklia “Carrie” Karis , a
lawyer for BP, asked him. “No, not at all,” Guide answered.  In making this decision, “do you believe you were
increasing the risk of a blowout?” Karis asked. “No,” Guide
replied.  ‘Wasn’t Me’  Robert Cunningham , an attorney for victims suing BP over
damages from the worst offshore spill in U.S. history, pressed
the engineer about the drilling decisions that experts have
focused on in attempting to pinpoint a cause for disaster. Guide
said other BP colleagues made the decisions on specific drilling
issues that later were called into question.  “None of these things occurred as a result of anything you
as well-team leader did or didn’t do, it was somebody else,
right?” Cunningham asked. “Well, I don’t know, you know, what
the conclusion was, but it wasn’t me,” Guide responded.  Guide acknowledged that as well supervisor, he was
responsible for drilling operations in addition to all health
and safety issues related to the project.  “So Mr. Guide, the rig, for which you were accountable
for safety and operations, explodes, sinks and 11 people die,
and you had nothing to do with it?” Cunningham asked. “That’s
right,” the supervisor said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  