-- Brazil Eases Fiscal Policy as It Plans to Increase Spending
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2013-04-15T23:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/brazil-eases-fiscal-policy-as-it-plans-to-increase-spending.html
Brazil ’s government will ease rules
that forced it to account for higher spending by states and
cities to ensure the country’s fiscal target were met, Treasury
Secretary Arno Augustin said today. The measure allows increased
spending by federal and local governments.  The government’s guidelines for its 2014 budget targets a
surplus before interest payments of 167.4 billion reais ($83.65
billion), or 3.1 percent of gross domestic product, the
government announced today. Of that total, 116.1 billion reais
is the central government’s surplus target while 51.2 billion
reais corresponds to the surplus expected from states and
municipalities. Currently, if states don’t meet their target,
the federal government’s target is affected.  “We’re suggesting the hypothesis of reducing the target
for some functions, which are those that the country understands
as being more important, such as investments and tax cuts,”
Augustin told reporters in Brasilia today. “The target is
there, but it doesn’t necessarily need to be accounted for by
the federal government if, eventually, it’s not met,” he said.  For  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sul America
Investimentos, the relaxation means more public spending. Sul
America sees Brazil’s central bank increasing the Selic rate 0.5
percentage point this week.  “It’s a sign that the government will continue to reduce
its primary surplus, it will work with a smaller target,” he
said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “If you’re
already in a scenario of increasing rates, the onus on monetary
policy becomes heavier.”  Latin America ’s largest economy expanded 0.9 percent last
year, the slowest pace in three years. Growth will rebound to at
least 3 percent this year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  