-- Brazil Real Declines as Banco do Brasil Insurance IPO Postponed
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-04-15T13:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/brazil-real-declines-as-banco-do-brasil-insurance-ipo-postponed.html
Brazil ’s real fell from a one-month
high as regulators postponed the initial public offering of
Banco do Brasil SA’s insurance unit, diminishing the prospects
for investment in the nation’s assets.  The real depreciated 0.6 percent to 1.9807 per  U.S. dollar 
at 10:32 a.m. in Sao Paulo after rallying on April 12 to 1.9695,
the strongest level since March 12. Swap rates on the contract
due in January 2014 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 8.23 percent.  “The market adjusted to the news of the IPO as there was
an expectation that this transaction would bring a lot of
inflows to Brazil,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at
Renascenca DTVM in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s securities regulator suspended for 30 days Banco
do Brasil’s 12.2 billion real ($6.2 billion) IPO of its
insurance unit, citing in an e-mailed statement the use of
“irregular publicity material.”  The real also fell as slowing growth in  China , the Latin
American nation’s biggest trading partner, overshadowed
speculation that policy makers will raise borrowing costs from
record lows this week.  China’s gross domestic product grew 7.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, compared with 7.9 percent in
the last three months of 2012 and missing the 8 percent median
forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Markets ‘Bad’  “The GDP in China shows that the global economy is
decelerating,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The
international markets are bad today.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  and central bank President
Alexandre Tombini signaled last week that Brazil’s monetary
authority will raise the target lending rate from a record low
7.25 percent after a report showed annual inflation accelerated
above its target range for the first time since November 2011.  Minutes of the central bank’s March 5-6 meeting indicated
an increase wasn’t imminent as policy makers said “a cautious
management of monetary policy” was needed. Board members are
due to meet tomorrow and April 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  