-- Breast Cancer Drugs Recommended by U.S. for High-Risk Women
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-15T22:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/breast-cancer-drugs-recommended-by-u-s-for-high-risk-women.html
Some women who are at high risk of
breast cancer, including those with a family history of the
disease, should consider taking drugs to reduce their chances of
getting cancer, a U.S. health advisory group said.  The drugs, tamoxifen and raloxifene, carry risks such as
blood clots, stroke and cataracts, according to the U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force, which released the draft
recommendations on its  website . The proposal is open for public
comment until May 13.  Both drugs are known to prevent cancer by blocking the
effects of estrogen, lowering the risk of tumors that require
the hormone to grow. About 232,000 women will be diagnosed with
breast cancer this year and an estimated 40,000 will die of the
disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  The treatment isn’t recommended for all women, as tamoxifen
can also cause uterine cancer. Rather, it’s meant for women ages
40 to 70 who don’t have a prior diagnosis of breast cancer and
don’t have a history of blood clots or stroke.  “There are several serious harms associated with tamoxifen
and raloxifene, which is why doctors must engage in a
conversation with their patients and discuss the harms and
benefits of these medications to reduce the risk of breast
cancer,”  Wanda Nicholson , a task force member and associate
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of
North Carolina School of Medicine in Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, said in a statement. “Because of these harms, the
task force recommends against the use of these medications for
women who are not at increased risk for breast cancer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  