-- Canada Dollar Falls Most Since 2011 as Gold, Commodities Tumble
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-15T21:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/canada-dollar-touches-1-week-low-as-china-growth-trails-forecast.html
The Canadian dollar had its biggest
drop in more than a year against its U.S. peer as gold led
commodities down with its biggest loss in 33 years after China’s
growth slowed more than forecast in the first quarter.  The currency weakened against the majority of its 16 most-
traded peers on speculation slowing growth at home and abroad
will lead the Bank of  Canada  to trim its economic growth
forecast at a policy meeting April 17. Data released last week
showed retail sales in the U.S., Canada’s largest trading
partner, unexpectedly contracted in March. Commodities,
including crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell.  “I do think it’s the continued downdraft in commodities
and not only does that affect demand for the Canadian dollar in
and of itself, but also probably has raised concerns about our
domestic economy,” said David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie
Capital Markets by phone from Toronto. “If the Bank of Canada is
confronted with a softness in commodity prices, if anything
their statement and tone will probably shift to becoming more
dovish, which I think would only pile on weakness to the CAD at
this point.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 1.2 percent to C$1.0256
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, reaching its biggest
decline since Dec. 8, 2011. One loonie buys 97.50 U.S. cents.  Gold Plunge  Gold futures fell as much as 9.7 percent in New York. Some
investors buy gold as a hedge against inflation and currency
declines. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials slid 2.3
percent.  Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, fell 4.3 percent to
$87.38 a barrel in New York, touching the lowest level since
December.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
was at the highest in a month. The three-month so-called 25-
delta risk reversal rate rose as high as 1.25 percent, the most
since March 14. Risk reversals measure the premium on options
contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts
that do the opposite.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart reached 6.32 percent, the
highest since April 8. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Trend Lower  “I think we’re going to push a little lower,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank. “A
lot of pressure on commodities is spilling over to the Canadian
dollar; Canada is perhaps along for a bit of a ride. The outlook
for slower growth in China suggests we’re going to see some more
pressure on commodities.”  Canadian government bonds rose before the Bank of Canada’s
policy meeting on April 17. Policy makers, who have kept their
key  interest rate  at 1 percent since September 2010, will do so
again this week and probably into next year, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Derivatives point to a five-basis point cut by the central
bank’s final meeting of the year, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on trading in overnight-index swaps. As
recently as January, the median forecast by economists called
for a 12 basis point increase at the end of the year.  The yield on the benchmark 1.5 percent security due June
2023 fell three basis points to 1.71 percent.  Note Sale  The Bank of Canada will announce additional details on
April 18 about an April 24 auction of securities maturing in
2015.  China ’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.7 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said in Beijing. That compares with the 8 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and 7.9 percent growth in
the previous three months.  “The Chinese number not hitting that 8 percent, and if
anything it swung down a bit on the near-term basis, I think
just erased some of this sentiment the global economy is gaining
traction,” said David Watt, chief economist at the Canadian
unit of HSBC Holding Plc. “To the extent that this represents a
slowdown in the global economy, I think it hits Canada.”  The Canadian dollar has fallen 1.2 percent this year
against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index, trailing its commodity
exporting peers  Australia  and New Zealand, whose currencies have
risen 1.6 percent and 4.1 percent this year. The U.S. dollar has
risen 2.4 percent this year and the euro has gained 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  