-- Carbon Permits Seen Rising 26% in Survey as EU Votes on Surplus
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-04-16T07:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/carbon-may-rise-44-on-eu-vote-for-surplus-fix-jefferies-says.html
European Union carbon allowances
will jump at least 26 percent if the bloc’s parliament votes in
favor of a plan to temporarily cut a surplus, according to a
survey of traders and analysts.  Allowances for delivery in December will increase by more
than 1 euro ($1.31) to 6 euros a metric ton should the European
Parliament approve the measure to postpone the sale of some
permits, according to the median of nine analysts and traders
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The forecasts ranged from 6 euros to
8 euros. Three people said parliament would support the measure,
one said it would reject it and the others didn’t comment.  Should parliamentarians vote against the measure, permits
will probably fall 49 percent to about 2.45 euros a ton from
yesterday’s closing price of 4.76 euros on the ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange in London, according to the median of eight
forecasts in the survey.  EU lawmakers plan to vote today at noon Brussels time on
the plan to delay the auction of permits covering 900 million
tons of emissions through 2015 and reintroduce, or backload,
them to the market at the end of the decade.  A vote for the measure would boost the value of 720 million
tons of spare allowances that have built up in the market by 25
percent to 4.3 billion euros, based on the survey. Emitters
including coal-burning utilities and airlines that need to buy
permits would have to pay more to comply with their emissions
obligations, increasing economic costs.  Reality Returns  “The price could push to 7 euros and perhaps beyond, but
sooner or later reality will set in and the price will decline
towards our average front-year EU allowance forecast of 5
euros,” said  Matthew Gray , an analyst for Jefferies Group LLC
in London.  The parliament is more likely to vote against the measure,
said Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst at NE Nomisma Energia Srl in
Bologna,  Italy . That may drive prices down to about 2.40 euros a
ton, he said yesterday by phone.  Permits will probably rise to more than 6 euros if the
parliament votes in favor, he said.  “Prices would settle back down after the spike, since May
is traditionally a selling month,” Mazzoni said. Emitters in
Europe’s carbon trading system must hand in allowances to match
the previous year’s emissions by April 30 every year and may buy
them for compliance leading up to that date.  The European Commission’s strategy is designed to cut the
surplus of permits that drove prices in the 54 billion-euro ($71
billion) greenhouse-gas market to a record low 2.81 euros a ton
in January.  Watered Down  The market’s optimism that the vote would succeed “faded
considerably last week,” when prices dropped 8.1 percent, said
Kathrin Goretzki, an analyst for  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Munich. It’s
possible the parliament will support a watered down version of
the commission’s plan, which may include a lower number of
backloaded allowances, she said yesterday by e-mail.  December carbon permits may rise to 6 euros a ton assuming
a “relative narrow majority” of parliamentarians in favor of
the proposal, Itamar Orlandi, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance
analyst in London, said in a note.  “Our base-case expectation is that the plenary will
support the backloading plan with a narrow majority,” he said
yesterday. Carbon may fall as low as 2.50 euros a ton if the
parliament votes against the proposal, Orlandi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  