-- Carnival to Reimburse U.S. for Cruise Ship Incident Costs
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-15T21:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/carnival-to-reimburse-u-s-for-costs-of-cruise-ship-incidents.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , bowing to pressure
from U.S. Senator Jay Rockefeller, said it will reimburse the
U.S. for costs related to the breakdowns at sea of its Triumph
and Splendor cruise ships.  “Although no agencies have requested remuneration, the
company has made the decision to voluntarily provide
reimbursement to the federal government,” Miami-based Carnival
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who heads the Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, asked
Carnival Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micky Arison in a
March 14  letter  whether the cruise line intended to reimburse
the Coast Guard and Navy for expenses responding to an engine
room fire on the Triumph and a similar incident on the Splendor
in November 2010.  “I’m glad to see that Carnival owned up to the bare
minimum of corporate responsibility by reimbursing federal
taxpayers for these two incidents,” Rockefeller said in an e-
mailed statement. “I am still committed to making sure the
cruise industry as a whole pays its fair share in taxes,
complies with strict safety standards, and holds the safety of
its passengers above profits.”  The Triumph had to be towed to port in Mobile,  Alabama ,
without its main power source, leaving 3,100 passengers with
limited food and toilet service for several days. In his March
letter, Rockefeller said the Coast Guard spent $780,000 on the
Triumph incident and $1.54 million responding to the Splendor.
The Navy spent $1.88 million on the Splendor.  Carnival, the world’s largest cruise line operator, fell
2.8 percent to $33.17 at the close in New York. The  shares  have
declined 9.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  