-- Centrica, Qatar Buy Suncor’s Gas Fields for $1 Billion
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-04-15T20:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/centrica-qatar-buy-canadian-gas-fields-from-suncor-in-alberta.html
Centrica Plc (CNA)  and state-run  Qatar
Petroleum  agreed to buy natural gas fields from  Canada ’s  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU)  for C$1 billion ($981 million) as the largest U.K.
household-energy company seeks added supplies for North American
customers.  The assets, mostly in southern and central  Alberta , will be
operated by Centrica and produce about 250 million cubic feet of
gas a day this year, the company said in a statement today.
Centrica will own 60 percent and Qatar Petroleum International
40 percent. The deal is Qatar Petroleum’s first investment in an
overseas gas field and the first by the two companies under a
cooperation accord signed in December 2011.  “The acquisition provides attractive returns in a region
we know well, and significantly increases the size and quality
of our portfolio,” Sam Laidlaw, chief executive officer of
Windsor-based Centrica, said in the statement. With the prospect
to develop another 1 million acres, it has “the potential to
improve returns further.”  The deal adds to Centrica’s energy supplies as North Sea
output drops and it seeks to double profit from  North America  by
adding retail customers and meeting more demand from its own
resources. For Suncor, the sale covers the majority of its
conventional gas production in western Canada. It doesn’t
include most of Suncor’s shale-gas production in the Montney or
 oil sands  in Alberta.  Gas Prices  North American gas producers have sold assets and sought
joint-venture partners to help fund drilling as a glut in supply
sent prices to a 10-year low last year in  New York . The U.S. is
poised to become a gas exporter as the use of hydraulic
fracturing technology allows the nation to exploit reserves of
the fuel trapped in shale rock.  “This may prove to be Centrica’s largest North American
investment this year,”  Chris Rogers , a Bloomberg Industries
analyst in London, said by e-mail. “Investors will want to know
whether they will take a big position in shale as well.”  The U.K. company has more than 5.5 million customers and
operates about 4,600 wells in North America. On March 25,
Centrica signed a 20-year deal to import gas from the U.S. from
 Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)   Centrica rose 0.6 percent to a record 381.70 pence at the
close in London. It has gained 14 percent this year. Suncor,
Canada’s largest energy company, fell 4.6 percent to C$27.50 in
Toronto, the biggest decline in two months. The Calgary-based
company’s shares have fallen 16 percent this year.  ‘Pure’ Oil  The sale “represents 7 percent of Suncor’s estimated 2013
production volumes and essentially 100 percent of its natural
gas production, now making it a pure play oil company,” Greg Pardy, a Toronto-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in
a note to clients today.  The deal will boost Suncor’s cash flow and may lead to
further share buybacks, a dividend increase and additional debt
reduction, Pardy wrote.  The Suncor fields hold estimated reserves equivalent to 978
billion cubic feet of gas, Centrica said. The deal also includes
more than 1 million acres of undeveloped land, where Centrica
said there’s potential to bolster reserves and production using
horizontal drilling and fracturing.  Qatar, the biggest liquefied natural gas exporter, has a
deal with Centrica to jointly seek so-called upstream oil and
gas projects. Centrica said December 2011 that projects may
include liquefied natural gas developments, as well as gas
storage or combined-cycle gas turbine power plants.  Qatar is seeking assets abroad amid a moratorium on new
development of the emirate’s North Field, the world’s largest
gas reservoir, Nasser Al-Jaidah, chief executive officer of
Qatar Petroleum International, said on Nov. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  