-- Chavez Heir Maduro Wins Venezuela Vote as Foe Rejects Count
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-04-15T12:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/chavez-heir-maduro-wins-venezuela-presidency-to-continue-legacy.html
Nicolas Maduro , political heir to
the late  Hugo Chavez , was declared the winner of Venezuela’s
presidential election yesterday in a result that was immediately
challenged by the opposition.  The 50-year-old former bus driver received 50.7 percent of
the votes, the national electoral council said after about 99
percent of ballots were counted.  Henrique Capriles Radonski , who
temporarily stepped down as governor of Miranda state to run,
had 49.1 percent and vowed to contest the results.  “We had a fair and constitutional victory,” Maduro said
after the results were announced. “This is another victory, a
homage to our comandante Hugo Chavez.”  The margin of victory was the narrowest since the 1968
presidential election and may lead to political unrest as almost
half the country questions the government’s legitimacy, said
Russell Dallen, a Miami-based bond trader at Caracas Capital
Markets. As a candidate, Maduro benefited from a wave of
sympathy for Chavez’s March 5 death; as president, he faces
accelerating inflation, shortages of consumer goods and slowing
growth.  Capriles said he will demand a recount of the ballots
before conceding defeat. The opposition has evidence of
irregularities that impacted hundreds of thousands of votes, he
told reporters less than an hour after the official result was
announced.  Illegitimate  “The people expressed themselves today and that result
doesn’t reflect the will of the country,” Capriles said. “Mr.
Maduro, if you were illegitimate before, today you’re even more
full of illegitimacy.”  Venezuelan bonds, last month’s worst-performing Latin
American securities, fell after Maduro’s narrow win. The
government’s bonds due in 2027 declined 26 cents to 100.43
dollars at 8:48 a.m. in London, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 9.19 percent.  The cost of insuring Venezuela’s debt against default for
five years rose 33 basis points to 702 basis points at 7:42 a.m.
local time.  “He’ll be a weaker president,” said James Barrineau,
director of Latin America at Schroder Investment Management Co.,
in a phone interview from New York. “The market’s perception
was that he would be forced to be more pragmatic on the economy.
But it’s impossible to predict how he’s going to govern given
how close this election was.”  Narrow Margin  The margin of victory was the narrowest in a Venezuelan
general election since  Rafael Caldera  of the Christian
democratic party defeated Accion Democratica’s Gonzalo Barrios
by 29.1 percent against 28.2 percent.  There were no major reports of violence overnight. While
supporters celebrated Maduro’s victory by setting off fireworks
in Caracas, National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  wrote
in his Twitter account the government needs to engage in
“profound self-criticism” following such a narrow win.  Capriles’ vote tally leaves him well-placed to dispute for
the presidency a third time should Maduro falter, said Jorge
Piedrahita, president of New York-based brokerage Torino Capital
LLC.  “He is the closest the opposition ever had to re-taking
the country,” Piedrahita said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “He might be a heartbeat away from the
presidency.”  Comandante Chavez  Maduro has vowed to follow the steps of his mentor Chavez,
who increased state control over the economy by nationalizing
more than 1,000 companies or their assets and introduced
currency and price controls. Chavez also tapped the world’s
biggest  oil reserves  to help cut poverty to 21.2 percent of the
population in the second half of 2012 from 42.8 percent when he
first took power in 1999, according to government data.  “I voted for Maduro because my comandante Chavez ordered
it,” said Jose Sanchez, a 57-year-old civil engineer. “Chavez
prepared him for six years.”  Maduro called the election a choice between capitalism and
socialism. As Chavez languished in a hospital bed in Cuba before
his death, Maduro oversaw a devaluation of the bolivar and
expelled two U.S. embassy officials who were accused of plotting
against the government. The U.S. denied the charges.  Maduro faces mounting economic challenges including  dollar
shortages and falling oil production that could rapidly
undermine the former union leader’s support,  Kathryn Rooney Vera , a strategist at Bulltick Capital Markets, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  Inflation Rally  Inflation accelerated to 23 percent in February, the
fastest annual pace in 10 months and the highest official rate
in the hemisphere. Rising prices are compounded by shortages of
products on supermarket shelves. The central bank’s scarcity
index, which measures the amount of goods that are out of stock
in the market, rose to a record high of 20.4 percent in January.  Maduro said after casting his vote that his two priorities
will be reducing violence and attracting investment to boost the
production of food and industrialized goods.  He said Venezuela is ready to re-establish diplomatic
relations with the U.S., should the world’s biggest economy
respect the sovereignty of the South American nation. The U.S.
ambassador was expelled from Caracas in 2008.  Data published by the United Nations shows Venezuela has
the highest homicide rate in South America, which deters
companies from operating in the country, according to  Nicholas Watson , Latin America analysis director at London-based research
group Control Risks.  The Legacy  “There were many things remaining to be done,” Maduro
said before the election results were announced. Chavez “left
us many tasks to complete, and a legacy.”  Chavez won his third six-year term last October when he
defeated Capriles by 11 percentage points after raising
salaries, building thousands of homes for poor families and
increasing cheap imports to slow inflation. The spending binge
helped the economy grow 5.5 percent in 2012.  Growth will slow this year to 1.9 percent, the slowest in
three years, according to a Bloomberg survey. The bolivar
devaluation and dollar shortages could push the economy into
recession this year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The London-based bank expects Venezuela’s economy to
contract 0.6 percent after previously forecasting growth of 0.5
percent, according to a second-quarter note to clients.  Bolivar Devaluation  A 16.5 percent rise in imports in 2012 led Venezuela to
post a current account deficit in the fourth quarter for the
first time since 2009.  That forced the government to devalue the bolivar by 32
percent in February as it sought to close a fiscal deficit for
the central government and state oil company Petroleos de
Venezuela SA of 14.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2012,
Bank of America Corp. said in an April 4 note. Even after the
devaluation, BofA said it expects a deficit of 9.7 percent this
year.  The shortage of greenbacks also prompted Maduro to unveil a
dollar auction system in March to rein in an unregulated
currency market that trades at almost four times the official
rate of 6.3 bolivars per dollar. The government didn’t say for
how much it sold dollars in the auction.  The narrow margin of victory is a “mortal blow to the
Chavismo,” Bulltick’s Vera said in a telephone interview. “It
will be very difficult for Maduro to be as immune as Chavez was
from all the deterioration that the country has seen over the
past 14 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 