-- Chelsea to Discuss Contract Terms With Schurrle: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-15T07:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/chelsea-to-discuss-contract-terms-with-schurrle-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Schurrle Talks  Chelsea will begin negotiations this week with Andre Schurrle as the Blues get nearer to signing the Bayer Leverkusen
striker for a fee of 20 million pounds ($30.6 million), the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Representatives of Schurrle were at yesterday’s F.A. Cup
semifinal loss to Manchester City in  London  and will discuss
contract terms shortly, the newspaper added.  Aguero Apology?  Chelsea defender  David Luiz  called for Sergio Aguero to
apologize after being caught by a two-footed lunge from the
Manchester City forward in yesterday’s semifinal at Wembley
Stadium, the  Guardian reported .  The Argentine could face retrospective action if match
referee Chris Foy says in his report that neither he nor any of
his assistants saw the incident, the newspaper added.  Carry On Carragher  Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher, 35, is set for talks
with manager Brendan Rodgers about delaying his planned playing
retirement at the end of this season, the  Sun reported .  “We will sit down between now and the end of the season
and we’ll see where it goes,” the Sun cited Rodgers as saying.
“The thing for now is to keep performing the way he is until
the end of the season.”  Lampard to L.A.?  Chelsea midfielder Frank Lampard postponed his wedding
after Los Angeles Galaxy improved its contract offer of $5
million per year to $6 million a year plus bonuses, the  Daily
Star reported .  The 34-year-old Lampard, whose agreement with Chelsea
expires at the end of this season, was due to marry TV presenter
Christine Bleakley on June 12, the newspaper said.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  