-- Chidambaram Says India Considers Freeing Oil, Gas Prices
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-04-15T19:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/chidambaram-says-india-considers-freeing-oil-gas-prices.html
India  is considering freeing prices
of oil and natural gas drilled locally from state controls in a
bid to lure more foreign investment, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said.  “We are at an advanced stage -- a cabinet paper is under
consideration on how to move from an administratively fixed
price to a market-related price for oil and gas explored and
excavated by companies,” he told investors in Toronto as he
started a tour of  Canada  and the U.S. to woo investors.  Measures to cap prices of diesel and cooking gas to make
them affordable to farmers and poor households, a significant
voting bloc, have widened the  budget deficit . A threat of a
sovereign credit downgrade to junk by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings has prompted Chidambaram to rein in subsidies amid
the slowest pace of economic  growth  and the biggest 12-month
decline in foreign direct investment in a decade.  While India has allowed state-owned refiners to sell
gasoline at market rates, it has only partially freed diesel
prices, allowing companies to raise them gradually until they
wipe out losses from below-cost sales in about two years.  A panel headed by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief economic
adviser to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , has recommended
benchmarking gas rates to global prices, a move that may boost
production of the fuel by companies including  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL)   Reversing Slump  Chidambaram, 67, a Harvard Business School graduate and
third-time finance minister in India, has been visiting major
global financial centers since January as he seeks $75 billion
in two years to fund the current-account gap, which widened to a
 record  6.7 percent of gross domestic product in the quarter
ended Dec. 31.  In his budget on Feb. 28, he outlined a plan to narrow the
budget deficit to 3 percent of GDP by the 12 months through
March 2017, from an estimated 5.2 percent for last year.  Singh’s administration is trying revive the $1.8 trillion
 economy , which probably expanded 5 percent in the year ended
March 31, compared with an average 8.8 percent in the six fiscal
years through March 2011.  The shortfall in the current account, the widest measure of
trade, and elevated inflation have limited the central bank’s
scope to cut  interest rates . India’s consumer-price inflation
remains the fastest among major emerging economies even as it
eased to 10.39 percent in March from a year earlier, according
to data released on April 12.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao has said price gains remain “stubborn and
elevated.”  Chidambaram said he “hopes” the  Reserve Bank of India  has
taken note of the recent easing of inflation after the benchmark
wholesale-price  index  in March cooled to an unexpected 5.96
percent, the smallest gain in 40 months.  The central bank has cut its policy rate by 50 basis points
so far this year to spur growth.  The government is also keen on replacing the production-
sharing model for oil and gas exploration with a revenue-share
model, Chidambaram said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  