-- China Home Sales Have Biggest First-Quarter Gain in 3 Years （1)
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-15T07:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/china-home-sales-have-biggest-first-quarter-increase-in-3-years.html
China’s home sales rose 69 percent
in the first quarter as buyers rushed into the market before
local governments implemented property curbs.  The  value of homes  sold climbed to 1.2 trillion yuan ($194
billion) from a year earlier, China’s statistics bureau said
today. That was the biggest first-quarter increase in three
years. Overall real estate sales, including commercial buildings,
rose 61 percent to 1.4 trillion yuan from last year.  “Quite a lot of buyers bought homes as they expected local
governments would issue harsh property curbs,” said Zhao Zhenyi,
Shanghai-based analyst at Industrial Securities Co. “It’s very
hard to estimate the property policy direction of the new
administration, especially given the economy eased unexpectedly
in the first quarter.”  Thirty-five city governments issued details of property
measures by the deadline on April 1, a month after former
Premier Wen Jiabao ordered the central bank to raise down-
payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive cost gains and told local governments with the biggest
price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits.  China’s economy grew 7.7 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, the government said today. That compares with
the 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 41
analysts and 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  China Overseas, Evergrande  Investments in homes, office buildings, malls and other
real estate gained 20 percent to 1.3 trillion yuan from January
to March, according to the statistics bureau, compared with the
24 percent gain in the year-earlier period. New property
construction fell 2.7 percent to 388.7 million square meters
(4.2 billion square feet).  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the country’s
biggest developer listed in Hong Kong, achieved 40 percent of
the year’s sales target by March, while contracted sales of
 Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , more than doubled to 17.72
billion yuan.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index increased 0.9 percent at the close of trading, the only
one to gain among five industry groups on the  benchmark , which
fell 1.1 percent.  Home sales volume rose 41 percent in the first quarter to
189 million square meters, the government data showed today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  