-- China’s Swaps Trade Near One-Month Low as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-04-15T03:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/china-s-swaps-trade-near-one-month-low-as-economic-growth-slows.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate
swaps  traded near a one-month low after data showed economic
growth unexpectedly slowed in the first quarter.  Gross domestic product increased 7.7 percent from a year
earlier, down from 7.9 percent in the previous three months, the
government reported today. That compares with the 8 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 41 economists.
Factory output also cooled, with industrial production rising
8.9 percent in March from 9.9 percent in the first two months.  “The weak data outcome, together with the previously
reported soft inflation, reduce the odds for policy rate
tightening, at least in the near term, which may help the
interest-rate curve re-steepen,” said  Frances Cheung , a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  The one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell one basis point to 3.25
percent as of 10:35 a.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It touched 3.24 percent earlier, the lowest level
since March 12. The extra cost to lock in interest rates for
five years rather than two shrank to 26 basis points after
touching 50 basis points on Feb. 4, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Inflation eased to 2.1 percent last month from 3.2 percent
in February, while the  trade balance  slipped into deficit for
the first time since February 2012, official data showed last
week.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand today for an
auction of seven- and 14-day reverse-repurchase agreements that
add funds to the financial system, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to participate in such operations. It
also asked banks to submit orders for 28-day repurchase
contracts, the trader said.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, climbed four basis points to 3 percent, according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  