-- China’s Power Output Rises at Second-Slowest Rate in Six Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-15T04:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/china-s-power-output-rises-at-second-slowest-rate-in-six-months.html
China ’s power output grew in March
at the second-slowest rate in six months as the nation’s first-
quarter economic growth unexpectedly slowed.  Electricity production  increased 2.1 percent to 419.4
billion kilowatt-hours last month, data from the National Bureau
of Statistics  showed  today. That’s the smallest gain since
September, excluding February, when output fell 13.7 percent as
factories shut the Lunar New Year holiday. Power consumption
climbed 2 percent to 424.1 billion in March, according to the
National Energy Administration.  China’s economic growth eased in the first three months as
industrial output weakened.  Gross domestic product  rose 7.7
percent from a year earlier, compared with the 8 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to today’s data from NBS. March
industrial production rose 8.9 percent, lower than the median
estimate of 10.1 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  “The weaker-than-expected GDP growth and industrial output
curbed electricity production in March,” Shi Yan, an analyst at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai , said by phone today. “Power-
output gains in the second quarter will probably improve amid
low-base figures in the same period of last year.”  Spot coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram at the port of Qinhuangdao, a benchmark price for the
nation, fell to a range of 605  yuan  ($97.8) to 620 yuan a metric
ton as of yesterday, data today from the China Coal Transport
and Distribution Association showed. That’s the lowest price
since Oct. 19, 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Coal fuels about two-thirds of the country’s power.  China’s crude processing rose 5.5 percent from a year
earlier to 40.8 million tons last month, NBS said today. That’s
equivalent to almost 9.7 million barrels a day, the lowest since
October.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  