-- Christie Revives Call for 10 Percent New Jersey Tax Cut
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-15T18:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/christie-calls-anew-for-10-percent-n-j-tax-cut-over-4-years-1-.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie,
a first-term Republican seeking re-election, revived his
proposal for a 10 percent tax cut that Democratic lawmakers had
blocked when revenue fell short of his expectations.  Homeowners earning $400,000 or less would get an income-tax
credit equal to 10 percent of their property taxes, capped at
$10,000 and phased in over four years. The governor made his
proposal a condition of his increasing a separate tax credit for
low and middle-income workers.  Democrats, who control the legislature, said no decision
will be made on Christie’s tax cut until they are sure revenue
for the fiscal year ending June 30 will meet his goals. So far,
collections haven’t been high enough to justify the move, said
Senate President Stephen Sweeney. Revenue missed the governor’s
forecasts for five straight months before starting a rebound at
the end of 2012.  “No one wants to do a tax cut more than I do,” Sweeney, a
West Deptford Democrat, told reporters at the Statehouse. “If
the revenues work out, we’ll do a tax cut. If they don’t, we
won’t.”  Christie, 50, is seeking a second term in November, when
all 120 of New Jersey’s legislative seats also are up for grabs.
The state is showing signs of recovery and can afford to reduce
taxes, he said in a radio interview today on WKXW-FM in Ewing.  Jersey Comeback  New Jersey residents paid an  average  of $7,759 in property
levies in 2011, the highest of any U.S. state. Christie’s tax
cut would save the average household $775, according to the
governor’s office.  “The big excuse for not doing this before was they weren’t
sure if we had the revenue,” Christie said. “Four months in a
row we’ve exceeded our projections on revenue, and the economy’s
really starting to come back here in New Jersey.”  For this fiscal year from July through March, collections
of all major taxes are above projections by about $25 million,
or less than 1 percent, according to the treasurer’s office.  Christie made approval of his tax cut a stipulation of him
signing a Democratic-sponsored bill that would restore the
state’s earned income-tax credit to 25 percent of the federal
credit. The governor reduced it to 20 percent in 2010.  Circuit Breaker  Christie said a “circuit-breaker” provision in his
proposal would allow the Democrats to stop the tax cut if they
don’t believe there is enough revenue to pay for it. They would
do this by passing a resolution in both houses that wouldn’t
need his signature.  The legislature, Christie wrote in his message to
lawmakers, could approve his idea or make “new excuses
conclusively proving that, under no circumstances, will the
Senate and General Assembly ever agree to return to the people
even a single dollar of their income.”  “With this circuit-breaker, there are no more excuses,”
said Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little
Silver who serves as his party’s budget officer. “I don’t know
what other option my friends on the other side of the aisle have
but to say they are standing in the way of tax cuts.”  Assembly Republican Leader Jon Bramnick, from Westfield,
issued a statement calling for a special session to consider the
tax cut. Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from East
Orange, called the proposal “election-year posturing.”  Sweeney said lawmakers will have a better picture of the
state’s finances after May revenue collections are reported.
Democrats set aside $183 million in this year’s budget for tax
credits and have refused so far to release it.  “Everyone’s hoping things improve in this state,” Sweeney
said. “We placed the money in the budget and didn’t implement
the tax cut for one reason: We want to make sure the dollars are
there. It just can’t be smoke and mirrors, it’s got to be
real.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  