-- Citigroup Names Massey European M&A Head Amid Pent-Up Demand
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-04-15T12:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/citigroup-names-massey-european-m-a-head-amid-pent-up-demand-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank , named Tom Massey the European head of mergers and
acquisitions as it bets on an increase in transactions.  Massey will focus on advisory in western Europe and report
to Wilhelm Schulz, head of M&A for Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa, according to an internal memorandum to employees, whose
contents were confirmed by a Citigroup spokeswoman.  Massey was most recently EMEA head of chemicals as well as
metals and mining investment banking. He joined  Salomon Brothers 
in New York in 1996 and has been based in London since 2004.  Citigroup is stepping up hiring as it anticipates
“significant pent-up M&A activity in Europe,” Schulz wrote in
the memo. Last week, the firm hired Christian Kames from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to head its mergers team in Germany, Austria
and Switzerland. Country M&A heads in western Europe will report
to Massey and Schulz, the memo said.  Western European deals declined 12 percent in the first
quarter to $176.4 billion from the year-earlier period, amid
concerns about Cyprus and political gridlock in Italy, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup was ranked no. 6 in the
first three months of this year. With companies globally sitting
on more than $4 trillion in cash and interest rates at record
lows, M&A bankers are predicting a rebound.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  overhauled
the management of the firm’s operations outside the U.S. in
January, naming Jim Cowles CEO of Europe, the Middle East and
Africa. In February, the firm hired former  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  banker Luigi de Vecchi for the newly created role of chairman
of continental Europe for corporate and investment banking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  