-- Citigroup’s Costs for Toxic Assets Soar on Legal Fees
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-15T19:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/citigroup-s-costs-for-toxic-assets-soar-on-legal-fees.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, said expenses at a unit holding some of its most
toxic assets surged as legal costs mounted.  The Special Asset Pool, or SAP, had operating expenses of
$572 million for the three months through March, compared with
$63 million in last year’s first quarter, according to data
released today by the New York-based bank. SAP, which manages a
portfolio of securities that Citigroup seeks to divest, had
 total expenses  of $619 million for all of 2011 and 2012
combined, filings show.  The increase helped boost Citigroup’s total expenses by 1
percent to $12.4 billion, showing that debris left over from the
2008 credit crisis can still put a surprise drag on  profit . SAP
is one of three divisions at Citi Holdings, which houses
distressed and unwanted assets. SAP’s $18 billion of investments
includes corporate debt, equity stakes and subprime mortgage
bonds, some worth a fraction of their original value.  “It’s hard to see what’s out there that wasn’t anticipated
or wasn’t known,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst with
Legal & General Investment Management America. “There’s some
detail that we’re missing.”  Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, had
predicted that Special Asset Pool costs for the quarter would be
$85 million. David Trone, a JMP Securities LLC analyst, had
estimated $75 million.  Firing Workers  “We don’t comment on specific legal accruals unless we’re
announcing a settlement of some sort,” Chief Financial Officer
John Gerspach said on a call with analysts in response to
questions about the SAP costs.  The increase drove up total expenses just as Chief
Executive Officer Michael Corbat is seeking to cut the lender’s
costs. Corbat, 53, a former CEO of Citi Holdings, is firing
workers and shutting branches to make the bank more efficient.  Keith Pinniger runs the business, which traces its roots to
Citigroup’s bailout in 2008, when U.S. taxpayers guaranteed
some of the bank’s riskiest assets. Then-CEO Vikram Pandit
created the SAP as a home for those assets along with “other
non-strategic” investments, according to a statement at the
time.  Assets in the unit fell 50 percent to $18 billion for the
year through March, according to the bank, as Citigroup found
buyers for some of the holdings and didn’t replace loans that
expired. The SAP lost $417 million for the quarter, exceeding
the $367 million the business lost for all of 2011 and 2012
 combined .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  