-- Colombia Draws Pension Funds Into Battle to Weaken Peso
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-15T18:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/colombia-draws-pension-funds-into-battle-to-weaken-peso-1-.html
The Colombian government drew the
nation’s pension funds into its fight to weaken the peso, as it
tries to revive the nation’s  manufacturing  and agricultural
sectors.  The government will change rules on risk and profitability
governing pension funds to encourage them to follow the example
of their Chilean and Peruvian counterparts in investing more
outside their home country, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas 
said. The government estimates the changes will boost demand for
dollars by $4 billion this year.  Additionally, a royalties fund controlled by the
government, known as Fonpet, will buy $1 billion of assets
outside  Colombia , rather than bring the money back to Colombia,
Cardenas said.  “We need a more diversified pension portfolio, which
includes more dollars,” Cardenas said.  “Right now they are
too concentrated in pesos. They’ve put all their eggs in the
same basket.”  The changes to pension fund rules were part of a stimulus
package rolled out by President  Juan Manuel Santos  and his
Cabinet today, aimed at “reactivating” the country’s
industrial sector and boosting growth by 1 percentage point this
year. Manufacturing has grown slower than the rest of the
economy for several years, as it struggles with the currency
rally, Santos said.  The peso weakened 0.5 percent to 1834.43 per  U.S. dollar 
today in Bogota. Yields on Colombia’s peso bonds maturing in
2024 rose 1 basis point to 5.01 percent.  ‘Equilibrium Rate’  Santos said the currency’s equilibrium rate is about 1,900
per U.S. dollar. Record investment in oil has contributed to the
peso’s 23 percent rally since the start of 2009, the best
performer of 25 major emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Chilean peso.  Colombia currently invests 6 percent of its pension assets
outside the country, while Chilean and Peruvian funds invest
more than 30 percent of their assets abroad, Cardenas said.
Increasing the proportion of Colombian assets invested abroad
would have a “very positive” impact on the peso, Cardenas
said.  Stimulus Plan  The 5 trillion-peso ($2.7 billion) “Plan to Boost
Productivity and Employment,” announced today by Santos and his
Cabinet also includes subsidized mortgage credit, an expansion
of a housing program for low income families, and a plan to cut
loading times at ports.  The  interest rate  on loans for homes worth between 80
million and 200 million pesos will fall to 7 percent from 12
percent, Cardenas said. Banks will cut their lending rate 2.5
percentage points, which the government will match with a 2.5
percentage point subsidy, Cardenas said.  Industrial output contracted 1.7 percent in January from a
year earlier, its third straight month of contraction. The
central bank has cut its  policy rate  2 percentage points over
its last nine meetings, to 3.25 percent, to try to revive an
economy it says is growing below potential.  Gross domestic product  grew 4 percent last year, slower
than Chile and  Peru , and down from 6.6 percent growth in 2011.
Santos said today that the economy can grow 4.8 percent per year
without stoking inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  