-- Commerzbank Loses Case of Woman Fired for Suing Deutsche Bank
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-16T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/commerzbank-loses-case-of-woman-fired-for-suing-deutsche-bank.html
An ex- Commerzbank AG  director won
her employment tribunal case against the German lender for
firing her when it discovered she was suing her previous
employer,  Deutsche Bank AG , for sexual discrimination.  Latifa Bouabdillah  was “victimized” by Commerzbank, Judge
Alexandra Davidson in London said in a written ruling dated
April 11. While Bouabdillah is seeking about 13 million pounds
($20 million), the employment tribunal hasn’t yet ruled on how
much she will get in compensation.  Bouabdillah joined Commerzbank as head of product
engineering in March 2012, and didn’t tell managers she was
suing Deutsche Bank for promoting male colleagues ahead of her
and giving them larger bonuses. Commerzbank staff read about the
tribunal suit in a Bloomberg News story, warned her she had put
the bank’s reputation at risk, then fired her in June, Judge
Davidson said in the ruling.  Commerzbank “had a knee-jerk reaction to the information
that came to light,” Davidson said. The tribunal rejected
Bouabdillah’s argument that Commerzbank had also discriminated
based on her gender.  Bank employees including a depressed Credit Suisse Group AG
credit trader, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s head of CDO
trading and a Credit Agricole SA whistle-blower have all sued at
London employment tribunals in the last year saying they were
improperly treated. Damages for unfair firing are normally
capped at about 70,000 pounds unless there is proof of
discrimination or other wrongdoing.  Real Reasons  Commerzbank said in an e-mailed statement it would consider
its options after the ruling. The bank said Bouabdillah was
fired because she breached its trust by not revealing the real
reason she left Deutsche Bank.  “Honesty and trustworthiness are paramount to the bank and
its customers,” the Frankfurt-based bank said.  Tim Johnson, her lawyer, said the tribunal found she hadn’t
misled Commerzbank and had acted honestly and professionally.
Bouabdillah settled her suit against Deutsche Bank on
confidential terms, he said.  Kathryn Hanes , a spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment.  The tribunal will hold a hearing in September to decide how
much compensation Commerzbank should pay Bouabdillah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  