-- CommonWealth REIT Rejects Takeover Bid From Corvex Group
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-15T20:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/commonwealth-reit-rejects-takeover-bid-from-corvex-group.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH)  rejected a $2.9
billion buyout offer by shareholders Corvex Management LP and
Related Cos., and said it adopted board rules designed to thwart
unsolicited takeover attempts.  The $24.50-a-share bid from Corvex and Related was
conditional and didn’t include a financing plan, Newton,
Massachusetts-based CommonWealth said in a statement today. The
real estate investment trust, incorporated in  Maryland , also
said it had adopted provisions of the state’s Unsolicited
Takeovers Act, which it believes means board members “may only
be removed ‘for cause,’ and that no such cause exists.”  CommonWealth is trying to fend off Corvex and Related,
which said last month they would try to remove the board if
their takeover bid wasn’t accepted. The investors own 9.2
percent of the stock, making them the largest  shareholders .  “It is disgraceful that CWH would unilaterally attempt to
take away a right shareholders have had since 1986 solely in an
effort to further entrench its underperforming leadership
team,” Corvex and Related said in an e-mailed statement today.
“This latest effort is in our and our lawyers’ view completely
invalid under Maryland law.”  Corvex and Related have told the trustees in detail the
third-party debt financing it would use in a takeover “and the
combination of sources that will provide for a fully financed
offer,”  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for the investors, said in
an e-mail. Deutsche Bank AG is the financial adviser to the
shareholder group.  Management Company  CommonWealth’s five-member board of trustees includes
President Adam Portnoy and his father, Barry Portnoy, a company
founder. They also own Reit Management & Research LLC, or RMR,
the external management company for the REIT.  Corvex, founded by activist investor Keith Meister, and
Related, led by Chief Executive Officer Jeff Blau, said last
week that they delivered to CommonWealth a formal demand for the
company set a record date to determine the shareholders entitled
to vote to remove the trustees. CommonWealth said today the
consent solicitation is invalid because of its move.  Rather than pursue a sale, the REIT plans to stick to its
strategy of concentrating on urban office properties, selling
non-core assets and cutting debt.  CommonWealth fell 1.9 percent to $22.48 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  