-- Construction Pay Seen Rising as Much as 30% From Keystone
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-04-15T12:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/construction-pay-seen-rising-as-much-as-30-from-keystone.html
Building the Keystone XL pipeline
would temporarily increase construction wages for some workers
in three U.S. states by as much as 30 percent, according to a
study by Bloomberg Government.  Average construction wages in South Dakota where portions
of a separate pipeline were built starting in 2008 rose 10
percent to 30 percent to more than $600 a week, according to the
study released today. The same premium may apply for workers in
certain Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska counties along the
route of the planned XL pipeline connecting Hardisty, Alberta,
and Steele City, Nebraska.  The wage boost would subside after the project is finished.  “The project will add thousands of temporary jobs at peak
construction,” according to the study by  Jason Arvelo  and  Rob Barnett , analysts at Bloomberg Government. “These jobs may
temporarily boost construction wages.”  TransCanada Corp . applied for a U.S. permit to build the
project across the international border in 2008. Environmental
groups oppose the pipeline they say will increase emissions
blamed for global warming and threaten water resources with
potential spills. The U.S. State Department, which has
jurisdiction over the $5.3 billion project, may make a
recommendation to President  Barack Obama  by September.  Two Years  Estimates for construction and manufacturing employment
range from 2,500 to 20,000, depending on assumptions of how much
of the project’s budget will be spent in the U.S.  TransCanada will build the pipeline in two years, according
to the study.  Permanent jobs to operate the pipeline may be as few as 20,
according to the State Department.  Employment at oil refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast that
receive crude through the pipeline is not likely to change with
higher imports, according to the BGOV report.  Workers on a section of the pipeline that is under
construction from Oklahoma to Texas haven’t captured the premium
because prevailing wages in the region were already higher, the
study found.  For the U.S. refineries along the Gulf Coast, employment
will probably remain unchanged, according to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  