-- Costa Concordia Captain in Court as Judge Mulls Indictments
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-04-15T15:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/costa-concordia-captain-in-court-as-judge-mulls-indictments.html
An Italian court began hearings on
whether to indict the captain of the Costa Concordia cruise
liner that shipwrecked off Tuscany killing 32 people last year,
an incident his lawyer described as a work accident.  Prosecutors want Francesco Schettino to stand trial on
criminal charges including manslaughter and abandoning the ship
before all the 4,200 passengers had been evacuated. The judge in
Grosseto will decide on the indictment request by April 24.  The Costa Concordia ran aground near the island of Giglio
hours after leaving a port close to Rome on Jan. 13, 2012.
Schettino is accused of steering the ship too closely to the
island as a way of saluting the inhabitants and a veteran
captain of the Costa line. He has always denied any wrongdoing,
saying his actions saved lives.  Schettino is a scapegoat, his lawyer Francesco Pepe said
today during a break in the hearing that Schettino attended,
news agency Ansa reported. “He is someone who had a work
accident that can’t be criminalized,” Ansa cited Pepe as
saying.  Costa Crociere, the unit of  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  that owned and
operated the capsized cruise liner, said Jan. 25 it was under
probe for “possible violations” of the Italian administrative
responsibility law. The Genoa, Italy-based company accepted this
month a one million-euro ($1.31 million) fine to settle
potential criminal charges concerning the accident, Ansa
reported April 10.  Five other members of the crew including Schettino’s first
officer Ciro Ambrosio and Roberto Ferrarini, head of Costa
Crociere’s marine operations department, also face indictment,
according to court documents. Ambrosio’s lawyer, Salvatore
Catalano, ruled out any responsibility for his client speaking
on SkyTG24 news channel. Costa Crociere has said it’s
“absolutely certain” its staff acted correctly and blamed the
captain for an untimely and partial communication with the
company.  Alessandro Maria Lecci, a lawyer for the island of Giglio,
today asked the court to consider at least 80 million euros in
damages, speaking on SkyTG24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  