-- China’s Wanda to Use Dolby Atmos Audio in Big-Screen Cinemas
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-15T18:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/dalian-wanda-to-use-dolby-s-sound-system-for-big-screen-theaters.html
Dalian Wanda Group Co., China’s
largest cinema owner, will use  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB) ’s Atmos
sound system in all of its big-screen theaters, expanding the
U.S. company’s foothold in the world’s No. 2 film market.  Atmos, which synchronizes sound with the direction of on-
screen action, will be in at least six of Dalian Wanda’s X-Land
auditoriums by the end of the year, Dolby said in a statement.
The San Francisco-based company announced the agreement as
cinema operators and studio executives gathered in Las Vegas
today for the annual  CinemaCon  trade show.  The agreement gives Dolby ties to a global cinema operator.
Last year, Wanda bought AMC Entertainment, the second-largest
U.S. operator, with about 5,000 screens, for $2.6 billion, and
is shopping for theaters in Europe. The deal also positions
Dolby for growth in China, where ticket sales increased 36
percent to $2.7 billion last year, according to the Motion
Picture Association of America.  “It’s a great relationship to have and certainly raises
the profile and relevancy of Atmos when a major exhibitor sees
the value of having this in their cinemas,” Stuart Bowling,
Dolby’s senior technical marketing manager, said in an
interview. “They’re looking for what we’re doing here, which is
to offer a premium experience.”  Closely held Wanda owns China’s largest cinema chain, Wanda
Cinema Line, with more than 100 locations, according to the
trade publication Film Journal International. The chain also
operates big-screen theaters with  Imax Corp. (IMX)  Dolby has 11
locations in China using the technology now, the company said.  First Film  The Tom Cruise science-fiction film “Oblivion,” is the
first movie to be filmed with Atmos features in mind, according
to Bowling. The picture from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures,
is scheduled for release on April 19.  “It allows you to put the sound in places that we couldn’t
put it before,”  Joseph Kosinski , the film’s director, said in
an interview.  Kosinski described a scene in which a futuristic aircraft
approaches a landing pad. The sound originates from the front of
the auditorium and moves around and over the audience.  “You can do a lot of really interesting things that
immerse the viewer even more in the world you’re trying to
create,” Kosinski said.  Other films to be tailored for the technology include
“Iron Man 3,” scheduled for May 3, “Star Trek into Darkness”
and the new Superman reboot “Man of Steel,” Dolby said. The
number of auditoriums equipped with Atmos will double to about
200 worldwide by June, Bowling said.  Atmos uses scores of speakers combined with software to
sync sound with action on the screen. Dolby sells processors and
software to decode and distribute sounds from digital copies of
movies and supervises the installation of equipment. Soundtracks
for 38 previous films were converted to Atmos after being made
with earlier Dolby technology, the company said.  Dolby  fell  2.4 percent to $32.23 at 2:10 p.m. in  New York 
trading. As of April 12, the shares had gained 13 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  