-- Doctors Should Welcome a Nudge to Wash Their Hands
-- B y   F o r d   V o x
-- 2013-04-15T22:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/doctors-should-welcome-a-nudge-to-wash-their-hands.html
As a physician, I am glad for the
mobile health-monitoring applications that allow me to help my
patients sleep better, exercise better and eat better. Yet I was
a little offended when I learned of a new  wristband monitor  that
prods doctors to wash their hands when they enter a patient’s
room.  The bracelet, conceived at the  Blueprint Health technology
incubator,  was introduced by the startup company IntelligentM at
the South by Southwest Interactive Festival last month. The
device gives doctors and nurses a buzzing signal to wash; it
emits further warnings if the cleansing isn’t up to the
 standards  set by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Hospital-infection-control officers can get a buzz from the
wristband, too: The technology tracks hand-washing compliance
and can share reports with anyone who wants to know.  For those who value their autonomy, the latest
practitioner-targeted technologies such as the IntelligentM
wristband may be an irritant. But such measures are necessary,
however demeaning they seem. In the average U.S. hospital, hand-
washing  compliance rates  vary from just one-third of patient
encounters to half at best. And hand hygiene is the single-
largest contributor -- and the most fixable -- to the almost  2
million  hospital-acquired infections each year that kill 100,000
people in the U.S.  Involving Patients  Some public-health researchers say patients should shoulder
more of the burden. Why can’t they remind medical professionals
to wash their hands?  Research shows  that’s unlikely to work.
Patients may find it awkward or rude to tell their physicians to
wash. With reason: In a  Swiss study,  a third of the doctors and
nurses surveyed said they wouldn’t take it well if their
patients asked about their hand-washing practices. Some said
such an interaction would be humiliating. An even-greater number
said they wouldn’t agree to wear a hospital badge asking
patients to speak up about hand washing.  All honest doctors and nurses will admit that they have had
lapses. We could all benefit from reminders, but asking patients
to pick up the slack just exchanges one abysmal compliance rate
for another.  Physicians shouldn’t take offense. We all can benefit from
reminders about the basics. Years of education and expertise
don’t mean that medical professionals aren’t human, and may
sometimes forget a step in even routine procedures. The surgeon
and writer Atul Gawande has argued for preoperative checklists
and recently  published his findings  that such measures help even
during fast-paced surgical emergencies.  I attend meetings every week, some of which recur on the
same day and at the same time. Yet without the beep from my
phone’s calendar, I would often be late or absent. Similarly,
doctors know what they are looking for in the tests they order
for patients, but it still helps when lab reports “red-flag”
abnormal results. I’m not insulted when the lab publishes the
normal range of creatinine alongside my patient’s value, even
though I have many years of experience assessing these numbers.
I’m not demeaned when the pharmacist calls to ask about a
potential drug interaction in a prescription I have written.  A nudge to remember to wash hands should be equally
unobjectionable.  Medical professionals are already monitored at all times,
with limitations on oversight imposed only by technology. Every
position I have held since becoming a doctor has required a drug
screening. Publicly accessible Internet databases show that  I
attended a 2011 dinner  hosted by  Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of
Botox.  Sunshine Act  Such disclosures will increase as the  Sunshine Act 
gradually takes effect. Eventually, public and private databases
will also contain a mention of a lunch I dropped in on recently
that was hosted by  Ipsen SA (IPN) , the maker of Botox’s competitor,
Dysport. One day, my hand-washing habits could be on the Web,
too.  I would like to see employee hand-washing data for the
restaurants I frequent, so I cannot begrudge patients and
reporters wanting that information about those who work in
hospitals and clinics.  Although there are structural limits to how far providers
can go in the name of  patient safety , the outcomes-focused
 Affordable Care Act  will make doctors and hospitals willing to
change practices (and wristwear) if there’s a payoff or a
penalty. This financial pressure will change behavior.  Monitoring of my practice behaviors will gradually
increase. I can choose to be angry or I can endeavor to
understand why these changes are necessary. My advanced degree
doesn’t ensure that I will never absentmindedly touch a patient
with unclean hands, adding risks and  costs  our system can ill
afford.  (Ford Vox, a doctor at the Shepherd Center for brain and
spinal cord injury in Atlanta, writes about health-care policy.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ford Vox at  docvox@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 