-- Draghi Says ECB Policy Can’t Address Root Causes of Euro Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-15T13:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/draghi-says-ecb-policy-can-t-address-root-causes-of-euro-crisis.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said monetary policy can’t address the root causes
of the sovereign debt crisis and it’s up to governments to enact
structural reforms.  “Problems in the euro-area economic landscape still loom
large” and “the way out is to restore competitiveness,”
Draghi said in a speech in Amsterdam today. “Undertaking
structural reforms, budget consolidation and restoring bank
balance-sheet health is neither the responsibility nor the
mandate of monetary policy.”  Countries from  Greece  to  Spain  are struggling to haul their
economies out of a recession exacerbated by spending and
investment cuts. Draghi this month signalled the ECB may expand
its stimulus if the 17-nation economy deteriorates further and
the ECB’s prediction of a gradual recovery in the second half is
placed in doubt.  “ Monetary policy  can support the reform progress by
safeguarding  price stability  and anchoring inflation
expectations,” he said today. “But it cannot substitute for
actions that other actors, including the private sector itself,
must take.”  Draghi said that “within the limits of our mandate, we
have acted with determination.”  While fragmentation in euro-area financial markets is
receding, the ECB’s “very accommodative monetary policy stance
is only partly passed on to the financing conditions faced by
firms and households in some euro-area countries,” he said.  Small and medium-sized enterprises are suffering especially
from a shortage of adequate funding, Draghi said. “This is
especially disconcerting given that SMEs account for about three
quarters of euro area employment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Amsterdam at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  