-- DreamWorks Animation Nominates Grainge, Kilar for Board
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/dreamworks-animation-nominates-grainge-kilar-for-board-roles.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ,
producer of the box-office hit “The Croods,” plans to nominate
Universal Music Group Chief Executive Officer Lucian Grainge and
former Hulu LLC CEO  Jason Kilar  to its board.  The two will replace Nathan Myhrvold, 53, and Richard Sherman, 60, who plan to step down next month at the May 29
annual meeting, Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation
said yesterday in a statement.  Grainge, 53, has led  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music since
March 2011. He’s also on the board of  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ,
the video-game company majority owned by Paris-based Vivendi.
Kilar, 41, Hulu’s founding CEO, led the video-streaming service
from June 2007 until his departure last month.  DreamWorks Animation fell 3.5 percent to $19.02 yesterday
in New York. The stock has gained 15 percent this year, compared
with the 8.9 percent increase for the  S&P 500 index . The company
declined to comment beyond the statement.  Sherman is CEO of David Geffen Co. and has been a director
since November 2008, the company said. Geffen, the billionaire
music mogul, is an original investor in DreamWorks Animation,
according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg. In October, he
converted his holdings of a super-voting class of stock into
common shares. Ownership of the stock entitled him to designate
a board member.  Myhrvold is chief executive officer of Intellectual
Ventures and has been a DreamWorks Animation director since the
company went public in October 2004, according to the statement.  The company’s current theatrical release, “The Croods,”
has collected $142.4 million in U.S. and Canadian ticket sales,
to rank second this year, according to researcher Box Office
Mojo. Worldwide sales for the film, about a prehistoric family
that’s forced to leave its cave following a disaster, total $385
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  