-- Dubai to Curb Reliance on Iranian Condensate, ENOC’s CEO Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-04-15T15:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/dubai-to-curb-reliance-on-iranian-condensate-enoc-s-ceo-says.html
Dubai’s state refining company,
which buys most of its condensate from  Iran , is seeking
alternative sources of the fuel to curb imports from the Islamic
republic and avoid running afoul of international sanctions.  Iran is “still the major supplier,” Saeed Khoory, chief
executive officer of Emirates National Oil Co., said today in an
interview in Dubai. “We are trying to find other sources.”  ENOC, as the refiner is known, wants new suppliers of
condensate because U.S. sanctions threaten financial penalties
for companies that trade with Iran. ENOC said in February it had
signed a contract with the Gulf sheikhdom of Qatar for a year’s
supply of condensate. ENOC operates a 120,000 barrel-a-day
condensate refinery that splits the light crude into oil
products such as naphtha, reformate, jet fuel and diesel.  The company, based in the second-largest sheikhdom in the
 United Arab Emirates , was already buying some condensate from
Qatar on the  spot market . The term contract with Qatar will
allow ENOC to buy more fuel than it can secure under spot
purchases and guarantee more reliable supply, Khoory said. ENOC
agreed to buy 20,000 barrels a day of Qatari condensate
annually.  That would mean ENOC is still buying as much as 100,000
barrels a day from Iran. When asked about that figure, Khoory
said: “It depends.” The company can buy less of the fuel from
Iran once it lines up other suppliers, he said, without
specifying whether ENOC was trying to cut purchases of Iranian
condensate to zero.  “We are trying to reduce our supply from Iran,” Khoory
said when asked whether ENOC would eliminate Iranian condensate
imports. “You always have to diversify.”  ENOC said in February it had bought 20 percent less
condensate from Iran in the second half of 2012 than in the
first six months of that year.  The company’s only  refinery , at the port of Jebel Ali in
Dubai, is running at its full daily capacity after maintenance
in December, Khoory said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  