-- Egypt Premier Says IMF Loan Talks May Continue in Washington
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-04-15T13:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/egypt-s-premier-says-imf-loan-talks-may-continue-in-washington.html
Talks between  Egypt  and the
 International Monetary Fund  over a loan accord are still going
on and may shift to  Washington , the prime minister said.  “The talks have not concluded yet and we may continue in
Washington,” Hisham Qandil said in an interview when asked if
he expects to reach an initial loan agreement with an IMF team
currently in Cairo. Egypt’s economic reform program “will be
executed with or without the IMF” deal, he said.  Egypt’s bid to conclude a $4.8 billion IMF loan agreement
has been prolonged amid political bickering and unrest that made
it harder to implement IMF-backed changes like tax increases.
The economy is still struggling to recover from the turmoil that
followed the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Officials
had said they aimed to conclude a preliminary deal during the
IMF team’s current visit.  Egypt’s  foreign currency reserves  have plunged more than 60
percent since the end of 2010, reaching $13.4 billion last
month. The government is seeking to raise money from other
sources at the same time as negotiating with the IMF.  Libya  this month announced a $2 billion deposit with
Egypt’s central bank, and Qatar pledged an additional $3 billion
in aid on top of the $5 billion it has already provided. Qandil
said the money will strengthen Egypt’s position in talks with
the Fund.  Bottom Line  “The Qatari and Libyan support is a positive and gives
Egypt more time to negotiate a program,”  Raza Agha, chief
Middle East and Africa economist at VTB Capital Plc in  London ,
said by e-mail. “But the bottom line remains that Egypt cannot
do without an IMF program, as only a Fund program will unlock
financing in the levels needed to meet the country’s external
financing needs over the next two fiscal years. We estimate
these requirements to total about $40 billion.”  The government says it aims to cut the  budget deficit ,
targeted at 10.9 percent of economic output this fiscal year,
and overhaul the tax system. The IMF has asked for broad
consensus over any program, and its visiting team has met with a
range of political groups. Qandil said those were “standard
consultations.”  While any IMF program would help improve investor
sentiment, “the size of Egypt’s external financing needs
warrants a program larger than” the $4.8 billion, Agha said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  