-- Emerging-Market Losses Break From Global Stock Gains: Currencies
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-15T13:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/emerging-market-losses-break-from-global-stock-gains-currencies.html
For only the third time since 2001,
 emerging-market currencies  are weakening as global stocks rise,
revealing doubts about the ability of economies from  South
Africa  to  South Korea  to reverse a slowdown.  A group of 20  developing-nation currencies lost an average
of 0.3 percent this year, including losses of more than 5
percent for the rand and won, while the MSCI World Index of
equities advanced 8.3 percent. The 60-day correlation between
the group and the  stock index  fell this month to the lowest
since October 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Currencies that typically benefit most from an increase in
investors’ appetite for risk are falling out of favor as
emerging-market nations struggle to boost growth. Developing-
country economies will expand at about the slowest pace in a
decade relative to advanced nations, and their  current-account
surpluses  will shrink to the least since 2001 as export markets
contract, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The model of global growth has been broken,” Stephen Jen, the managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in  London 
and the former head of currency strategy at Morgan Stanley, said
in a phone interview. “Those countries with questionable
fundamentals in  emerging markets  are exposed, one by one, by the
deceleration. They are starting to feel the pain.”  Won, Rand  The won sank to 1,144.82 per dollar on April 9 and Taiwan’s
dollar touched NT$30.058, their weakest levels in more than
eight months. The rand lost 6.5 percent this year to 9.0667 per
dollar. The Hungarian forint’s 1 percent drop versus the euro
this year leaves it 10 percent weaker since April 2011.  The won pared that decline today, climbing the most in more
than two months after the U.S. agreed to work with  China ,  Japan 
and South Korea to try and draw  North Korea  back into nuclear
talks. The currency strengthened as much as 0.9 percent to
1,119.38 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Correlation between emerging-market currencies and the
global stock index fell to 0.57 on Feb. 11, the lowest in more
than four years, before ending last week at 0.61, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading of 1 means they move in
lockstep, while minus 1 means they move in opposite directions.  The only other periods since 2001 when emerging-market
currencies fell during a stock rally were in the final quarter
of 2011, when the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  climbed 7.1 percent, and in
the last three months of 2010, when the gauge rose 8.6 percent.  Hedge Exposure  JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended March 25 that its clients
hedge the currency exposure in emerging-market local-currency
bonds for the first time since September.  Analysts including New York-based Holly Huffman on April 9
cut their forecasts for local bond returns this year to as low
as 6 percent, from 8 percent, citing currency weakness. Credit
Suisse Group AG lowered its estimate for Asian currencies on
April 8, saying the won will fall 6 percent in 12 months.  The performance is mirrored in other assets.  The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of stocks has lost 4.3 percent this year,
compared with an 11.4 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Since the end of 2009, emerging-market stocks returned 3
percent, versus 42 percent for the S&P.  “People are a bit disappointed with emerging markets,”
 Bhanu Baweja , a strategist at UBS AG in London, said in a phone
interview from London. “What has changed is that your growth
trend is failing. That’s a big problem.”  On average,  developing countries ’ exports will rise 5.6
percent this year, compared with average growth of 10.8 percent
in the five years through 2007, according to IMF estimates.  U.S. Boost  The sovereign-debt crisis in the euro region is hurting
emerging economies, while the recovery in the U.S. is mostly
boosting other developed nations because it’s concentrated in
sectors such as housing and autos, said Baweja.   Developing countries  will expand 5.5 percent this year,
compared with 1.4 percent for advanced economies, the IMF
forecast in January. The difference between the two groups is
close to the smallest since 2002.  In countries such as Brazil and India, credit-fueled
consumption growth is hitting a wall after  current-account
deficits  widened to the most since at least 2002, analysts at
Goldman Sachs Group AG wrote in an April 4 report.  China’s  exports  rose 10 percent in March from a year
earlier, the government said on April 10, trailing economists’
forecasts for the first time in four months. Brazil’s  retail
sales  declined 0.2 percent in February from a year earlier, the
first annual drop in a decade.  Petering Out  Industrial output and manufacturing data suggest that the
economic rebound starting in late 2012 is petering out,  Roger Bootle , the managing director at Capital Economics Ltd. in
London, wrote in an April 10 report. Emerging-market nations’
economic activity  fell short  of economists’ forecasts by the
most since July, according to data compiled by Citigroup Inc.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, sees
growth in China “trending down” toward 6 percent, Chief
Financial Officer Graham Kerr said at the Bloomberg Economic
Summit in Sydney on April 10.  China is the world’s second-largest economy and the
Melbourne-based miner’s biggest customer, and its slowdown
represents the main risk to the company’s prospects, Kerr said.
 China grew  7.7 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing said today, after
expanding an average 11.6 percent in the decade through 2011.  “They cannot rely on the levered-up, developed-market
consumers anymore,” said Rashique Rahman, an emerging-market
strategist at Morgan Stanley in  New York . “That source of
growth is gone. Fundamentals are just not as supportive for
emerging markets” as they were 10 years ago.  Recouping Losses  Higher-yielding currencies recouped some of their losses
last week amid speculation Japanese pension funds and insurance
companies will buy emerging-market debt to boost returns.  The forint, Polish zloty and Brazilian real gained at least
2 percent and the rand climbed more than 1 percent since April
4, when the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said it will boost purchases of
Japanese  government bonds . The next day, yields on the nation’s
 30-year notes  fell to as low as 1.04 percent.  Citigroup estimates  Mexico  may attract $20 billion of
inflows from Japanese investors, pushing the peso through 12 per
dollar for the first time since August 2011. The peso
strengthened to 12.0194 last week, from 12.8533 on Dec. 31.  ‘Game Changer’  “The recent policy signals from the BOJ have been a game
changer for risky assets, including for global emerging-market
currencies,”  Benoit Anne , head of EM strategy at Societe
Generale SA in London, said in a client note on April 11. “The
market backdrop has changed dramatically over the past few days.
Some differentiation continues to be key, of course, but the
important development is the strong rejuvenation of the hunt for
yields as a major market-driving theme.”  The rally in higher-yielding, developing-nation currencies
will be short-lived as rising wages make their exports less
competitive, said Morgan Stanley’s Rahman. Adjusted for
inflation,  emerging-market currencies  are 6 percent above levels
prior to the 2008 global banking crisis, he estimates.  “Emerging markets are graduating in terms of their income-
per-capita profile,” said Rahman. “Growth is slowing as the
result of that because there’s less catching-up to do.”  Rahman said he favors currencies of nations that are
pushing through reforms to improve productivity, such as Mexico,
Russia and India.  Telecoms Reforms  Mexico’s peso has strengthened 5.9 percent this year, the
most among 31 major currencies, as President Enrique Pena Nieto
carries out reforms in the energy and telecommunications markets
to foster investment and growth.  From 2003 to 2007, 22 of 25 emerging-market currencies
rallied, with the real, won, forint and Philippine peso gaining
at least 20 percent against the dollar as U.S. and Europe
consumers bought their cheaper shoes, textiles and toys. Since
then, only nine emerging currencies advanced against the
greenback, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “When the world was imbalanced, emerging markets fed into
the imbalance and benefited from it,” said UBS’s Baweja. “As
the world rebalances, the emerging market is in a bad place.
There isn’t a plan B yet. It’s not surprising emerging-market
currencies are not performing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  