-- Emerging-Market Stocks Slide Most Since July on China
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-04-15T21:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/emerging-stocks-fall-as-china-economic-growth-misses-estimates.html
Emerging-market stocks plunged the
most since July, led by commodity producers, after  China ’s
economic growth unexpectedly slowed.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest natural-gas producer, slumped
to a four-year low, and  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  tumbled to the
lowest price since 2005 in Johannesburg as oil and metal prices
declined.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index dropped the most since
September 2011, led by iron-ore producer Vale SA.  Venezuela ’s
sovereign bonds retreated the most in two months after Nicolas
Maduro won emergency presidential elections.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index sank 1.6 percent to
1,003.29, the most since July 23. Government data today showed
Chinese gross domestic product expanded 7.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, less than the 8 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 41 economists. March
industrial production also increased less than estimated.  “Now that the Chinese numbers start to disappoint,
investors see more evidence of faltering global growth,”
Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging-market strategist at ING
Investment Management in the Hague, said by e-mail. “This is
not good for the commodity markets for sure.”  Gauges of energy and raw-materials companies fell at least
2.5 percent, the most among 10  industry groups  in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24
raw materials fell 2.3 percent. Oil dropped below $90 a barrel,
gold sank the most since 1980 and silver reached a two-year low.  Emerging ETF  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 4.9 percent this
year, compared with a 6.9 percent rally in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed countries. The emerging-markets index trades at
10.5 times  projected 12-month profits , compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund declined 2.4 percent to $40.86 in New York, the steepest
one-day slump since July 23. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, surged 23
percent to 22.  Brazil’s Bovespa fell 3.7 percent. Vale dropped 6.5
percent, contributing most to the decline in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. Lender Banco do Brasil SA dropped 1.8 percent
after Brazil’s securities regulator suspended the $6.2 billion
initial public offering of its insurance unit for 30 days.  The Mexican  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  slumped 2.3 percent. Desarrolladora
Homex SAB shares plunged 18 percent to a record low after the
homebuilder said it’s evaluating options including selling debt
and assets to increase cash. Peru’s benchmark stock index
tumbled 4.1 percent today, the most since September 2011.  Venezuela’s Debt  The cost of insuring Venezuela’s debt against default
increased and bonds fell after Maduro, ex-President Hugo Chavez’s handpicked successor, won emergency elections over
opposition candidate Henrique Capriles. Capriles claimed voter
fraud and said he wouldn’t accept the results until electoral
officials carried out a vote recount. Interior Minister Nestor
Reverol told reporters the country’s military is dispatching
tanks and anti-riot forces in Caracas.  Russian shares fell to the lowest level since June as the
Micex Index sank 1.9 percent. Gazprom slid 1.3 percent, while
OAO Mechel sank 5.3 percent after  Russia ’s biggest coking coal
producer reported a 2012 net loss.  South Africa’s rand had the biggest decline against the
dollar among emerging-market currencies. Harmony Gold lost 8.9
percent in Johannesburg.  Chinese Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.1 percent, taking its
drop from a Feb. 6 high to 10 percent. Construction machinery
maker Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co. slumped
to a 15-month low after forecasting lower profit. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index slid 2 percent.  South Korea’s won rose the most in more than two months
after the U.S. agreed to work with China,  Japan  and South Korea
to try and draw North Korea back into nuclear talks.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 287 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  