-- Energy Future Proposes Pre-Packaged Bankruptcy of Some Units
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-04-15T23:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/energy-future-holdings-proposes-prepackged-bankruptcy.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp., the
power producer that was taken private six years ago in the
largest leveraged buyout, proposed a pre-packaged bankruptcy
that would put Texas Competitive Electric Holdings, which sells
power on wholesale markets, and some other units in Chapter 11.  In an initial plan to restructure Texas Competitive’s
$32 billion debt, the unit's first-lien creditors would forgive 
debt in exchange for equity in the parent company and $5 billion 
in cash or new debt, Energy Future said today in a regulatory 
filing. The private-equity sponsors, including  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG 
Capital LP, informed lenders they would back the plan if they 
retained 15 percent of the company’s equity interest, leaving 85 
percent for holders of the unit’s senior loans.  Creditors didn’t agree to this first offer and have
“directed their advisers to continue to work with the companies
and their advisers to explore further whether the parties can
reach an agreement on the terms of a consensual restructuring,”
according to the filing.  “This means nothing until the creditors agree to it,”
Joseph DeSapri, a credit analyst at Morningstar Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “An 85 percent equity share in the company
has to be sufficient for the forgiveness of debt and if it is
not, the creditors won’t agree to it.”  Advisers Retained  Texas’ largest electricity provider, formerly known as TXU
Corp., was taken over in a $48 billion deal in 2007 led by KKR,
TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The buyout, which left
Dallas-based Energy Future with more than $40 billion in debt,
was a gamble that natural gas prices would rise and give its
coal-fired plants a competitive advantage. Instead, U.S. prices
fell to a 10-year low last year.  “With no significant debt maturity until October 2014, we
continue to proactively evaluate possible transactions and
initiatives to achieve a more sustainable  capital structure , as
previously disclosed under our liability management program,”
 Allan Koenig , a spokesman for Energy Future, said in a telephone
interview.  The company’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 bonds due November
2015 traded at 12.8 cents on the dollar today, down from 30
cents on Dec. 27, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Energy Future and its units have retained law firm Kirkland
& Ellis LLP and restructuring advisers Evercore Partners, while
creditors have retained law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP and Millstein & Co., according to the filing today.  ‘Material Restructuring’  Under the proposal, Texas Competitive would get a $2
billion first-lien revolving line of credit, a $1 billion letter
of credit facility and $5 billion of new long-term debt upon
completion of the restructuring.  Energy Future’s filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission at about 5:30 p.m. complies with a confidentiality
agreement the power producer made with creditors on March 18,
stipulating a public acknowledgment of the restructuring talks
by today.  Energy Future faces a “material restructuring” within six
to 12 months, Moody’s Investors Service said in a March 26 note.
The ratings company said a bankruptcy filing is likely at Energy
Future’s Texas Competitive unit, which has $29.5 billion in
debt, including $3.8 billion of loans maturing in October 2014.
Investors have previously refused to extend the payment date.  KKR, TPG and Goldman Sachs contributed an $8.3 billion
equity stake in Energy Future, they disclosed in 2008. By March
2012, KKR had written down its equity in the company to 5 cents
on the dollar, according to a regulatory filing.  Senior lenders at Texas Competitive include Franklin
Resources Inc., Apollo Global Management LLC, Oaktree Capital
Group LLC and GSO Capital Partners LP.  Energy Future’s losses may widen as hedging contracts used
to shield against fluctuations in gas prices disappear by the
end of 2014. Energy Future lost $3.36 billion last year, 76
percent more than its $1.91 billion net loss in 2011, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  