-- Theravance Rises on Report on Lung Drug: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-15T20:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/theravance-rises-on-fda-staff-report-on-lung-drug-with-glaxo.html
Theravance Inc. (THRX)  surged the most in
a year after a staff report by U.S. regulators showed the once-
daily lung disease treatment the company is developing with
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  may be able to win approval.  Theravance rose 19 percent to $28.36 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time for its biggest gain since April 2012. The medication
called Breo is meant to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, an umbrella term for emphysema and chronic bronchitis.  Breo would compete with similar twice-daily products
Advair, from Glaxo, and Symbicort, from  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)  Breo
may be linked to side effects, including pneumonia, that
outweigh any added benefit from the combination of vilanterol
with a corticosteroid in a dry powder inhaler, U.S. Food and
Drug Administration staff said today. The safety issue was
anticipated, analysts from  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Citigroup Inc. said in
notes.  “Overall, the documents seem broadly supportive and
propose questions in keeping with our expectation on efficacy
and safety,” Andrew Whitney, an analyst with UBS, wrote.  Advisers to the FDA will weigh whether to recommend Breo at
a meeting on April 17. The lung disorder, the third-leading
cause of death in the U.S., is often caused by cigarette
smoking.  First Drug  Breo would be the first drug to market produced by a Glaxo
and Theravance partnership formed more than 10 years ago, said
Rick Winningham, chief executive officer of South San Francisco,
California-based Theravance. The FDA is expected to decide
whether to approve the product by May 12.  A once-daily formulation has better compliance than drugs
that must be used more often, Winningham said.  The drug may generate $1.3 billion in sales for London-
based Glaxo in 2018, according to the average of five analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Theravance will receive
royalties of 15 percent on the first $3 billion of sales and 5
percent on any sales higher, Winningham said.  The evidence to support the benefit of the combination over
vilanterol alone to relax the airways “are less robust,” FDA
staff said. The combination performed better reducing
exacerbations of the disease.  Side effects seen with the drug were typical adverse events
seen with other combination products. In addition to pneumonia,
FDA staff listed fractures as a potential risk for patients who
took Breo in clinical trials.  Top Investor  Glaxo is the top holder in Theravance, owning 27 percent of
the potential takeover target’s shares.  Glaxo should complete this year a study on Breo’s use in
asthma that may enable the companies to file an application for
review with the FDA for that indication, Winningham said. The
companies also are working on another treatment for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease. The once-daily medicine, Anoro,
combines vilanterol with another ingredient to improve lung
function.  The FDA is expected to decide whether to approve Anoro in
December. The drug would compete with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s and
Boehringer Ingelheim’s Spiriva.  Theravance generated $136 million in revenue last year
while sales are projected to almost triple to $372 million in
2016, according to the average of six analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  