-- Merkel’s Spokesman Scorns German Anti-Euro ‘Go-It-Alone’ Party
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-15T12:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/merkel-s-spokesman-scorns-german-anti-euro-go-it-alone-party.html
Germany’s government and coalition
parties denounced a new political grouping that calls for the
euro to be scrapped in an electoral challenge to Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s crisis policy.  The solution to “deficiencies” in the euro area is a
combination of solidarity and reforms, not a “go-it-alone
mentality,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told
reporters in Berlin today, when asked about the Alternative for
Germany party.  “When you hear calls from some political corner for an end
of the euro or Germany’s exit or a return to the D-mark, then
everyone should know that membership in the euro is a good thing
for Germany,” Seibert said.  The new group, known by its German name, Alternative fuer
Deutschland, or AfD, was officially founded yesterday in Berlin
with its core policy being that Germany doesn’t need the euro
and that the single currency isn’t working so should be
abolished. Its leader, Bernd Lucke, says the party aims to take
at least 10 percent of votes at the Sept. 22 national election.  “What we’re seeking is the dissolution of the euro
currency area, mainly through an exit of the southern countries
from the euro, in an orderly, gentle fashion over several years
with parallel national currencies” reintroduced, Lucke, an
economics professor at Hamburg University, said today on ZDF
television.  Bleak Future  The euro has led to rising unemployment and a bleak future
for young people in southern  Europe , said Lucke, 50, who was a
member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party for 33
years. His new party will “defend the interests of normal
taxpayers whose money is channeled to the southern countries in
an irresponsible way,” he said.  Less than six months before the election, Merkel’s
Christian Democratic bloc leads the main opposition Social
Democrats by 14-18 percentage points in the four most recent
opinion polls published since April 10. SPD chancellor candidate
 Peer Steinbrueck , seeking to reverse the trend, yesterday
attacked an expanding wealth gap in Germany and unhindered
capitalism that he accused Merkel of failing to check.  While Merkel’s personal ratings outstrip Steinbrueck’s,
Germany’s electoral calculus means that she still needs a
coalition partner to govern. Only one of the polls indicates a
clear majority for her current government, making Merkel
potentially vulnerable to any seepage of support to the new
political group.  ‘Small Waves’  The AfD party “could cause some small waves in coming
months,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . All the same, “the anti-euro professors need to
watch out that they do not attract Germany’s residual xenophobic
flotsam which could make them virtually unelectable,” he said.  Every percentage point the AfD takes from Merkel’s CDU
benefits the opposition Social Democrats and the Greens,
Christean Wagner, CDU caucus chief in the state of Hesse, was
cited as saying in today’s  Bild  newspaper. A return to the
deutsche mark is “dangerous nostalgia,” Michael Grosse- Broemer, the chief whip of Merkel’s caucus in parliament,  told 
the  Rheinische Post .  “Those in Germany who overtly or covertly work for the end
of monetary union put the great work of unification at risk,”
former Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, a member of
Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner, said in  an op-
ed published in news magazine Focus . “There is no responsible
alternative to Europe.”  Merkel’s Defense  Merkel has made defending the euro the basis of her policy
on tackling the crisis that spread from  Greece , saying that “if
the euro fails, then Europe falls.” Even so, an Infratest dimap
poll earlier this month identified a potential wellspring of
support for the new party, with 24 percent of respondents saying
that they “could imagine” voting for the AfD.  “We won’t allow ourselves to be reduced to economics,
because it is the triad of economy, democracy and the rule of
law that secures the prosperity of Germany and Europe,” Lucke
said in a speech to the party’s  inaugural  congress yesterday,
attended by more than 1,500 members. “If the euro fails, it’s
not Europe that fails, it’s Angela Merkel that fails.”  Lucke says he’s sure his party will clear the 5 percent
hurdle for parliamentary representation and that a tally of at
least 10 percent is realistic. Yet the example of the Pirate
Party shows that popularity booms can be short-lived in  Germany .  Support for the Pirates, which campaign for Internet
freedom, reached a peak of 11 percent a year ago. They now fail
to reach the 5 percent threshold in any of the six regular
polls. No other party has been tipped to break the five party
system dominated by Merkel’s bloc, the SPD, the Greens, the FDP
and the anti-capitalist Left Party.  The Alternative for Germany party won’t know for sure until
July whether it will be allowed to  participate  in the election,
as it has to establish regional chapters in the country’s 16
states by the end of this month and present lists of supporters
by mid-July to satisfy German electoral law.  The AfD “is playing to deeply ingrained German fears of
inflation and runaway public deficits,” said Schmieding. With
inflation at 1.4 percent and Germany’s small fiscal surplus,
“mobilising these fears is an uphill struggle,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  