-- Merkel Says Banks Must Be Allowed to Fail to Ease Taxpayer Risk
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-15T17:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/merkel-says-banks-must-be-allowed-to-fail-to-ease-taxpayer-risk.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said banks must be allowed to fail if they run up unsustainable
losses because her government can’t afford to rescue them a
second time after the 2008 financial crisis.  Merkel, addressing the BdB association of German commercial
banks in Berlin today, said policy makers haven’t solved how to
handle “too-big-to-fail” financial institutions that risk
needing government bailouts.  Germany  couldn’t mount another
round of economic stimulus measures and bank bailouts without
“losing trust internationally,” she said.  “It must be clear that banks without sustainable business
models can fail,” Merkel told the audience of Germany’s leading
bankers. “Our citizens, that is the taxpayers, won’t settle for
anything else. This will take some time.”  Merkel, who is running for a third term at the helm of
 Europe ’s largest economy in Sept. 22 elections, revived a theme
she has honed during the euro area’s debt crisis, saying global
financial markets require further regulation and watchfulness by
policy makers.  German taxpayers shored up eight of the country’s biggest
banks with more than 300 billion euros ($392 billion) in capital
and guarantees during the turmoil sparked by the 2007 meltdown
of the U.S. housing market. The banks are in varying stages of
repaying the funds.  While banks have made progress on boosting their  capital
ratios , they “still have a way to go” and confidence in the
financial industry hasn’t fully returned, Merkel said.  Basel III  Merkel said Basel III bank capital rules must be applied
globally and not just by European firms. U.S. regulators delayed
the rules for U.S. lenders last year.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , whose first two
versions of global financial standards failed to avert crises,
established a new set of rules in 2010 dubbed Basel III. At
least 7 percent of banks’ risk-weighted balance sheets must be
backed by common equity that can absorb losses, up from 2
percent before the 2008 crisis, the committee determined.  Banks have a duty to serve the economy, Merkel said, citing
a “phase of weak growth” in the euro area that has led to a
split in sovereign-bond yields and a divergence in commercial
lending rates among the currency union’s 17 countries.  High  interest rates  for the “real economy” in countries
such as  Portugal  are creating the risk of a credit crunch that
would hold back a recovery, she said. Even so, there is no
alternative to the push for “solid finances” across the euro
region, she said.  “You’re absolutely right, we carry a responsibility for
the bigger picture,”  Juergen Fitschen , Deutsche Bank AG’s co-
Chief Executive Officer, said at the event, addressing Merkel.
“Much of the solution has to do with society as a whole and if
we let everyone participate, we’ll get to a solution that
society accepts, that we create value for all.”  Fitschen today succeeded Andreas Schmitz as president of
the BdB, a lobby group for Deutsche Bank and other commercial
lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  