-- Thermo Fisher to Buy Life Technologies for $13.6 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-04-15T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/thermo-fisher-agrees-to-buy-life-technologies-for-13-6-billion.html
Thermo Fisher  Scientific Inc., the
second-biggest maker of life-sciences equipment by market value,
agreed to buy Life Technologies Corp. for $13.6 billion in cash
in a deal that expands its reach in medical testing.  The $76-a-share offer also includes the assumption of $2.2
billion in debt, Waltham, Massachusetts-based Thermo Fisher said
in a statement today. With the debt, the deal is valued at about
$15.8 billion. The per-share offer is 12 percent more than  Life
Technologies (LIFE) ’ closing price of $68 on April 12.  Life, based in Carlsbad,  California , makes  laboratory
equipment  that helps to map DNA, information used to diagnose
disease, identify risks of certain conditions or better target
medicines. The market for gene tests may expand to $25 billion
from $5 billion within a decade as more doctors use a patient’s
genetic makeup to tailor treatments, according to a report last
year from  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   The purchase gives Thermo “reach across all the major
technologies,” said  Ross Muken , an analyst at International
Strategy & Investment Group LLC in  New York . “You now have a
unique customer touch and a portfolio others will be unable to
match.”  While the price was “a little higher” than some investors
had expected, “we still think ultimately people will view this
as a positive,”  he said in a telephone interview.  Technology Deals  Thermo Fisher declined 1.2 percent to $78.61 at the close
in New York. Life Technologies gained 7.5 percent to $73.11.  Acquirers have announced or completed 1,941 deals for
biotechnology or genetic technology companies over the past five
years, with an average size of $145.2 million and a typical
premium of 53 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The largest deal was Roche Holding AG’s $44.05 billion purchase
in 2009 of the portion of drugmaker Genentech Inc. it didn’t
already own.  The potential of the gene-mapping technology drove Roche to
make a $6.7 billion hostile takeover bid for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  last
year, which was ultimately unsuccessful.  Sales for Life have increased by about 5 percent on average
in each of the past three years, compared with a 20 percent gain
at San Diego-based Illumina Inc., data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Life reported revenue of $3.8 billion last year.  Life has been “a technology loser,” falling behind rivals
in terms of DNA sequencing, said ISI’s Muken. Still, with
private-equity and corporate bidders vying for the company, it
was able to secure a “fair value, given its growth profile.”  Life had been reviewing its options for at least three
months and said in January that it was working with Deutsche
Bank AG, as well as Moelis & Co., on the strategic review.
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as legal advisers.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc acted as financial
advisers to Thermo Fisher, while Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
and WilmerHale LLP acted as legal advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  