-- Tesco Swaps Global Aspirations for Giraffe Amid Profit Slide
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-04-16T08:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/tesco-swaps-global-aspirations-for-giraffe-amid-profit-setback.html
Under Chief Executive Officer  Phil Clarke ,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  is unraveling a  global empire  that didn’t
quite pan out. Investors need him to fare better with the new
one that he’s building at home.  In the past year, the biggest U.K. grocer has bought a
chain of kid-friendly restaurants, invested in an artisan
bakery, and co-founded the upscale Harris & Hoole coffee-shop
chain which will also feature in Tesco stores. The goal: to turn
the outlets into a destination for more than just the cheapest
baked beans and avoid losing more business to online orders,
 convenience stores  and discounters.  The executive, 53, last year pledged to spend 1 billion
pounds ($1.5 billion) and do “three years’ work in one” to
turn around the business after  cutting profit guidance  for the
first time in years. By December, he was about three-quarters of
the way through revamping 450 U.K. stores and had added more
than half the 2,000 new value products.  “With all these new projects there’s obviously a risk that
it proves a big distraction for management, when the majority of
people probably just want the basics to work,” said  Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail in London. “At the same
time, this is all long overdue and it helps Tesco retake its
place as the pioneer of retailing.”  Earnings Outlook  Proof of a U.K. turnaround is unlikely to be seen this
week. Tesco is set to report its first drop in annual profit in
two decades on April 17, according to analysts. Full-year
trading profit fell 11 percent to 3.4 billion pounds, according
to the average of 11  estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey. Tesco
declined to comment ahead of the announcement.  Clarke, at the helm for two years, has authorized about 170
pilot projects and trials to allow executives to explore all
ideas to stem the Cheshunt, England-based company’s declining
domination of Britain’s 163 billion-pound grocery market. He’s
also spending $750 million globally to develop its online
offering, including expanding digital download service BlinkBox.  “The new offerings have made Tesco more interesting and
more relevant again,” said Clive Black, an analyst at Shore
Capital in Liverpool. “This should help stabilize its market
share and once it has done that, it can start batting forward.”  More Competitive  Almost two decades of aggressive international expansion
into central  Europe ,  Asia  and the U.S. took the focus off its
U.K. shops, leaving them tired and allowing upmarket competitors
like  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and discounter Aldi alike to snap at its
heels. Tesco, which paid 40 million pounds to leave its Japanese
joint venture, will also this week update the market on a review
of its Fresh & Easy chain in the U.S. Clarke has said Tesco will
likely leave the market, a move that some analysts have said
will lead to a 1 billion-pound writedown.  Clarke in January reiterated his contention that the new
plan will make Tesco more competitive and that full-year trading
margins in the U.K. would remain similar to the first half of
the year at 5.2 percent. That compares with a 5.8 percent margin
the previous year and 6.1 percent in the 2011 financial year.  While  Tesco’s shares  have gained 30 percent since hitting a
2012 low of 297 pence in May, they are little changed compared
with pre-profit warning levels, trailing the 12 percent advance
of the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  The stock was down 0.5
percent at 383.3 pence as of 9:07 a.m.  Latest Kantar Worldpanel data published on March 26 shows a
second consecutive drop in Tesco’s 12-week market share from a
year earlier to 29.4 percent from 30.2 percent. A sales increase
of 1.1 percent in the period trailed that of the industry total
of 2.5 percent.  ’Sales Traction’  For now, “we’ve not yet seen a significant amount of sales
traction to the investment Tesco has made,” said Andrew Gwynn,
an analyst at Exane who sees a 0.7 percent increase in same-
store sales for the coming year versus 2 percent for Sainsbury
and “at least double-digit growth for Aldi, so Clarke may have
to invest further margin to give some oxygen to sales growth.”  Furthermore, adding to the disappointment in the U.S. and
 Japan , the home market is teetering on the brink of a triple-dip
recession and  inflation  outstripping wage growth. The U.K.
economy “is a bit of an Achilles heel and there could be a
question of focusing on this business to the detriment of others
in faster-growing markets,” said  Paul Mumford , a  fund manager 
and Tesco shareholder who helps manage 850 million pounds in
assets for Cavendish Asset Management in London.  Harris & Hoole  Don’t tell that to the fans of the 2.90-pound crusty
sourdough bread and 1.80-pound croissants the grocer now sells
in the U.K. in addition to the typical Tesco standbys of 70-
pence baguettes and squishy, white pan. Its 48.5-million pound
acquisition of Giraffe restaurants last month will allow the
grocer to sell hot duck stir fry, Mango Mama smoothies and
Rekorderlig Swedish Premium cider to young families looking for
food that doesn’t come from a deep-fat fryer. Tesco says the
upscale offering will give shoppers a reason to stick around.  “There is no reason that supermarkets can’t offer
something similar,” to shopping malls where people meet friends
and dine out, Kevin Grace, Tesco’s group commercial director,
said in a blog post last month. Harris & Hoole coffee shops,
Giraffe and Euphorium bakeries will be rolled out in selected
stores across the country.  While that may help drive footfall to superstores, Tesco
needs to concentrate on getting its basics right, said Richard Marwood, who helps manage 554 billion euros ($727 billion) at
Axa Investment Managers in  London  and holds Tesco stock.  “Having a good food offering is obviously a pre-requisite,
but I don’t think people will have much use for the bells and
whistles,” Marwood said. “You want to drive to a supermarket,
load up the car with food and go. It’s not really a destination
and you certainly don’t want to spend all day there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  