-- Etihad Plans Code-Sharing With JAT in Step to Wider Deal
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-15T12:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/etihad-adds-code-share-with-serbia-s-jat-pending-wider-deal-1-.html
Etihad Airways  PJSC, the third-
biggest Gulf airline, added Serbian national carrier JAT Airways
as its latest code-share partner and said the accord should
prove a first step toward a more comprehensive tieup.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad will begin regular daily flights to
Belgrade starting June 15 and attach its code to 23 of JAT’s
European flights, with the Serbian company doing likewise on 21
Etihad services, the companies said.  “This is just a start of our cooperation,” Etihad Chief
Executive Officer  James Hogan , told a news conference in
Belgrade today. “As we move towards June 15, you will hear more
about Etihad Airways and the partnership with JAT.”  Successive Serbian governments have tried to make
unprofitable JAT attractive to potential buyers to shed state
assets as part of austerity moves designed to bring the former
Yugoslav republic in line with the European Union, which it
wants to join.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  said in March it
would take over 170 million euros ($220 million) in liabilities.
The carrier will also lease four planes to upgrade its  fleet  and
buy four Airbus jets by 2015, Chief Executive Officer Vladimir
Ognjenovic said in an interview today.  The Belgrade-based airline posted a $37.13 million loss in
2011, according to its website. Last year’s loss has not yet
been released.  ‘Fleet Renewal’  Two A319s will be leased through Slovenia’s Adria Airways
DD, while BOC Aviation, Asia’s biggest aircraft lessor, and Awas
Aviation Capital Ltd. will provide one A320 each, Ognjenovic
said after meeting with Hogan.  “We wish to continue the process of fleet renewal and we
hope that we’ll conclude the contract with Airbus” for
purchasing the four planes, Ognjenovic said. “With that, we
would renew the fleet completely by 2015.”  Serbia  made an advance payment of about $23.5 million to
Airbus in 1998 for eight planes and later canceled the order.
The government is now seeking to include the amount in talks
with Toulouse, France-based Airbus.  JAT pilots, who now fly Boeing 737-300s and ATRs, will
start training for Airbus aircraft next week, based on the
leasing agreements with Singapore-based BOC Aviation and Awas,
unit of Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., Ognjenovic said.  Etihad Group  Today’s accord may ultimately lead Etihad to take a 49
percent stake in JAT, adding to its equity stakes in  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL) ,  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and
Air Seychelles Ltd.  Etihad spoke with Serbian Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic 
in  Abu Dhabi  and “it’s a very early stage where we are having a
look at JAT to see whether” an “opportunity could exist, but
its very much early days,” Hogan said. “We wouldn’t be
entering a deal if we felt it created a risk for Etihad.”  Etihad is still looking at  Jet Airways (JETIN)  (India) Ltd., Hogan
said in response to questions at the press conference, while
declining to comment further. Negotiations over the purchase of
a stake in the Mumbai-based carrier reportedly cooled last
month.  “We are still involved in those talks at the moment,”
Hogan said. He declined to elaborate because Jet Airways is a
listed company.  JAT will become Etihad’s 43rd codeshare partner as the Gulf
carrier seeks to build a network of allies while avoiding
membership of formal groupings Star, SkyTeam and Oneworld.  Improved Finances  “We expect this cooperation to bring benefits to our
passengers, more convenient connections and better prices, which
will be seen in JAT’s balance sheet in the coming months,” CEO
Ognjenovic said at the same news conference.  The number of passengers will top 1.5 million in 2013, for
the first time in two decades, Ognjenovic said.  The Serbian carrier will have access to destinations
including China, Southeast Asia,  Australia ,  South Africa  and
 North America , while Etihad will gain access to cities in
western and eastern Europe.  “Through this partnership,JAT and Etihad will streamline
access to and from Serbia,” Hogan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  