-- EU Money-Market Fund Clients Seen at Risk in Oversight Patchwork
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-15T11:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/eu-money-market-fund-clients-seen-at-risk-in-oversight-patchwork.html
Money-market funds  lack consistent
supervision across the European Union, hampering investor
protection, the bloc’s chief markets regulator said.  National regulators have varying approval processes for
money-market funds, rely on different sources of data for their
supervisory decisions and six of the 20 jurisdictions that
monitor the funds have yet to implement guidelines from the
 European Securities and Markets Authority , the regulator said.  “Our mapping on money market funds has identified that
there is a need for further convergence in supervisory
practices, as ultimately, divergence may hamper the proper
protection of investors and may result in an unlevel playing
field,” Steven Maijoor, ESMA chairman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  ESMA released guidelines in 2010 to harmonize supervision
of money-market funds across the EU, where about 1,256 funds
operate, according to the watchdog. Money-market funds may be
subject to tougher rules in future and be required to hold
minimum levels of liquid assets as part of a bid to tighten
oversight of the $4.7 trillion global industry.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, may
require  money-market funds  that maintain a fixed share price to
build up a cash “buffer” equivalent to 3 percent of their
assets. Barnier has identified regulation of money-market funds
as a priority in the bloc’s efforts to rein in so-called shadow
banks.  Regulators are working to impose tighter restrictions on
the funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt
issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run
on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  The  International Monetary Fund  and global regulators at
the Financial Stability Board have urged national governments to
press ahead with regulating money-market funds, and shadow
banking more generally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  