-- EU-U.S. Trade Deal to Help Battle Crisis, De Gucht Says
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-04-15T15:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/eu-u-s-trade-deal-to-help-battle-crisis-de-gucht-says.html
A trade alliance between the U.S.
and the European Union would give a lift to both economies and
help them recover from the economic crisis, EU Trade
Commissioner Karel De Gucht said.  “Truly, this is the cheapest stimulus package you can
imagine,” De Gucht wrote today in an article in Parliament
Magazine. “Given that both  Europe  and America are recovering
from the biggest economic crisis in living memory, we cannot
afford to ignore these gains.”  De Gucht estimated that a EU-U.S. trade alliance “could
boost our economies by between 0.5 percent and 1 percent of GDP,
or 119 billion euros ($156 billion) annually once implemented.”
Such an alliance also “would have a positive impact on
worldwide trade and incomes, increasing global revenue by almost
100 billion euros,” he said in the article.  President  Barack Obama  promised in February to pursue a
trade agreement with the EU, and De Gucht aims to complete the
talks within two years. The two sides will seek a “living
agreement” that establishes a mechanism for further economic
integration, European Commission PresidentJose Barroso said on
April 12 in New York.  Europe’s debt crisis has forced the 27-nation bloc to
revise policies and public finances and to strengthen the
economic and monetary union “in a way that we were unable -- in
some cases unwilling -- to do before,” Barroso said. The trade
talks with the U.S. will begin by this summer, he said.  The two sides have been at odds over issues such as
regulatory standards, farm subsidies and health protections.
The negotiations will not undermine essential safeguards for
health and the environment, Barroso said.  Trade and investment between the EU and the U.S. totaled
$4.5 trillion in 2011, according to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  