-- Euro-Area Export Growth Slowed in February on Italy, Netherlands
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-04-15T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/euro-area-export-growth-slowed-in-february-on-italy-netherlands.html
Euro-area export growth slowed in
February as declines in  Italy , Spain and the Netherlands offset
gains in the 17-nation currency bloc’s two largest economies,
Germany and  France .  Exports rose a seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent from
January, when they increased 1.9 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Imports decreased
2.1 percent after a 2.9 percent gain in January. The  trade
surplus  widened  more than economists estimated  to 12 billion
euros ($15.7 billion) from 8.7 billion euros.  German exports rose 2 percent in February, while shipments
from France increased 1.9 percent, today’s report showed.
Exports from Italy and the Netherlands dropped 4.8 percent and
1.1 percent, respectively, while Spanish shipments fell 0.4
percent.  “Weak economic activity has extended into the early part
of the year and a gradual recovery is projected for the second
half of the year subject to downside risks,” European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on April 4, after the ECB kept
its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent.  The euro-area economy has  contracted  for five straight
quarters and is forecast to shrink 0.1 percent in the first
three months of 2013 before returning to growth, the median of
25 economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows. The
European Commission sees the economy shrinking 0.3 percent this
year.  Austerity measures across the euro area, coupled with
record unemployment of 12 percent, have driven down demand for
imports.  Consumer confidence  increased less than economists
forecast in March amid signs the economy is struggling to pull
out of the recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  