-- Ex-Altium Banker Charged With Insider Trading by U.K. Regulator
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-04-15T11:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/ex-altium-banker-charged-with-insider-trading-by-u-k-regulator.html
A former managing director at
Altium Capital Ltd. was charged in an  insider-trading  ring and
will face trial next year along with a former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
broker and four other men.  Grant Harrison was charged today with one count of
conspiracy to commit insider trading, said  Joseph Eyre , a
spokesman for the Financial Conduct Authority. Harrison’s case
was transferred to a higher criminal court for a hearing in
September.  Harrison will be added as a defendant in the case against
Martyn Dodgson, a former managing director at Deutsche Bank, a
lawyer for the regulator said at a hearing last month. The case
is scheduled to go to trial in September 2014 and last as long
as three months.  The charges stem from the FSA’s biggest insider-trading
investigation, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for little
tavern. The U.K. regulator arrested seven people and raided 16
addresses in London and southeast  England  in March 2010 as the
FSA sought to crack down on insider trading among bankers and
traders in  London ’s financial district.  Altium said in a statement last month that the allegations
relate to a period when Harrison worked with a previous
employer. Harrison’s lawyer, Gary Bloxsome, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment.  Harrison joined Altium as a managing director and the head
of public company business development in September 2011,
according to a  statement  on the firm’s website from when he was
hired. He previously worked for Lloyds Banking Group Plc in its
equity capital markets business, and for a Panmure Gordon & Co.
unit.  Dodgson, who was employed by Deutsche Bank at the time of
his arrest in 2010, as well as Andrew Hind, Benjamin Anderson
and Iraj Parvizi were charged with “conspiracy to insider
deal” between Nov. 1, 2006, and March 23, 2010, the regulator
said in October. The agency alleges the men made more than 3
million pounds ($4.5 million) on improper trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  