-- Ex-Rochdale Broker Pleads Guilty in Apple Stock Buy Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-15T22:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/ex-rochdale-broker-pleads-guilty-in-apple-stock-buy-case.html
A former Rochdale Securities LLC
trader pleaded guilty to federal conspiracy and wire fraud
charges in connection with an unauthorized $1 billion purchase
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stock which led to his company’s failure.  David Miller , 40, gave his plea today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Donna F. Martinez in Hartford,  Connecticut ,
prosecutors said in a statement. Miller also entered into a
partial civil settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over the trade, according to the agency.  Miller, scheduled to be sentenced on July 8, faces as long
as 25 years in prison, prosecutors said.  “This defendant participated in a fraudulent scheme in
which he would either reap huge profits through the unauthorized
purchase of approximately $1 billion of Apple stock or, if he
faced huge losses, explain it away as simple human error,” U.S.
Attorney David B. Fein in Connecticut said in a statement.  The government alleged that Miller placed an order on Oct.
25 for 1.6 million shares of Apple that he said was for a
customer who wasn’t named in court filings. The customer claimed
to have sought only 1,625 shares, according to a criminal
complaint. The  Stamford , Connecticut-based brokerage was left
shouldering a loss on the 1.6 million shares when Apple’s stock
didn’t perform as Miller had hoped, according to the complaint.  ‘Catastrophic Losses’  The scheme “caused catastrophic losses for his former
employer,” Fein said. Rochdale suffered a $5.3 million loss as
a result of the trade, causing the 37-year-old firm’s assets to
fall below regulatory limits, according to the SEC. It
eventually ceased operations, according to the agency. The
 website  of the firm has since been taken down and calls to two
phone numbers listed for it weren’t answered.  “Miller’s scheme was deliberate, brazen, and ultimately
ill-conceived,” Daniel M. Hawke, chief of the SEC Enforcement
Division’s Market Abuse Unit, said in a statement. “This is a
wake-up call to the brokerage industry that the unchecked
conduct of even a single individual in a position of trust can
pose grave risks to a firm and potentially to the markets and
investors.”  Miller conspired with another trader, not named in court
documents, who was working on behalf of the customer, according
to prosecutors. As part of the scheme, Miller misled a separate
brokerage, also not named, and caused it to take a short
position on 500,000 Apple shares, prosecutors alleged. The
brokerage was able to trade out of the shares profitably, the
government alleged.  Kenneth C. Murphy, a lawyer for Miller, said in a phone
interview that his client “deeply regrets what he has done and
the harm it has caused to other people.”  Miller surrendered to federal authorities in December. He
was released on $300,000 bail.  The case is U.S. v. Miller, 3:12-mj-288, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  