-- Mexico’s Peso Drops as Weaker Global Data Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-15T13:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/mexico-s-peso-drops-as-weaker-global-data-damps-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso fell the most in a
week after a report that showed  China’s economy  grew less than
forecast added to concern that global expansion is slowing,
damping the Latin American country’s export outlook.  The peso weakened 0.5 percent to 12.1394 per dollar at 8:19
a.m. in Mexico City. The drop pared this year’s rally to 5.9
percent, still the biggest gain among the greenback’s 16 most-
traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s currency slumped after data showed expansion in
 China , the world’s second-largest economy, unexpectedly lost
momentum in the first quarter as gains in factory output and
consumption weakened. Chinese gross domestic product rose 7.7
percent from a year earlier, compared with an 8 percent median
estimate among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The peso extended
losses after a separate report showed manufacturing in the New
York region expanded less than projected in April.  “Softer data than the market has expected” is driving the
peso’s decline, Roberto Torres, the head of peso trading at BNP
Paribas SA, said by phone from New York. “This is pure  risk
aversion  in terms of China and the U.S. number.”  Mexico sends about 80 percent of its exports to its
northern neighbor. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general economic index dropped to 3.05 this month from 9.24 in
March. Readings exceeding zero signal expansion in New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The median
projection of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.  Yields on Mexican peso bonds due in 2024 rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.79 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.26
centavo to 146.57 centavos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  