-- Factories in New York Area Grow at Slower Pace Than Forecast
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-15T12:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/factories-in-new-york-area-expand-at-slower-pace-than-forecast.html
Manufacturing in the New York
region expanded less than projected in April as orders cooled
and sales stagnated.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  dropped to 3.1 this month from 9.2 in March. Readings
exceeding zero signal expansion in New York, northern New Jersey
and southern  Connecticut . The median projection of 47 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, may be starting to cool as companies limit the pace of
inventory building and overseas economies struggle to improve.
At the same time, sustained strength in the auto industry and
housing’s rebound will help keep factories from floundering.  “We were looking for a little bit of slowing going into
the second quarter, and that’s pretty much what we got,” said
Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in
New York, who projected a reading of 3 for the index. Still,
“the U.S. is in a pretty good position in terms of where the
economy is compared with the rest of the world.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from zero to 14.
Economists monitor the New York report and Philadelphia Fed
factory readings, due April 18, for clues about the Institute
for Supply Management figures on U.S. manufacturing. That report
is set for release on May 1.  Stock-index futures held losses after the figures, with the
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
falling 0.4 percent to 1,576 at 8:56 a.m. in New York.  Manufacturing Outlook  Factory executives in the New York Fed region were less
optimistic about  future activity . The gauge measuring the
outlook six months from now fell to 32 from 36.4 in March, which
was the highest reading in 11 months.  The gauge of current  new orders  dropped to 2.2 in April
from 8.2. A measure of shipments fell to 0.8 from 7.8 a month
earlier.  The index of prices paid rose to 28.4, the highest since
May, from 25.8 in March, while prices received rose to 5.7 from
2.2.  The gauge for factory employment climbed to 6.8 from 3.2. A
report from the Labor Department on April 5 showed  payrolls  at
the nation’s manufacturers fell 3,000 in March, the first
decline in six months.  Sustained strength in the auto industry has helped support
manufacturing. Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.2 million
 annual pace  in March, capping the strongest three months for
purchases since early 2008, according to data from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Auto Demand  At  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s second-largest
automaker, sales have been improving as the housing market
recovers and fuels truck-buying and pent-up demand drives
consumers to dealerships.  “We continue to see slow and steady growth,” Kurt McNeil,
vice president for U.S. sales and service at GM, said on an
April 2 conference call. “So we have the ability to ebb and
flow production on an as-needed basis, maintaining, certainly
doing it in an efficient manner.”  Still, a report last week showed consumer spending eased at
the end of the first quarter.  Retail sales  fell 0.4 percent in
March, the biggest setback since June, after a 1 percent jump a
month earlier. Consumer sentiment also took a hit this month
after employment cooled, figures from Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan showed.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  