-- Fed Seen Paying Banks $77 Billion on Reserves: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M a x   R a s k i n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-15T14:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/fed-seen-paying-banks-77-billion-on-reserves-chart-of-the-day.html
The Federal Reserve could pay more
than $77 billion a year in interest on the excess cash reserves
it holds for commercial banks if rates follow the highest path
forecast by Fed policy makers.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Fed’s annual interest costs
by the end of 2015 could range from $4.3 billion to $77.7
billion, depending on interest rates and assuming excess
reserves remain at current levels, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on Fed data. The central bank already has
paid more than $13 billion since 2008 when Congress authorized
interest on reserve balances as part of financial-rescue
legislation.  The rate is currently 25 basis points, or 0.25 percent.
When the time comes to tighten monetary policy, the Fed intends
to raise it, which would boost interest rates throughout the
financial system. The amount the central bank pays on excess
reserves will increase at the same time borrowing costs for the
U.S. Treasury are rising, a move that could prove unpopular in
Congress, said Stephen Stanley, the chief economist for Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The budget implications of the normalization of Fed
policy are going to be immense,” Stanley said. “Having to pay
billions and maybe tens of billions on excess reserves is one
element of the broader issue that the Fed won’t always be having
a positive impact on the  federal budget .”  Budget Implications  Paying higher interest on reserves also may squeeze the
budget of the central bank itself. The Fed earns interest income
on its bond holdings and, after covering its operating expenses,
returns the profit to the U.S. Treasury. Last year, the Fed
remitted $88.4 billion. As the interest payments on reserves
rise, this profit could shrink or disappear.  Fed officials have begun to debate the political risk of
their policy.  “The exit strategy as it currently stands has us paying
interest on reserves to the largest banks in America exactly at
the time when we are not remitting anything to the U.S.
Treasury,” James Bullard, president of the St. Louis Federal
Reserve Bank, said in a February interview with Bloomberg News.
“The appearance issue is a serious one.”  In the five years before the crisis, excess bank reserves
averaged $1.7 billion; the total now is $1.7 trillion because
the Fed has created reserves to fund its large-scale asset-
purchase programs, known as quantitative easing.  Balance Sheet  Those programs have pushed the central bank’s balance sheet
to a record  $3.2 trillion . Economists in a March 13-18 Bloomberg
survey predicted it will grow to about $4 trillion by Dec. 31,
before QE ends. That would push excess reserves to $2.5
trillion.  The ability to pay interest on reserves equips the central
bank with another tool to tighten monetary policy when the time
comes for it to unwind its unprecedented stimulus.  Last year, Fed officials began forecasting when they will
raise the  target  on the benchmark federal funds rate for
overnight loans between banks, which they cut to near zero in
December 2008. Eighteen of 19 policy makers expect the target
rate will remain at its current level through the end of this
year, according to the most recent forecast.  By the end of 2014, 14 of 19 policy makers still see the
target rate at zero, while five see it rising, with the highest
estimate calling for a 4.5 percent target. That rate would bring
the Fed’s annual interest costs to $77.7 billion by the end of
2015, assuming excess reserves remain at today’s levels. If the
Fed were to create additional excess reserves by continuing QE3
asset purchases for the rest of this year, 2015 interest costs
could rise as high as $112.5 billion at a 4.5 percent rate,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Payments Criticized  The size of payments the Fed has already made is generating
criticism.  “Essentially the Fed paid the banks $4 billion last year,
which is about $12 per American,” David Howden, a professor of
economics at Saint Louis University’s campus in  Madrid , Spain,
said in an e-mail.  Howden  analyzed  interest on reserve payments so far for the
Ludwig von Mises Institute, named for an Austrian free-market
economist and philosopher.  “If your bank called you up and said you have a new
service fee of $12 because they screwed up in the crisis, you’d
be livid, but that is basically what they are doing and no one
knows about it.”  William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, has said
interest payments on excess reserves are “not a subsidy to the
banks.”  “I look forward to the day when the economy is strong
enough for us to raise the interest rate on excess reserves,”
and “when that happens deposit rates will also rise,” Dudley
said in a  speech  last month in New York. “It will be my mother
and my mother-in-law and others like them, not bankers, who will
mainly benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  