-- Big U.S. Banks Get Three-Month Extension for ‘Living Wills’
-- B y   R i c k   G r e e n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-15T21:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/fed-joins-fdic-adding-guidance-to-banks-for-living-will-plans.html
The  Federal Reserve  and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. gave large U.S. banks an additional
three months to draw up “living wills” to assist regulators in
winding them down in case of a future insolvency.  The agencies also provided new detail on what information
the living wills should contain, including obstacles that might
arise from taking the banks apart safely under the  bankruptcy
code , according to a statement today from the regulators. The
documents, originally due July 1, are now due Oct. 1.  Institutions with non-bank assets greater than $250 billion
had to file plans last year. Those 11 banks, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
must now provide a second version of the living will, and a
group of the next largest banks must file for the first time.  Regulators are looking for more detailed information on
“global issues, financial market utility interconnections, and
funding and liquidity, as well as to provide analysis to support
the strategies and assumptions contained in the firms’
resolution plans,” according to the statement.  The resolution plans, designed to ease the fallout from a
credit crisis similar to the one in 2008, were mandated by the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The aim of the living wills is to give
regulators a plan for shutting down complex financial firms in
the bankruptcy courts, without resorting to taxpayer bailouts.  FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said last month that in the
second round, regulators will press banks over any credibility
gaps in their plans.  Gruenberg promised the banks as recently as last month they
would get further guidance on what the agencies expect in the
second round. Those working on the massive documents had been
asking the agencies for more information as the deadline
approached.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rick Green  in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  