-- Fed Invites Comment on Proposal for Annual Bank Assessment
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-15T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/fed-invites-comment-on-proposal-for-annual-bank-assessment.html
The Federal Reserve proposed a rule
that would assess about 70 financial companies a total of $440
million to pay for the central bank’s expanded regulatory costs.  The Fed’s board of governors voted 7-0 for the proposal to
“collect assessments, fees, or other charges equal to the
expenses the Board estimates are necessary and appropriate to
carry out its supervisory and regulatory responsibilities for
these large financial companies,” according to a statement from
the Fed today in Washington.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack
Obama  in July 2010, expanded the central bank’s power to oversee
the largest financial institutions and gave regulators new tools
aimed at preventing a repeat of the 2007-2009 financial crisis.
The act also required the Fed to assess financial companies for
the costs of this expanded oversight.  The assessment would apply to companies with more than $50
billion in assets, such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The new rule is in the
proposal stage. Comments on the proposal may be submitted until
June 15. Last year would be the first assessment period, though
payments will not be collected until the rule is finalized.  The proposed rule outlines how the Fed would determine
which companies are assessed, how they would estimate their
expenses, and how they would set the amount of each company’s
assessment.  The size of the assessment for each firm will be based off
its “total assessable assets,” as defined by the rule. The Fed
said a company with assets of $50 billion would be required to
pay about $1 million while a company with $1 trillion in assets
would pay about $22 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  