-- Fitschen Says `Pride' in Banks Needed to Pace Regulation
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-15T14:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/fitschen-says-pride-in-banks-needed-to-pace-regulation.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer  Juergen Fitschen  said German lenders need to win the
country’s “pride” as he lobbies policy makers to reconsider
plans to subject banks to stricter regulation.  “We need to ask what we can do for Germans to be proud of
the great cars and machines we build, while wanting a banking
system everyone can take pride in,” Fitschen, who succeeds
Andreas Schmitz as president of the BdB Association of German
Banks lobby group today, told reporters in Berlin. “We
shouldn’t pursue too many measures only to correct them later.”  Global banks are being ordered to comply with a growing
number of rules as individual states each implement their own
regulation to avoid a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bank rescues
that followed the 2007 meltdown of the U.S. housing market. That
disparate situation may limit the flow of capital and drive up
borrowing costs, Fitschen said today.  The co-CEO of continental  Europe ’s biggest bank said that
during his time at the BdB he’ll push to preserve the so-called
universal banking model of retail- and investment-banking
operations under one roof.  German Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck , who will challenge
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in elections in September, has called
for Deutsche Bank to protect taxpayers and depositors by
creating a firebreak around its investment bank.  Separately, Fitschen said that Europe’s leaders must make
clear to bank bond investors and depositors whether their funds
will be taxed in case lenders need to be rescued.  European policy makers roiled markets last month by wiping
out bank bondholders and imposing a levy on savings of more than
100,000 euros ($131,000) in their rescue of Cyprus.  While the island nation’s rescue probably won’t be a
“blueprint” for future bailouts in Europe, the levying of
deposits could drive depositors to accept lower  interest rates 
on their savings at banks they deem more secure, Fitschen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  