-- Foreign Demand for U.S. Financial Assets Plunged in February
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-15T13:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/foreign-demand-for-u-s-financial-assets-plunged-in-february-1-.html
International demand for U.S.
stocks,  bonds  and other financial assets plunged in February as
investors in  Japan , the U.K. and Switzerland reduced their
holdings of Treasuries.  Net selling of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$17.8 billion during the month, down from net purchases of $25.7
billion in January, the Treasury Department said today in
Washington. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg projected net
buying of $40 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  Investors sought shelter outside of the U.S. as lawmakers
in Washington wrestled with budget cuts and as the European
economic confidence in the euro area rose more than economists
forecast in February. President  Barack Obama  sent a $3.8
trillion budget to Congress on April 10 calling for more  tax
revenue  and slower growth for Social Security benefits in a
political gamble intended to revive deficit-reduction talks.  “The growing appetite for risk assets in February crimped
global demand for U.S. Treasuries, as signs of improving global
growth momentum diverted capital flows from safe-haven assets
such as Treasuries to equities,”  Millan Mulraine , director of
U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA LLC in  New York , said
before the report.  Foreign Transactions  Estimates of foreign transactions in long-term U.S. assets
in February ranged from net buying of $20 billion to $65
billion, according to five economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the report.  Stock-index futures fell after  China’s economy  grew at a
slower pace than forecast. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index expiring in June dropped 0.4 percent to 1,575.5 at
9:18 a.m. in New York.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $53.6 billion in February, down from net
purchases of $116.8 billion the previous month.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in February after its holdings rose $8.7 billion to $1.22
trillion, according to the Treasury. Japan, the second-largest
holder, lowered its holdings by $6.8 billion to $1.097 trillion.  Foreigners sold a net $122 million of Treasuries in
February, according to today’s report, compared with purchases
of $32.3 billion the month before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  