-- Foreign Demand for U.S. Financial Assets Plunged in February
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-15T17:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/foreign-demand-for-u-s-financial-assets-plunged-in-february-2-.html
International demand for U.S.
stocks, bonds and other financial assets plunged in February as
a more positive outlook for the global economy reduced the
appeal of U.S. holdings as a refuge.  Net selling of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$17.8 billion during the month, compared with net purchases of
$25.7 billion in January, the Treasury Department said today in
Washington. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg projected net
buying of $40 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  “Investors were willing to take more risk because there
was a building in optimism in the early part of the year that
the global growth would recover and that the sentiment in Europe
would continue to improve,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut .  The European Commission’s index of executive and consumer
sentiment rose to a nine-month high in February before dropping
last month. Inconclusive elections in Italy and a bailout for
Cyprus may have driven investors back to the relative safety of
 U.S. debt  in March.  “Going forward, we are not going to see as much of
Treasury selling because the Italian elections and the situation
Cyprus probably spooked more investors,” Lyngen said.  Estimates of foreign transactions in long-term U.S. assets
in February ranged from net buying of $20 billion to $65
billion, according to five economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the report.  Stocks Decline  U.S. stocks declined, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index lower for a second day, after  China’s economy  grew at a
slower pace than economists forecast. The  S&P 500  dropped 1.4
percent to 1,566.08 at 1:06 p.m. in  New York .  Treasury yields traded at almost the lowest level in four
months as economic reports showed growth slowing in the world’s
two largest economies. The 10-year note yield fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.70 percent.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said its general
economic index dropped to 3.1 this month from 9.2 in March.
Readings exceeding zero signal expansion in New York, northern
 New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder  confidence  dropped to 42, the lowest since October,
from 44 in March, the Washington-based group said today.
Economists projected a reading of 45.  Stock Swaps  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $53.6 billion in February, down from net
purchases of $116.8 billion the previous month.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in February after its holdings rose $8.7 billion to $1.22
trillion, according to the Treasury. Japan, the second-largest
holder, lowered its holdings by $6.8 billion to $1.097 trillion.  Foreigners sold a net $122 million of Treasuries in
February, according to today’s report, compared with purchases
of $32.3 billion the month before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  