-- Foxconn Said to Resume Hiring in Preparation for New IPhone
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-04-15T16:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/foxconn-said-to-resume-hiring-in-preparation-for-new-iphone.html
Foxconn Technology Group, the
world’s largest custom manufacturer of electronics, resumed
hiring at a Chinese factory as it prepares to make a new  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone, said a person familiar with the plans.  Workers have been recruited at Foxconn’s plant in
Zhengzhou, eastern  China , for the past month, ending a hiring
freeze imposed in February, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the plans haven’t been made public. The extra
workers will assemble the new device as well as existing models
and have been added at Apple’s request to boost capacity, the
person said.  A new iPhone could help Apple regain share amid new
smartphone models being released globally this quarter by
Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  Apple, which posted record
shipments of iPhones in the December quarter, may post its
slowest sales growth since 2009 for the three months ended March
31, according to  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Foxconn recommenced hiring at  Zhengzhou  a month ago, with
the facility currently employing about 250,000 to 300,000
people, Liu Kun, a spokesman for the Taipei-based company, said
by phone yesterday without saying how many employees were added.
He declined to comment on products or clients.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, declined
to comment. Foxconn has hired 10,000 assembly-line workers a
week since the end of March, the Wall Street Journal reported
earlier yesterday, citing a person at the company it didn’t
identify.  Samsung, HTC  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the Taipei-listed flagship
of Foxconn, makes iPhones in Zhengzhou, Shenzhen and Taiyuan as
well as Jundiai, Brazil, according to an Apple  supplier list 
published in January. IPhones are the only Apple product
assembled in Zhengzhou, while Taipei-based  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  also
makes iPhones in  Shanghai , the list shows.  Apple  sold  a record 47.8 million iPhones in the fiscal
first quarter of 2013, which ended Dec. 29, after releasing its
iPhone 5 in the prior quarter. Sales probably climbed 8.8
percent to $42.6 billion in the fiscal second quarter, the
slowest since September 2009, according to the average of 42
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Hon Hai’s quarterly sales dropped the most in at least 13
years as computer and electronics sales slow, according to
revenue data released April 10.  Samsung, the world’s largest smartphone vendor, will
release its Galaxy S4 for sale in the U.S. April 26, and the HTC
One will be offered in North America,  Europe  and Asia by April
30.  Apple, which overtook BlackBerry and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  to become
the world’s largest smartphone maker, ceded top spot to Samsung
last year as the South Korean company’s Galaxy models climbed in
a market that Bloomberg Industries said had $294 billion in
sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 