-- French Open Boosts Pay Cheque for Champions, Early Losers
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-04-15T10:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/french-open-boosts-pay-cheque-for-champions-early-losers.html
The winners of next month’s  French
Open  will receive a record 1.5 million euros ($2 million) each,
while early-round losers will get the biggest raise as the clay-
court tennis major responds to player demands for more equal
distribution of prize money.  The Paris tournament will pay the singles champions 20
percent more than last year, while first-round losers will get
17 percent more. The biggest increase has been given to losers
in the second, third and fourth rounds, who will all be paid 25
percent more, the event said in an e-mailed statement today.  “A better distribution of winnings guides our thinking on
pay,” said Gilbert Ysern, director of the tournament and
director-general of the French Tennis Federation, or FFT. “In
this case, the FFT hopes to continue its efforts with regards to
players who are eliminated in the first week.”  Last year, the  French Open  was the first of the four majors
to change its distribution of prize money as it increased pay
for the early rounds of the main draws as well as the qualifying
tournament. That followed calls from players on the men’s ATP
World Tour for a more even distribution of revenue generated by
the four Grand Slam events: the Australian Open, the French
Open, Wimbledon and the  U.S. Open .  Today’s increases are part of a four-year plan to boost
prize money by 10 million euros through 2016, the French Open
said.  ‘Truly Significant’  “The  Roland Garros  prize money increases are another
positive step forward for our players and we welcome the long-
term commitment the FFT has made through 2016,” Brad Drewett,
ATP executive chairman and president, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The progress that has been made through our
discussions with the Slams over the past 15 months has been
truly significant for our sport as a whole.”  Players who exit the French Open in the second round next
month will receive 35,000 euros, or 7,000 euros more than in
2012. Third-round losers will get 60,000 euros, while a
departure from the fourth round is rewarded with 100,000 euros.  In the past 12 months, Wimbledon, the U.S. Open and the
Australian Open have all followed the example set by Roland
Garros and boosted prize money for the early rounds.  The prize-money pot in Paris totals a tournament record 22
million euros, or 3 million euros more than last year. That
compares with A$30 million ($31.3 million) at this year’s
 Australian Open , and $29.5 million at the 2013 U.S. Open.
Wimbledon will announce its prize money next week.  The French Open starts May 26.  Spain ’s  Rafael Nadal  and
 Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  are the defending champions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  