-- Fukushima Visited by IAEA as Tepco Faces Risk of Dumping Claims
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-04-15T12:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/fukushima-visited-by-iaea-as-tepco-faces-risk-of-dumping-claims.html
United Nations atomic monitors
began a weeklong mission to Japan’s wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant to review how contaminated water is being stored
at the disaster site and assess decommissioning risks.  The 13-member International Atomic Energy Agency team will
meet with Japanese regulators and  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) 
officials, the Vienna-based body said in a statement today. IAEA
officials will visit the site where three Tepco reactors melted
down in 2011 to see what is being done to stop radioactive-water
leaks.  “We are going to deal with the important problem of the
management of water at the site,” IAEA team leader Juan Carlos
Lentijo said at a press briefing in  Tokyo . “We need to get some
more information, and have some specific discussion with our
counterparts to have an appropriate idea on the scope of this
issue.”  Two years after an earthquake and accompanying tsunami
wrecked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, nuclear engineers are
still grappling with how to bring the facility under control.
Power outages and water leaks have hampered the clean-up. The
complications have raised the risk that Tepco may release
radioactive wastewater into the Pacific Ocean.  Dumping radioactive waste has been internationally outlawed
since 1994, when Russia released radioactive liquids into the
Sea of  Japan . The practice may expose Tepco, which has already
relied on the Japanese government to fund the Fukushima clean-up
to additional compensation claims.  Fisherman Losses  A “fishermen claim for losses resulting from people not
buying their fish” may be feasible depending on the level of
radioactivity from water released into the Pacific, said Martyn Day, the senior partner at London-based Leigh Day & Co., who has
sought compensation on behalf of oil-spill victims. People
exposed to tainted seafood may also be eligible for claims, he
wrote in an e-mail.  Currently, about 280,000 tons of  highly radioactive  water
are stored at the Fukushima plant, according to Tepco’s latest
data. That’s enough to fill about 112 Olympic-sized swimming
pools, according to Bloomberg News calculations.  Tepco officials, including President Naomi Hirose, have
said the company won’t “easily” release radiated water into
the ocean. Fishermen are against the move because it may trigger
public concern over the safety of their catch, said Kenji
Nakada, an official at the Fukushima Prefectural Federation of
Fisheries Co-operative Associations.  While the utility is trying to remove some radioactive
elements like cesium from stored wastewater, the company will
require more time to scrub other elements, like tritium, from
the liquid. Tritium is a radioactive form of hydrogen that  fuses 
with atoms in water.  ‘Radioactive Releases’  “It’s still unclear how they will deal will this issue,”
said Greenpeace spokeswoman Aslihan Tumer in an interview.
“Radioactive releases may have been understandable in the
immediate aftermath of the accident but aren’t any longer.”  Fish and mollusks within 20 kilometers (12.4 miles) of the
Fukushima plant have surpassed baseline measures of
radioactivity, Tepco said in its most recent environmental
 monitoring report  published April 12. One specimen tested near
the port entrance to Fukushima Dai-Ichi was 4,300-times more
radioactive than what Japanese officials consider standard and
which may pose health risks.  Human exposure to radiation at moderate to high levels can
lead to cancers, such as leukemia, according to United Nations
Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, or
UNSCEAR, which is next month expected to publish an assessment
of the Fukushima nuclear accident.  The IAEA has made irregular visits to the Fukushima site
since the March 11, 2011, disaster occurred. It’s the agency’s
first visit to the area since the it convened a meeting on
nuclear safety in Fukushima Prefecture in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  