-- Full Tilt Founder Gets No Prison, Needs Heart Transplant
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-15T20:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/full-tilt-founder-gets-no-prison-needs-heart-transplant.html
Full Tilt Poker founder Raymond
Bitar, accused of using online player funds to finance his
company in what prosecutors called a  Ponzi scheme , pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to no prison time because he needs a
heart transplant.  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska today approved a plea
agreement between Bitar, 41, and prosecutors, sentencing him to
the seven days he served in jail last year, after saying an
additional prison sentence would kill him. Bitar, who
participated in a hearing in  Manhattan  federal court by video
link from  Los Angeles , near his home, pleaded guilty to two
felonies that carry a maximum sentence of 35 years in prison.  Bitar, who is scheduled to enter a heart-transplant program
May 6, wouldn’t be eligible if he were sentenced to prison,
Preska said. He would be unlikely to survive a term in prison,
she said.  “I don’t think any of us would trade places with him, no
matter what,”Preska said, in giving him the sentence.  Bitar pleaded guilty to violating the Unlawful Internet
Gambling Enforcement Act, which regulates online gambling, and
conspiring to commit bank fraud and  wire fraud . In addition to
time served, Preska ordered Bitar to forfeit $40 million
dollars, his home and other properties.  In the plea deal, both sides agreed that federal sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding, call for Bitar to serve
6 1/2 years to 8 years and a month in prison.  Eleven Charged  Bitar was one of 11 people charged by the government in
April 2011 in connection with the online gambling sites Full
Tilt Poker, PokerStars and  Absolute Poker .  “Mr. Bitar is the most culpable, in the government’s
view,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Arlo Devlin Brown told Preska.
Prosecutors agreed to the non-prison sentence because of the
“extraordinary medical circumstances” of Bitar’s case, he
said.  Prosecutors from the office Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara charged Bitar along with Nelson Burtnick, head of Full
Tilt’s payment processing department. They claimed Full Tilt
solicited new online gamblers after the business was outlawed in
the U.S.  Bitar also lied to investors about the security of their
money, claiming falsely that it was kept in separate accounts,
the government said.  Airport Arrest  Bitar was charged with gambling, bank fraud and  money
laundering  in connection with his operation of Ireland-based
Full Tilt. He was arrested July 2 at New York’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport on his return to the U.S.  John F. Baughman, his lawyer, told Preska last week that he
and prosecutors were discussing a deal that would allow Bitar to
avoid prison and obtain a heart transplant.  Bitar was arrested the same day he was named in a revised
indictment alleging he and another man used funds from online
players to finance Full Tilt’s operations and pay its owners.  “Good luck to you, sir, and good luck to your family,”
Preska told Bitar at the end of the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Bitar, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  