-- Full Tilt Poker Founder Pleads Guilty in Gambling Probe
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-15T18:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/full-tilt-poker-founder-to-plead-guilty-to-two-counts.html
Full Tilt Poker founder Raymond
Bitar, accused of using online player funds to finance his
company in what prosecutors called a  Ponzi scheme , pleaded
guilty in the U.S. government probe of  Internet gambling .  Bitar was one of 11 people charged by the government in
April 2011 in connection with the online gambling sites Full
Tilt Poker, PokerStars and  Absolute Poker . He was sentenced
today to time served and ordered to forfeit $40 million.  Bitar was charged with gambling, bank fraud and  money
laundering  in connection with his operation of Ireland-based
Full Tilt. He was arrested July 2 at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport on his return to the U.S.  Appearing by video link from California, Bitar pleaded
guilty to two counts in Manhattan federal court. John F. Baughman, his lawyer, told U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska
last week they were discussing a deal that would allow Bitar to
avoid prison and obtain a heart transplant.  Bitar was arrested the same day he was named in a revised
indictment alleging he and another man used funds from online
players to finance Full Tilt’s operations and pay its owners.  Prosecutors from the office  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara charged Bitar along with Nelson Burtnick, head of Full
Tilt’s payment processing department. They claimed Full Tilt
solicited new online gamblers after the business was outlawed in
the U.S.  Bitar also lied to investors about the security of their
money, claiming falsely that it was kept in separate accounts,
the government said.  At today’s hearing, his lawyer told the judge he would
enter a heart transplant program on May 6.  The case is U.S. v. Bitar, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  