-- Genes, Fake Wine, Martha Stewart: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-15T12:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/genes-fake-wine-martha-stewart-intellectual-property.html
Inventors who want to emigrate from
their native countries put the U.S. as their top destination,
according to economists at the World Intellectual Property
Organization in Geneva.  Canada and  Australia  are the next most popular among 17
countries studied from 1990 to 2010, while  Germany ,  Italy  and
the U.K. are the least, said economists Carsten Fink, Ernest
Miguelez and Julio Raffo in a report based on patent data and
published at a migration  conference  in  London  last week.  The American advantage is even greater when only residents
from countries outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development are accounted for, reflecting sizeable inflows
into America by skilled Indian and Chinese inventors, according
to the report.  The pool of talent is probably growing too. Data from the
United Nations show the estimated migrant population worldwide
was 213 million in 2010, a 58 percent increase from 1990. The
migration rate of inventors reached as much as 9 percent in the
2000s, the economists said.  That shows migration is a “critical pillar of the ongoing
process of globalization,” they said.  Patent  Hitachi Loses Bid for Royalties on TPV High-Definition TV Sales  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  lost a U.S. patent-infringement trial in which
it sought as much as four years of royalty payments from  TPV
Technology Ltd. (903)  on sales of high-definition televisions.  A federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , last week said TPV, the
world’s fourth-largest maker of LCD televisions, didn’t infringe
four Hitachi patents and that two of them were invalid.  The dispute is over inventions related to an industry-wide
standard for a process to transmit digital audio and visual
signals, as well as program data, over the airwaves. Hitachi
claimed that televisions made by TPV and its units infringed the
company’s patents.  TPV sells televisions under its own brands AOC and
Envision, according to information on the company’s website. It
also took over Royal Philips Electronics NV’s television
operation last year. LCD televisions generated $3.7 billion in
sales, about a third of TPV’s total revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  TPV denied infringing the patents and claimed at least some
of them were invalid. Hong Kong-based TPV also is the world’s
biggest contract maker of computer monitors.  Tokyo-based Hitachi ended 56 years of TV manufacturing last
year as part of a turnaround from a record loss three years ago
amid falling prices for the electronics. It outsources
manufacturing while still selling Hitachi-branded TVs.  The case is Hitachi Consumer Electronics Co. v. Top Victory
Electronics ( Taiwan ) Co., 10-cv-00260, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  Biotech Industry at Stake as U.S. Court Weighs Human Gene Patent  For 30 years, biotechnology innovators have secured
thousands of U.S. patents on genes, defining the legal rights to
medical and agricultural products worth hundreds of billions of
dollars.  Now the U.S. Supreme Court is considering whether that was
all a big mistake, Bloomberg’s Greg Stohr and Susan Decker
report. The court will today hear arguments over the patenting
of human genes. A group of doctors, patients and scientists who
say patents are stifling clinical testing and research. The
group is challenging  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on genes
linked to breast and ovarian cancer.  A decision against gene patenting would ripple across a
host of industries -- including biotechnology, agriculture,
industrial microbiology and pharmaceuticals. The case has
implications for the growing field of personalized medicine and
efforts to map the human brain and discover new uses for
embryonic stem cells.  The case, which the court will decide by June, is splitting
the medical community. Trade groups for the biotechnology,
agriculture and drug industries are siding with Myriad. They say
gene patents have led to valuable treatments, including  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) ’s Epogen anemia drug and synthetic insulin developed by
Genentech Inc., now part  of Roche Holding AG .  Doctor groups such as the American Medical Association are
backing the challengers to the patents. They have partial
support from the Obama administration, which is urging the court
to uphold parts of Myriad’s patents and void other aspects.  The dispute comes to the court in an emotionally charged
package, with patient advocates accusing Myriad of standing in
the way of breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. The company at
one point demanded that the University of Pennsylvania stop
clinical testing of cancer patients. Breast cancer patient
advocates are planning a demonstration outside the court.  Critics say Myriad’s patents effectively give the company
ownership rights over a part of the human body.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Macy’s Loses Bid to Broaden Ban on J.C. Penney Stewart Sales  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  will be allowed to sell unbranded items
designed by Martha Stewart’s company in certain categories
exclusive to Macy’s Inc. after a New York state judge denied
Macy’s bid for an order blocking the sales.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing on April
12 declined to expand an earlier preliminary injunction to cover
products designed by  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  and
sold at J.C. Penney that aren’t branded with the Stewart name.  Oing said Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, hadn’t shown that it would suffer irreparable harm if
J.C. Penney was allowed to sell the unbranded goods. The judge
said his earlier injunction issued in July only applied to goods
branded with Martha Stewart’s name in categories exclusive to
Macy’s, such as cookware and bedding.  Macy’s is suing both Martha Stewart Living and J.C. Penney,
alleging that the sale of products designed by Stewart’s company
in J.C. Penney stores violates an exclusivity deal between
Martha Stewart and Macy’s signed in 2006.  “We’re going to appeal,” Ted Grossman, an attorney with
Jones Day representing Cincinnati-based Macy’s, told reporters
after the judge’s ruling. “We’re going to seek a stay and we’re
going to do it immediately.”  The ruling means J.C. Penney can now start selling products
designed by Martha Stewart Living in the categories exclusive to
Macy’s under the name of “JCP Everyday” at least until the end
of the trial.  Oing warned lawyers for J.C. Penney to avoid any mention of
Stewart’s name in connection with the unbranded merchandise.  The three sides returned to court last week to resume a
trial of Macy’s lawsuits following a monthlong break, during
which mediation efforts ordered by Oing were unsuccessful.  The parties are scheduled to return to Oing’s courtroom
tomorrow to determine the status of the case.  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Counterfeits  Billionaire Koch Wins $12 Million Wine Trial Punitive Award  Billionaire William Koch, after winning a $379,000 verdict
against a consigner who sold him 24 counterfeit bottles of wine
from  France ’s Bordeaux region, was awarded $12 million in
punitive damages by the same jury April 12.  A federal jury in Manhattan on April 11 found against the
consigner, Eric Greenberg, concluding he made fraudulent
representations about the authenticity and provenance of the
wine, including many purported grand crus that cost Koch tens of
thousands of dollars. The award comprised the amount Koch paid
for the wine at a 2005 auction and $1,000 in compensatory
damages for each bottle.  The jury of six men and two women, who heard Koch and
Greenberg testify during the three-week trial, returned to court
on April 12 to consider punitive damages. Koch, the brother of
conservative Tea Party funders  David Koch  and  Charles Koch , is
the founder of West Palm Beach, Florida-based Oxbow Carbon &
Minerals LLC.  Koch sued Greenberg, the founder and chairman emeritus of
Scient Corp., alleging he defrauded him and had falsely
advertised the authenticity and quality of the wines. Koch said
in his 2007 complaint that Greenberg falsely promoted the
collection as “the Best of the Best,” claiming that some dated
back to the Belle Epoque.  The suit was one of several filed by Koch against wine
consigners and auction houses that he says sold counterfeit
wine. An earlier lawsuit against New York-based Zachys Wine &
Liquor Inc., where he had bought the wine, was settled for an
unspecified amount.  Arthur Shartsis, a lawyer for Greenberg, told jurors during
the trial that his client hadn’t misrepresented the wines and
had instead relied on wine experts at Zachys to inspect and
authenticate his bottles for the sale. Shartsis said that the
auction catalog also included a provision that the wines were
sold “as-is” and said Koch hadn’t bothered to inspect the
bottles before the sale or make any inquiries.  The case is Koch v. Greenberg, 07-cv-09600, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For copyright news, click here.  Technology  Google Offer to Settle EU Antitrust Probe Won’t Suit Rivals  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s offer to settle an antitrust probe with the
European Union by labeling its own services more clearly in Web
search results is a “non-starter” for a group of competitors
such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Foundem and Streetmap.  The companies and at least 10 other rivals that filed
complaints with the EU will be able to give feedback on the
remedies submitted by the Mountain View, California-based
company to settle the almost three-year-old investigation.  Google, operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, told the Brussels-based EU that it would create more
distinction in searches between its own services and
competitors, a person familiar with the negotiations said last
week. Google also proposed to offer links to rival search
engines, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the details of the offer aren’t public.  “If what has been proposed is labeling or a modified form
of labeling, frankly that’s a non-starter,” said David Wood, a
lawyer for Brussels-based industry group ICOMP, which includes
Microsoft. “We haven’t seen the proposals and the commission
hasn’t explained them to us. We’re in the dark.”  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia has urged
Google to address four points, including allegations that the
company promotes its own specialist search services, copies
rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements with
websites and software developers that stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  The EU probe is another chance for Google competitors and
complainants to get the changes they’re seeking from Google. The
U.S. in January closed a 20-month investigation into whether
Google unfairly promoted its own services in search results over
competing websites. The Federal Trade Commission concluded that
Google was motivated more by wanting to improve its search
results than by a desire to stifle competition.  For more, click here.  BlackBerry Asks Regulators to Probe ‘False’ Returns Report  BlackBerry (BBRY) , the Canadian smartphone maker, said it will ask
securities regulators to investigate a report that its new
phones have high return rates, arguing that the “false”
information may have been released in a deliberate attempt to
manipulate its stock price.  Detwiler Fenton & Co., a financial-services firm in  Boston ,
said April 11 that U.S. retailers were seeing a significant
increase in customers returning their Z10s because they found
the interface unintuitive. The report contributed to a 7.8
percent plunge in BlackBerry  shares  the same day, marking the
stock’s worst one-day drop in almost two months.  BlackBerry, based in Waterloo, Ontario, responded that
sales are meeting expectations and return rates are in line with
the rest of the industry. It asked both the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and the Ontario Securities Commission to
review the Detwiler report, saying it was either “a gross
misreading of the data or a willful manipulation.”  BlackBerry, formerly known as  Research In Motion Ltd. (BB) , is
counting on the new Z10 phone -- and its pending companion
device, the Q10 -- to fuel a turnaround after years of market-
share losses. While its stock has more than doubled since
September on optimism about the company’s prospects, more short
sellers are betting that the comeback will fail. Short positions
by investors looking to profit from a drop in the shares are
near a record high.  Anne Buckley, a spokeswoman for Detwiler Fenton, declined
to comment.  Netflix’s Hastings Posts User Data on Facebook as SEC Shifts  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings posted
quarterly viewer data on Facebook, a day after announcing he
would take advantage of new rules that allow material
information to be disclosed over social media.  “Over the last three months, you all watched over 4
billion hours on Netflix,” Hastings wrote April 11 on his  page 
on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-media service.  Hastings is staking out a lead role in the use of social
media to communicate with investors. Netflix said on April 10 it
may use Facebook and Twitter for material announcements,
permissible under guidelines issued last week by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, which ended a probe into
Hastings’ earlier Facebook posts on viewer usage.  The new SEC guidelines clear companies to use Facebook and
Twitter as long as investors are notified first.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos,  California , said it will
continue to make financial announcements on its website, in
filings and in press releases. The company said it may also
release material information on its  Facebook  and  Twitter 
accounts, Hastings’s Facebook page or on the  Netflix Blog  and
 Netflix Tech Blog .  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  