-- German Stocks Are Little Changed; Continental Drops
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-04-15T09:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/german-stocks-are-little-changed-continental-drops.html
German stocks  declined as a report
showed  China’s economy  grew at a slower pace in the first
quarter than forecast, and before data on manufacturing in the
New York region.  Continental AG (CON)  dropped after the tiremaker said first-
quarter sales fell more than estimated.  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON SE,
Germany’s largest utilities, advanced as investors bought stocks
less reliant on economic growth.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 0.6 percent to 7,696.49 at 11:05 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also fell 0.6 percent. Stocks
on Friday snapped a two-day rally after Cyprus was said to seek
an increase in bailout funds and a report showed and U.S. retail
sales unexpectedly declined.  “We are getting reaction to China’s data; in conjunction
with U.S. data of late, it is pointing to a stalled world
economy,” said Ioan Smith, a strategist at Knight Capital
Europe Ltd. in London. “All the money printing in the world may
inflate asset prices, but there will be far fewer buyers for
anything that could be considered real.”  The DAX has advanced 16 percent in the past year as central
banks from the U.S. to Europe sought to stimulate growth by
cutting  interest rates  and buying bonds. Policy makers from the
Federal Reserve and the  Bank of England  said last weekend they
see few signs of equity price bubbles in the U.S. and the U.K.,
countering criticism that record stimulus is stoking excessive
risk-taking. The index has gained 1.1 percent this year.  Chinese Growth  Gross domestic product in China rose 7.7 percent from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing
today. That compares with the 8 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 41 analysts and 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter. March industrial production increased less than
estimated while retail-sales growth matched forecasts.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded for a third
month in April, a report at 8:30 a.m. local time may show. The
 Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s general economic index slowed
to 7 this month from 9.2 in March, economists forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Continental declined 0.9 percent to 87.03 euros. Sales last
quarter dropped more than the 1 percent-to-3 percent range
Europe’s second-largest maker of auto parts had forecast,
Spokeswoman Antje Lewe said in a phone interview. The company
reiterated its 2013 sales target of 5 percent growth.  Utilities Gain  RWE gained 1.1 percent to 30.58 euros. EON climbed 1.6
percent to 14.72 euros. A gauge of European utilities rose 0.8
percent, for the biggest gain among the 19 industry groups in
the broader  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Barclays Plc raised its recommendation on EON to
overweight, the equivalent of buy, from equal weight, saying
investors are not focusing enough on its distribution
activities, and citing scope for increased dividend payments.  Deutsche Telekom AG, Germany’s biggest phone operator, rose
1.3 percent to 8.89 euros. Dish Network Corp. Chairman  Charlie Ergen  informally approached Deutsche Telekom about a possible
merger with the German company’s T-Mobile USA Inc. unit,
according to people close to the situation.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 1.6 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  