-- Gluskin Sheff Declines 5.1% as Sale Search Ends: Toronto Mover
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-04-15T19:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/gluskin-sheff-declines-5-1-as-sale-search-ends-toronto-mover.html
Gluskin Sheff + Associates Inc. (GS) 
fell 5.1 percent after the Toronto-based  money manager  signaled
it ended a review of the firm without finding a buyer.  Gluskin Sheff fell to C$17.98 at 3:14 p.m. trading in
Toronto, the biggest intra-day drop since April 5, according to
Bloomberg data.  The company said today in a statement that it concluded a
review of alternatives to “explore shareholder value
maximization” at the request of founding shareholders, Ira Gluskin and Gerald Sheff.  “What that tells me is they were thinking of selling, but
that the bids didn’t come in to where they would sell at,” said
Adam Seanor, an analyst at M Partners Inc. in Toronto who rates
the stock a “buy.” “It’s not being sold until Ira and Gerald
decide they want to sell and as soon as they decide to sell, I’m
fairly certain there’s multiple bidders.”  Gluskin Sheff’s statement followed a Globe and Mail report
today that the money manager hired bankers for a possible sale
and that buyers had submitted bids. Suitors may include  Canada ’s
biggest banks, another money manager or private equity firms,
the Toronto-based newspaper said.  “The founders, the board and management have concluded
that the current platform remains an excellent way to serve
clients and enhance  shareholder value  at this time,” the firm
said. David Morris, chief financial officer, didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  Gluskin Sheff was founded in 1984 to serve wealthy clients
and institutional investors, according to the company website.
The firm now offers equity, fixed income and alternative
investment strategies.  The stock drop gives investors a chance to buy Gluskin
Sheff shares at a reduced price, after the stock had surged 27
percent this year before today.  “It gives you an opportunity to buy it on a fundamental
basis, with the knowledge that there’s likely to be a take out
at some point in the future, but it may be a number of years
down the road,” Seanor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  