-- GM, Ford to Jointly Design More Fuel-Efficient Transmissions
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-04-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/gm-ford-to-jointly-design-more-fuel-efficient-transmissions.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , which share a six-speed transmission, are designing nine-
and 10-speed automatic versions that are more fuel-efficient for
cars, trucks and sport-utility vehicles.  By working together, the U.S. automakers can develop and
bring the new transmissions to market faster and at a lower cost
than if they work alone, according to a joint statement today.  “The goal is to keep hardware identical in the Ford and GM
transmissions,” Craig Renneker, Ford’s chief engineer for
transmission, driveline component and pre-program engineering,
said in the statement. The companies will use their own control
software to ensure that each transmission is “carefully
matched” to their individual brand-specific vehicles, he said.  GM and Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford are adding more
vehicles with better fuel usage to compete against Japanese
carmakers such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  GM earlier this month said
it plans to spend $332 million at four factories to create more
fuel-efficient engines and transmissions.  The nine- and 10-speeds announced today should improve  fuel
efficiency  by about 5 percent, Mark Schirmer, a Ford spokesman,
said in a telephone interview.  While the companies didn’t say when the new transmissions
will go into vehicles, it took about three years from the time
they announced a similar agreement for six-speed transmissions
in 2003 for the first ones to go into service, Dan Flores, a
spokesman for Detroit-based GM, said in the same interview.  The companies’ six-speed partnership has led to 8 million
of the front-wheel transmissions being used in vehicles such as
the Ford Fusion and Chevrolet Malibu, GM and Ford said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  