-- Goldman Sachs Closes Brent GSCI Recommendation After 16% Loss
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-15T15:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/goldman-sachs-closes-brent-gsci-recommendation-after-16-loss.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it
was ending a recommendation to hold a long position in the S&P
GSCI Brent Total Return Index amid disappointing oil demand and
refinery maintenance in  Europe .  Holding the position, first recommended in August, would
have resulted in a 16 percent loss, the bank said in an e-mailed
report today. Weakness in European demand for refined fuels and
a slowdown in  China , are weighing on prices even as global
inventory levels remain tight, Goldman said.  “In the tug of war between tight global oil fundamentals
and the negative sentiment created by weak European product
markets and fears of further Chinese slowdown, the latter
currently prevail,” Jeff Currie, head of commodities research
in  New York , wrote in the report.  The euro-zone economy will shrink 0.3 percent in 2013 as it
struggles to move past its debt crisis, the European Commission
predicted on Feb. 22. Economic expansion unexpectedly eased in
China, the world’s largest energy consumer, according to data
for the first quarter from the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics.  Brent slumped as much as 2.6 percent today to a nine-month
low of $100.41 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “European margins could suffer further as the European
refinery turnaround season has peaked and more and more
refineries are coming back from maintenance,” Currie said.
“This could put further downward pressure on Brent prices.”  Goldman Sachs’ advice to take a long position in the Brent
index on Aug. 21 was a modification of earlier recommendation to
buy West Texas Intermediate crude contracts. That suggestion
would have resulted in a 10.8 percent loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  