-- Google’s Motorola Mobility Taps U.S. Defense Agency for Talent
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-04-15T21:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/google-s-motorola-mobility-taps-u-s-defense-agency-for-talent.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  hired a top
cybersecurity official from the U.S. Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, known for developing technologies that helped
create the Internet and stealth fighter plane.  Peiter Zatko is one of several officials the Motorola
Mobility unit of  Mountain View , California-based Google has
hired from the Pentagon office.  The division, which develops consumer mobile devices and
related software, hired Zatko to work on its Advanced Technology
and Projects team, Gabe Madway, a company spokesman, said in an
e-mail today.  Zatko served as a Darpa program manager from March 2010
until this month, managing cybersecurity programs that funded
startup companies and helped develop technologies to detect
threats and defend military networks, the agency said in an e-
mail today.  Madway didn’t specify what Zatko, known in hacker circles
by the handle Mudge, would be doing at the company. Zatko didn’t
respond to e-mails requesting comment about his job change.  Motorola Mobility was acquired by Google last year and
created the Advanced Technology and Projects team “to deliver
breakthrough innovations to the company’s product line on
seemingly impossible short timeframes,” according to the
company’s website.  At least three other former Darpa officials have been hired
to work on the team, including Regina Dugan, who served as the
federal agency’s director from 2009 to 2012. Dugan leads the
team. Her deputy is Kaigham Gabriel, former deputy director of
Darpa.  The group also includes Paul Eremenko, former deputy
director of Darpa’s Tactical Technology Office, which is
responsible for space, ground vehicle and robotics efforts,
according to the company’s website.  The team’s technical advisory board includes Vint Cerf, a
former Darpa program manager who has been called the father of
the Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  