-- Greece Clinches Accord With Troika, Paving Way to Aid Payment
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-04-15T11:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/greece-clinches-accord-with-troika-paving-way-to-aid-payment.html
Greece ’s government and
international creditors reached an agreement on conditions
related to the next payment of aid, including firing state
workers.  “The mission has reached staff-level agreement with the
authorities on the economic and financial policies needed to
ensure the program remains on track,” according to a joint
statement by the so-called troika comprised of the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund . “The recent steps taken by the authorities
suggest that the March milestones are likely to be achieved in
the near future.” The term “milestones” refers to terms
Greece must meet to unlock loan installments.  Greece has been locked in talks with international
creditors in Athens for more than a month on meeting targets
linked to receiving further bailout payments, including
shrinking the government workforce. The statement today said the
disbursement of 2.8 billion euros ($3.7 billion) remaining from
the previous review could be agreed “soon” by the euro-area
 member states .  Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said today that the
agreement included dismissals for “several thousand” public-
sector employees, which will allow the country to hire younger,
more qualified employees in their place. He said that 200,000
people left the Greek state sector between 2009 and 2012.  Attrition Rule  Identifying redundant positions and putting in place a
system that will lead to mandatory exits for about 150,000 civil
servants by 2015 is a so-called milestone for further aid
payments.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said today his government
had agreed to fire 15,000 state employees by the end of 2014 and
that of these, 4,000 would be replaced by younger staff.  Poul Thomsen, the lead IMF negotiator on the Greek program,
said he was pleased at an agreement that would bring in younger
staff. He added that firing in the public sector remained a
“taboo.”  More than three years after revealing that Greece had
misled its euro partners on the state of its finances, the
nation remains reliant on loans from the euro area and the IMF
to pay pensions and wages. To qualify for payments from the
total of 240 billion euros pledged to the country, it has to
continue meeting economic targets, including reducing staff
levels.  Budget Targets  Euro-area finance ministers revamped the country’s second
aid program in November, giving Samaras two extra years until
2016 to meet budget-reduction targets after he forged a
coalition government following two elections that jeopardized
the country’s survival as a euro member.  Stournaras said the nation was focused on producing a
primary surplus this year that will allow it to pitch for a
“drastic” reduction in debt he said is promised under the
November accord.  Euro-area finance ministers said at the time they would
consider further measures and assistance, including lowering
rates on loans to Greece, if the country’s government stuck to
its pledges.  The economic outlook for the country is “largely
unchanged” from the previous review and a recovery could take
hold next year after six years of  recession , according to the
troika statement. Debt sustainability “remains on track,” it
said.  Locked out of the markets since April 2010, Greece is the
only nation to receive two bailout packages from the euro area
and the IMF as public opposition to pension and wage cuts
derailed the pace of promised economic reforms.  Euro-region finance chiefs agreed in December to pay Greece
49.1 billion euros through March after revamping the second
rescue. Greece received 34.3 billion euros in December,
including funds for its banks, and 9.2 billion euros in January.
It was due to get about 5.6 billion euros in two separate
payments in February and March. The IMF is contributing a
separate amount to Greece of about 3 billion euros this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  