-- Iceland Is First in Europe to Sign Free Trade Pact With China
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-04-15T19:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/iceland-is-first-in-europe-to-sign-free-trade-pact-with-china.html
Iceland  became the first European
country to sign a free trade agreement with  China  in a bid to
sell its expertise in geothermal energy to the $7.3 trillion
Asian economy.  Iceland’s Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson signed the
deal with Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng in Beijing yesterday,
bringing to a close six years of talks, according to Iceland’s
Foreign Ministry. Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir started
a three-day visit to China yesterday, meeting her Chinese
counterpart Premier Li Keqiang and President Xi Jinping.  Iceland is working on deepening ties with China that could
help speed up efforts to emerge from its 2008 economic collapse,
when its three-largest banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt.
The north Atlantic nation is seeking to resuscitate its $14.4
billion economy by returning to the industries it once relied on
for growth, such as tourism, fishing and energy.  “It’s important for Iceland to conclude pacts like this to
strengthen trade following the economic collapse,”
Sigurdardottir said in an interview. The free trade agreement
will “increase the soundness of business transactions and
presumably the interest among Chinese and Icelandic companies
that are cooperating” in geothermal power.  Geothermal Power  The volcanic island gets about 25 percent of its power from
geothermal sources and the rest from hydropower. It wants to
sell that expertise to diversify sales, given marine products
now account for 90 percent of Iceland’s  exports  to China.  China is already benefiting from Iceland’s expertise after
80 Chinese students graduated from the  United Nations University 
Geothermal Program in Reykjavik, making them the “most
populous” foreign alumni, according to Sigurdardottir.  Even so, Iceland’s relations with China have been under
strain after the island nation repeatedly rebuffed attempts by
Chinese billionaire Huang Nubo to lease 300 square kilometers
(116 square miles) of land from local authorities in the
country’s northeast. Huang, who planned to invest $200 million
in the remote mountain site to build a golf course and use it as
a spring board for other ventures in Scandinavia, has set a May
deadline for talks with the government.  The billionaire’s plans were pushed off the table by
Interior Minister Ogmundur Jonasson, who has introduced a bill
limiting the ability of foreigners to purchase land or houses in
the country. The law must be approved by the Reykjavik-based
Parliament.  The minister is concerned foreign land purchases will slow
or impede development and risk natural resources, according to
an interview he gave broadcaster RUV in January.  EU Trade  Those concerns are moot, Jon Ormur Halldorsson, associate
professor in international business at the  Reykjavik University ,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s nothing to suggest that
the Chinese have any ulterior motives by concluding this deal
with Iceland.”  Iceland already has a free trade agreement with the 27-
member European Union, and 83 percent of exports go to the
European Economic Area, which includes the EU, Iceland, Norway
and  Liechtenstein . Iceland’s exports to China amounted to 7.6
billion kronur ($64 million) in 2012, while the island bought
goods -- mostly furniture, clothing and electronics -- worth
42.6 billion kronur.  “In a way, China is a sideshow to the EU,” said
Halldorsson. Even so, “we should seek to expand our horizon and
open up as many doors as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  