-- Jackie Robinson Film ‘42’ Tops U.S. Weekend Theater Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-04-15T20:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/time-warner-s-42-opens-as-top-film-on-sales-of-27-million.html
The  Jackie Robinson  biography
“42” opened as the top weekend film at theaters in the U.S.
and Canada, taking in $27.5 million for Legendary Pictures and
distributor  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   The spoof “Scary Movie 5,” was second in its debut,
taking in $14.2 million for Weinstein Co.’s Dimension Films,
researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “42” is the first independent production for Legendary,
which is led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Tull
and best known for the “Dark Knight” films. The company, whose
financing and co-production agreement with  Warner Bros . expires
at this end of the year, is developing three more on its own,
including the action films “Great Wall” and “Pacific Rim.”  “What you have here is Jackie Robinson making history
again, because ‘42’ had the best opening in history for a
baseball movie,” Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer at
Boxofficeguru.com, said in by telephone. “It’s a story that’s
long overdue. You have baseball fans interested in seeing that
story finally come to the big screen. Plus, you have the human
drama of it that makes it a film with broad appeal.”  Exceeded Expectations  In “42” Chadwick Boseman stars as the first black to play
 Major League Baseball . Harrison Ford co-stars as  Branch Rickey ,
the Brooklyn Dodgers general manager who recruited Robinson and
helped him deal with the racism of fans and players. The film,
made for $40 million, was expected to take in $21.1 million this
weekend, the estimate of Box Office Mojo.  “Scary Movie 5” continues the series poking fun at the
horror genre. The latest version takes on the recent trend of
possession movies by focusing on a couple who are stalked by a
demon soon after they bring their newborn home from the
hospital.  The first four films generated $818.2 million in global
ticket sales. The new installment cost about $20 million and was
forecast to take in $17.6 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  No Steam  “This proved to be an unnecessary sequel, and audiences
rejected it,” Pandya said. “It shows that the franchise has
run out of steam.”  “The Croods,” about a prehistoric family of cave
dwellers, was third with $13.1 million in receipts for
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  The movie, featuring the voices of
Nicolas Cage,  Emma Stone  and  Ryan Reynolds , has taken in $142.4
million after four weeks in theaters.  “ G.I. Joe : Retaliation,” a sequel to the 2009 film from
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures  about elite U.S. commandos, was
fourth with $10.9 million. This time the troops battle a
government plot to destroy their team while fending off mortal
enemy Cobra.  Dwayne Johnson  stars as Joe team member Roadblock.
Adrianne Palicki plays trooper Lady Jaye, and Channing Tatum
returns as Duke.  ‘Evil Dead’  “Evil Dead” dropped to fifth place from first, taking in
$9.5 million for Sony Corp. The film, a remake of director Sam Raimi’s horror tale, follows a group of young adults who gather
in a remote cabin to help a friend through a cold-turkey bid to
kick heroin, and inadvertently trigger a malevolent spirit to
join them.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 2 percent to
$108.8 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Sales
this year are down 11 percent to $2.62 billion. Attendance has
declined 12 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 12 to April 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  