-- IMG Acquires U.S. PGA Tour’s Honda Classic, IGP Sports Group
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/img-acquires-u-s-pga-tour-s-honda-classic-igp-sports-group.html
Sports agency IMG Worldwide Inc.
will take over management of the U.S. PGA Tour’s Honda Classic
as part of an acquisition of IGP Sports & Entertainment Group
and will open a new golf office in  North Palm Beach ,  Florida ,
the companies said.  As part of the acquisition, IGP founder Ken Kennerly, a 21-
year veteran of player and event management, will join IMG as
head of its North American golf events management division.  By adding Kennerly and his IGP staff, IMG gains a
management presence in the South Florida area, where many of
professional golf’s top players now live, including current IMG
clients Luke Donald, Camilo Villegas, Ernie Els and Michelle Wie. IGP currently represents PGA Tour players Glen Day, Mathias Gronberg, Dicky Pride and Duffy Waldorf. Pride and Waldorf will
move to IMG with Kennerly.  “The truth is, we should have done this years ago,” Guy
Kinnings, head of IMG’s golf division, said in an interview.  Financial terms of the acquisition weren’t disclosed by IMG
in a press release announcing the agreement.  Since Kennerly’s IGP company in 2006 took over management
of the Honda Classic, which is played at PGA National Resort and
Spa in  Palm Beach Gardens , Florida, the tournament has enjoyed
renewed appeal among tour players, in part due to its proximity
to their homes.  Last month, IMG client Ryo Ishikawa of  Japan  played in the
event for the first time, an appearance that Kennerly said
wouldn’t have been possible without IMG’s encouragement.  “With Honda, a Japanese company, being our title sponsor,
that was big,” Kennerly said in an interview. “He is the Tiger Woods of Japan.”  IMG, which was founded by Mark McCormack in 1960 with a
handshake agreement between him and  Arnold Palmer , owns, manages
and stages over 50 tournaments around the world. The Cleveland,
Ohio-based company recently took over management of the LPGA
Tour’s Kraft Nabisco Championship, the first of five major
events on the top women’s golf tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  