-- Immigrants Said to Wait 15 Years for Legal Status in Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-04-15T22:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/immigrants-wait-15-years-for-citizenship-in-house-plan.html
As Senate negotiators prepare to
unveil their proposal to rewrite U.S. immigration laws, members
of a House group are considering a path to citizenship of at
least 15 years for many undocumented immigrants now in the U.S.  Under the House plan being discussed, undocumented
immigrants would have a probationary period of two to five years
and would have to wait in line behind those seeking to live in
the U.S. legally, according to a congressional aide familiar
with the details. The aide asked not to be identified because
the plan has not been finalized.  The probationary period would include penalties, such as
fines, back taxes and fees to cover the adjudication process.
The immigrants would receive work permits and, after about 10
years, would be able to get a green card, according to the aide.  The group of House lawmakers has kept the details of their
deliberations private and doesn’t have a date for announcing
their bill, though that could be later this month. The House
negotiators include Republicans Mario Diaz-Balart of Florida,
John Carter and Sam Johnson of  Texas  and Raul Labrador of  Idaho ,
along with Democrats Zoe Lofgren and Xavier Becerra of
 California , Luis Gutierrez of  Illinois  and John Yarmuth of
 Kentucky .  “We’ve made a promise to each other we would not go into
the details until we’re ready to launch our bill, but we will
have a bill and we’ll have one soon,” Representative John Carter, a Texas Republican and member of the House group, said
today on  MSNBC .  Waiting Period  Gutierrez at a March 19 breakfast sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor said he favors a long waiting period
after undocumented immigrants register with the government
before they can qualify for permanent residency, and eventual
citizenship. Gutierrez, 59, predicted that he will be 75 before
the first of those 11 million undocumented residents is eligible
to vote as a new citizen.  The group is attempting make it easier to achieve
citizenship for children brought to the U.S. by their parents,
according to the aide. That’s a goal shared by House Majority
Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican.  Farm workers would have their own path to legal status
based on the House group’s plan being discussed. The group is
considering establishing two tracks: one for contract
agricultural workers and one for “at-will” workers.  High-Skilled Visas  The group also is considering creating a category for high-
skilled visas in the area of science, engineering, math and
technology. That new category would entail 50,000 visas.  All these elements are part of drafts the group has been
assembling. The final draft has not yet been presented and can
be subject to change.  A bipartisan Senate group of eight lawmakers tomorrow is
set to unveil the broadest rewrite of immigration policy in
almost 30 years. The Senate plan would allow undocumented
immigrants to remain and work in the U.S. if they meet certain
requirements and apply for permanent residency -- or a green
card -- after 10 years, Republican Senator Marco Rubio of
 Florida , a member of the group, said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  