-- In Pre-Dawn London, Thatcher Funeral Procession Rehearsed
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-15T11:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/in-pre-dawn-london-thatcher-funeral-procession-rehearsed.html
Just after 5:30 a.m., as dawn was
breaking over  London  today, a coffin draped in a  Union Jack  was
carried out of St. Clement Danes church on the Strand and loaded
onto a gun carriage.  More than 800 troops were performing a full dress rehearsal
of  Margaret Thatcher ’s funeral, which will take place in two
days. Soldiers, sailors and airmen lined the 0.7-mile (1.1-
kilometer) route, nine paces apart, from the church to  St.
Paul’s Cathedral . Their SA80 assault rifles were pointed down
and their heads bowed. As the coffin, on the horse-drawn
carriage, approached, the order came to present arms.  Thatcher’s death at the age of 87 on April 8 after a stroke
has revived debates in Britain about the nature of her legacy.
Supporters say she turned around a country in decline. Opponents
say her free-market policies pushed many manual workers out of
jobs and left businesses, especially finance, too powerful.  That debate was fought over the weekend through the proxy
of the Top 40 charts broadcast by the  BBC . Opponents of Thatcher
pushed “Ding Dong! The Witch Is Dead,” from the soundtrack of
“The Wizard of Oz” movie, to No. 2, while supporters who
mounted a late campaign in response got “I’m in Love With
Margaret Thatcher,” a 1979 single by the punk band the
 Notsensibles , to No. 35.  The band of the Royal Marines opted for the more
traditional Funeral March by Chopin as the rehearsal coffin
began its journey this morning.  Fleet Street  The route went first along Fleet Street, which when
Thatcher took power in 1979 was the home of Britain’s
newspapers. They’re all gone now. She supported  Rupert Murdoch 
as he took on print unions and moved The Sun, The Times and the
News of the World to a new plant in East London.  As the procession moved along Fleet Street, the skyscrapers
of London’s financial district towered behind the dome of St.
Paul’s. They sprouted after Thatcher’s 1986 Big Bang opened up
British banking, introducing electronic trading and allowing in
foreign institutions.  The only audience for the rehearsal, apart from reporters,
was cleaners coming out of offices after their night shift. Just
before 6 a.m., with the military band playing Beethoven’s
Funeral March, the procession arrived at the steps of St.
Paul’s. Across the road, a  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  outlet was about to
open.  Chelsea Pensioners  As the coffin was carried up the steps of the cathedral,
there was a deviation from the plans on the day. Veterans from
the Royal Hospital, Chelsea, known as the Chelsea Pensioners,
will be lining the steps. They weren’t there today, as they were
judged too elderly to be asked to get up for the rehearsal.  The funeral will feature Thatcher’s own choice of favorite
hymns and poetry. “He Who Would Valiant Be,” originally
written by John Bunyan, and “Love Divine, All Loves Excelling”
by Charles Wesley, reflecting the former premier’s Methodist
upbringing, will be sung, according to the  order of service 
released by the cathedral. The final hymn will be the patriotic
“I Vow to Thee My Country” to the music of Gustav Holst. Poems
by William Wordsworth and T.S. Eliot are printed on the order of
service.  “The basic shape of this funeral has been in place for
many years now,” Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister who
has been in charge of the organization of the event, told Sky
News television yesterday. “She didn’t obsess about it, but she
took an interest and so she had some very clear views. For
example, she was adamant she didn’t want there to be any
question of a lying in state.”  Winston Churchill  More than 2,000 invitations have gone out for the service.
All surviving former British premiers will attend, and all
living former U.S. presidents have been asked. It’s the biggest
such event for a British political leader since the state
funeral for  Winston Churchill  in 1965.  Queen Elizabeth II  will
lead the mourners.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  will hold talks with some of
the foreign leaders attending the service, his spokesman, Jean- Christophe Gray, said today. Canada’s  Stephen Harper  and  Italy ’s
 Mario Monti  are among those who plan to be there. Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  will represent the German government.  “You can expect the prime minister to meet some of the
leaders,” Gray told reporters. “He will have some bilaterals,
including some after the ceremony in the Guildhall,” where the
City of London Corporation will hold a post-funeral reception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  