-- India Inflation Dips to 40-Month Low, Boosting Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-04-15T07:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/indian-inflation-eases-to-40-month-low-bloomberg-tv-reports.html
Indian inflation eased in March by
more than economists estimated to a 40-month low, boosting the
case for an interest-rate cut to revive a struggling economy.
Bonds and stocks gained, while the rupee weakened.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 5.96 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 6.84 percent in February, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The median of
29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 6.27 percent.  India’s central bank has lowered borrowing costs twice in
2013 to spur investment, after the government pared the  budget
deficit  to help curb price increases and eased caps on capital
inflows to fund a record current-account gap. The risk of
stoking imports as exports struggle, and  consumer inflation 
exceeding 10 percent, limited each rate cut to 25 basis points.  “Moderating inflation will give the  Reserve Bank  of India
room to ease policy,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist at
Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “The RBI will still be
cautious and further cuts will depend upon how inflation behaves
and the current-account deficit pans out.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due June 2022
slid 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.84 percent
as of 12:53 p.m. in Mumbai. The BSE  India  Sensitive Index
rallied 0.7 percent, while the rupee trimmed the day’s loss to
0.2 percent and traded at 54.61 a dollar.  Wooing Investors  Inflation remains stubborn and elevated, Reserve Bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said this month. The shortfall in the
current account is above sustainable levels, he added. The next
policy decision is due May 3.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is touring  Canada 
and the U.S. to woo foreign investors, after estimating  Asia ’s
No. 3 economy may need more than $75 billion annually to fund
the imbalance in the widest measure of trade. Inward shipments
of gold and oil have contributed to the deficit.  Food prices rose 8.73 percent in March from a year earlier,
today’s report showed, while fuel and power costs climbed 10.18
percent. Non-food manufactured goods prices, a gauge of  core
inflation , advanced 3.41 percent after a 3.77 percent gain in
February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The commerce ministry today revised January inflation to
7.31 percent from an earlier estimate of 6.62 percent.  Policy Revamp  Subbarao has lowered the  repurchase rate  to 7.5 percent
this year to aid growth. The statistics agency estimates the
economy expanded 5 percent in the year ended March, the least
since 2003, amid an uneven global recovery.  India’s government changed policies in September to stem
the slowdown ahead of a general election due by May 2014.  The steps have included opening retail and aviation to more
foreign investment, allowing higher diesel prices to curb energy
subsidies, lowering levies on overseas borrowing, easing
restrictions on bond purchases by investors abroad and setting
up a panel to speed up infrastructure projects.  Slowing automobile demand underscores the deterioration in
the economy. Sales in the car industry, which includes companies
such as Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. and the local unit of Ford
Motor Co., fell 6.7 percent last fiscal year, according to the
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  