-- Indonesia Starts Probe Into Lion Air Crash Off Bali Coast
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-04-15T11:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/indonesia-starts-probe-into-lion-air-crash-off-bali-coast.html
Indonesia started investigations
into at least its fourth aircraft accident in 16 months after a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 passenger jet operated by PT Lion Mentari
Airlines, which is banned from flying in  Europe , crashed into
the sea off Bali’s international airport.  The plane’s cockpit voice recorder has been found and is
being retrieved, Transport Minister Evert Erenst Mangindaan said
in a press briefing in Jakarta today. The process is expected to
be concluded today, he said. The accident, which caused no
fatalities among the 108 passengers and crew, was the first with
total hull loss on an Indonesian commercial carrier since
November 2011, according to the  Flight Safety Foundation .  “KNKT are investigating whether the accident was caused by
weather, technical factors or human error,” Farid Indra
Nugraha, the corporate secretary of PT Angkasa Pura I, operator
of Ngurah Rai International Airport, said by phone yesterday,
referring to  Indonesia ’s transport safety committee. “We
haven’t ruled out any of them.”  The crash focuses attention on Lion Air, Indonesia’s
biggest private carrier, just as it plans an expansion. The
Jakarta-based airline has placed orders of more than $45 billion
with Airbus SAS and Boeing in the past two years and has 559
narrow-body planes pending, the world’s biggest backlog. Lion
Air is banned from the European Union, which blacklisted
Indonesia’s airlines after a number of fatal accidents. The
country’s flag carrier, PT Garuda Indonesia, and three other
operators were allowed to return to Europe in 2009.  Hull Lost  “I have instructed the transportation minister to take
care of the injured and conduct investigations,” Indonesian
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said through his official
Twitter account.  The Lion Air Boeing 737-800, which crashed and fractured
after its flight from Bandung to Bali, was registered March 20,
Mangindaan said. The plane had about 146 flying hours, he said.  “Boeing is standing ready to assist the local authorities
if called,”  Marc Birtel , a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “Our immediate concern is for the welfare of the
passengers and crew,” he said, declining to comment on the
cause of the accident.  ‘Visually Clear’  Indonesia’s TVOne showed pictures of the plane with its
fuselage cracked on April 13. The weather was “visually clear”
when the accident happened, Edward Sirait, commercial director
of Lion Air, told the television station. There were 95 adults,
five children, one infant and seven crew onboard, he said.  “The plane was broken into two,” Sirait said in a phone
interview with TVOne. “Visually it is a total loss, which means
we cannot use the aircraft again.”  Several calls to Sirait’s mobile phone weren’t answered and
he didn’t reply to text messages sent to him seeking comment.  The pilot and co-pilot’s urine tests were negative for
drugs and alcohol while further tests on their hair will be
conducted by the Bali police,  Bambang Ervan , a spokesman at the
transport ministry, said today. The National Transportation
Safety Committee, or KNKT, will analyze the cockpit voice
recorder and flight data recorder, Ervan said.  “The weather at the airport was slightly cloudy with light
rain at the end of the runway,” Mangindaan said, referring to
the weather at the time of the crash. He declined to comment on
the possible cause for the crash.  Partnerships Planned  Lion Air is considering partnerships in  Thailand , Myanmar
and  Vietnam , Sirait said in an interview April 1. The company
aims to have 1,000 planes in 10 years, he said.  In February 2012, the discount carrier ordered 201 Boeing
737 MAXs and 29 Next-Generation 737-900ERs worth $22.4 billion,
the biggest single order for the U.S. aircraft maker in its
history, measured by number of planes and the value of the
order. In March, Lion placed an order for 234 Airbus A320
aircraft worth $24 billion.  Indonesia, the world’s fourth-most populous nation,
accounts for 1.4 percent of global flight traffic, yet
contributed to 4 percent of all accidents in 2010, the
International Air Transport Association said in a 2011
 statement , citing IATA Director General Tony Tyler.  Indonesia Crashes  The Bali crash is Indonesia’s fourth aircraft accident
since the start of 2012 and the first this year, according to
the Flight Safety Foundation’s Aviation Safety Network.  A Cessna plane crashed at Husein Sastranegara airport in
Bandung, West Java, Sept. 29 during an airshow. Nine people were
killed when an Indonesian air force plane crashed into houses in
East Jakarta during a training flight, Azman Yunus, an air force
spokesman, said June 12.  A Sukhoi SuperJet crashed and killed 45 people in West Java
in May after the pilot of the Russian-made aircraft ignored an
automatic warning that the plane was on course to hit a
mountain, a report by Indonesia’s National Transportation Safety
Committee showed. Indonesia had five fatal air disasters in
2011, according to Flight Safety Foundation data.  The European Union removed a prohibition on Garuda
Indonesia, the nation’s biggest airline, and three other
carriers in July 2009 after “significant improvements” by the
Indonesian civil aviation authority, according to the European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  