-- Intuitive’s First Robot-Surgery Trial to Probe Training
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-04-15T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/intuitive-s-first-robot-surgery-trial-to-probe-training.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) , a maker of
surgical robots used in more than 300,000 U.S. operations last
year, faces its first trial over claims it marketed the devices
to doctors without providing adequate training.  A state court jury in Port Orchard, Washington, is
scheduled to hear opening arguments tomorrow afternoon about
whether Intuitive properly trained a physician who, in his first
unassisted surgery using the company’s  da Vinci surgical system ,
removed the prostate gland of a patient who later died.  After seven hours of robotic surgery in September 2008,
complications developed and the physician, Scott Bildsten, and
other doctors turned to traditional surgery and then emergency
care to repair a rectal laceration. The patient, Fred Taylor,
died last August of heart failure resulting from injuries caused
by Intuitive’s inadequate training of Bildsten, lawyers for
Taylor’s family claim.  “A jury could reasonably conclude that the mistakes he
made in this robotic procedure were a result of the poor
training and lack of warnings he received from Intuitive,”
lawyers for the family argue in court filings.  The  lawsuit  is one of at least a dozen filed against
Intuitive since 2011 alleging injuries tied to the robot-surgery
systems. Intuitive’s robots, which cost about $1.5 million each,
are used in 1,371 U.S. hospitals, the company has said. The
robots and related products generated most of the company’s $2.2
billion  revenue  in 2012.  No Duty  Intuitive has no duty to train doctors on the da Vinci
system under Washington law, the company has said in its court
filings.“We take legal claims seriously and trust in the legal
system as the appropriate place to resolve these
disputes,”  Angela Wonson , a spokeswoman for the Sunnyvale,
California-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Kitsap County Superior Court Judge  Jay Roof  last month
rejected Intuitive’s bid to throw out the suit and scheduled the
trial to conclude in May. The judge found the state’s product-
liability laws require medical-device makers to properly train
physicians who buy their products.  Investors are so far unconcerned with what the trial result
might mean for Intuitive, said Andrew S. Zamfotis, an analyst at
evaDimensions in New York. The company is “practically printing
money with these robots,” and for shareholders the trial
“hasn’t moved the needle yet,” he said in a phone interview.  Zamfotis said evaDimensions calculates the “economic value
added,” or economic profit, of companies by evaluating a
company’s assets on its balance sheets. Intuitive has a profit
margin of more than 25 percent compared with 2.5 percent for
other medical equipment companies, said Zamfotis, who said he
has a “hold” rating on  Intuitive shares  and doesn’t own any.  ‘Room for Surprise’  “The market does not yet seem fazed by what’s happening
here,” Zamfotis said, referring to the trial, adding that
“there’s always room for surprise.”  Bildsten is identified in court documents as a possible
primary witness at the trial. Richard Friedman, the lawyer
representing Taylor’s family, declined to comment on the case.  Bildsten, who had performed 100 successful prostatectomies
using a traditional procedure, and hadn’t used the da Vinci
system on a patient without being supervised, failed in Taylor’s
surgery to create a watertight seal between the bladder and the
urethra when the prostate was removed, inflating Taylor’s
abdomen with carbon dioxide pressure which led to a stroke,
according to court filings.  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3-D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  Learning Curve  According to court filings, Bildsten said Intuitive’s
training didn’t inform him of the need to create the watertight
seal or warn of the risk of abdomen inflation. After reading
Food and Drug Administration documents about the “learning
curve to obtain basic competency” with the da Vinci system,
Bildsten said, “I believe I likely would not have agreed to
begin training on the robot had I been given this information,”
according to the filing.  Bildsten said Intuitive told him he could achieve “basic
competency” after two assisted surgeries, and that the company
did not tell him that consultants paid by Intuitive reported
that such proficiency couldn’t be reached “until twenty or more
operations were complete,” according to the filing. Bildsten
didn’t return a call seeking comment on the trial.  Product Liability  Intuitive has argued in court documents that lawyers for
Taylor’s family are attempting to create a “totally new cause
of action” against medical device manufacturers -- the “duty
to train” -- under the  Washington  Product Liability Law.  Under the state law, Intuitive had no duty to train
Bildsten or warn him of the risk of the surgery, according to
the filing.  “Dr. Bildsten, a board-certified, licensed surgeon was
responsible for making sure he could perform the surgery he
chose to perform and to do so safely,” Intuitive argues in the
filing.  Arguing that Taylor’s death of heart disease four years
after the prostate surgery wasn’t caused by the da Vinci,
Intuitive argues in a court filing that Taylor’s lawyers
concede that before the surgery, Taylor had been diagnosed
with diabetes, coronary artery disease, hypertension and high
cholesterol. His treatment had included bypass surgery in 2002.  Intuitive’s Defense  Taylor weighed 280 pounds and had a body mass index of 39,
which Bildsten said made him obese, according to the filing.
Intuitive claims it told Bildsten that for his early procedures
with the da Vinci -- at least the first four to six surgeries --
he should choose simple cases and patients with a low body mass
index.  Intuitive also argues that Taylor’s rectal injury happened
after the da Vinci was turned off, disconnected and removed from
Taylor, according to the filing. Bildsten has testified that
Taylor’s injury “occurred after the procedure was converted”
to traditional surgery, “and was not related to the use of the
da Vinci robot,” according to the filing.  Michael Matson, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in New
York, said the case isn’t particularly meaningful for
shareholders.  “What investors really care about most is if there’s going
to be a change to the longer term growth profile of the company,
and I don’t think this individual case by itself is going to
cause that,” Matson said in a phone interview.  Much of the case “boils down to the surgeon not being
adequately trained,” Matson said.  “Whether that’s Intuitive’s responsibility is another
question,” he said, adding that it’s “up to the jury to
determine who’s at fault.”  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in Port Orchard, Washington, at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  