-- Iraq’s Unity Hinges on Flexibility Over Kurd Oil, Hawrami Says
-- B y   B r u c e   S t a n l e y
-- 2013-04-15T12:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/iraq-s-unity-hinges-on-flexibility-over-kurd-oil-hawrami-says.html
Iraq ’s Kurdish region could export
250,000 barrels of oil a day this year and is “on track” with
discoveries to ship 1 million barrels a day by 2015 and 2
million by 2019, its natural resources minister said.  The semi-autonomous Kurds aren’t seeking independence from
the rest of the country, Ashti Hawrami said in a statement
posted today on the Kurdistan Regional Government’s website.
Even so, Iraq’s political cohesion depends on the Kurds’ ability
to produce and sell oil on their own terms, he said.  “We wish to remain part of a democratic and federal Iraq,
but given the country’s troubled history of authoritarian rule,
we believe a decentralized oil policy and the sharing of power
and wealth is essential to Iraq’s unity,” Hawrami said.  Iraqi Kurds are sparring with the central government in
 Baghdad  over the sharing of revenue from crude sales,
investments in Kurdish oil fields by foreign companies such as
Exxon Mobil Corp., and territorial claims. Hawrami’s comments
came amid increasing speculation that the KRG may be preparing
to build its own pipeline network to export oil and natural gas
to neighboring  Turkey , as a step toward economic self-
sufficiency and, possibly, political independence.  The Kurds halted exports through the government-operated
pipeline in December, due to a payments dispute, and have been
trucking crude into Turkey instead. Turkey, which relies on
energy imports, told Iraq’s government that it’s ready to build
pipelines to transport oil from the landlocked Kurdish enclave
once the Baghdad-run network reaches full capacity, Turkish
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  told reporters April 10 in Ankara.  Kurds ‘Entitled’  “The KRG is entitled to and can make the oil and gas
exports happen and prefers to do this with Baghdad,” Hawrami
said. “But sadly, those in charge there refuse to honor
agreements.”  Turkey is bound by a 15-year accord with Iraq’s central
government on all oil-related business and any separate Turkish
agreement with the KRG would “endanger” Turkey’s interests in
Iraq, Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in an April
1 interview. Differences over the conflict in  Syria  have
strained relations between Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and his Iraqi counterpart Nouri al-Maliki.  Iraq has the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
according to data from  BP Plc (BP/) , and it revised its estimate
upward last week by almost 5 percent to 150 billion barrels. The
nation’s Kurdish region holds an additional 45 billion barrels,
according to the KRG. Iraq produced 3.2 million barrels a day in
March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Northern Exports  The country exported 2.43 million barrels a day last month,
according to the  International Energy Agency . Of Iraq’s total
shipments, 330,000 barrels a day flowed from the northern oil
hub of Kirkuk and into Turkey through the pipeline controlled by
the central government, the IEA said in its monthly report
published on April 11.  “By 2019, over 3 million barrels a day of oil could flow
through Iraq’s northern energy corridor to Turkey and the
international market,” Hawrami said. “Export infrastructure
must be built, but this requires tackling bottlenecks through
additional feeder and export pipelines.”  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , the largest producer in Iraq’s Kurdish
region, announced a discovery on April 10 at the Chia Surkh
site. The first of five wells at the field flowed 11,950 barrels
of oil a day and 15 million cubic feet of gas, the company said
in a statement. Chia Surkh may hold more than 300 million
barrels of oil equivalent, former BP Plc Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward , who runs Genel, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bruce Stanley in Dubai at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  