-- IRS Sets Wind Tax Credit Regulations for 2013 Projects
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-15T21:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/irs-sets-wind-tax-credit-regulations-for-2013-projects.html
The Internal Revenue Service
completed rules today that define how wind-farm developers can
qualify for tax breaks.  Under a law signed by President  Barack Obama  in January,
wind projects must begin construction by Dec. 31 to qualify for
the production tax credit. That’s looser than the standard from
previous years, which required energy production to qualify.  The ruling sets the stage for a rebound in wind energy in
the second half of this year as developers rush to meet the new
requirements, said Amy Grace, an industry analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in New York. Projects that began construction
by the end of this year may support demand for as long as two
years, she said.  “It will absolutely help more large projects qualify,”
Grace said in an interview.  The rules released today define the beginning of
construction as “starting physical work of a significant
nature,” including road construction, pouring of concrete or
off-site assembly of turbines. Developers also can qualify if
they incur 5 percent of the total cost of the project and make
continuous progress toward completion, according to the IRS.  Preliminary development activities such as getting permits,
conducting environmental studies or securing financing don’t
count toward the IRS definition that construction has begun.  Tax Credit  “I think they’ve found the right combination that gives
developers an appropriate amount of flexibility for a broad
range of project and construction scenarios,” said Jacob
Susman, founder and chief executive officer of OwnEnergy Inc., a
Brooklyn-based builder of wind farms. The ruling also protects
taxpayers “by ensuring that real projects that have
legitimately begun construction will qualify.”  Developers that complete wind farms under the new IRS
guidelines will be eligible to collect a tax credit worth 2.3
cents per kilowatt-hour for the energy produced over a decade.  That could help manufacturers including General Electric
Co.,  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  that have
been hurt by a drop in U.S. demand this year.  Wind turbine installations will probably drop to 2,800
megawatts from a record 13,000 megawatts installed before the
tax credit expired last year, according to New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  