-- Hispanic-Asian Immigration Key to Fast-Growing Electorate
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2013-04-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/hispanic-asian-immigration-key-to-fast-growing-electorate.html
As Hispanic and Asian-Americans
account for a growing share of the U.S. electorate -- one in
four of all American voters by 2020 -- Republicans face a
political imperative in supporting a path to citizenship for
many of the nation’s 11 million undocumented immigrants.  Among Hispanic and Asian-American voters, who gave more
than 70 percent of their support to President  Barack Obama  last
year, the establishment of a route to citizenship will be “a
key determinant” in how they vote in the 2016 presidential
election, a Bloomberg Government study released today shows.  Awareness of the need to re-engage Hispanic and Asian-Americans is driving Republican attempts to revise the nation’s
immigration laws this year, with bipartisan groups in the Senate
and House of Representatives working on plans. The Democratic-run Senate is taking the lead on legislation, with the chamber’s
Judiciary Committee planning a hearing on the matter this week
and leaders anticipating floor debate in May.  With Obama insisting on a path to citizenship as part of
any comprehensive immigration rewrite, Republicans face another
factor in persuading their rank-and-file members to support some
form of legalization.  “There will never be a bill without a pathway to
citizenship signed by the president,” said  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and member of the Senate
group. “And in turn there will never by a pathway to
citizenship without a new immigration system.”  Polling Results  The political factor is spelled out in opinion polls.  The BGov study notes that 42 percent of Hispanics surveyed
say they would be less likely to vote for a Republican if the
party took a leading role in blocking an immigration overhaul,
citing a survey released March 5 by  Latino Decisions , a Seattle,
Washington-based research firm.  A similar share of Hispanics who voted for Obama’s re-election in 2012 -- 43 percent -- say they would be more likely
to vote Republican in the future if the party takes a leading
role on the issue, the Latino Decisions poll found.  For Republicans, “actually being ahead of the issue and
finding a way to lead would allow them to make inroads with
those key voters, who they need to find a way to win,” said
Matthew Hummer, a quantitative analyst at Bloomberg Government
and author of the study with analyst Jorge Uquillas.  Their study calls it “a win-win” for the party.  Allowing undocumented immigrants to seek citizenship would
slowly affect an already-growing Hispanic electorate, the study
says. Negotiators are proposing that it take at least 10 years
for any of the undocumented, estimated to number about 11
million, already living in the U.S. to obtain legal residency
and ultimately citizenship.  Voting Rolls  As a result, the study finds, the most likely path to
citizenship will add 4.4 million new voters to the rolls
beginning in the early 2020’s.  Even without that change, Hispanic and Asian-American
voters will account for 22 percent of the voting population by
the 2016 presidential election, the study says. That is up 2
percent from the last election, in which exit polls found that
71 percent of Hispanic voters and 74 percent of Asian-Americans
supported Obama’s re-election.  Their share of the voting population will rise to 25
percent by the 2020 election.  Mostly Hispanic immigrants from other North American
countries (which includes those in Central America) accounted
for 8.9 million of the  undocumented in the U.S.,  with 800,000
from  South America , according to the Department of  Homeland
Security . Asians accounted for 1.3 million, the agency said.  Florida Focus  The growth of the Hispanic and Asian-American voting blocs
will be enough to make a difference in the 2016 election in just
one state --  Florida  --the study finds. Florida, which has
become a pivotal swing-state in recent decades as its voters
have supported both Republican and Democratic candidates for
president, backed Obama in 2008 and again in 2012.  Florida’s share of Hispanic and Asian voters could rise by
2.7 percentage points from 2012 to 2016, the study says -- 1.8
percentage points greater than Obama’s margin of victory over
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in 2012.  Four other swing-states --  Virginia ,  Nevada ,  Colorado  and
 New Mexico  -- already have large Hispanic and Asian-American
populations, cumulatively averaging 17 percent of their voters
registered in 2010. Obama also carried these states twice.  For Republicans, winning any of the five in 2016 is only
possible with a candidate heavily favored by the Hispanic and
Asian-American populations, the study finds.  The last Republican to claim a large vote from these
constituents was former President  George W. Bush . In his 2004
re-election, he received 44 percent of the Hispanic vote and 43
percent support from Asian Americans, according to exit polls.  Without inroads into these populations in swing states,
Hummer said, a Republican presidential candidate “would
literally have to turn to the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic and get
all those states” to win election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  