-- It’s Not SARS: Reasons to Stay Calm About Bird Flu
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-15T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/it-s-not-sars-reasons-to-stay-calm-about-bird-flu.html
The bird-flu virus that suddenly
started killing people last month in  China  is unquestionably a
“serious human health risk,” as the scientists who discovered it
have  reported  in the New England Journal of Medicine. H7N9
contains gene sequences that make it relatively effective, for a
bird virus, at infecting humans and other mammals.  People don’t appear to have natural immunity, there’s no
vaccine, and so far about  one in five  known to have caught the
virus have died.  Fears grew as 11 more infections and three more deaths were
 announced  over the weekend.  This is no reason to freak out, though. The world is in a
better position to monitor flu strains emerging in China than it
was 10 years ago. That the Chinese have already reported
detailed observations in a major medical journal is evidence of
how far their public health system has come since the 2002
outbreak of  severe acute respiratory syndrome , which wound up
killing 774 people worldwide. Back then, the  World Health
Organization  chastised China for failing to cooperate enough
with global health authorities in the early weeks.  China has since built its own Center for Disease Control
and Prevention, staffed by many scientists who have trained with
infectious-disease specialists worldwide, and it follows
globally accepted protocols for responding to a new pathogen.
This agency has established a computer network linking all of
China’s county hospitals, so that it can stay abreast of any new
bird-flu diagnoses in real time.  Flu experts outside China have confidence in the Chinese
scientists’ assessment that so far people haven’t been catching
the H7N9 flu from other people. Although direct contact with
poultry hasn’t been established for all the victims, this is
often the case with bird flu; people either don’t remember or
don’t know that they have had such contact in their environment
or in their food.  There are other reasons to feel less worried about H7N9: In
their effort to examine the more than 1,000 people who have been
in contact with victims, doctors have found a 4-year-old Beijing
boy who is infected with the virus but has shown no flu
symptoms. Apparently, then, the illness isn’t always deadly or
debilitating. If this is right, then the number of infections
could soon rise rather abruptly, as doctors find H7N9 in more
symptom-free patients and others with only mild illness.  Now, as doctors begin early treatment with oseltamivir
(Tamiflu) or zanamivir (Relenza), the survival rate may also
improve significantly.  Two big challenges are to develop a molecular diagnostic
test that can specifically detect this virus and to create a
vaccine. Scientists in the U.S. and other countries will help
with these efforts. China has  sent samples  of the virus to labs
around the world -- another sign of the country’s improved
public-health response.  It remains urgent that scientists keep searching for any
signs of human-to-human transmission. Flu experts from the U.S.,
 Europe ,  Australia  and  Hong Kong   have been invited  to China,
according to  Bloomberg News , to help figure out where this bug
came from and how it’s being passed around.  Although H7N9 remains cause for worry, the truly global
response, this time with China taking the lead, should be a
source of comfort.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 