-- Italy Presidential Vote Set as Rift in Democratic Party Deepens
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-04-15T11:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/italy-presidential-vote-set-as-rift-in-democratic-party-deepens.html
Italian lawmakers will begin the
election of a new president on April 18 as the legislature seeks
to end a political impasse that’s left the country without a new
government six weeks after elections.  The 1,007-member electoral college, including all national
lawmakers and some regional representatives, will meet in  Rome  at
10 a.m. to start the vote, the Chamber of Deputies office said
in an e-mailed statement. The  Democratic Party , the country’s
biggest political force, remains divided on who to nominate to
succeed Giorgio Napolitano.  The president is largely a figurehead except in times of
political crisis. The next head of state will have to make a new
attempt to form a government and avoid a second general election
this year after the Feb. 24-25 vote produced a divided
Parliament.  Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi, who lost a bid to be the
party’s prime minister candidate to Pier Luigi Bersani in
December, yesterday criticized  some of the possible Democrat
candidates, including Anna Finocchiaro, the former chief whip of
the party in the Senate.  Finocchiaro replied today by saying that Renzi’s remarks
were “miserable” and the mayor “will never become a
statesman,” according to Ansa news agency.  The parties’ decisions in this week’s vote may be key to
their chances of influencing the next government,  James Walston ,
a professor at the American University in Rome, said today in a
blog posting. “Who they choose will be one of the ’dependence
paths’ that will change what follows,” Walston said.  Monti Caretaker  Multi-party talks after the inconclusive elections failed
to produce a government and  Mario Monti  continues to serve as
caretaker prime minister. Napolitano, whose seven-year term term
expires on May 15, said last week that it will be up to his
successor to resolve  Italy ’s political stalemate.  In past presidential elections two ballots per day were
held. To win in the first three rounds a candidate must secure
two-thirds of the potential votes. From the fourth round an
absolute majority is enough for victory, which means the
Democratic Party may be able to push through a candidate on
their own should a compromise on the president not emerge
sooner.  Former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  said in a speech on April
13 that his People of  Freedom Party  will oppose the election of
his predecessor  Romano Prodi  who is favored by some of the
Democrat lawmakers close to Renzi. Berlusconi’s party may back
former European Union Commissioner Emma Bonino for President,
daily  Il Messaggero  reported today, without citing anyone.  The 5 Star Movement, which captured more than a quarter of
the vote in the February elections, said its 163 electors will
back the candidate who gets most support in an online primary
ending today. Prodi and Bonino were among the 10 most-voted
names in the first day of the 5 Star’s primary on April 12.  -- With assistance from Chiara Vasarri. Editors:  Andrew Davis ,
Leon Mangasarian  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  