-- Hites Tumbles in Chile as Store Credit Card Fees Faulted
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-15T16:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/hites-tumbles-in-chile-as-store-credit-card-fees-faulted.html
Empresas Hites SA (HITES) , a department
store operator, dropped the most on Chile’s Ipsa index as the
government accused it of overcharging for credit cards.  Shares retreated 8.2 percent to 470 pesos at 1:46 p.m. in
Santiago, extending its two-day drop to 15 percent, the biggest
since August 2010. Hites rallied 37 percent in the first
quarter, making it the best Ipsa performer.  Chile’s consumer agency Sernac accused Hites of including
abusive clauses in credit card contracts. The company may be
forced to pay 2 million pesos ($4,236) per infraction and
compensate customers, Sernac said in a statement posted on its
website April 12. Hites said in a statement that it hasn’t been
formally notified of the accusations and its credit agreements
are in line with regulations.  “Although it’s too early to assess the effect of potential
fines, it’s good to bear in mind that among the retailers we
cover, Hites has the highest exposure to the financial
business,” Veronica Perez, an analyst at Banco de Credito e
Inversiones, said in an e-mailed report today.  Sernac said Hites and other department store operators
including Multitiendas Corona SA had wording in their contracts
that allowed them to charge special commissions when their cards
were used to buy items in installments. The contracts also
allowed the companies to charge management commissions twice,
according to Sernac.  Hites’s credit card business accounted for 71 percent of
its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
last year, according to calculations done by Bloomberg based on
the company’s most recent annual  filing  to  Chile ’s securities
regulator.  Gonzalo Irarrazaval, Hites’s head of management and
finance, wasn’t immediately available to comment, an assistant
said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  