-- J.C. Penney Cash Hunt Continues With $850M Revolver Tap
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-04-15T20:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/j-c-penney-draws-850-million-from-credit-facility.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  drew $850 million
from its revolving credit facility as new Chief Executive
Officer Myron Ullman hunts for cash in the wake of his
predecessor’s failed overhaul.  A week after replacing  Ron Johnson  as CEO, Ullman is trying
to improve J.C. Penney’s liquidity following the first year in
which retailer’s operations consumed cash in decades. The
drawdown on the $1.85 billion credit line will be used for
 capital spending  and to replenish inventory as the company opens
renovated home departments next month, the Plano, Texas-based
retailer said today in a statement.  J.C. Penney, which today said it is working with advisers
to raise additional capital, is focused on selling debt, said a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. While raising cash by selling a
stake to a private-equity firm is being considered, it’s not the
primary option, the person said.  “Mike Ullman has his work cut out for him in terms of
reassuring suppliers, landlords and employees that J.C. Penney
is going to be a going concern,” Alex Fuhrman, an analyst for
Piper Jaffray Cos. in New York, said in an interview. Assuming
it will have access to the rest of the credit facility, “the
company has enough liquidity to make it through the end of this
year, but next year is really more of the issue.”  J.C. Penney  fell  1.6 percent to $14.39 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 27 percent  this year , compared
with an 8.8 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
The stock sank 50 percent under Johnson’s reign from November
2011 to April 8.  Blackstone, Centerview  Blackstone Group LP is helping J.C. Penney raise at least
$1 billion, people familiar with the matter have said. The
company also has tapped Centerview Partners LLC for advice, a
person said today.  When compared to Johnson, Ullman “certainly takes a much
more conservative approach to our spending and our cash
reserves,” Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, said.
“He prefers to operate with a much larger cushion.”  While the drawdown was more than four times larger than
expected, “any capital raise that is not egregiously expensive
would be viewed positively for near-term liquidity,” Carla Casella and Paul Simenauer, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 New York , wrote in a note today upgrading J.C. Penney’s debt to
neutral.  The chain of 1,100 stores reinstated Ullman as CEO on April
8, two days after Chairman Thomas Engibous first contacted him
about returning to the job he relinquished to Johnson in
November 2011.  Adding Coupons  J.C. Penney is halting the practice of reducing discounts
than Johnson enacted and will put coupon advertising in
newspapers again,  Bill Ackman , the activist investor who is the
retailer’s largest shareholder, said last week.  The home department, whose renovations were under way when
Ullman returned, make up about 15 percent of the chain’s total
selling square footage and aren’t generating any sales now.  The pending lawsuit with  Macy’s Inc. (M)  over Martha Stewart-
brand goods also has clouded the departments’ rollout during the
next month. If J.C. Penney loses the dispute and isn’t allowed
to sell  Martha Stewart  items, it may have to liquidate as much
as $100 million of inventory, according to  Deborah Weinswig , an
analyst for Citigroup Inc. in New York.  J.C. Penney was expected to ramp up spending this quarter
to finish the home sections,  Fuhrman, the Piper Jaffray
analyst, said in an interview. What Fuhrman didn’t expect was
that the company would have to borrow this much from its
revolver so quickly.  Liquidity Deterioration  J.C. Penney showed signs of deteriorating liquidity when
its operations consumed $10 million in  cash  in the year ended
Feb. 2, the first year they’ve done so since at least 1987,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The retailer’s
operations generated $820 million in cash the previous year.  The company in February increased the size of the revolver
to $1.85 billion from $1.5 billion and got permission to expand
it to as much as $2.25 billion.  Five-year credit-default swaps on J.C. Penney rose 1.1
percentage point to 15.1 percent upfront at 4:11 p.m. in New
York, according to CMA, the data provider owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. that compiles prices quoted by dealers. That means it would
cost $1.51 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of obligations.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Urgent Situation  “People are looking for signs of how much of an urgent
situation this is, so tapping something to that size puts it in
the category of ‘fairly urgent,’” Michael Binetti, an analyst
for UBS AG in New York, said in an interview. Binetti expected
J.C. Penney to use $160 million from the  credit line  in the
first quarter and $600 million in the second quarter.  Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Hannah, who was hired
during Johnson’s stint, told analysts on a Feb. 27 conference
call to discuss fourth-quarter results that the company had
plenty of  liquidity  and would fund Johnson’s transformation of
the more than century-old chain with cash from operations. Two
weeks later, he said he wasn’t opposed to tapping the credit
line.  “Using that revolver for working capital requirements is
what it’s intended to be,” Hannah said in a March 13
presentation. “Trying to use it as a substitute for the fact
that you’re not connecting with your customer is something that
the company has to avoid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  