-- J.C. Penney Credit Swaps Rise as Retailer Draws on Credit Line
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-15T14:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/j-c-penney-credit-swaps-rise-as-retailer-draws-on-credit-line.html
Credit-default swaps tied to the
debt of  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  rose after the retailer said it drew
$850 million from its $1.85 billion revolving credit line as it
works to raise capital.  Five-year contracts linked to the retailer rose 1.3
percentage points to 15.3 percent upfront at 8:49 a.m. in New
York, according to CMA, the data provider owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. that compiles prices quoted by dealers. That means it would
cost $1.53 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of obligations.  Proceeds from the credit facility will be used to fund
capital spending and replenish inventory, J.C. Penney said in a
statement today, as the department-store chain opens newly
renovated home departments next month. J.C. Penney is evaluating
a range of options to raise at least $1 billion, including
selling a stake to a private-equity firm and has hired
Blackstone Group LP to help it with the process, people familiar
with the matter said last week.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt.  Creditors have been fleeing J.C. Penney, whose  debt rating 
Standard & Poor’s cut Feb. 28 to CCC+, a grade that indicates
vulnerability to nonpayment. The company’s cash position
declined to $930 million in the quarter ended Feb. 2 from $1.51
billion a year earlier.  J.C. Penney ousted Chief Executive Ron Johnson on April 8
after a dismal first year on the job and reinstated his
predecessor, Myron E. Ullman III. Sales in the year ended Feb. 2
plunged 25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest since at least
1987.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  