-- J&J Jury Urged to Award $5 Million for Failed Metal Hip
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-04-17T02:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/j-j-jury-should-award-5-million-for-defective-hip-lawyer-says.html
(Corrects verdict summary in story published April 15 to
say jury found proper warning in fourth paragraph.)  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy unit
defectively designed a metal-on-metal hip implant and should
award an Illinois nurse at least $5 million for harm caused by
her device’s failure, her lawyer argued to a Chicago jury.  DePuy knowingly sold defective ASR hips before J&J, the
world’s largest seller of health-care products, recalled all
93,000 of the metal-on-metal implants in August 2010, said
Denman Heard, an attorney for Carol Strum, the plaintiff. Heard
also urged jurors to award extra damages to punish the company.  “Shame on DePuy for allowing this to happen,” Heard said
in his two-hour closing argument at a trial that began on March
11. “They could have saved and prevented so much harm.”  The Strum lawsuit is the second of almost 11,000 around the
U.S. to go to trial. On March 8, J&J was ordered to pay $8.3
million in compensatory damages by a Los Angeles jury that found
the design was defective and DePuy properly warned of the risks.  Analysts have said the cases could cost J&J billions of
dollars.  Jurors began deliberating this afternoon after being told
how to apply the law to the evidence by Cook County Circuit
Judge Deborah Mary Dooling.  ‘Premeditated Attempt’  As in the first trial, DePuy’s lawyers today denied that
the device, made of chromium and cobalt, was defective. Heard’s
arguments were a “deliberate, conscious and premeditated
attempt to play on your sympathy,” DePuy attorney Richard
Sarver said in his closing argument.  The design of Strum’s ASR XL, which was implanted in
January 2008 and replaced with a different device three years
later, “had nothing to do with her bad outcome,” Sarver said.
Rather, he pointed to her biology and health problems, including
allergies, migraine headaches, chest and back pains, a family
history of Crohn’s disease and apparent autoimmune problems.  While Strum, 54, sat at a table in the well of the
courtroom beside her attorneys, her husband, Mike, watched the
proceedings with the couple’s son and daughter. Addressing them
directly, Heard called his client, “a courageous woman.”  “I believe that Carol Strum has earned her damages,”
heard said. “And she will most assuredly earn her damages in
the future with every waking moment, with every sleepless
night,” he said.  Bloodstream Metals  Evidence of blackened tissue and a spike in the presence of
metal ions in her bloodstream were proof that the DePuy device
implanted in Strum was shedding metallic debris into her body
and proof of a bad design.  “This does not just happen,” Heard said. At least one
study showed 47 percent of the ASR implants failed after seven
years, while another report showed a 37 percent failure rate
after four years, he said.  “From the summer of 2007, they knew that this was a doomed
product,” Heard said.  Still Sarver said the plaintiffs had failed to connect any
problem with the ASR to the problems Strum had with it.  “The ASR XL didn’t cause Mrs. Strum’s revision,” Sarver
said, using the clinical term for replacing one hip implant with
another. “It just didn’t.  Strum’s natural hip failed due to arthritis while she was
still in her 40s, the defense attorney said. She still suffers
pain with the implant that replaced the ASR.  State Lawsuits  J&J faces more than 10,750 ASR lawsuits. About 500 are in
state court in  Illinois , according to another attorney for
Strum, Peter J. Flowers.  About three-quarters of the total were consolidated in
federal court in Toledo,  Ohio . More than 2,000 are in state
court in  California . Others are in state courts around the U.S.
The next trial is scheduled in federal court in Ohio in May.  Heard called the ASR XL, ‘‘the biggest public catastrophe
of any hip implant ever put on the market” in the U.S., and “a
public health disaster.”  Defending DePuy’s design efforts, Sarver’s co-counsel,
Michael Conner, asked the jury to judge their product on what
was known between 2001 and 2003 when it was being designed, not
in 2011 after it was recalled.  “This is not a product that was developed on the back of a
napkin and sold,” the attorney said.  The case is Strum v. DePuy, 2011-L-9352, Circuit Court of
Cook County ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Cook County Circuit Court in Chicago at  aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  