-- Jail Bankers for Crimes, U.K. Labour’s Umunna Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-15T15:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/jail-bankers-for-crimes-u-k-labour-s-umunna-says.html
U.K. bankers involved in
activities such as Libor-rigging should face the threat of
prison to help restore public confidence in the finance
industry, the opposition  Labour Party ’s business spokesman said.  It “cannot be right” that people are jailed for fiddling
state-funded welfare payments while financial workers can rig
banking systems to make hundreds of thousands of pounds and
escape punishment, Chuka Umunna said in a speech at  Canary Wharf 
in  London ’s Docklands financial district today.  “Politicians are not in a position to lecture on trust --
we are less popular than you and we learnt the hard way after
the expenses scandal, when we had to get our house in order,”
Umunna said. “But at least the people saw politicians brought
to book -- with some of our number serving time in jail for
their wrongdoing.”  Umunna said Labour is “pro-City,” though his party will
be “unapologetically critical” when necessary. Labour is set a
new course on policy toward banks two years before the next
general election after being forced to bail out lenders during
the financial crisis.  “Particularly in respect of the Libor-rigging scandal, it
seems to me that we will not rebuild trust with the public or
affect a culture change in finance until custodial sentences are
imposed on those guilty of criminal wrongdoing in your sector,”
Umunna said.  “For us, the future of financial services -- the City --
is incredibly important,” he said. “Any potential government
hoping to take office and any current party of opposition
charged with scrutinizing what the government does, should want
to see the City thrive.”  Umunna singled out Barclays Plc for criticism, saying its
timing last month over its announcement of bonuses worth 40
million pounds ($61 million) just as Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  announced further austerity measures in its
budget sent “all the wrong messages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  