-- JPMorgan Risk, Antitrust Pleas, BlackBerry: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-15T12:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/jpmorgan-risk-antitrust-pleas-blackberry-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , whose trading
loss of more than $6.2 billion last year was fueled by the
adoption of a formula that understated risks, has adopted yet
another model.  JPMorgan said April 12 that it employed a new formula to
judge the risk of its credit derivatives position, at least the
fourth such model it’s used since January 2012. The portfolio
was built by Bruno Iksil, known as the London Whale because his
bets were so big they moved markets.  The bank changed its measurement of value at risk, or VaR,
for the credit derivatives book in the first quarter of this
year “to achieve consistency with like products” within the
corporate and investment bank, JPMorgan said April 12 in a
 supplement . “This change had an insignificant impact” to
average VaR for fixed income and the investment bank’s trading
and credit portfolio, the New York-based bank said.  JPMorgan had previously changed the VaR model, which
estimates the most amount of money a trading position can lose
on 95 percent of the trading days, when the corporate and
investment bank took over most of the credit book from the chief
investment office last year. That change last year reduced
JPMorgan’s estimated risk by 24 percent to $115 million in the
third quarter.  JPMorgan’s switch of risk models in January of last year
may have helped fuel the trading loss at the chief investment
office, Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon told the Senate
Banking Committee in June. The January 2012 switch and the
timing of the firm’s disclosures are the focus of an  inquiry  by
the Securities and Exchange Commission as the U.S. examines how
long executives knew about the CIO’s swelling bets and losses.  Separately, U.S. Senator  Carl Levin  said he plans to
forward results from his panel’s nine-month investigation into
JPMorgan Chase’s record trading loss to the Justice Department
and SEC to review for possible wrongdoing by company executives.  Levin made the remarks in an interview on Bloomberg
Television April 12.  Mark Kornblau, a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment on Levin’s remarks.  Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, said referrals to the
Justice Department and the SEC are “fairly routine” following
a review by his panel and, if the staff hasn’t already sent
their report to investigators, they should.  Compliance Policy  Europe Moves Toward Tax-Evasion Clampdown After Six-Nation Push  The European Union moved closer to agreement on a
coordinated clampdown on tax evasion as a total of nine
countries backed an initiative for automatic sharing of bank
details across borders.  The bloc’s six biggest nations won support from the
Netherlands, Belgium and Romania for their proposal to adopt the
U.S.’s  FATCA information-exchange  program, EU Tax Commissioner
Algirdas Semeta said in Dublin yesterday. Semeta also said the
27-nation EU is closing in on updates to a savings tax accord as
holdouts Luxembourg and Austria show willingness to compromise.  Governments from the U.K. to Poland are eyeing what the
commission estimates is 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of lost
tax revenue as many European nations struggle to narrow budget
deficits. Politics is also spurring the initiative, notably in
France, where President  Francois Hollande ’s popularity has
slumped after his budget minister resigned and admitted having
an offshore bank account following months of denials.  Luxembourg, one of the countries that previously resisted
giving up its banking secrecy rules, dropped its opposition
April 10, though Finance Minister Luc Frieden said April 13 that
he wants Europe to win broader global support for the initiative
within the Group of 20 nations.  The position of Austria, the other EU nation that has
defended banking secrecy, may also be shifting.  For more, click here.  U.S. Antitrust Plea Deals Won’t Name Non-Culpable Employees  The U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust division said it
will stop publicly naming individuals associated with corporate
antitrust plea agreements who aren’t believed to be culpable in
any alleged wrongdoing, according to a statement.  The names of so-called carved-out employees, which included
those who refused to cooperate with a probe, are currently
included in publicly filed corporate plea deals, Assistant U.S.
Attorney General Bill Baer said April 12 in an e-mailed
statement.  Employees against whom the government is still developing
evidence, or employees with “potentially relevant information”
who can’t be located, will be omitted from the publicly filed
portion of plea agreements.  In the past, corporate plea agreements have included a
provision offering non-prosecution protection to those employees
who cooperate and whose conduct didn’t warrant prosecution. The
division excluded, or carved out, employees who were believed to
be culpable from such receiving non-prosecution deals.  Baer said the division will continue to exclude from non-
prosecution agreements any employees whose conduct may warrant
prosecution.  Those decisions will be made on an “employee-by-employee
basis” depending on the evidence, he said.  “We will continue to demand the full cooperation of anyone
who seeks to benefit from the non-prosecution protection of a
corporate plea agreement, and will revoke that protection for
anyone who does not fully and truthfully cooperate with division
investigations,” Baer said.  CBRC Orders Banks to Control Loans to LGFVs, Sina.Com Says  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  ordered banks to
control their total outstanding loans to local government
financing vehicles, or LGFVs, Sina.com reported, citing
guidelines dated April 9.  Banks also must cap the proportion of LGFV loans at last
year’s levels to vehicles that have cash-flow coverage ratios of
less than 100 percent or liability-to-asset ratios higher than
80 percent, the report cited the guidelines as saying.  Compliance Action  Banks Drop Off ISDAFix Panel as CFTC Probes Rate-Rigging  Banks are leaving the panel that sets ISDAFix, the
benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market, as regulators
probe suspected manipulation of the rate.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank by assets, and
Japan’s  Mizuho Financial Group (8411)  stopped contributing to the
ISDAFix dollar rate between November and January, and haven’t
been replaced, documents on the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association’s website show. The industry group
didn’t give any reason for the lenders’ departure.  Firms are pulling out of rates such as the London interbank
offered rate, Euribor and ISDAFix on growing concern that they
may face lawsuits, fines and criminal penalties if found to have
engaged in wrongdoing. Without data from a large number of
firms, benchmarks risk becoming unrepresentative and losing the
confidence of the market, said Owen Watkins, a former regulator
at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  ISDAFix is used as a reference for parties looking to
settle interest-rate options and cancel swaps contracts.  For more, click here.  Barclays Received Most U.K. Bank Customer Complaints, FCA Says  Barclays Plc (BARC)  topped the list of the most-complained about
U.K. financial institutions in the second half of last year,
according to data compiled by the markets regulator.  The bank, based in London, received 414,302 complaints, a 6
percent decrease from the first half of 2012, the Financial
Conduct Authority said in an e-mailed statement today. Lloyds
TSB Bank Plc was second with 349,386, a 19 percent decline.  U.K. banks have been buffeted by a series of consumer
scandals in recent years, including improper sales of loan
insurance and some derivatives products. The sales of the loan
insurance, known as PPI, topped the list of complaints, followed
by checking accounts, general insurance products, credit cards,
and savings accounts.  Barclays said in a statement that it is continuing to make
improvements to its customer service and has seen complaints
fall by 184,000 in comparison to 2010.  “Our sole focus is on helping our customers and getting it
right so they don’t feel the need to complain in the first
place,”  the bank said in a statement. “These actions will
make a big difference going forward.”  Google Offer to Settle EU Antitrust Probe Unacceptable to Rivals  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s offer to settle an antitrust probe with the
European Union by labeling its own services more clearly in Web
search results is a “non-starter” for competitors such as
Microsoft Corp.  Microsoft, French legal search engine Foundem and at least
10 other companies that filed complaints against Google with the
EU will be able to give feedback on the remedies submitted by
the Mountain View, California-based company to settle the almost
three-year-old investigation.  Google, operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, told the Brussels-based EU that it would create more
distinction in searches between its own services and
competitors, a person familiar with the negotiations said last
week. Google also proposed to offer links to rival search
engines, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the details of the offer aren’t public.  The EU is preparing a market test based on Google’s formal
submission, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , said last week while declining to
comment on the specifics of Google’s offer. Al Verney, a
spokesman for Google in Brussels, said that the company
continues to cooperate with the commission.  For more, click here.  Standard Chartered in Talks With Zimbabwe on Black Ownership  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by
market value, said it’s in talks with Zimbabwe’s government on
plans to increase black ownership of its business in the
southern African nation.  Vicki Robinson, a spokeswoman for the London-based bank,
made the statement in an April 12 e-mailed response to
questions. “Standard Chartered has taken the conscious decision
to continue to maintain our long-standing commitment to doing
business in Zimbabwe,” she said in the e-mailed statement.  Under the country’s law, foreign-owned companies must sell
or cede 51 percent of their operations to black Zimbabweans or
the state-owned National Indigenization and Economic Empowerment
Board. The head of the board, Wilson Gwatiringa, said Standard
Chartered may lose its license if the bank doesn’t comply with
the law, the state-owned Herald newspaper reported April 12.  That came after Harare-based Newsday April 11 reported that
Zimbabwe Central Bank Governor Gideon Gono said there were no
plans to force Standard Chartered to close.  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s
biggest platinum producers, have agreed to cede 51 percent of
their Zimbabwe operations to black ownership, while Barclays Plc
and Standard Bank Group Ltd. have also submitted plans.  Standard Chartered, which operates in 16 African countries,
said earlier this year that income from Africa rose 15 percent
to $1.59 billion last year.  BlackBerry Asks Regulators to Probe ‘False’ Returns Report  BlackBerry (BBRY) , the Canadian smartphone maker, said it will ask
securities regulators to investigate a report that its new
phones have high return rates, arguing that the “false”
information may have been released in a deliberate attempt to
manipulate its stock price.  Detwiler Fenton & Co., a financial-services firm in Boston,
said April 11 that U.S. retailers were seeing a significant
increase in customers returning their Z10 phones because they
don’t find them easy to use.  “In several cases, returns are now exceeding sales, a
phenomenon we have never seen before,” Detwiler Fenton said.
The report contributed to a 7.8 percent plunge in BlackBerry
 shares  April 11, marking the stock’s worst one-day drop in
almost two months.  BlackBerry, based in Waterloo, Ontario, responded that
sales are meeting expectations and return rates are in line with
the rest of the industry. It asked both the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and the Ontario Securities Commission to
review the Detwiler report, saying it was either “a gross
misreading of the data or a willful manipulation.”  BlackBerry, formerly known as  Research In Motion Ltd. (BB) , is
counting on the new Z10 phone -- and its pending companion
device, the Q10 -- to fuel a turnaround after years of market-
share losses.  Anne Buckley, a spokeswoman for Detwiler Fenton, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  For more, click here.  M&T Says Fed Money-Laundering Review Delays Hudson City Deal  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  said a Federal Reserve review of its
compliance with anti-money-laundering rules has delayed its
planned purchase of  Hudson City Bancorp. (HCBK)  Both lenders declined
in New York trading.  M&T hired an outside consulting firm as part of its effort
to respond to the Fed, the Buffalo, New York-based bank said
April 12 in a statement with Hudson City.  “In view of the potential timeframe required to implement
this initiative, demonstrate its efficacy to the satisfaction of
the Federal Reserve and otherwise meet any other regulatory
requirements that may be imposed in connection with these
matters, M&T and Hudson City believe that the timeframe for
closing the transaction will be extended substantially,” the
companies said in a statement.  The banks postponed until Jan. 31 the date at which either
party can terminate the deal if a combination hasn’t already
been closed, and said “there can be no assurances that the
merger will be completed by that date.” The prior deadline was
Aug. 27.  M&T announced the agreement in August, valued at $3.7
billion at the time, as part of an effort to expand into New
Jersey. Hudson City has said record-low interest rates are
pressuring profits from residential lending.  M&T said it will discuss the status of the Hudson City deal
at a conference call scheduled for today to discuss first-
quarter results.  Eric Kollig, a Fed spokesman, declined to comment on the
regulator’s interactions with M&T.  Societe Generale Faces French Regulator Probe, Les Echos Says  Societe Generale (GLE)  faces a probe by Autorite des Marches
Financiers, the French market regulator,  Les Echos  reported.  An official from the regulator called for an 800,000 euro
($1.05 million) fine and an official warning for the bank, the
newspaper said.  Societe Generale doesn’t have enough employees in its
custodian bank unit to carry out relations with and audits of
fund management companies correctly, the AMF official said,
according to Les Echos. The regulator’s sanctions committee will
decide on the case in “a few weeks”, according to the
newspaper.  Courts  Ex-Altium Banker Charged With Insider Trading by U.K. Regulator  A former managing director at Altium Capital Ltd. was
charged in an insider-trading ring and will face trial next year
along with a former Deutsche Bank AG broker and four other men.  Grant Harrison was charged today with one count of
conspiracy to commit insider trading, said  Joseph Eyre , a
spokesman for the Financial Conduct Authority. Harrison’s case
was transferred to a higher criminal court for a hearing in
September.  Harrison will be added as a defendant in the case against
Martyn Dodgson, a former managing director at Deutsche Bank, a
lawyer for the regulator said at a hearing last month. The case
is scheduled to go to trial in September 2014 and last as long
as three months.  The charges stem from the FSA’s biggest insider-trading
investigation, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for little
tavern. The U.K. regulator arrested seven people and raided 16
addresses in London and southeast England in March 2010 as the
FSA sought to crack down on insider trading among bankers and
traders in London’s financial district.  Altium said in a statement last month that the allegations
relate to a period when Harrison worked with a previous
employer. Harrison’s lawyer, Gary Bloxsome, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment.  Interviews  Dimon Says Goal Is to Reach 9.5% Basel Target This Year  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  spoke on a
teleconference about capital requirements imposed by the Basel
committee.  For the audio, click here, and for more, click here.  Basel Rules Need to Be Replaced, Calomiris Says  Charles Calomiris, a professor at Columbia Business School,
talked about bank regulations and capital requirements.  Calomiris, who spoke with  Tom Keene , Scarlet Fu and Sara
Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance,” also discussed
the outlook for bank earnings and Federal Reserve monetary
policy.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 