-- Kentucky’s Noel Entering NBA Draft While Rehabbing Knee Injury
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-15T15:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/kentucky-s-noel-entering-nba-draft-while-rehabbing-knee-injury.html
University of Kentucky  freshman
Nerlens Noel will enter the National Basketball Association
draft as he continues to rehabilitate a torn knee ligament that
ended his college season in February.  Projected by analysts, including ESPN’s Chad Ford, to be
the top pick in the draft on June 27, Noel announced his
decision today in a statement on the university’s athletics
website. The 6-foot-10 forward had surgery two months ago to
repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee.  “I have loved my time at  Kentucky , but I feel that I’m
ready to take the next step to the NBA,” Noel, 19, said in the
statement.  Noel led the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  in
shots blocked per game, with 4.4, and had 50 steals, the only
player taller than 6-foot-5 to place in the top 30 in that
category, the statement said. He also averaged 10.5 points and
9.5 rebounds per game.  Noel tore the ligament in a game against  Florida  after
landing awkwardly on his left leg and running into the basket
support.  Analysts from ESPN and basketball website Sheridan Hoops
are among those projecting Noel to be the top pick in the draft,
held on June 27 at Madison Square Garden in  New York . The order
for the top 14 picks is determined in a lottery next month.  The NBA’s age limit prevents players from going directly to
the NBA from high school.  Anthony Davis , the top pick in the
2012 NBA draft after one year with Kentucky, was guaranteed
about $9.1 million over his first two professional seasons.  The Wildcats this season became the fifth defending
national champion since 1985 to miss the NCAA tournament, going
21-11 and losing in the first round of the National Initiation
Tournament. They have the country’s top-rated 2013 recruiting
class, according to ESPN.  -- Editor: Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  