-- Kodak Agrees to $210 Million Imaging Sale to Brother
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-15T14:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/kodak-agrees-to-210-million-imaging-sale-to-brother.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer, agreed to sell document-imaging assets to
Japanese office-equipment company  Brother Industries Ltd. (6448)  for
about $210 million, setting the minimum bid for an auction.  Any deal requires approval from the judge overseeing
Rochester, New York-based Kodak’s bankruptcy case, the companies
said in statements today. Nagoya, Japan-based Brother’s bid also
assumes about $67 million of customer prepayment liabilities.  Kodak is selling businesses to shrink and fund its shift
into commercial printing and packaging after seeking Chapter 11
protection in January 2012. Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez in December sold some of Kodak’s digital-imaging patents
for about $525 million, and is also looking for buyers for its
consumer-film and photo-kiosks divisions and shuttering its
consumer inkjet-printer unit.  The deal would add Kodak scanners, image-capture software
and technical services to Brother’s printers and fax machines.
An auction with Brother as stalking horse, or initial bidder,
will be run after sales procedures are approved later this
month, Kodak said.  Kodak needs to make progress selling the business units to
raise cash under a financing agreement that would enable it to
exit bankruptcy in the first half of this year.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash as the rise of digital photography eroded its film
business. The company cut about 4,000 jobs last year and spent
$3.4 billion on restructuring before bankruptcy, including
payouts to fire 47,000 employees since 2003.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  