-- KT Drops Bid for Vivendi’s Stake in Maroc Citing Price
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-15T11:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/kt-drops-bid-for-vivendi-s-stake-in-maroc-citing-price.html
KT Corp. (030200)  dropped out of a bid for
 Maroc Telecom SA (IAM)  because of “big differences” in valuation,
leaving two Middle Eastern carriers to vie for a $6 billion
stake held by  Vivendi SA. (VIV)   KT has withdrawn a non-binding bid for Vivendi’s 53 percent
holding in Maroc Telecom it made in December, South Korea’s
second-largest wireless carrier said today. The stake has also
attracted interest from  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and
 Qatar Telecom  QSC. Final bids are due around the end of this
month, said two people with knowledge of the matter, asking not
to be identified because the talks are private.  The sale is part of Paris-based Vivendi’s plan to focus on
media and content distribution and pare telecommunications
assets outside French wireless operator SFR. Last month, Vivendi
halted a planned disposal of GVT, its Brazilian phone and
Internet unit, after failing to get satisfactory bids for a
business it valued at more than $10 billion.  “There were big differences between Maroc’s market price,
the seller’s offered price and the price we estimated as
appropriate,” KT spokesman Lee In Won said by phone today.  Maroc Telecom added 0.4 percent to 109.5 dirhams at 11:13
a.m. in Casablanca, valuing Vivendi’s stake at about $6 billion.
Morocco’s government, which has a 30 percent holding, has to be
on board with any transaction.  Gabon, Mali  The carrier makes about 75 percent of its revenue in
Morocco, where it is the largest phone company, and owns assets
in  Mali ,  Burkina Faso , Gabon and Mauritania.  KT will consider other business partnerships and minority
investments with Maroc Telecom, the Seongnam, South Korea-based
carrier said in a statement. Last year, KT’s plan to acquire a
20 percent stake in South Korea’s Telkom SA Ltd. was blocked by
the local government.  Shares of Vivendi fell 1 percent to 15.98 euros in Paris.
KT  rose  1.3 percent to 34,450 won in trading. The announcement
was made after the Korean market closed.  A Vivendi representative declined to comment on the sale
process of Maroc Telecom.  Vivendi won’t do “fire sales” and is in no rush even if
some assets take longer to sell, Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Capron said in February. Shareholders are scheduled to
gather at an annual meeting April 30.  Qatar Telecom, which operates under the brand name Ooredoo,
has the capacity to finance a deal as it examines Maroc
Telecom’s financials, Chief Executive Officer Nasser Marafih
said in an interview in February. A company representative
declined to comment today.  People with knowledge of the matter said in February that
 Emirates Telecommunications , also known as Etisalat, was seeking
as much as $8 billion of loans to back a potential bid for the
Maroc Telecom stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  