-- Kuehne & Nagel Profit Doubles on Air Freight, Contract Logistics
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-04-15T06:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/kuehne-nagel-profit-doubles-on-air-freight-contract-logistics.html
Kuehne & Nagel International AG (KNIN) ,
the world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder, said  profit  almost
doubled as air freight and contract logistics units benefited
from measures to raise profitability at the company.  First-quarter net income rose to 132 million Swiss francs
($142 million) from 67 million francs in the first three months
last year, when the Schindellegi, Switzerland-based company also
booked a European Union antitrust fine of 65 million francs.
Revenue rose 5.4 percent to 5.09 billion francs.  “Particularly in view of the recessive economic situation
in the euro zone, we can be quite satisfied with the results,”
Chairman Karl Gernandt said in a statement. “The measures
introduced to increase efficiency and improve profitability are
working effectively. We will continue to focus on margin and
cost management and are therefore confident to achieve further
improvements.”  Subdued economic activity is weighing on shipping companies
as  Europe  is struggling to overcome its debt crisis. Industrial
production in the euro region has  declined  for 16 straight
months, and  China ’s economic growth unexpectedly lost momentum
in the first quarter as gains in factory output and consumption
weakened.  Kuehne & Nagel increased container volume shipped by 2.3
percent in the quarter, undermined by declining business from
Europe to Asia and “just” moderate growth in the opposite
direction, while other routes saw volume increases of 5 percent
to 10 percent. Growth opportunities will arise mainly in regions
outside of western Europe, Gernandt said. Air freight volume
rose by about 5 percent, compared with a decline of 2 percent
for the total market, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  