-- N.Y. Wins Right to Finish $410 Million Merkin Settlement
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-15T21:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/n-y-wins-right-to-finish-410-million-merkin-settlement.html
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman can go forward with a $410 million settlement with
J. Ezra Merkin, using his law enforcement powers to compensate
Merkin investors whose money was lost in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme, a judge ruled.  Madoff brokerage liquidator Irving Picard, who seeks to
collect $500 million from Merkin for a different set of the con
man’s investors, tried block the deal. He waited too long to do
so, only threatening to seek a halt,  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan ruled today. He dismissed what he called
Picard’s entire effort to “derail” the accord.  “The trustee, however, having for more than three years
issued empty threats to seek a halt to the attorney general’s
suit, has lost his right to complain,” Rakoff wrote. “Even on
the merits, moreover, his bluster proves to be without
substance.”  Picard plans to “pursue an appeal immediately,” Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, said in an e-mail.  The ruling “is a victory for justice and accountability
for many victims of Madoff’s Ponzi scheme,” Schneiderman said
today in a statement.  The combatants portrayed their dispute as a clash between
state law, governing a top law enforcer, and bankruptcy law,
regulating trustees in fraud cases. Rakoff took over the case
from a bankruptcy judge to decide if Schneiderman could complete
the deal with Merkin.  Picard’s Position  Picard has said that only he can sue investors who
allegedly participated in Madoff’s fraud, compensating customers
whose claims he has authorized. New York sued Merkin to pay
investors in his hedge funds who wouldn’t get paid by Picard
because they weren’t Madoff brokerage customers.  Rakoff rejected Picard’s argument that money Merkin paid to
settle New York’s suit was “stolen” from Madoff brokerage
customers, as Picard argued. Even before doing so, Rakoff said
he was guided by the legal principle that “prohibits
unreasonable, inexcusable and prejudicial delay” in asserting
one’s rights.  “Although aware from the outset of the NYAG’s action,
which was publicly filed in April 2009, the trustee sought no
judicial action to stay the NYAG’s action until the filing of
the instant action in August 2012, more than three years
later,” Rakoff wrote.  Investor Hardship  At a court hearing last month, David Ellenhorn, a lawyer
from Schneiderman’s office, told Rakoff that halting the deal
would cause hardship to investors in Merkin’s hedge funds who
refrained from bringing their own claims against Merkin in
reliance on the attorney general’s suit.  The Merkin funds, which funneled money to Madoff, cost
investors more than $1.2 billion in the fraud, New York has
said.  Madoff, arrested in 2008, is serving 150 years in prison
for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history, which effaced an
estimated $17 billion of investors’ principal.  Schneiderman accused Picard of using intimidation tactics
to try to stop the Merkin deal, and making “absurd”
pronouncements about the settlement. Picard accused Schneiderman
of making an “end run” around bankruptcy law with the
settlement.  “We get to go first,” David Sheehan, who represents
Picard, told Rakoff at the hearing. “We get the opportunity to
try to bring that money in.”  Lawsuit Threat  Picard began by threatening to sue the attorney general if
he didn’t “agree within 48 hours that the bankruptcy court
would have exclusive jurisdiction” over the fight, Schneiderman
said in court filings. Schneiderman refused, was sued and asked
Rakoff to take the case.  Picard said Schneiderman made a secret agreement allowing
Merkin to use some of the settlement money to help fend off
Picard lawsuits demanding $500 million.  Ellenhorn told Rakoff it is “required, and appropriate”
to pay Merkin’s lawyers for facilitating the settlement, which
requires Merkin to give up $410 million of his personal assets.
Most of the money will go to Ponzi victims after Schneiderman
recoups $5 million for three years of litigation against Merkin,
he said in a filing.  Picard has taken “far more” in fees for this case than
the amount that will cover the costs of New York’s Merkin
settlement, Ellenhorn said in a filing.  Legal Fees  The Madoff trustee and his firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP,
have run up total fees and expenses of about $390 million since
the confidence man’s December 2008 arrest, according to court
filings. The Securities Investor Protection Corp., which runs an
insurance fund to compensate investors for losses, has paid the
bills.  Picard, a bankruptcy lawyer, has challenged a state
attorney general before. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland
sent him into mediation after his fight with California Attorney
General Kamala Harris over her $270 million lawsuit against an
alleged beneficiary of the Ponzi scheme. The mediation
continues.  Separately, Merkin has said Picard is “extremely
unlikely” to win his lawsuit against Merkin and his hedge
funds. Rakoff shouldn’t allow the trustee to block the
settlement because “in the unlikely event” that Picard does
win part of his suit, Merkin’s funds would still be able to pay
him, Merkin said in a filing.  Who’s Compensated  Picard compensates only former Madoff brokerage customers
who lost invested principal. Investors who took more money out
of the brokerage than they put in don’t get paid. Nor do
investors in hedge funds that funneled some of the money to
Madoff, as New York accused Merkin’s funds of doing in the 2009
suit it settled.  New York alleged Merkin betrayed hundreds of investors,
including charities, by recklessly feeding money to Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme while falsely claiming he actively managed their
funds. Merkin controlled four funds that invested more than
$2 billion with Madoff, according to Schneiderman.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 