-- Najib Plans One Third New Candidates to Fight Malaysia Poll
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-04-15T09:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/najib-plans-one-third-new-candidates-to-fight-malaysia-poll-2-.html
One in three candidates from
Malaysia’s ruling coalition for the May 5 election will be new
as Prime Minister Najib Razak opts for a slate of fresh faces to
fend off a resurgent opposition led by  Anwar Ibrahim .  “We are going to put many new faces in places and states
that we have lost to the opposition,” Najib, 59, told reporters
in Kuala Lumpur today. Candidates’ names will be made public
tomorrow, with 33 percent new contenders in the national
parliament and 49 percent in state assembly seats, the prime
minister said.  Energy,  Green Technology  and Water Minister Peter Chin,
former Home Minister Syed Hamid Albar, former Trade Minister
Rafidah Aziz and former Health Minister Chua Soi Lek are among
long-serving politicians who have announced they won’t be
contesting next month. Shahrizat Abdul Jalil, who resigned as
minister for women, family and community last year amid a
corruption probe against her husband, has also said she won’t
run, state news service Bernama reported April 9.  In taking the coalition to the polls for the first time as
prime minister, Najib has touted his credentials on fighting
graft, and announced cash handouts for low-income families and
higher pensions for civil servants. He has warned local leaders
to avoid infighting as he seeks to defeat Anwar’s People’s
Alliance and extend 55 years of unbroken rule.  Najib didn’t confirm which current and past ministers won’t
be running in the election, nor name any of the new contenders.  Internal Sabotage  “The numbers don’t necessarily tell us that he’s actually
bringing in new ideas, people who have new talent,”  Bridget Welsh , associate professor of political science at  Singapore
Management University , said by phone. “We have to wait and see
who the people are.”  The 13-party Barisan Nasional, also known as the National
Front, won 63 percent of seats in parliament in the last
election in 2008, its worst performance since Malaysia’s
independence from Britain in 1957. It lost control of five of
the country’s 13 state assemblies, before later regaining power
in Perak following defections from the opposition alliance.  Internal sabotage cost the coalition its two-thirds
majority in parliament in 2008, Khairy Jamaluddin, UMNO’s youth
wing leader, said in an interview last month. Najib’s coalition
now holds 137 seats and the opposition alliance has 75,
according to the Malaysian parliament  website .  Anwar, 65, leads an ideologically disparate opposition that
includes one party with mostly ethnic Chinese and another whose
members support the wider implementation of Islamic law. While
his People’s Alliance party has yet to release its full
candidate list, it has announced nominations in some states.
Anwar has already said he will defend his seat in Penang.  ‘Closer Election’  Brokerages from RHB Investment Bank Bhd. to Citigroup Inc.
expect a closer election result than in 2008. The FTSE Bursa
 Malaysia  KLCI Index closed at a record high on April 11, though
it has lagged other benchmarks in  Southeast Asia  since the start
of the year, rising 0.5 percent. The KLCI index closed little
changed today.  Najib inherited an economy in recession when he took over
in 2009. The economy has expanded by more than 5 percent for
each of the past six quarters through the end of 2012, buoyed by
domestic demand and investment.  Private investment has tripled since Najib began his
economic-transformation program in September 2010, rising 25
percent last year to 139.5 billion ringgit ($46 billion),
according to government data.  Graft Focus  While Malaysia moved to 54th from 60th place among 176
countries in Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions
Index last year, it was ranked last for bribery among 30 nations
surveyed. Najib is trying to counter criticism from the
opposition that companies from power producers to toll-road
operators have unfairly benefited from their government ties.  Almost half of the people surveyed in a Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research poll said fighting graft is a more pressing
issue for the government than taming inflation or boosting
foreign investment.  The survey of 1,021 voters conducted Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 also
showed Najib’s approval rating slipped to 61 percent in early
February from 63 percent at the end of December, while 48
percent of respondents said they were “happy” with the
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  