-- New Zealand Labor Shortage After Quake Stirs Wage Worries
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-16T04:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/new-zealand-labor-shortage-after-quake-stirs-wage-worries.html
Design engineer Stephanie Thompson
quit her job in  Australia ’s mining industry and moved with her
husband to New Zealand to help rebuild the earthquake-damaged
city of Christchurch.  “Work isn’t that great back home anymore and we’ve got
work here,” said Thompson, 30, who moved from Perth in June to
design waste-water systems on a six-month contract that she’s
extended for a year. In Perth, “it’s all money and mining. We
came here to do something more meaningful.”  New Zealand’s third-largest city is tapping labor markets
in Australia,  Asia  and the U.K. as well as other parts of the
country to find enough workers for a NZ$30 billion ($26 billion)
rebuilding program. That may have a downside: it threatens to
raise wage costs in the economy, fueling  inflationary pressure .  “There isn’t enough labor available to do the work,” said
Robin Clements,  New Zealand  economist at UBS AG in Christchurch.
“If we haven’t got enough workers we need to attract them from
the rest of the country or overseas. If we pay more to attract
people, then their employers are going to be paying more to
retain them.”  As many as 15,000 extra workers including plumbers,
carpenters and electricians will be needed in the city,
according to a government  report  published in December. In some
skilled trades, demand may outstrip supply, meaning migration
will be essential, it said.  Homes Wrecked  The city and the surrounding Canterbury region suffered a
magnitude 7 earthquake in September 2010 that damaged homes and
roads, with no loss of life. In February 2011, even as the
effects of the first shock were being repaired, another temblor
hit, killing 185 people and wrecking much of the city center,
including its cathedral, sports stadium and tallest hotel.  About 100,000 homes were damaged and 7,000 were condemned.
About 70 percent of the shops, hotels and office buildings in
the heart of the city have been demolished. People left the city
after the disaster and the 7,930 aftershocks that followed. The
population fell to 363,100 in June 2012 from 376,700 two years
earlier, according to  Statistics New Zealand .  Rebuilding is accelerating after it had been delayed by
aftershocks, issues over insurance and identification of which
land was no longer suitable to rebuild homes on because of
unstable soil. In the central city, a reduced cordon remains in
place as final demolitions continue, making it hard for land
owners to plan new developments and attract tenants.  “The delays in opening up the city are creating an
environment of disengagement,” a group representing about 200
property owners said in a  report  last week, “reducing building
owners commitment to the central city.”  Policy makers are “mindful of the potential rise in
inflationary pressures as construction activity increases over
the coming years,” the central bank said in its  monetary policy
statement  on March 14.  Inflation Risk  “Reconstruction in Canterbury also poses some upside risk
for inflation,” the statement said. The region’s housing market,
building costs, construction wages and rents are rising “at
rates well above national averages.”  The boost in Christchurch’s economy contrasts with much of
the rest of the country, where the effects of a strong currency,
excess capacity and a summer drought are suppressing growth.  This two-speed economy allowed central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler last month to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 2.5 percent and say he expected it to remain there
for the rest of the year. The central bank forecasts inflation
won’t reach the 2 percent midpoint of the range Wheeler is
required to target until the second half of 2015.  Clements at UBS forecasts 2 percent inflation by mid-2014
and projects a rate rise in September because of the rebuilding
program in the south and a recovering housing market. New
Zealand faces a challenge of raising economic growth from a
projected 2 percent to 3 percent a year, Prime Minister John Key
said in Wellington today.  ‘Ridiculous’ Wages  “There’s huge pressure on labor,” said Rob Uffindel,
general manager of Christchurch Ready Mix Concrete Ltd. “There
are businesses out there paying ridiculous amounts of money for
guys to drive trucks and diggers.”  The closely held company doubled its fleet of trucks to 48
in the past 18 months as demand for concrete in building
foundations, walls and driveways accelerated to levels last seen
during a building boom in 2007. Fourth-quarter  concrete sales  in
Christchurch rose 51 percent from a year-earlier, according to
industry data.  “We need more people than we can put through our training
program,” Uffindel said in an interview in a temporary office
at the company’s site north of Christchurch, where the September
2010 quake damaged its administration building.  It takes six months to train a driver to operate the
concrete pouring equipment on his vehicle, he said.  Labor Squeeze  The labor squeeze is filtering through to prices. The cost
of building a new house in Canterbury surged more than 10
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, compared to a
3.1 percent average gain for the country,  Statistics New Zealand 
said in January.  Wages in the  construction industry  in Christchurch rose on
average 5.5 percent last year, compared with 3.9 percent
nationally, according to the quarterly Labor Cost Index produced
by Statistics New Zealand on Feb. 5.  Finance Minister  Bill English  predicted the labor market in
Canterbury will keep growing. The region added 16,100 jobs in
2012 and the jobless rate fell to 4.9 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with a  national rate  of 6.9 percent, according
to government figures. First quarter figures are published May 9.  “We are seeing significant number of migrant workers
coming in,” English said last month in an interview. The
government is seeking conditions that are “attractive to
investors, which is a labor market that can meet the fast-
growing demand of construction.”  Overseas Search  Canterbury added a net 1,200 migrants in the year ended
February, compared with a net loss of 3,750 people a year
earlier in the aftermath of the quake, according to Statistics
New Zealand. Companies have advertised for staff overseas using
recruitment sites such as U.K.-based  CareerStructure.com  and
 ConstructionJobs.ie  in Ireland.  The earthquakes prompted the return of some expatriate New
Zealanders like Julian Watt, who went back to his homeland in
September after more than six years in  London . The 35-year-old
architect took advantage of demand for his skills in
Christchurch rather than settling in his home town of Wellington,
the nation’s capital.  “We thought everything else is basically in recession
globally apart from parts of Asia, and New Zealand was still
going strong,” Watt said in a telephone interview. “It was a
good opportunity to come back while there was growth in
Christchurch to do this rebuild. We’re busy employing people.”  Major Projects  Fletcher Building Ltd., (FBU)  the nation’s largest construction
company, is gearing up for a surge in demand for commercial
buildings and major projects such as university and hospital
expansions, said Alan Orange, who co-ordinates the Auckland-
based company’s operations in Canterbury.  “There will be some issue with key labor supply,” Orange
said in an interview in February. “There will come a point
where the ability to get enough subcontractors with requisite
skills will hit.”  Fletcher can bring teams from other parts of New Zealand
and may hire overseas, he said. “Should the resource not be
able to be found here, we won’t have any hesitation in employing
offshore people,” he said.  For Thompson, the decision to relocate from Australia was
about more than a job opportunity.  “Work you do in engineering can be under-appreciated,”
she said in an interview at her office in west Christchurch.
“Here people have gone through a lot. If you haven’t had your
sewerage connected then you realize that sort of work is bloody
important. It’s nice to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  