-- NYC Begins Selling $95 Memberships in Bike-Share Program
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-04-15T17:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/new-york-city-begins-selling-memberships-in-bike-share-program.html
Annual memberships went on sale for
 New York  City’s delay-plagued bike-share program, the newest
public transit option in the most populous U.S city.  Beginning next month, 6,000  Citigroup Inc (C) .-sponsored
bicycles will be available from 330 solar-powered docking depots
in parts of Manhattan south of 59th Street and in sections of
 Brooklyn , transportation officials said today at a news
briefing. The first 5,000 to buy a $95-per-year pass will be
deemed “founding members” and get access to perks, including
discounts, they said.  “This is good for business, it’s good for mobility, it’s
good for safety, it’s good for the city,” Transportation
Commissioner Janette Sadik-Khan told reporters in Brooklyn.  The docking stations, where bikes will be housed when not
in use, began cropping up in recent days, a sign that the
program’s latest given start date of May would hold up. The
program was initially slated to begin in July 2012 and got
delayed, first by software problems and then by  Hurricane
Sandy ’s floodwaters, which damaged electrical components in
about two-thirds of the equipment.  Nation’s Biggest  New York’s bike share will be the biggest in the U.S.,
joining similar programs in more than 200 cities from  China  to
Barcelona. Private companies, not taxpayers, are behind its
funding: Citigroup, the New York-based bank, is contributing $41
million to be the chief sponsor and namesake, and  MasterCard
Inc. (MA)  is behind the program’s $6.5 million payment system.
Profits are to be split with the city.  Sadik-Khan praised the program’s pricing, which favors the
heaviest user and is competitive with subway and bus fares. An
annual membership costs $95 for 45-minute rides, $17 cheaper
than a monthly subway pass. A 24-hour pass covers an unlimited
number of 30-minute rides for $9.95.  When it was initially announced in 2011, officials said the
program would grow to 10,000 bikes.  “We’re starting with the 6,000 bikes first, and we’ll take
it from there,” Sadik-Khan said in response to a question about
plans for expansion.  Since 2007, New York has added more than 300 miles (482
kilometers) to the now more than 700-mile bike-lane system, and
the streets have never been safer, Sadik-Khan said. The number
of related injuries has remained flat as the number of cyclists
has doubled since 2006.  Also during this time, the city has distributed thousands
of free helmets and will continue to do so, she said. Members
will also get access to discounts on the protective headgear.  “Bike helmets will be as common a  New York City  accessory
as an umbrella or sunglasses,” Sadik-Khan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  