-- New York Gun Limits Intact as High Court Rejects Appeal
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-15T16:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/new-york-gun-limits-intact-as-high-court-rejects-appeal.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  dealt a
rebuff to gun-rights advocates including the  National Rifle
Association , leaving intact  New York ’s requirement that people
wishing to carry a handgun in public show a special need for
protection.  Refusing for now to be drawn into the fractious nationwide
debate over  firearms , the justices today let stand a federal
appeals court decision that said the century-old New York law
didn’t infringe the Constitution’s Second Amendment. The court
made no comment, turning away an appeal by five New York
residents and a gun-rights group as part of a list of orders
released in Washington.  High court review of the New York case would have
threatened public-possession restrictions in as many as 10
states. Lower courts are divided on the measures, making it
likely the Supreme Court will consider the issue at a later
point.  “It is only a matter of time before the justices hear a
case about public possession of guns,” said  Adam Winkler , a
professor at the  University of California  at Los Angeles School
of Law and the author of a book on the history of the gun-rights
battle.  In upholding New York’s law, which requires applicants to
show “proper cause” to get a permit to carry a weapon, a
federal appeals court pointed to what it called “a longstanding
tradition of states regulating firearm possession and use in
public because of the dangers posed to public safety.”  Westchester County  The measure was challenged by five residents of New York’s
Westchester County and the Second Amendment Foundation, a gun-
rights group based in Bellevue, Washington. The National Rifle
Association and 20 states backed the appeal.  The state “treats the carrying of handguns for self-
defense not as a right but as an administrative privilege lying
beyond the reach of most people,” the residents, led by Alan
Kachalsky, argued in court papers.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman countered that
the state’s law “is similar to the types of longstanding laws
that courts have repeatedly upheld.”  The high court rebuff “is a victory for families across
New York who are rightly concerned about the scourge of gun
violence that all too often plagues our communities,”
Schneiderman said in a statement after the court acted.  Divided Courts  In 1981, just three states -- Maine,  Washington  and  Vermont 
-- let typical residents carry firearms in public without giving
a reason. Today, about 40 states do.  Federal appeals courts are divided on the remaining laws
that restrict public possession. A different court struck down
an Illinois law that barred most people from carrying a loaded
weapon in public, saying it violated the Constitution’s Second
Amendment.  A third federal appeals court last month upheld a  Maryland 
law that requires “good and substantial reason” for having a
handgun in public. A fourth case, involving a New Jersey law, is
now before yet another appeals court.  Those cases may eventually be appealed to the Supreme
Court.  The legal disagreement stems from ambiguities in the 2008
Supreme Court decision that, for the first time, said the
Constitution protects an individual right to bear arms. That
ruling focused on gun rights in the home, striking down a
 District of Columbia  handgun ban. A follow-up case in 2010 also
involved in-home possession.  Greater Power  In the New York case, the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
said that, while the Second Amendment applies in public, the
government has greater power to impose restrictions there.  Outside the home, “public safety interests often outweigh
individual interests in self-defense,” the three-judge panel
said.  The December shooting in Newtown,  Connecticut , which killed
20 children and six adults, unleashed a flurry of legislative
activity around the country, often dividing lawmakers along
partisan lines.  New restrictions on guns have passed in New York,
Connecticut,  Colorado  and Maryland, all of which are led by
Democrats. More states have moved in the opposite direction: Six
relaxed restrictions, including those on carrying guns into
churches, schools or workplace parking lots.  The Senate is considering legislation that would expand the
number of people subject to background checks when they buy a
firearm.  The case is Kachalsky v. Cacace, 12-845.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  