-- Nigeria’s MEND Issues Threat to Bomb Mosques, Kill Clerics
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-04-15T15:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/nigeria-s-mend-issues-threat-to-bomb-mosques-kill-clerics-2-.html
Nigeria’s Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta threatened to bomb mosques and
assassinate Muslim clerics, a week after saying it killed 15
security personnel in the southern oil-producing Bayelsa state.  The campaign will start May 31 “to save Christianity in
Nigeria from annihilation,” MEND spokesman  Jomo Gbomo  said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The bombings of mosques, haj
camps, Islamic institutions, large congregations in Islamic
events and assassinations of clerics that propagate doctrines of
hate will form the core mission of this crusade.”  MEND, the main rebel group in the oil-rich south, may call
off “Operation Barbarossa” if Christian organizations and the
group’s suspected leader  Henry Okah  intervene, Gbomo said. It
also urged the Islamist militants of Boko Haram to stop
attacking Christians and churches.  Boko Haram has waged a violent campaign since 2009 to
impose Islamic law in Africa’s biggest oil producer that has
killed hundreds of people in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja,
the capital.  MEND destroyed a  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  oil well in Nembe in
southern Bayelsa state on April 13 as part of a separate
operation it calls “Hurricane Exodus,” Gbomo said.  Precious Okolobo, a Lagos-based spokesman for Shell’s
Nigerian unit, said today by phone that he couldn’t confirm the
attack.  Resume Attacks  MEND has always focused on the Niger River delta and the
control of oil resources and never had a religious agenda,
 Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Financial
Derivatives Co., a Lagos-based business advisory group, said by
phone from the commercial capital, Lagos.  “If it’s real, it’s a problem,” Rewane said, commenting
on the threat to attack Muslim targets. “I doubt that it’s
genuine; it could be contrived for political reasons.”  The naira was unchanged at 157.9 against the dollar at 4:26
p.m. in Lagos.  Qua Iboe crude , Nigeria’s benchmark grade,
dropped 20 cents today to $3.15 a barrel more than Dated Brent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its premium climbed to
$3.60 a barrel on April 5, the highest since October 2011.  MEND said April 3 it would resume attacks after Okah was
sentenced last month to 24 years in prison in South  Africa . He
was found guilty of 13 counts of terrorism, including a bombing
claimed by MEND in which 12 people died in Abuja in 2010.  Policemen Killed  On April 10, Nigerian authorities recovered 10 bodies of
policemen killed four days earlier in an attack on a boat by
gunmen in the oil-rich Niger River delta, Bayelsa state Police
Commissioner Kingsley Omire said.  Three policemen and the boat driver jumped in the river in
the southern state when gunmen opened fire and were later
rescued, Omire said. The attack was claimed by MEND, which said
it killed all 15 people aboard.  Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni
SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. that pump most of the country’s oil. Nigeria
depends on crude exports for more than 95 percent of foreign
income and 80 percent of government revenue, according to the
Petroleum Ministry.  While Okah denies being a leader of MEND, he has said he
commands the support of many armed factions in Nigeria’s oil
region.  Attacks including kidnappings and bombing of oil
installations by groups including MEND cut more than 28 percent
of Nigeria’s oil output between 2006 and 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The violence declined after thousands of
fighters accepted a government amnesty offer in 2009 and
disarmed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  