-- Nokian Renkaat Stock Falls on Bridgestone Russia Strategy
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-04-15T10:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/nokian-renkaat-stock-falls-on-bridgestone-russia-strategy.html
Nokian Renkaat Oyj (NRE1V) , the Nordic
region’s biggest tiremaker, fell to a two-month low after global
industry leader  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  announced plans to open its
first plant in  Russia  in 2016.  Nokian Renkaat dropped as much as 3.8 percent to 31.19
euros, the lowest intraday price since Feb. 6, and was trading
down 3.5 percent at 1:11 p.m. in Helsinki in the biggest decline
among Finnish  benchmark stocks . Volume was 62 percent of the
three-month daily average.  Bridgestone, the world’s largest tiremaker, will invest
$380 million in a factory making passenger vehicle tires in
Russia, the Tokyo-based company said on April 12. The Russian
economy will grow 2.4 percent in 2013, compared with the 5
percent medium-term target set by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , according to the  Economy Ministry . Russian industrial
output probably fell for a third month in March as the European
sovereign-debt crisis hurt exports and investment.  “Part of the the stock’s drop probably has to do with
Russia’s weaker economic prospects, but more important, it’s
about Bridgestone’s plans to build a new plant in the country,”
Rauli Juva, a Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said by
phone. “Increasing competition could affect Nokian Renkaat’s
market share or pricing power.”  Russia and other former Soviet republics increased their
share of Nokian Renkaat’s revenue to 35 percent last year from
27 percent in 2011. Total sales more than doubled to 1.6 billion
euros ($2.1 billion) last year from 798.5 million euros in 2009.
 Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest tiremaker and the
region’s second-largest car-component manufacturer, said today
that first-quarter sales and operating profit fell from year-
earlier figures.  “Continental’s comments may have also frightened somebody,
but it’s still unclear whether their weak quarter has to do with
tire sales or something else,” Nordea’s Juva said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  