-- North America Cocoa Grind Seen Down in Survey on Slowing Economy
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-04-15T16:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/north-america-cocoa-grind-seen-down-in-survey-on-slowing-economy.html
Cocoa processing in  North America 
probably fell during the first quarter amid sluggish economic
growth and as more chocolate makers operate plants in African
and Asian countries that grow the beans, a survey showed.  In the three months ended March 31, processing, a measure
of demand, probably dropped to 118,061 metric tons from 119,022
tons in the same period a year earlier, according to the average
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Declining demand in North America reflects the slower
“economy and more grinding in other locations, including Ivory
Coast and Indonesia,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist with
Citigroup Inc. in Chicago, said in an e-mail.  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, grew at a 0.4
percent annualized rate in the fourth quarter compared with 4.1
percent a year earlier, Commerce Department data showed.  In  Indonesia , the world’s third-largest grower, new plants
are being built and existing facilities improved, Zulhefi Sikumbang, the chairman of the Indonesian Cocoa Association,
said last month. The country’s capacity expanded after the
government taxed bean exports in 2010, he said.  Producing nations, including top grower Ivory Coast,
currently process about 43 percent of the world’s beans,
according data from the London-based International Cocoa
Organization. That will increase to about 50 percent within
three years as producers seek to extract more value, the ICO
estimated last year.  Rising Demand  Global cocoa consumption will expand annually by 3 percent
to 3.5 percent in the next five years, driven by  emerging
markets , according to broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd. With
Europe still the leading consumer of chocolate, and Asia showing
the best demand-growth rates, the North American figures will
have less weigh on futures prices,  Jonathan Parkman , the co-head
of agriculture at London-based Marex Spectron, said in a
telephone interview on April 11.  The National Confectioners Association will release the
first quarter data on April 18 in Washington. The report will
include figures for Canada, Mexico and the U.S. The
Association’s members include  Barry Callebaut (BARN)  AG, the world’s
largest maker of chocolate in bulk, as well as  Hershey Co. (HSY)  and
Mars Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  