-- Obama’s Second Term Already Looks Like a Failure
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-04-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/obama-s-second-term-already-looks-like-a-failure.html
President  Barack Obama ’s second
term has so far been a story of high liberal hopes and scant
liberal achievements.  The president has been re-elected, demographic trends favor
the growth of his coalition, his party has a technological edge,
and his opposition is confused and divided. One might therefore
expect Obama to be enacting the legislative agenda of that
rising coalition. Yet the White House has to be disappointed,
whatever it says, by the way the second term has been going.  The president’s poll numbers have been falling since
December, for one thing. His average  job-approval rating ,
compiled on Pollster.com, has been below 50 percent for weeks.  And liberal policy gains have been sparse, and mostly
unrelated to Obama. His campaign for new gun regulations is
fizzling out -- and not, primarily, because of opposition from
the Republican House or filibuster threats from Republican
senators. Harry Reid, the leader of the Senate Democrats, has
kept an assault-weapons ban out of the gun bill because it had
fewer than 40 supporters. That’s in a chamber that has 55
Democrats. The main gun legislation now under consideration is a
proposal for “universal background checks” that is filled with
exemptions.  Liberals can celebrate the rapidly increasing support for
same-sex marriage. Most of the action on that issue, though, is
taking place in state legislatures, referendums and the courts.
Obama hasn’t had much to do with it. If the Supreme Court
declares traditional marriage laws unconstitutional, it won’t be
because the administration has asked for it; it hasn’t.  Fiscal Fights  The main policy achievement that liberals have made since
the election was the tax increase at the start of the year,
which led some to suggest that Obama had broken Republican
opposition to higher taxes. But the most powerful force in that
debate was inertia, not Obama: Taxes were already scheduled to
rise, and the legislation just limited the increase.  The fiscal fights since then haven’t gone well for the
White House. Its scare talk about the sequestration has been
quietly abandoned because most Americans aren’t seeing any
effect from it in their own lives. Obama wanted to replace some
of the sequestration cuts with increased revenue. The bill that
Congress passed to fund the government through September instead
left the cuts in place and added no revenue. He felt he had to
sign it.  Republicans have effectively sidelined him by insisting
that future budget bills will come from “regular order” in
Congress rather than an extraordinary negotiation with the
president. He has also sidelined himself by putting out a budget
only after the House and the Senate had passed theirs, and
including less deficit reduction than either of them. Obama
could end up signing fewer pieces of major legislation in the
first year of his second term than did George W. Bush.  There is still a chance of a breakthrough on immigration,
although official  Washington  is overconfident on that issue.
There seems to be a tacit agreement among congressional
Republicans and Democrats alike that a bill is more likely to
pass the less the president is involved in drafting it.  On immigration, the budget and other issues, the president
will, of course, have influence: Senate Democrats won’t want to
break with him in public. There is, however, essentially no
chance that he will veto anything that the Democratic Senate
passes, and thus Republicans can safely pay him little attention
on many issues.  Weak Relationships  The president’s widely publicized “charm offensive” may be
an attempt to make him relevant again; reading between the lines
of some  news accounts  about it suggests as much. If so, it’s an
extraordinary pass for him to reach just weeks into his second
term.  Obama’s inability to make the most of what ought to be
liberalism’s moment may reflect his weak relationships with
lawmakers in both parties and lack of interest in strengthening
them. That complaint is often heard on Capitol Hill. Republicans
also say they prefer to deal with Vice President Joe Biden, who
negotiates, rather than with Obama, who lectures them.  It may also be a result of the geography of Obama’s
majority coalition. His voters are concentrated in major
metropolitan areas. Even if the last round of gerrymandering
hadn’t favored the Republicans, it would be hard to assemble a
House majority from Obama’s voters. The Democratic majority in
the Senate, meanwhile, exists only because it includes
candidates elected in more conservative states that voted for
 Mitt Romney  in the 2012 presidential election. That’s why the
Senate is debating such weak gun legislation, and why it isn’t
debating climate-change legislation at all.  Obama outlined an ambitious liberal vision in his inaugural
and  State of the Union  addresses this year. It doesn’t look like
he’s going to do much to advance it.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  