-- Modi’s Prominence Triggers Row in India’s Opposition Alliance
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-15T05:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/modi-s-prominence-triggers-row-in-india-s-opposition-alliance.html
India ’s opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party  rejected pressure from its biggest alliance partner over
the bloc’s choice of candidate for prime minister, widening a
rift sparked by the growing clout of  Narendra Modi .  In a statement, the party said it was “unfortunate” that
its allies were concentrating their energies on criticizing BJP
leaders instead of focusing on the battle to oust the government
of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in elections due to be held by
May next year. “Unfounded interference” in BJP decision-making
wasn’t welcome, it said.  The comments were a rebuke to leaders of the Janata Dal
(United) party who after a weekend meeting said the National
Democratic Alliance’s pick for premier should have a secular
image. That was seen as a rejection of Modi for his actions
during anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat state, which he has governed
since 2001.  Modi was elevated to the BJP’s highest decision-making body
this month, bolstering his stature amid jockeying to lead the
party and the NDA into the parliamentary polls. He has since
made a string of high-profile speeches and been praised by party
chief Rajnath Singh.  The  Janata Dal (United) , which has 20 seats in the 545-
member lower house of parliament and rules the eastern state of
Bihar, said yesterday in a resolution after a meeting of its
national executive in  New Delhi  that the BJP should declare its
choice for premier by the end of the year.  Battle Lines  The leaders of the socialist Janata Dal, including chief
minister of Bihar Nitish Kumar, have concerns that the
nomination of Modi may anger Muslims who accuse him of failing
to stop the riots that targeted their community in 2002. More
than 1,000 people died in the violence, most of them Muslims.  Ignoring the Janata Dal would put the BJP at risk of
alienating an ally as it tries to end a decade in opposition.
Other regional parties may rally behind Kumar.  “With this, Janata Dal has made it clear that they won’t
support Modi’s candidature,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of
the New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies. “Now, the BJP
will move cautiously.” Yesterday’s development is an indication
that in the elections the regional parties will dictate the
terms for any possible alliance, said Rao.  Modi’s third consecutive election victory in Gujarat, last
year, and his high opinion-poll ratings have made him a favorite
among party members.  “Compromises are made in politics but there are certain
fundamental principles,” Kumar told party members yesterday.
“Compromising with secularism to remain in power, no we will
never do it.”  Gandhi Campaign  About 16 percent of Bihar’s population is Muslim, more than
the national average of 13 percent. The Janata Dal governs Bihar
with the BJP as its junior partner.  Rahul Gandhi , scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family, will take
Singh’s Indian National Congress into the elections, although
the party has yet to formally declare its choice for prime
minister in the event of a victory by the ruling alliance that
it leads. Gandhi, son of the Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  and
assassinated Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi , was appointed as his
party’s vice president in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  