-- Ohio’s $500 Billion Oil Dream Fades as Utica Turns Gassy
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-04-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/ohio-s-500-billion-oil-dream-fades-as-utica-turns-gassy.html
U.S. drillers that set up rigs amid
the rolling farmland of eastern Ohio on projections underground
shale held $500 billion of oil are packing up.  Four of the biggest stakeholders in untapped deposits known
as the Utica Shale have put up all or part of their acreage for
sale, as prices fall by a third in some cases.  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  of  Oklahoma City , the biggest U.S. shale lease owner, last
week offered up 94,200 acres (38,121 hectares). EnerVest Ltd.
and  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  are selling as early results show lower
production than their predictions.  “The results were somewhat disappointing,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst with Argus Research in  New York . Early data
show “it’s not as good as we thought it was going to be.”  The flip-flop underscores the difficulties faced by even
experienced drillers around the world in tapping the sedimentary
rock. In  California , Occidental Petroleum Corp. was stymied by
the Monterey Shale’s fault-riddled terrain. In  Poland ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  stopped drilling because shale output was minimal.
 China ’s failures with shale gas drove producers Cnooc Ltd. and
China Petrochemical Corp. to seek expertise in  North America .  In Ohio’s Utica formation, which runs eastward as far as
New York, drillers frequently found the rock too dense and
underground pressures insufficient to produce oil.  The rush to buy acreage has reversed.  The Utica saw one deal valued at more than $50 million in
the fourth quarter of 2012, compared with seven in  North
Dakota ’s more productive Bakken Shale and six in  Texas ’ Eagle
Ford Shale, according to the accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Eagle Ford  By 2017, the Utica should produce a daily average of
200,000 barrels of oil, Wood Mackenzie Ltd. estimated. The Eagle
Ford by then will be producing 1.15 million barrels a day,
almost six times more.  “People started to realize that, you know what, maybe the
oil window of the play is not all it’s cracked up to be,” said
Jonathan Garrett, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie who has studied
the Utica.  Utica acreage can fetch about $1,000 to $8,000 an acre,
Garrett said. In the Eagle Ford, which produced about 374,000
barrels of oil a day in January, acreage can cost about $5,000
to more than $36,000 an acre, he said.  Gulfport Energy Corp. (GPOR)  paid $10,000 apiece for 22,000 net
acres in Utica in February, compared with $15,000 an acre Total
SA spent on a joint venture with Chesapeake in January 2012.  The global exploration and production industry, which Cowen
Group Inc. estimates will spend $645 billion this year, is
learning how hard it is to transfer practices and expectations
from one shale formation to another and replicate the success of
the top fields, such as the Eagle Ford.  Shale Spotlight  The Utica grabbed the U.S. shale spotlight in 2011 when the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources  estimated  it held 5.5
billion barrels of recoverable oil reserves -- equivalent to
more than twice Yemen’s proven resource and valued at about $488
billion at yesterday’s $88.71-a-barrel U.S. oil price.  Chesapeake had boasted Utica would outperform the Eagle
Ford. EnerVest, the biggest gas producer in  Ohio , had said the
Utica would bring jobs and new industry to the state. EnerVest
in the past year has tried to sell acreage there and no buyers
have emerged.  EnerVest is selling out of the Utica because oil production
doesn’t fit its low-cost business model, Mark Houser, chief
executive officer of EV Energy Partners LP, said in an
interview. EV Energy is a master-limited partnership controlled
by Houston-based EnerVest.  Code Cracking  Going for natural gas is another story. Some areas of the
Utica were found to be rich in gas liquids, though only a
minority of companies are positioned to benefit. They include
Gulfport of Oklahoma City and Denver-based  PDC Energy Inc. (PDCE)   Chesapeake has decided to leave it to other companies to
crack “the code” of the Utica’s oil prospects after the
company found it wasn’t worth trying any longer, Senior Vice
President Jeff Mobley said in December at an industry financial
conference. Since September, Chesapeake has been seeking a
partner to share ownership and costs in the Utica.  Devon, also based in Oklahoma City, decided to sell its
157,000 net acres in the Utica so it can concentrate on more
profitable plays, said  Chip Minty , a spokesman.  PDC, another Utica explorer, dropped its effort to find a
partner when it couldn’t get a high enough bid for the stake it
was offering, and in September decided to go it alone.  Better Fracturing  Early drilling results showed the oil portion of the Utica
isn’t as porous as some other shale formations and is shallower
than its gas-filled areas, meaning it’s harder to get oil to
flow through the rock, and there’s less natural pressure to help
force it out, said Jerry James, president of Artex Oil Co. in
Marietta, Ohio.  Operators are looking for better ways to fracture their  oil
wells , and discussing whether to use pumps to get crude to the
surface, James said.  “Some of the oil window is going to work, it’s just going
to take a while,” James said.  The Utica has the potential to be one of PDC’s top
performers, based on the company’s recent results, Vice
President Scott Reasoner said in an e-mail.  Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake, declined to
comment. Paul Heerwagen, Gulfport’s investor relations director,
didn’t return phone messages seeking comment.  Infrastructure Build  Much still depends on the construction of processing units
and pipelines to provide a route to market for Utica production.
The pace of drilling has been hindered by a lack of
infrastructure that may require a $30 billion investment over
three years to build out, said Jack Lafield, CEO of Dallas-based
pipeline operator Caiman Energy LLC.  The number of drilling rigs in the Utica has risen year
over year, indicating that producers still see value in the
field despite the lack of oil, said Jeff Daniels, a professor at
 Ohio State University  who heads the school’s Subsurface Energy
Resource Center. The problem with oil production may be solved
with new technology.  “We have a lot to learn about producing from these
shales,” Daniels said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  