-- Hollande’s Socialist Cabinet Includes at Least Four Millionaires
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-04-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/hollande-s-socialist-cabinet-includes-at-least-four-millionaires.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s cabinet has at least four millionaires, according to
wealth statements the Socialist government ordered to tame
public anger over a minister who hid an overseas bank account.  Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, son of an antique dealer,
was among the richest in the 37-member group, with a net worth
of about 6 million euros ($7.8 million). Michele Delaunay, a
junior minister for the elderly, had a net worth of about 5
million euros, while Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault and Labor
Minister Michel Sapin both declared wealth of more than 1
million euros, mostly on property holdings.  In one go, France has replaced one of the weakest reporting
requirements in  Europe  with one of its more stringent. Ministers
had until yesterday to make public their assets. Members of
parliament, heads of local government, and heads of
administrative bodies will follow once a law is passed later
this year. The law will be presented to the cabinet April 24.  The requirement has divided France’s politicians, with even
members of Hollande’s Socialist Party questioning the president
and arguing that putting politicians’ lives on public display
wasn’t the best way to deal with the fallout from former Budget
Minister Jerome Cahuzac’s admission he’d had bank accounts in
 Switzerland  and  Singapore  .  “The problems of Mr. Cahuzac should not lead to collective
guilt,” Claude Bartolone, Socialist speaker of the lower house
of parliament, said in an April 11 interview with Le Figaro.
“I’m concerned about anything that could feed populism.”  Plummeting Popularity  Hollande, whose popularity is at a record low for a
president not even a year into his term, announced a series of
measures to “moralize politics” after Cahuzac’s April 2
admission that he’d been lying for months about a secret Swiss
bank account first reported last December by an online
newspaper.  Members of  France ’s parliament will also be limited in the
sort of professional activities they can continue to carry out,
with details to come later. Hollande said at an April 10 press
conference that, for instance, a doctor would be able to
continue to see patients, while not being allowed to advise
pharmaceutical companies.  Until yesterday, France and Slovenia were the only
countries in the European Union where members of parliament
didn’t make any wealth declaration, according to Transparency
International, which tracks anti-corruption initiatives.  Now, France leapfrogs countries such as Britain and
 Germany , where MP’s largely only disclose sources of income.  U.S. Model  “Asset declaration is a powerful first step, but it has to
fit into a wider structure of a verification and a working
judicial system,” Craig Fagan, a senior policy manager at
 Transparency International  in Berlin, said in telephone
interview.  The U.S. is often considered a model because it demands an
extensive range of information from cabinet candidates, Fagan
said, while Latvia has one of the most effective set of rules in
Europe because the asset declarations are part of a wider
conflict-of-interest law.  Under the outlines of the law being prepared by Hollande’s
government, a special commission will be set up to check the
veracity of the declarations. Providing false information would
be a criminal offense.  Sixty-three percent of the French approve of making
politicians publish their wealth, while 36 percent are opposed,
according to an Ifop poll published April 14 by Journal du
Dimanche. Eighty-five percent said politicians are richer than
the average, and 70 percent said they are “indifferent” to the
wealth of their leaders. The poll questioned 974 people. No
margin of error was given.  Crack Down  Some members of government, including Industry Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  and Health Minister Marisol Touraine, had
already disclosed their assets before yesterday.  Hollande divulged his wealth last May after his election.
He said he was worth 1.2 million euros, mostly from a house in
the south of France and two apartments in Cannes.  Mediapart, an online newspaper, in December released a
recording of a 13-year-old phone conversation between Cahuzac
and his wealth manager in which he mentioned an account in
Switzerland, which was later transferred to Singapore.  After initially denying he ever had an overseas account,
Cahuzac resigned from the government on March 19 when a formal
legal investigation was opened. On April 2 he admitted he’d had
600,000 euros in a Swiss account.  Hollande has also stepped up efforts to crack down on the
use of secret bank accounts in European Union countries such as
Luxembourg and  Austria , and is pushing efforts to have all EU
countries share information on earnings and assets held by
citizens in other countries.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  declared a net worth of
238,500 euros linked to an apartment in Montbeillard, France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  