-- Homex Plunges to Record as Builder Seeks Cash: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-04-15T19:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/homex-plunges-to-record-as-builder-seeks-cash-mexico-city-mover.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  shares and
bonds plunged to a record after the homebuilder said it will try
to raise money by selling assets and issuing debt after cash
last year fell by the most in at least a decade.  Mexico ’s biggest homebuilder by sales sank 18 percent to
12.86 pesos at 2:34 p.m. in Mexico City. The company’s bonds due
in 2020 dropped 2.59 cents to a record low 57.25 cents on the
dollar.  “This serves to corroborate that the situation is very
complicated,”  Carlos Hermosillo , an equity analyst with Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB, said in a phone interview. “The
companies keep burning cash at a fast pace.”  Homex follows  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  and  Corp. Geo
SAB (GEOB)  in taking measures to bolster liquidity as Mexico’s
government shifts subsidies to promote capital-intensive
apartment buildings in urban areas over single-family houses in
the suburbs or countryside. The Culiacan, Mexico-based company’s
cash fell by 1.7 billion pesos ($131 million) last year, the
most since Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2001.  The company may offer debt backed by future cash flows and
private-equity stake sales in its infrastructure and jail
projects, according to a filing today with the Mexican stock
exchange. Homex also is considering selling assets in its
tourism division.  The shares have tumbled  48 percent  in the past month,
leading a 32 percent decline in the Habita Index of Mexican
homebuilder shares.  Geo, Homex and Urbi were the three biggest losers today on
the country’s benchmark  IPC index , which fell 2 percent.  Government ’Commitment’  Geo, Mexico’s second-biggest homebuilder, said last week it
would restructure its debt. Urbi, the third-biggest, hired
Rothschild as a financial adviser, a person familiar with the
move said April 11.  President Enrique Pena Nieto said that Mexico has a “firm
commitment” to the sector at a housing event in Mexico City on
April 11.  The government said March 6 it would cover as much as 30
percent of banks’ losses on loans made to the country’s
homebuilders. Homex said last week it was the first company to
obtain a bridge loan under the program.  “The government supports the housing sector,” Hermosillo
said. “That doesn’t mean necessarily support for these home
developers. It’s a very broad industry.”  Geo shares fell 14 percent to 5.45 pesos. Urbi dropped 10
percent to 2.42 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  