-- Mongolia Offers Cashmere Makers Loans to Cut Reliance on Mining
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-04-15T07:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/mongolia-offers-cashmere-makers-loans-to-cut-reliance-on-mining.html
Mongolia  approved $86.2 million of
loans for cashmere, clothing and dairy companies as the
government seeks to reduce the nation’s reliance on mining for
economic growth.  The Cabinet approved the loans, which are four and a half
years in length, at a regular meeting on April 13, according to
a statement posted to the government’s website. The funds
consist of $45 million for cashmere companies, $13.5 million for
other clothing makers and $27.7 million for dairy producers. The
statement didn’t give  interest rates  for the loans.  Mongolia’s  mining industry , which fueled a tripling of its
economy in six years, employs less than five percent of the
workforce, according to government data. That’s put pressure on
policy makers to do more to boost  living standards  in a nation
where almost a third of the population lives in poverty.  “Mining is capital and equipment intensive but it can’t
create all the jobs needed,” Jim Dwyer, executive director of
the  Business Council of Mongolia , said by telephone today.
“Jobs are vital here. A lot of jobs need to be opened up for
people.” The council is Mongolia’s biggest business group, with
members including  Rio Tinto  Group, General Electric Co. and
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)   The domination of the mining industry is highlighted by Rio
Tinto’s $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine, which is
expected to account for  one third  of gross domestic product by
2020, according to estimates by the unit that oversees the
project’s operations. Mining already accounts for 90 percent of
Mongolia’s exports.  Shipments of coal, Mongolia’s biggest export, totaled $1.9
billion in 2012, compared with $27.9 million of textile,
according to the statistics office. Raw cashmere exports were
$145.4 million, most of which went to  China .  Creating Jobs  Mongolia’s government estimates the cashmere and clothing
initiative will help create 80 factories that could employ as
many as 30,000 workers. The loans for the  dairy industry  will be
used to set up 15 milk farms, four large processing plants and
86 smaller facilities, according to the statement.  The Oyu Tolgoi mine employed 11,151 Mongolians as of Jan.
31, according to its website.  “All these non-mining efforts are fairly embryonic,
cashmere being in the lead,” said Dwyer. “It’s important to
keep the seed planted and nourish these other logical and
diversified business segments. It might be a small step, but in
the right direction.”  Branding Mongolia  Mongolia has also started a marketing campaign with the
goal of giving its cashmere and leather the same cachet as
French wine and German cars. The government agreed to set up the
 Mongolian National Marketing Coordination Office  in 2011 to
promote the country’s products and also won assistance from the
 Asian Development Bank , which hired American Jeremy Hildreth to
help create a brand for  Mongolian cashmere .  Hildreth’s campaign includes labeling cashmere products
from the nation with tags that say “Certified Mongolian Noble
Fibre.”  The nation’s reliance on mining has also contributed to
moderating growth this year as prices of coal fell and demand
from China, the biggest buyer of Mongolian goods, showed signs
of slowing. Mongolia’s central bank has cut interest rates twice
this year as first-quarter exports declined and the pace of
inflation fell below 10 percent for the first time in two years.
Economic growth eased to 12.3 percent last year from a record
17.3 percent in 2011.  “We don’t want to turn Mongolia into Minegolia,” Puntsag
Tsagaan, the president’s chief of staff, said in an interview
last month. “We want to keep this country’s name as Mongolia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  