-- Montgomery Sells San Francisco Office as It Unwinds M&A Advisory
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-04-15T14:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/montgomery-sells-san-francisco-office-as-it-unwinds-m-a-advisory.html
Montgomery & Co. , the  Santa Monica ,
California-based boutique investment bank, is selling its San
Francisco office as it unwinds its mergers and acquisitions
advisory business to focus on its principal investments.  Montgomery is selling the office to closely held
investment-banking partnership Signal Hill, founder and Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Montgomery said in an interview. The
firm, which focused on advising technology startups, sold
PhoneFactor Inc. to Microsoft Corp., Make Technologies to Dell
Inc. and ClearAccess to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   “After the 2008-2009 recession, our market changed
radically and we were below critical mass,” Montgomery said.
“We were now doing 10 deals a year, compared to an average of
40 deals before 2008.”  Baltimore-based Signal Hill will absorb Montgomery’s 13
bankers in  San Francisco , as well as its clients and
intellectual property, while assuming liabilities. Financial
terms weren’t disclosed.  Montgomery, founded in 1986, closed its New York office in
2008. The firm is offering severance packages to its remaining
bankers in Santa Monica.  Jamie Montgomery, 53, will keep managing the firm’s
existing $50 million in venture-capital investments, such as
Vantage Media and ServiceMesh. He will also be advising Signal
Hill on the establishment of its operations on the West Coast.
His brother Michael Montgomery, 58, will step back from his day-
to-day responsibilities as president of the company and complete
the active mandates with clients.  Signal Hill  Signal Hill , which advises on raising capital and focuses
on high-growth companies, opened offices last year in Boston and
Bangalore,  India .  “San Francisco was the last missing piece of our puzzle in
the U.S.,” Scott Wieler, Signal Hill’s chairman and founder,
said in a telephone interview. “Technology mergers and
acquisition is as frothy as we have seen in a long time.”  In March, Signal Hill advised Coyote Point Systems Inc. on
its sale to Fortinet Inc. It also advised Arbitron Inc. last
year in its $1.2 billion sale to Nielsen Holdings NV, and
Incentive Targeting Inc. when it was sold to Google Inc. in
November.  So far this year, $69.6 billion in technology and Internet
deals have been announced, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, up 72 percent from $40.44 billion a year earlier.  “We are in the sweet spot, as the top-10 technology
companies are continuing to add to their portfolio at an
accelerating rate,” Wieler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  