-- OPEC Said to Consider Saudi Arabian for Research Head Role
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-15T16:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/opec-said-to-consider-saudi-arabian-for-head-of-research-role.html
Saudi Arabia has nominated a
candidate from the kingdom to replace  Kuwait ’s Hasan Qabazard as
the head of research at OPEC, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The candidate will be discussed, along with any others from
the 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, at an OPEC board of governors meeting that is
scheduled for May 6 or May 7, they said, declining to be
identified because Qabazard’s departure hasn’t been publicly
announced. Two other people with knowledge of the matter also
said that the producer group is looking for a new head of
research, speaking on condition of anonymity. An official at
OPEC’s Vienna headquarters declined to comment. Qabazard
couldn’t be reached for comment when called today on his office
or mobile phones.  OPEC also hasn’t yet chosen a replacement for its most
senior executive, Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri, who agreed
in December to stay on for one more year after the group
couldn’t agree on a replacement from candidates offered by Saudi
Arabia,  Iran  and  Iraq . Saudi Arabia is OPEC’s largest producer
and holds the most sway over international oil prices because it
controls the biggest portion of unused pumping capacity.  The three candidates to replace Libya’s el-Badri remain as
before; Saudi Arabia’s former OPEC governor Majid al-Moneef,
Iran’s former oil minister Gholamhossein Nozari, and Iraq’s
former oil minister Thamir Ghadhban.  Group Tensions  An accord on selecting a secretary-general has proved
elusive amid political tensions between those countries, with
Saudi Arabia and Iran representing rival Sunni and Shiite
branches of Islam, and Iran and Iraq having fought an eight-year
war in the 1980s.  Officials at the media and public relations department at
Saudi Arabia’s ministry of petroleum and minerals in  Riyadh 
couldn’t be reached for comment when called by phone today.  The head of research is one of the authors of OPEC’s
monthly report on oil market supply and demand, which is
scheduled to be published next on May 10.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization’s next ministerial
conference will be held on May 31 in Vienna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  