-- OPEC Said to Consider Saudi Arabian for Research Head Job
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-16T10:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/opec-said-to-consider-saudi-arabian-for-research-head-job.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest
oil exporter, has put forward a candidate to replace Hasan Qabazard as head of research at OPEC, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  The nominee, along with any others proposed by fellow
members of the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, will be discussed at an OPEC board of governors
meeting scheduled for May 6 to May 7, they said, declining to be
identified because Qabazard’s departure hasn’t been publicly
announced. Two other people with knowledge of the matter also
said that the producer group is looking for a new head of
research, speaking on condition of anonymity.  An official at OPEC’s Vienna headquarters declined to
comment. Qabazard, a Kuwaiti, couldn’t be reached for comment
when called yesterday on his office or mobile phones.  OPEC also hasn’t yet chosen a replacement for its most
senior executive, Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri, who agreed
in December to stay on for one more year after the group
couldn’t agree on a replacement from candidates offered by Saudi
Arabia, Iran and  Iraq . Saudi Arabia is OPEC’s largest producer
and holds the most sway over international oil prices because it
controls the biggest portion of unused output capacity.  The three candidates to replace Libya’s el-Badri remain as
before; Saudi Arabia’s former OPEC governor Majid al-Moneef,
Iran’s former oil minister Gholamhossein Nozari, and Iraq’s
former oil minister Thamir Ghadhban.  No Consensus  “OPEC will not reach consensus on any of the three names
so the only solution for this is to have someone from  Africa  or
South America otherwise El-Badri will remain there,” Kamel al- Harami, a Kuwait-based independent oil analyst, said by phone
last week. “In these circumstances, the best option is renewal
for el-Badri.”  An accord on selecting a secretary-general has proved
elusive amid political tensions between those countries, with
Saudi Arabia and  Iran  representing rival Sunni and Shiite
branches of Islam, and Iran and Iraq having fought an eight-year
war in the 1980s.  Officials at the media and public relations department at
Saudi Arabia’s ministry of petroleum and minerals in  Riyadh 
couldn’t be reached for comment when called by phone yesterday.  The average price of benchmark OPEC crudes ended its
longest run above $100 a barrel after dropping below that level
for the first time since July amid signs the global economic
recovery is faltering.  Under $100  The so-called OPEC  basket , a weighted average of the main
grades produced by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, slipped to $98.56 a barrel yesterday, according to an
e-mail today from the group’s Vienna-based secretariat. It’s the
first time OPEC’s reference price has slipped below $100 since
July 16 and ends a 191-day spell above that threshold.  The head of research is one of the authors of OPEC’s
monthly report on oil market supply and demand, which is
scheduled to be published next on May 10. The organization
trimmed its 2013 estimate for global oil demand by 40,000
barrels a day in its most recent report, published on April 10,
predicting annual growth of 800,000 barrels a day to 89.66
million a day.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela . The organization’s next ministerial
conference will be held on May 31 in Vienna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  