-- Orrick, Skadden, Mayer, Sheppard Mullin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/orrick-skadden-mayer-sheppard-mullin-business-of-law.html
When the Supreme Court hears a case
today weighing what remedy there should be after a federal judge
was involved in a plea agreement, an Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP associate with 2 1/2 years at the firm will be
making the arguments for the defendant.  Joshua Rosenkranz , head of Orrick’s Supreme Court and
appellate practice, handed the reins to Robert Yablon, a senior
associate who clerked for both Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and
then for Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  before joining the firm.  “Rob is the full package,” Rosenkranz said in a phone
interview April 12. “He is analytically brilliant. He is highly
strategic. He is able to articulate in crisp clear prose the nub
of the answer to any question, and he’s unflappable.”  The case reached the Supreme Court after the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit vacated Anthony Davila’s guilty
plea for conspiracy to defraud the U.S. by obtaining false tax
refunds because a magistrate judge advised him to plead guilty
to avoid a long prison term. The judge’s advice violated federal
statute, the court found.  The government, in appealing, sought clarification on
whether there can be any judicial participation in plea
negotiations or whether judicial involvement requires that a
defendant’s guilty plea be vacated, even if the participation
didn’t prejudice the defendant.  “This case is about the process of plea-bargaining, and
that is the way the vast majority of cases in the criminal
justice system get resolved,” Yablon said in an interview April
12. “There are not that many Supreme Court cases addressing
plea bargaining, so this gives the Supreme Court the opportunity
to give guidance on the subject.”  Yablon has worked on the case since it came in the door at
Orrick and was involved in strategy from the beginning,
Rosenkranz said.  Being a two-time Supreme Court clerk “takes the edge off
the nerves,” Yablon said, although the experience didn’t
diminish his preparation. He spent hours intensively reviewing
briefs and materials and in practice moot courts with Rosenkranz
and others at the firm.  Yablon said he was grateful to Rosenkranz for the
opportunity to argue his first case and called it “a good
illustration of an ethos we have in our practice.”  Rosenkranz, who last month obtained a landmark victory from
the Supreme Court in one of the top business and consumer cases
in the court’s nine-month term, Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons,
which addressed copyright law and the “gray market,” said he
had no problem giving up the opportunity to argue another case
before the justices.  “I am an appellate lawyer. It’s all I do and I love
handling the highest-stake cases in any court,” he said, “I’ve
never felt the object of the game was to get as many notches in
my belt.”  The case is U.S. v. Davila, 12-167, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  Deals  Skadden, A&O Advise on $9.8 Billion JAB, Master Blenders Deal  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
Joh. A. Benckiser, the investment arm of the billionaire Reimann
family, which agreed to buy  D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV  for
about 7.5 billion euros ($9.8 billion) to build a coffee
conglomerate in the industry’s biggest deal ever. Allen & Overy
LLP represented D.E. Master Blenders.  The Skadden team includes partners  Sean Doyle  and  Paul Schnell , mergers and acquisitions, and  Mark Darley , banking.  Additional lawyers on the deal include partners  Michael Zeidel , Michelle Gasaway and  Danny Tricot , corporate finance;
 Frederic Depoortere , antitrust; and  Victor Hollender  and Gavin
White, tax.  Allen & Overy’s U.S. team was led by partner  Peter Harwich 
and two associates.  Allen & Overy as well as De Brauw
Blackstone Westbroek NV represented DEMB in the Netherlands.
The A&O team was led by partners  Jan Louis Burggraaf  and Tim
Stevens. The De Brauw team was led by Jan Willem Hoevers.  JAB was also represented by Stibbe in the Netherlands, with
a team led by Bjorn van der Klip and Derk Lemstra.  JAB will pay 12.50 euros a share, the companies said in a
statement April 12, less than the price the parties disclosed
they were discussing last month. Amsterdam-based Master
Blenders’ board supports the offer, it said in the statement.  The purchase of the Senseo maker, which was spun off by
Sara Lee Corp. last year, will give JAB a platform to expand its
coffee business both organically and by acquisition, JAB
Chairman  Bart Becht  said. JAB agreed to buy U.S.-based coffee
chains  Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc.  and Caribou Coffee Co. for a
total of more than $1 billion last year.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Sheppard Mullin Re-Elects Guy Halgren as Chairman  Sheppard Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP’s executive
committee chairman,  Guy N. Halgren , was re-elected to a fifth
consecutive three-year term. He has held the position since 2001
and is the first chairman to lead the firm for more than three
terms.  “Our partnership is very fortunate to have Guy at the helm
for another term. He’s smart, fair and forward-thinking,”
 Lawrence M. Braun , a member of the executive committee and a Los
Angeles-based corporate partner, said in a statement. “Guy has
been instrumental in growing the firm in terms of size,
locations and practice areas, while preserving Sheppard Mullin’s
tradition of collegiality and entrepreneurship.”  In the past 12 years, the firm has grown to more than 600
attorneys, more than double the headcount in 2001. The firm also
has grown to 16 offices from four, transforming from a
California firm into an international one with locations in
Beijing, Shanghai, Seoul, Brussels and London. Gross revenue
under Halgren’s leadership has increased to $438 million from
$149 million, the firm said.  Orange County, California, business trial partner  Robert S. Beall  also was re-elected as the firm’s managing partner for
another three-year term. Beall, who has held this position since
2005, also was re-elected to the firm’s executive committee for
another three-year term.  Century City, California, partner  Jon W. Newby  was elected
to the newly created position of vice chairman. Newby, a
corporate partner, also serves as the practice group co-chairman
and is a member of the executive committee.  Partners  Geraldine Ann Freeman , Jerry J. Gumpel and Hal
Milstein were elected to the executive committee. Freeman is
based in the San Francisco office and is co-head of the firm’s
finance and bankruptcy practice group. Gumpel is based in the
firm’s Del Mar, California, office and is co-head of the
international practice and member of the corporate practice
group. Milstein is based in the Palo Alto, California, office
and is a member of the firm’s IP practice group.  Moves  Mayer Brown Hires Assistant U.S. Attorney for White-Collar Group  Michael Martinez , executive assistant U.S. attorney in New
Jersey, joined Mayer Brown LLP in New York as a partner in the
litigation and dispute resolution practice and white collar
defense and compliance group.  “Mike’s proven track record in handling a wide array of
high-level white collar matters will add further depth to our
capabilities in this area,”  Steven Wolowitz , co-leader of Mayer
Brown’s global litigation and dispute resolution practice, said
in a statement.  From 2000 to 2008, Martinez worked in the U.S. Attorney’s
Office’s appeals division, government fraud unit and securities
and health-care fraud unit. He also served as acting chief of
the terrorism unit.  In 2008, Martinez joined Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel
LLP in New York as a special counsel, representing individuals
and corporations in criminal and civil investigations.  He returned to the U.S. Attorney’s Office in New Jersey two
years later, where he developed, reorganized and managed the
office’s white collar programs, and supervised 145 attorneys in
criminal and civil cases brought by the office, among other
responsibilities, the firm said.  Mayer Brown has lawyers at offices in the Americas, Asia
and Europe.  Troutman Sanders Hires Lobbyist Lawyer Bert Pena  H.R. Bert Pena, a lobbyist and lawyer representing U.S. and
international clients, joined the Washington office of Troutman
Sanders Strategies. He will also be a partner with Troutman
Sanders LLP. He was previously a partner in charge of the
federal affairs section of Stinson Morrison Hecker LLP, the firm
said in a statement.  Pena has represented agricultural producers, oil companies
and health-care firms, as well as trade associations,
multinational organizations, municipalities and counties, the
firm said. He was chief of staff to the U.S. House Committee on
Agriculture.  “Bert Pena is a well-known name and brand in the lobbying
industry, and he brings a unique and valuable skill set,
practicing as both a lobbyist and lawyer,” Amie V. Colby,
managing partner of Troutman Sanders’ Washington office, said in
a statement. “His addition to the Washington, D.C., office is
reflective of the firm’s strategy of continuing to expand our
highly regarded regulatory practices.”  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers at offices
throughout North America and in Asia.  Mintz Levin Adds Product Liability and Life Sciences Partners  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo PC added a
product-liability group to its San Francisco office with the
addition of  Daniel J. Herling  and  Michelle Gillette , who join as
members. Both lawyers were formerly with Keller & Heckman LLP.  Herling focuses his trial practice on complex litigation,
including product liability, class actions, intellectual
property litigation, patent infringement and professional
liability, the firm said in a statement.  Gillette is a litigator, with a background defending
medical device and pharmaceutical companies in product-liability
actions in individual lawsuits, multidistrict litigation and
class actions.  “We are actively building on the momentum we have created
in San Francisco, with the addition of experienced lawyers from
top firms whose backgrounds complement our core strengths and
enhance our offerings,”  Paul Churchill , managing member of
Mintz Levin’s San Francisco office, said in the statement.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and London.  L’Estrange Joins Jones Day in Sydney as Global Disputes Partner  Jones Day announced that corporate governance and
commercial disputes lawyer Tim L’Estrange has joined the firm in
Sydney as a partner in its global disputes practice.  Previously, L’Estrange was general counsel at ANZ Bank. He
worked there for 10 years and held senior local and overseas
positions in Europe and the U.S., and as managing director,
based in London. He previously led the litigation group at
Allens Arthur Robinson.  L’Estrange has experience in strategic litigation and
corporate governance issues.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Steptoe Adds Environment and Life Sciences Team in Brussels  Steptoe & Johnson LLP added Ruxandra Cana as a partner in
the firm’s Brussels office. She will be joined by a life
sciences and competition lawyer and a senior adviser. All three
previously practiced at Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP.  The team brings experience in European Union regulatory
work, with a strong emphasis on chemicals, cosmetics, medical
devices, consumer products such as electronics, food contact
materials and nanotechnology, according to a firm statement.  Cana has counseled multinational companies and industry
associations on EU regulatory compliance and consortia formation
and she has litigated on chemicals regulation-related issues
extensively before European courts, the firm said.  Steptoe has more than 500 lawyers and other professionals
in nine offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Ogletree Deakins Adds Shareholder Sean Nalty in California  Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC  added Sean
Nalty as a shareholder in its San Francisco office. Nalty joins
the firm from  Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker LLP , where
he was a partner.  Nalty focuses his litigation practice on life, health and
disability insurance-based employee benefits matters with
emphasis on Employee Retirement Income Security Act and non-
ERISA bad faith actions, the firm said in a statement.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers at 43 offices in
the U.S. and in Europe.  Litigation  Swipe-Fee Judge Asked to Approve Accord, $747 Million Costs  Lawyers for plaintiffs in a  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. 
antitrust case over interchange fees asked for final approval of
a settlement along with $720 million in legal fees and
$27 million in expenses.  The attorneys, representing a class of more than 7 million
merchants, filed papers April 11 in Brooklyn, New York, seeking
a final blessing for the accord from U.S. District Judge  John Gleeson .  The settlement, estimated to be the largest ever in an
antitrust case, would provide for about $7.25 billion in cash
payouts, according to a memorandum filed by  Robbins Geller
Rudman & Dowd LLP , one of the lead law firms in the case.  “With the largest-ever cash relief in an antitrust class
action settlement plus unprecedented rules changes that would
enable merchants to recover their costs of credit card
acceptance” the settlement “is far more than ‘fair, adequate,
and reasonable,’” the lawyers wrote.  In a separate filing, the lawyers said their request for
attorney fees is reasonable given the complexity of the issues
and the duration of the eight-year case.  “The settlement will affect as great a segment of the
United States economy as any previous antitrust class action,”
lawyers for the plaintiffs said in the filing, adding that about
60 law firms worked on the case. “Such an extraordinary
settlement could result only from a similarly extraordinary
effort by class counsel and their co-counsel.”  Merchant trade groups and some large retailers including
 Target Corp. ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Home Depot Inc.  spoke out
against the accord, claiming it isn’t large enough and gives
card companies too much leeway to raise fees in the future.  The lawsuit alleged the card companies and some of the
country’s largest banks conspired to fix prices of fees paid by
merchants when customers pay with plastic.  A hearing on final approval is scheduled for September.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  News  Rothstein Judge Rejects Materials on Plan to Repay Victims  A plan to repay victims of the $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme
run by disbarred Florida attorney  Scott Rothstein  is on hold
after a judge rejected disclosure materials explaining the
proposal.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Raymond B. Ray , who is overseeing the
liquidation of Rothstein’s law firm in Fort Lauderdale, on April
12 ordered a hearing on a motion to end the Chapter 11 case and
appoint a new trustee under Chapter 7.  Several groups of investors oppose the plan by current
trustee  Herbert Stettin , which included a settlement with
 Toronto-Dominion Bank . The plan would bar investors from suing
TD Bank and halt pending state-court lawsuits against the bank.  Ray ordered Stettin to present the so-called bar order for
a separate review. Any amended disclosure statement can’t say
Rothstein’s victims will be paid in full, Ray said.  “This plan is not going forward,”  Charles Throckmorton ,
an attorney representing Rothstein victims who opposed the plan,
said in an interview. “If they continue to try to get this bar
order that we believe is unlawful and improper, they have to get
that approved or denied on its merits.”  Stettin’s attorney,  Paul Singerman , said Ray’s ruling
didn’t mean the bar order was dead. He questioned the victims’
insistence on pushing to convert the case to Chapter 7.  “To the extent that the very same parties who are
expressing a great concern about the expense of litigation want
to spend money to try that issue in the view of the performance
of this trustee, that will be their call,” Singerman said in an
interview. “The trustee litigation is retaliatory and
strategic.”  Stettin’s plan included a provision for TD Bank, Canada’s
second-largest lender, to pay as much as $72 million to remove
the threat of litigation over claims it aided Rothstein’s fraud.
Rothstein is serving 50 years in prison.  TD Bank, based in Toronto, previously reached settlements
requiring it to pay $263.7 million to investors, and lost a
$67 million verdict in the only case to go to trial.  Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme, the largest in Florida history,
was run from his Fort Lauderdale law firm and involved wealthy
investors buying stakes in what he said were payouts in
confidential sexual-harassment and workplace-bias cases.  The bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler,
09-bk-34791, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale). The criminal case is U.S. v. Rothstein, 12-
cr-60204, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  