-- Housing Finance Redo Should Advance Soon, HUD’s Donovan Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-04-15T21:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/housing-finance-redo-should-happen-this-year-says-hud-s-donovan.html
Lawmakers and regulators should
move forward this year with plans for overhauling the U.S.
mortgage finance system, Housing and Urban Development Secretary
Shaun Donovan said today.  “We need to ensure that we’re doing everything we can to
put in place the housing finance system of the future,” Donovan
said in an interview.  President  Barack Obama  as well as Democrats and Republicans
in Congress have said they want to wind down and replace  Fannie
Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, the two mortgage financiers seized by the
government in 2008. To date, no detailed plans have emerged.  In the meantime, the two companies, known as government-
sponsored enterprises, have started posting regular quarterly
profits as the housing market rebounds.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac together back about two-thirds
of home-loan originations. The Federal Housing Administration, a
government mortgage insurer, backs about 20 percent. That leaves
taxpayers on the hook for losses in the event of another real-
estate crash.  “Reform of the failed model of the GSEs, the private gains
and socialized losses model, is a top priority and it’s critical
that we make progress this year toward that goal,” Donovan
said.  Clearly defining the mission of the FHA, which is an arm of
HUD, should be part of that overhaul, Donovan said. He is
scheduled to testify at a House appropriations hearing Wednesday
about the budget at the FHA, which is facing a shortfall due to
losses on loans it insured as the housing market crashed.  Taxpayer Subsidy  The FHA could require a taxpayer subsidy of nearly $1
billion this year, the first in its history, White House budget
analysts said April 10. The agency has taken steps including
raising fees to offset some of its losses.  Meanwhile, Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  have begun posting
regular quarterly profits after taking $187.5 billion in aid
from Treasury, potentially decreasing political pressure to
replace them.  By fiscal year 2023, if they still exist, the two companies
could send taxpayers $51 billion more than they received in aid,
White House budget analysts said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by the
federal government before becoming publicly traded companies,
buy mortgages from lenders and package them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  