-- Palestinian Economy Needs a Fair Deal From Israel
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-15T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/palestinian-economy-needs-a-fair-deal-from-israel.html
Poor U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry . Shortly after he  announce d that the U.S., as part of an
effort to jump-start the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process ,
would work to promote the Palestinian economy, their prime
minister and well-respected chief economic guru Salam Fayyad
resigned.   Fayyad was said to be tired of being blamed for the
financial crunch that kept his government from paying salaries
on time -- a crisis that wasn’t his doing and that his departure
may aggravate.  Kerry is right to focus on economic growth as a route to
political stability. This week, he is to unveil detailed plans
to remove barriers to Palestinian commerce, many of them
Israeli-imposed.  Before promoting new business, however, Kerry should help
stabilize the finances of the  Palestinian Authority  that governs
the West Bank and is a crucial counterweight to the radical
Hamas, which controls the  Gaza Strip .  Seventy percent  of the
Palestinian Authority’s revenue comes from customs, border and
income taxes levied on Palestinians who work and do business in
 Israel . These taxes are collected by Israel. Largely because of
Israeli suspensions and delays in those transfers, the
Palestinian Authority ended last year owing state employees $71
million and private suppliers $192 million. Local banks have
reached their loan-making limits. Unemployment is 23 percent.
Protests have broken out.  Kerry should tell the Israelis that pushing the Palestinian
Authority any further risks bringing it down. For Israel, the
alternatives are worse: Either Hamas, which is dedicated to
Israel’s destruction, would rise to power in the  West Bank  or
Israel would have to reoccupy the entire territory.  Most of the rest of the Palestinian Authority’s budget
comes from donor governments, many of which have failed to meet
their commitments. The U.S., which had been among them, has just
begun unlocking about $500 million and should push others to
follow suit. With aid promises unfulfilled, Palestinian leaders
(like Fayyad) look like suckers for carrying out donor demands
to make government finances transparent, introduce prudent
fiscal management and cooperate with Israel to reduce terrorism
from the West Bank.  In the long term, the Palestinian economy will be healthier
if it depends less on revenue transfers and aid. That’s where
Kerry’s initiative to remove bottlenecks and barriers comes in.
At the same time, any such effort must recognize that Israelis
have imposed many, if not most, of these economic constraints --
limits on permits, licensing,  land use , and the movement of
people and goods -- to protect themselves from Palestinian
violence. These measures have brought a  reduction  in terrorism
casualties and aren’t likely to be reversed.  Kerry, then, should home in on Israeli obstacles that have
little or nothing to do with security. Some practices seem
designed mainly to protect Israeli enterprises. For instance, to
obtain a license to import raw materials to manufacture a
medication, Palestinian companies  need the consent  of a
competing Israeli company that markets a similar drug to
Palestinians.  The Palestinians should be allowed to reduce their
dependence on relatively expensive Israeli imports, which make
up 73 percent of their total. The two sides agreed in 2000 to
add 1,300 items to a list of goods the Palestinians can import
from Jordan and  Egypt . Executing the deal would reduce living
and business expenses.  More than anything, Palestinian enterprises need  greater
access to Area C , the 60 percent of the West Bank that remains
fully under Israeli control. Palestinian developers have
permission to work in just 1 percent of the zone. As a result,
Palestinian mobile-phone companies can’t build the towers they
need to provide service to compete with Israeli providers.
Farmers allowed to cultivate the zone’s fertile fields are
denied access to the plentiful water there and must truck in
their own.  The days of expecting Israelis to take risks for peace are
gone. Still, they can afford to relax their control over the
Palestinians in ways that won’t compromise their security. When
the alternative is to drive out a true ally like Salam Fayyad,
the motivation should be strong.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 