-- Paris Vote on First Female Mayor Turns Into Mudslinging Race
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-04-15T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/paris-vote-on-first-female-mayor-turns-into-mudslinging-race.html
For all the mudslinging, corruption
charges, lawsuits and Twitter spats in the battle to be Paris’s
next  mayor , one thing is settled: It will be a woman.  For the first time since the French capital named chiefs in
the  13th century , all the main candidates in the 2014 race for
the city’s top spot are women.  “They’re fighting for the prize,” said  Sandrine Leveque ,
a political science professor at Sorbonne University in Paris
and author of an article in a book entitled “Sex, Gender and
Politics.” “A woman at the head of Paris is a symbol, it’s a
face, an image.”  Paris, with  2.3 million inhabitants , will become one of
only a handful of the world’s major cities to have a female at
the helm.  Tokyo ,  London , Berlin and  Rio de Janeiro  have never
had one, while  Madrid  is led by Ana Botella and  Washington  and
 Sao Paulo  have had women mayors in the 1990s.  New York  may be
next with City Council Speaker Christine Quinn a candidate to
take over from Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  -- the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Winning Paris is a trophy for any political party, with the
mayor running what is a  state within the French state  -- an 8
billion-euro ($10.5 billion) budget, the ability to raise local
taxes and more than  50,000 employees  in a city that’s home to
60,000 companies. With Mayor Bertrand Delanoe -- completing his
second and final term -- the Socialist Party has the prize.
Holding on to it is a test for President  Francois Hollande .  “If the Socialists were to lose Paris, it would be a scar
on Hollande’s presidency,” said  Eric Bonnet , a political
analyst at pollster BVA in Paris. “Paris is the heart of French
power. It’s where the country boils. The intelligentsia, the
economic leaders are there. It’s where Revolutions start.”  ‘Pure Politics’  The five women at the top of the Paris fray kicked off
their battle last month with a cacophony of public spats,
including a charge of corruption and a defamation lawsuit. The
candidates have tried to outdo each other on the number of
 Twitter messages  they’ve sent to support Paris Saint-Germain,
the city’s soccer team.  “It’s pure politics,” said Leveque. “It’s a mud fight,
but it is political mud.”  The candidates include the outgoing Socialist mayor’s
deputy  Anne Hidalgo  and two ex-ministers from Former President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s Union for a Popular Movement party, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet and Rachida Dati. Also running are Marielle de Sarnez from the Democratic Movement and Cecile Duflot of the
 Green Party , an ally of the Socialists.  Two-Legged Race  A  March 31 BVA poll shows  the emergence of a race mainly
between Hidalgo, 53, and 39-year-old Kosciusko-Morizet, or NKM
as she is known. Although the poll shows Hidalgo winning 51
percent of the vote to NKM’s 49 percent, the outcome may be too
close to call. That’s even after Hollande won 55.6 percent of
the Paris vote in the May presidential vote.  “Hidalgo will struggle in months to come with two things:
she may be seen as just a repetition of Delanoe with nothing new
to offer,” Bonnet said. “And she will pay for the Socialist
Party’s recent corruption scandals.”  Hollande’s government was dealt a blow this month after the
minister he’d charged with fighting  tax evasion  admitted to a
secret overseas bank account. The scandal, France’s economic
slump and near-record joblessness have resulted in Hollande
plumbing new lows in the polls.  The tight mayoral race has turned it into a slanging match.
NKM is fighting off an upper-class image -- she failed in a
television interview last year to correctly say what a subway
ticket in Paris costs. She also has a challenger from her own
party in Dati.  French Microcosm  Socialist candidate Hidalgo, the daughter of Spanish
immigrants, was accused of corruption by NKM, prompting a
defamation suit last week. Hiladgo, too, has a spoiler in
Duflot, a minister in Hollande’s government.  The Paris mayoral job is the second-most high-profile
political post in France after the president. In the past, it
has provided a springboard to the  Elysee presidential palace  --
 Jacques Chirac  was Paris mayor between 1977 and 1995 before
becoming president. The city is a microcosm of France, with its
own military command, more than  45 million  annual visitors and
more monuments than any other metropolis in the world.  When heads of state visit France, they drop in on the mayor
of Paris. As mayor, Chirac hosted  Saddam Hussein ,  Bill Clinton 
and  Queen Elizabeth  at  City Hall .  Task Ahead  The new mayor will take over from Delanoe, who’s had  the
job since 2001  and briefly contemplated running for president in
2012. His initiatives include a bike-rental system called
Velib’, “Paris Plage,” a month-long summer beach along the
banks of the Seine River and “La Nuit Blanche,” an all-night
event featuring cultural happenings across the city.  The campaign for the  March 2014  vote will force candidates
to come up with proposals to avoid raising taxes and rents, ease
transport bottlenecks in the city and help the police maintain
security. The new mayor will need to find ways to get the
working classes to stay -- as rising living costs threaten to
drive them away -- while keeping Paris’s place as a global city.  Paris relies increasingly on its suburbs for growth. Yet
getting to the capital’s suburbs is often hard since the public
transport network is sketchy, travelers are stuck in traffic for
hours and their ride can take them through crime-infested
neighborhoods with insufficient public housing.  ‘Three Qualities’  Hidalgo promises a ring of skyscrapers around the city. NKM
 pledges  to be the champion of the 30 billion-euro state
transportation project, dubbed “Le Grand Paris,” initiated by
her political mentor, Sarkozy.  Hidalgo supports a law allowing gay marriage and adoption -
- a key element for Paris’s large homosexual population -- while
NKM, whose UMP party has been a vocal opponent, has been coy.  “To be Paris mayor today you need three qualities: be
environmentally conscious, to have liberal views and to have a
solution for housing,” BVA’s Bonnet said. “That’s what
Parisians are concerned about and that’s what they talk about.”  The dominance of female candidates in the race to head
Paris mirrors gains made by women in other walks of French life.  “This election, and the general situation, shows that
women are getting better play in  France ,” BVA’s Bonnet said.
“While we are still very far from equality, being a woman is no
longer an obstacle.”  Women’s March  Women make up half of Hollande’s government, compared with
29 percent under Sarkozy. Although they hold  only 27 percent  of
the 577 seats in the National Assembly, they gained 8.4
percentage points in the number of seats in last year’s
legislative elections.  France’s biggest companies last year overtook the U.S. with
the highest proportion of women on boards of directors. A
quarter of board members in France are women compared with 20
percent in the U.S., according to a January 2013 survey by the
 Corporate Women Directors International .  “If Paris is the only big French city to have a female
mayor in 2014, it will be a drop in the ocean,” said  Bruno
Cautres , a political analyst at the Paris Institute of Political
Sciences. “In politics, there is an improvement, but we
shouldn’t be jumping up and down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  