-- Peabody Energy Seeks Dismissal of Patriot Coal Lawsuit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-15T19:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/peabody-energy-seeks-dismissal-of-patriot-coal-lawsuit.html
Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  is seeking
dismissal of a  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  lawsuit over obligations to
retirees, saying the case isn’t “ripe” because it depends on
the outcome of Patriot’s negotiations with its union.  Patriot’s lawsuit, filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in St.
Louis in March, shouldn’t go forward, Peabody said in court
papers filed April 12. Peabody also said that Patriot shouldn’t
blame its financial problems on the 2007 spinoff that split the
St. Louis-based companies.  The issues raised by Patriot “do not present an ‘actual
controversy’ between the parties that is ripe for judicial
resolution,” lawyers for Peabody wrote. A hearing on Peabody’s
request is set for April 29.  Under a contract, Peabody has funded part of Patriot’s
health-care expenses for specified retirees since the spinoff.
Patriot said that if it succeeds in reducing its obligations to
retirees under a pending motion to reject an agreement with the
United Mine Workers of America, Peabody shouldn’t be able to get
out of its own obligations.  Because Patriot hasn’t reduced its own obligations yet, the
case against Peabody can’t go forward, Peabody said in its
motion to dismiss.  Patriot also is seeking permission to investigate its 2007
spinoff from Peabody, saying the transaction rid Peabody of $600
million in health-care and environmental liabilities.  ‘Patriot’s Failure’  “Although the problems that face Patriot today originated
elsewhere, some are attempting to lay at Peabody’s feet the
consequences of Patriot’s failure,” lawyers for Peabody wrote.
The Environmental Protection Agency’s “war on coal,” the
global financial crisis and changes to water-treatment
regulations are to blame for Patriot’s bankruptcy, Peabody said.  Patriot filed for court protection in July after U.S. coal
demand tumbled amid increased competition from cheaper natural
gas and as it faced stricter environmental regulations. The
company has said its obligation to pay lifetime health care for
8,100 retirees is $1.6 billion.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  