-- Peugeot Delays Job Cuts Until Court Rules in Dispute
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-15T15:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/peugeot-may-delay-job-cuts-until-court-rules-in-dispute.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the French
carmaker that consumed about 200 million euros ($262 million) a
month in cash last year, will postpone job cuts by at least 10
days as it awaits a court ruling on the strategy.  A judge overseeing a lawsuit by the CGT union aimed at
canceling the workforce reduction asked Peugeot to postpone a
meeting with labor leaders until after the court reaches a
decision on April 26, Fiodor Rilov, the union’s lawyer, said by
phone. The meeting to set financial terms for the reductions has
been delayed to April 29 from April 19, Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a
Peugeot spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The CGT has three court cases opposing plans by Paris-based
Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-biggest carmaker, to scale back its
domestic workforce by 11,200 employees, or 17 percent, in an
effort to restore profit. Another five unions representing 76
percent of employees support the strategy.  “A plan that is supported by unions representing more than
76 percent of employees is fully legitimate, so any other
decision than the backing of that plan would be risky,” Yasmine
Tarasewicz, the lawyer representing the carmaker in the legal
cases, said in a phone interview.  The delay in the labor leaders’ meeting with Peugeot means
that workers who want to leave and benefit from severance
payments must wait until mid-May, said Christian Lafaye, the
leader of the FO union, which supports the plan.  ‘Bad News’  “This postponement is bad news for the company as well as
for the employees who want the plan to be fully implemented as
soon as possible,” he said.  Peugeot  reported  a 576 million-euro operating loss last
year. Efforts to revive earnings include shuttering a factory in
Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris. The judge in the CGT court
case asked for the union-management meeting delay at an April 11
hearing, Rilov said.  Peugeot said on Feb. 13 that cost reductions in 2012
totaled 1.18 billion euros in 2012, beating a target of 1
billion euros. Asset disposals, including a stake in its Gefco
trucking unit, totaled 2 billion euros. Chief Executive Officer
Philippe Varin pledged that day to bring the automaker to a
break-even level by the end of 2014 through the reorganization
and a new strategy that includes moving the Peugeot brand
upscale.  In a separate procedure, the Paris appeals court ruled on
Jan. 28 that Peugeot had to suspend its plans to cut jobs and
shutter the Aulnay site as employee representatives at  Faurecia (EO) ,
the company’s 57 percent-owned auto-parts subsidiary had to be
informed about the consequences of the program. Bruno Courtine,
the lawyer representing Nanterre, France-based Faurecia, said on
April 8 that labor representatives at the division were now
fully informed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  