-- Polish Inflation Slowest Since 2006 Boosts Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-04-15T12:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/polish-inflation-slowest-since-2006-boosts-rate-cut-case.html
Polish  inflation  slowed to its
weakest pace in more than six years in March, adding to pressure
on policy makers to resume cutting  interest rates .  Consumer prices rose 1 percent from a year earlier, the
lowest since June 2006 and less than a 1.3 percent advance in
February, the Statistics Office said in Warsaw today. That’s
less than the 1.1 median estimate of 34 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey . Prices increased 0.2 percent from the previous
month.  The central bank left rates unchanged last week for the
first time in five months as policy makers predicted record-low
borrowing costs will revive the European Union’s largest eastern
economy. Rate setters may consider further easing if inflation
declines below 1 percent for “the longer term,” though such a
decision won’t be “automatic,” Governor  Marek Belka  said after
the April 10 meeting.  “You can see price growth is in a falling trend, we’re
headed for 0.5 percent inflation,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief
economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said by phone. “I expect at
least another 50 basis points in rate cuts. What we’re seeing is
stagnation, there isn’t any bounce.”  The zloty strengthened to 4.1104 per euro at 2:21 p.m. in
Warsaw from 4.1183 before the release, paring its loss on the
day to 0.3 percent. The yield on  Poland ’s benchmark 10-year bond
fell to 3.514 percent, down five basis points from yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Gradual’ Recovery  The inflation rate may decline to 0.6 percent in “the
summer,”  Ludwik Kotecki , chief economist at the  Finance
Ministry , was reported as saying by  Gazeta Wyborcza  on April 2.
The central bank targets price growth of 2.5 percent in the
medium term, with a tolerance range of 1 percentage point below
and above that goal.  Policy makers delivered five rate cuts since November in a
bid to stave off the deepest slowdown in 12 years. While they
expect a “gradual” recovery, European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said this month that risks remain on the downside
for the euro area. Poland sends 52 percent of exports to 17-
nation currency region.  Poland’s central bank will reduce the benchmark by another
75 basis points to 2.5 percent through the end of 2013, Bank of
America Corp. said April 12, revising its previous forecast for
rates to drop to 3 percent.  ‘Below Target’  The cuts will come as “the euro-zone recovery fails to
gain ground,” while inflation remains “below target,”
 Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America in  London ,
said in the e-mailed report.  The euro-area recession is damping demand for Polish
exports while consumers curb their spending with unemployment at
a six-year high. Private consumption, which accounts for 62
percent of gross domestic product, contracted in the fourth
quarter for the first time since 1996.  Derivatives traders are betting that policy makers will
resume monetary easing by July with a quarter-point reduction,
according to the difference between three-month forward-rate
agreements and the Warsaw interbank offered rate.  The euro-area economic malaise has stymied price growth
across central and eastern Europe. In  Hungary , the inflation
rate fell to the lowest in almost 39 years in March, while in
the  Czech Republic  it undershot the central-bank target for a
third month.  “While the reading is low, it’s mainly due to food prices
increasing much less than last year,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski ,
chief economist at Bank Millennium SA in Warsaw, said by phone
in Warsaw. “That’s why the influence on the central bank isn’t
so obvious. Even if inflation falls below 1 percent, it’ll
probably pop back up above that level in three or four months.
So I don’t they’ll hurry with rate cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  