-- Priests for Life’s Contraceptive Mandate Suit Dismissed
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-04-15T21:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/priests-for-life-s-contraceptive-mandate-suit-dismissed.html
The Catholic group Priests for Life
can’t challenge a federal mandate that employers’ health
insurance provide coverage for birth control, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block in Brooklyn, New York,
granted the U.S. government’s request to dismiss the lawsuit,
ruling that the group’s claims are “not ripe” for judicial
review at this time.  “Defendants argue that this dispute is not ripe for
adjudication because they are in the process of amending the
challenged regulations to accommodate religious objections,”
Block said in his April 12 order. “Because the contents of the
new rules are yet to be determined, Priests for Life’s
dissatisfaction with the new rules is speculative.”  In May 2012, 43 Catholic organizations in the U.S. sued the
government, alleging the requirement violated their religious
freedom and free-speech rights. The mandate is part of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which President
 Barack Obama  signed into law in 2010.  “While we appreciate Judge Block’s thoughtfulness in this
case, we do believe he’s made a mistake in not holding this
matter in abeyance until the final version of the so-called
accommodation is published,” David Yerushalmi, a lawyer for the
priests, said today in a phone interview.  The lawyer said the U.S. agreed to file an accommodation
for nonprofit groups such as Priests for Life by August.  Written Stipulation  “The judge forced the government to agree by written
stipulation not to enforce it,” Yerushalmi said. “If they
publish rules as they currently have, we will file a lawsuit
again in August.”  Erin Shields, a spokeswoman for the  U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services , declined to comment on pending
litigation.  Block said in his order that 21 U.S. district courts have
dismissed similar cases for lack of jurisdiction.  The case is Priests for Life v. Sebelius, 12-00753, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  