-- Prodi Faces First Hurdle Today in Race for Italian President
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/prodi-faces-first-hurdle-today-in-race-for-italian-president.html
Romano Prodi, the former head of
the European Commission and a two-time Italian prime minister,
will discover today whether he has the inside track on becoming
the nation’s next President.  Prodi, 73, was up against three judges, a reporter, a Nobel
laureate writer, a war surgeon and another career politician in
an online primary conducted late yesterday by Beppe Grillo’s
Five Star Movement, the party that holds a blocking minority in
parliament. While Prodi is the best-known candidate, his
partisan history risks undermining Grillo’s anti-establishment
appeal if he wins the nomination from Five Star.  Grillo’s party upended the traditional balance of power in
 Italy  by winning a quarter of the vote in a February general
election, and it has since steered clear of competing parties in
preparation for a possible return to the polls. One of those
rivals, the Democratic Party of Pier Luigi Bersani, counts Prodi
as a founding member and could have the votes to secure the
presidency for the ex-premier if Grillo gives his backing.  “It might be that he’s playing a tactical game with Prodi
as an instrument,” said Giovanni Orsina, a history professor at
Luiss Guido Carli University in  Rome . “The Five Star Movement
is a very complicated creature and I think it’s changing fast.”  Grillo has so far rejected compromises with either former
Premier Silvio Berlusconi on the so-called political right or
Bersani on the left.  Winner Today  The winner of the Five Star primary, to be revealed today,
will have the support of Grillo’s more than 150 lawmakers when
parliament convenes on April 18 to vote for President Giorgio Napolitano’s replacement. Prodi, an ally of Bersani and a long-
time adversary of Berlusconi, was given a spot among 10
finalists in a Five Star write-in ballot last week.  Napolitano’s successor will become the key figure in the
effort to resolve a political stalemate defined by a lame-duck
government and a fractious parliament. Prime Minister Mario Monti, who has said he is eager to vacate his post, remains on
the job as no party has been able to muster a majority in
parliament since the inconclusive election on Feb. 24-25.  Giuliano Amato and Massimo D’Alema, both prime ministers in
the 1990s, and former Senate Speaker Franco Marini have been
widely cited in Italian newspapers as possible candidates who
could find support from Bersani and Berlusconi. Alongside Prodi
in the Five Star primary were Dario Fo, the Nobel laureate, Gino
Strada, founder of the non-profit medical association Emergency,
and former European Affairs Minister Emma Bonino.  Manslaughter Conviction  Grillo, who is not a member of parliament, removed his name
from the primary ballot before voting began yesterday. The ex-
comic has said he is unfit to serve in office due to a
manslaughter conviction in the 1980s. He was behind the wheel in
a one-car accident that killed two friends and their son.  Five Star is set to become the first major party to settle
on a candidate as rival political forces keep their options open
amid continuing negotiations. Bersani is seeking a deal with
Berlusconi over the presidency that could help him secure a
mandate to form a government. Grillo, 64, has urged Five Star
deputies to shun accords with other parties.  “Now they are radical and they don’t want to be de-
radicalized,” said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million
at Glendevon King Asset Management in  London . Grillo and Five
Star “know that what Bersani is trying to achieve with
Berlusconi can only favor them in new elections,” Marinelli
said.  The president is chosen by a 1,007-member electoral college
comprised of all national lawmakers and some regional
representatives. In past presidential elections, two ballots per
day were held. To win in the first three rounds, a candidate
must secure two-thirds of the potential votes. From the fourth
round an absolute majority is enough for victory.  The president serves a single seven-year term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  