-- Publicis 1st-Quarter Sales Rise 1.3%, Missing Analyst Estimates
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-04-15T14:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/publicis-1st-quarter-sales-rise-1-3-missing-analyst-estimates.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the world’s
third-biggest advertising company, said first-quarter sales rose
1.3 percent and characterized 2013 as a difficult year as some
European economies remained in crisis.  Shares fell 5.4 percent at 3:46 p.m. in Paris after the
report unexpectedly came out during trading hours. Publicis
spokeswoman Peggy Nahmany declined to comment on the early
release of the statement.  First-quarter revenue, stripping out effects from currency
fluctuations and acquisitions, was 1.56 billion euros ($2
billion), Paris-based Publicis said in a statement today.
Publicis credited the low growth to an unfavorable comparison to
the year-earlier period, when Publicis had sales growth of 4.1
percent, and steep declines in  Europe .  The sales growth was below consensus estimates, Goldman
Sachs and Cheuvreux said in notes to investors.  Richard Jones ,
an analyst at Goldman in London, said it may result in “near-
term weakness in the stock.”  Chief Executive Officer  Maurice Levy  said in the statement
that “2013 is turning out to be a difficult and contrasted
vintage, with on the one hand the United States consolidating
their growth and on the other Europe suffering.”  Publicis, which owns the Leo Burnett and Saatchi & Saatchi
ad agencies, said France and southern European continued to be
“main risk areas” due to economies there.  North America 
accounted for half its first-quarter revenue. Publicis said a
pick-up in worldwide sales later this year will help the company
exceed its 2012 performance.  2013 Forecast  Publicis forecast annual growth between 3.2 percent and 3.6
percent for 2013.  To counter a slowdown in advertising, companies such as
Publicis and its London-based rival,  WPP Plc (WPP) , have been
expanding by buying digital assets and groups in fast-growing
markets. Revenue from digital activities now represents 37
percent of total sales.  Organic growth in Europe for the quarter fell 6.5 percent,
while in North America it rose by 4.3 percent and by 5.5 percent
in key  emerging markets  like Brazil, Russia, India and China.  Net new business wins in the first quarter totaled $2.1
billion, from brand such as Godiva, Pfizer, Coca Cola and
Spotify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  