-- Rabobank Said to Cut Equity Derivatives Staff in Asia, Europe
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-04-15T13:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/rabobank-said-to-cut-equity-derivatives-staff-in-asia-europe.html
Rabobank Groep plans to cut about
half of its equity derivatives staff in Europe and  Asia  as it
closes the business due to tighter regulations on structured
notes, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The biggest Dutch mortgage lender has about 50 employees in
its derivatives unit in the two regions, said the people who
declined to be identified as the plan is private. Howard Tong,
Rabobank’s head of equity derivatives for Asia, will leave the
bank, two separate people said. Jasper Van Wel, the global head
of client structured products who heads the equity derivatives
business from  London , did not respond to e-mail or telephone
requests for comment on whether he will remain at the bank.  Roelina Bolding, a spokeswoman for Rabobank in Utrecht,
declined to comment on the job cuts.  More than 90 percent of Rabobank’s derivatives trades are
linked to structured notes sold to private banks in Europe and
Asia, Arjo Blok, the head of global financial markets, said last
month. The bank has 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of
outstanding equity-linked notes, he said at the time.  Utrecht-based Rabobank said last month it planned to shut
its equity derivatives business because new regulations
demanding banks give buyers more information on structured notes
will increase costs.  European and U.S. regulators are seeking to increase
transparency for structured products, which have been criticized
for being opaque and overly complex. Rules requiring lenders in
the European Union to provide concise information outlining the
characteristics and risks of the products they sell could be in
place by the end of 2014, according to the European Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  