-- Treasuries Rise Third Day on Haven Bid Amid Slow Growth
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-04-15T21:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/treasuries-near-most-expensive-since-january-before-jobs.html
Treasuries rose for a third day as
economic reports showed growth slowing in the world’s two
largest economies, boosting the allure of  U.S. government debt .  Benchmark 10-year  note yields  declined to the lowest level
in four months as Chinese economic growth lost momentum in the
first quarter, and as measures of manufacturing in the New York
region and U.S. homebuilder confidence missed forecasts. Stocks
and gold fell. Yields extended drops after explosions rocked the
finish-line area of the Boston Marathon, killing at least two,
spurring demand for the safety of U.S. government debt.  “The decline in rates is largely factoring in a soft U.S
and global economic market -- 1.7 percent yields tell you global
growth will be modest, at best,”  said  Adrian Miller , director
of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York.
“Risk assets have run too far too fast, and a consolidation is
in the cards and could continue.”  The  10-year note  yield fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.68 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after touching 1.67
percent, the lowest since Dec. 12. The price of the 2 percent
note due in February 2023 rose 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000 face
value, to 102 28/32.  Yields on  30-year bonds  declined six basis points to 2.86
percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks dropped 2.3
percent after setting an all-time high on April 11. Gold futures
slumped as much as 9.7 percent.  ‘Explosion Concerns’  “The explosion concerns are giving Treasuries a boost and
weighing on the stock market -- until we get news on exactly
what this is, you will see people jumping to buy safe assets on
a quiet afternoon,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors. “The threat of a
terrorist attack hasn’t been something we’ve had to be concerned
about, but if it turns out to be, then we could see more flight
to quality.”  Treasuries are the most expensive this year, according to a
model that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and
inflation. The 10-year term premium, a model that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation, traded at
minus 0.83 percent, the lowest level since Dec. 13. Negative
 readings  indicate investors are willing to accept yields below
what’s considered fair value.  ‘Weaker’ Data  China ’s  gross domestic product  grew 7.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing today. The figure is less than 8
percent projected in a Bloomberg survey of analysts and 7.9
percent expansion in the fourth quarter.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general  economic
index  dropped to 3.1 this month from 9.2 in March. Readings
exceeding zero signal expansion in New York, northern  New Jersey 
and southern  Connecticut . The median projection of 47 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index (SPX) 
of  builder confidence  dropped to 42, the lowest since October,
from 44 in March, the Washington-based group said today.
Economists projected an index of 45, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  TIPS Dips  “We are in a weakening economic environment that is
keeping the market well bid,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “We’ve had a pretty significant move to higher
prices over the past few weeks and digested a lot of supply, and
now we are taking a pause around these levels -- we are at the
top of the range in prices.”  Treasuries have returned 0.5 percent this year through
April 12, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. An
index of sovereign securities around the world gained 1.2
percent. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks gained 8
percent in the same period, including reinvested dividends.  For the first time since the depths of the financial crisis
in 2008, mutual funds that target Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities have seen outflows for three straight months,
according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Even after the Fed injected more than $2.3 trillion into
the financial system since 2008, inflation is under control,
bolstering the appeal of bonds while providing the central bank
with more scope to provide stimulus as needed to foster the
economic recovery. Commodity prices are down and wages have
grown just 1.9 percent on average since 2009, below the 3.1  “With such weak labor markets, flat income growth and flat
wages, and commodities weak, we just won’t see the inflation
that the TIPS market is pricing in,” Dan Heckman, a fixed-
income strategist at the U.S. Bank Wealth Management unit of
U.S. Bancorp, which manages $110 billion, said in telephone
interview April 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  