-- Record Ship Lines in Brazil Fail to Erase Capacity Glut: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-04-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/record-ship-lines-in-brazil-fail-to-erase-capacity-glut-freight.html
Record delays for vessels loading
corn and soybeans in  Brazil , the biggest exporter, are failing
to diminish enough of the global capacity glut in shipping to
return  Excel Maritime Carriers (EXM)  Ltd. and other owners to profit.  Vessels are waiting as long as 51 days at Paranagua and 41
days at Santos, twice as long as last year, according to SA
Commodities. They are the two biggest ports for agricultural
exports and Panamaxes haul most of the cargoes, the shipping
agency estimates. While rates jumped 66 percent to $8,991 a day
this year on the delays, that’s still less than the $17,400 that
Excel Maritime says it needs to break even.  Panamaxes are the fastest-growing class in the commodity
carrier fleet after owners ordered a record number when rates
rose as high as $37,099 in 2010. Outstanding contracts at ship
yards are equal to 24 percent of existing capacity, according to
researcher IHS Fairplay. Shares of Athens-based Excel Maritime
will retreat 67 percent in 12 months, the average of three
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “Congestion soaks up available tonnage and is effectively
bullish for rates,” said Peter Norfolk, a London-based analyst
at Freight Investor Services Ltd., a derivatives broker. “The
problems with congestion will persist for some time, so while
we’re still wrestling with oversupply, there’s potential for the
market to tighten again.”  Rates will rise another 21 percent to $10,850 by May, said
Philippe Van Den Abeele, the managing director of Castalia Fund
Management (U.K.) Ltd., an adviser to a hedge fund trading
freight derivatives. That’s still 38 percent less than Excel
Maritime’s break-even level.  Freight Agreements  Panamax rates last reached $17,400 in December 2010,
according to the Baltic Exchange, the London-based publisher of
costs on more than 50 maritime routes. This year’s average of
$7,304 is the worst start since 2002. Forward freight agreements
traded by brokers and used to bet on future shipping costs
anticipate an average of $9,163 in May, according to the bourse.  Excel Maritime operates 28 Panamaxes, accounting for 60
percent of its fleet capacity, its website shows. That’s the
highest proportion among the five largest owners of the vessels,
according to Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker. The shares
almost doubled to 82 cents this year in  New York  trading and
will drop to 27 cents in 12 months, the analyst estimates show.  Grains make up about 40 percent of Panamax cargoes,
according to ICAP Shipping International Ltd., a London-based
unit of ICAP Plc. Vessel owners typically rely on South American
harvests to bolster rates in the second quarter, with earnings
rising in the period in eight of the past 10 years.  Corn Exporter  Brazil’s corn and soybean crop is the largest ever after
expanding a combined 12 percent, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates. The country is poised to overtake the
U.S. as the world’s biggest corn and soybean exporter this
year. Infrastructure hasn’t kept pace, resulting in an 18-mile
line of trucks delivering cargoes to Santos last month,
according to SA Commodities.  The delays aren’t deterring agricultural traders from
hiring ships because there are few alternatives until Northern
Hemisphere harvests start later this year, Abeele said. Corn
from the last U.S. harvest is trading at a 21 percent premium to
future supply in December on the Chicago Board of Trade. U.S.
grain shipments will drop 21 percent this year after the worst
drought since the 1930s, the government predicts.  Single Voyage  Panamax owners are also contending with slower growth in
coal exports, their largest source of single-voyage charters.
Seaborne demand will rise 5 percent this year, from 11 percent
in 2012, Clarkson data show. Mining companies may cut output as
prices retreat, according to Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst
at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo. Coal costs at South Africa’s
Richards Bay, a global benchmark, fell 19 percent in the past
year, McCloskey Group data show.  The Panamax fleet expanded 51 percent since 2009, according
to Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay. Capacity will gain
another 12 percent this year, the most of any type of commodity
carrier, Clarkson estimates.  The glut extends across the merchant-shipping industry.
Capesizes, which carry twice as much cargo as Panamaxes, and the
largest oil tankers are both earning less than they need to
cover operating expenses, according to the Baltic Exchange,
Clarkson and Moore Stephens LLP, a London-based consultant. The
ClarkSea Index, a measure of industrywide earnings, averaged
$8,284 in February, the lowest since at least 1994.  Oil Tankers  Excel Maritime will report a loss of $129.1 million this
year, narrowing from $211.6 million in 2011, the median of four
analyst estimates shows. Excel Maritime has contracts covering
56 percent of its Panamaxes in 2013, it said in a March 28
statement. Four e-mails and two phone calls to the company
seeking comment weren’t answered.  China Cosco Holdings Co., the biggest owner of Panamaxes,
will narrow its loss to $88.9 million this year, from $1.5
billion in 2012, according to the average of 11 analyst
estimates.  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) , the second-largest, will report
profit of $89.48 million for its fiscal year that ended March
31, and $291.4 million this year, as many as 13 estimates show.
Both companies also operate other vessels including oil tankers
and container ships.  The industry carries about 90 percent of world trade,
according to the Round Table of International Shipping
Associations. The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast
for global growth in trade this year to 3.6 percent in January
and April, from 4.5 percent.  Soybean Shipments  The U.S. may export 22 million metric tons of corn in the
2012-13 trade year, compared with shipments from Brazil at 25
million tons, according to the USDA’s Foreign Agricultural
Service. U.S. soybean exports at 36.74 million tons will be less
than Brazil’s at 36.75 million.  World trade in grains will expand 2 percent to 376 million
tons this year, Clarkson estimates. Total demand for dry bulk
commodities, which also includes iron ore, will rise 5 percent
to 4.27 billion tons, the shipbroker predicts.  “The large amount of South America grain cargoes is not
over yet,” said  Jeffrey Landsberg , the New York-based managing
director of Commodore Research & Consultancy, an adviser to ship
owners. “I’m still thinking we’re going to continue to get
large Panamax fleet growth. That’s why rates haven’t been
increasing by that much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  