-- Rio Tinto Australian Expansion Plan Rejected by Judge
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-04-15T07:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/rio-tinto-australian-expansion-plan-rejected-by-judge.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s plan to expand a
 coal mine  in the Australian wine-growing region of Hunter Valley
was rejected by a judge, overturning a government approval.  New South Wales Land and Environment Court Justice Brian
Preston today  upheld  an appeal of the government approval by
residents of Bulga, a village northeast of the Warkworth mine,
who complained about environmental impacts including noise and
dust emissions. Coal & Allied Industries Ltd., a unit of  Rio
Tinto , planned to extend the operation’s life and expand the
area the London-based company is mining.  The judge rejected the world’s second-biggest mining
company’s expansion plan on the basis of “the significant,
adverse, biological diversity, noise and dust, and social
impacts of the project.”  “This would be a disappointment for Rio, given that
they’ve been looking to extend the mine life to around 2030 and
possibly expand production,” Paul McTaggart, a Sydney-based
resources analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, said by phone.  Australian environmental groups are stepping up efforts to
discourage coal mining in some parts of the country, the world’s
biggest source of the commodity. Coast and Country Association
of Qld Inc. said it filed a complaint in February to block a
plan by GV Krishna Reddy’s GVK Group and  Gina Rinehart  to build
a $10 billion coal mine, port and rail project, while
environmentalists last year failed in a bid to block  Xstrata
Plc (XTA) ’s construction of the Wandoan coal mine in Queensland.  Bulga Win  “This is a huge win for the community of Bulga, which
would have been all but wiped off the map by this coal mine,”
Steve Phillips, Hunter regional coordinator of the environmental
group Lock the Gate Alliance, said of today’s ruling in a
statement posted on the group’s  website.   Coal & Allied Industries, a unit of Rio Tinto, said the
court ruling shows the planning process in New South Wales is
failing to deliver timely and predictable outcomes.  “This outcome is a blow to our plans for the Mount Thorley
Warkworth mine and the jobs of the 1,300 people who work
there,” Darren Yeates, Coal & Allied’s acting managing
director, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is also a setback
for hundreds of suppliers across the  Hunter Valley  and New South
Wales.”  Rio Stake  Rio Tinto, which together with  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  bought out
the minority holders in Coal & Allied in 2011 for A$1.53 billion
($1.6 billion), has hired Deutsche Bank AG to help reduce its
interest in the venture to as low as 51 percent from 80 percent,
the Wall Street Journal reported April 3, citing unidentified
people.  The company will review the the court’s decision to
determine its options, Yeates said.  Warkworth Mining, also a unit of Rio Tinto, has operated
the Warkworth mine since 1981. The company sought to expand
production and extend its life, as rising coal prices have
turned areas previously considered uneconomic into profitable
ones, according to the judgment.  Warkworth has a permit to operate the existing mine until
2021 and sought to extend it to 2031. The mine has a production
capacity of 10 million metric tons of thermal coal, Rio said on
its website.  The expansion would create about 44,000 direct and indirect
jobs and provide a A$16 billion boost to the Hunter economy,
according to a study presented in court.  The judge rejected the economic analysis saying he wasn’t
satisfied “that the economic benefits of the project outweigh
the environmental, social and other costs.”  The case is Bulga Milbrodale Progress Association Inc. v.
Minister for Planning and Infrastructure. 2013/NSWLEC48. Land
and Environment Court New South Wales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  