-- Royalty Pharma Raises Elan Bid to as Much as $7.3 Billion
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-15T17:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/royalty-pharma-raises-offer-for-elan-to-as-much-as-12-per-adr.html
Royalty Pharma, an investor in
royalty streams from pharmaceuticals, raised its offer to buy
 Elan Corp. (ELN)  to as much as $7.3 billion, threatening the Irish
drugmaker’s plan to embark on its own acquisitions.  The formal bid of $12 per American depositary receipt is
higher than a previous informal offer of $11 per ADR and
compares with the $12.01 closing price on April 12. The proposal
is a “firm, fully financed offer,” New York-based Royalty said
in a statement today.  An acquisition would allow Elan shareholders to avoid the
risks of Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin’s strategy of
reinvesting a portion of the $3.25 billion Elan received from
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for  divesting  its stake in the multiple
sclerosis drug Tysabri, Royalty said. Elan, based in Dublin, is
also buying back $1 billion of stock, a proposal shareholders
approved last week.  “This would give shareholders a very attractive
alternative to consider against the management acquisition
plan,” Royalty Chief Executive Officer Pablo Legorreta said on
a conference call with reporters. “We believe a substantial
majority of shareholders would view a $12 price as attractive.”  The purchase price may be reduced to as low as $11 per ADR
depending on the price Elan pays for shares in the stock
buyback, Royalty said.  Elan’s Plan  Elan rose 1 percent to close at 9.10 euros in Dublin. The
ADRs fell 0.9 percent to $11.90 as of 1:35 p.m. in New York.  “The board of Elan will, in line with its obligations
under Irish takeover law, promptly assess the Royalty Pharma
announcement and will advise its shareholders accordingly,” the
company said in a statement today.  Elan is interested in buying companies, both listed and
closely held, with drug treatments for neurological disorders as
well as those for metabolic diseases such as diabetes, it said
last month.  The company also said it will pay shareholders dividends
directly linked to Tysabri sales as a 20 percent share of the
royalty received from Biogen.  Royalty Pharma will pay for Elan using existing resources
and new credit facilities to be arranged by Bank of America
Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  JPMorgan, Bank of America and Groton Partners are advising
Royalty Pharma.  Founded in 1996, the company owns royalty interests in 37
approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. For example, in
2004, the firm bought Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center’s
U.S. royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug. Legorreta,
Royalty’s founder, previously worked as a banker at Lazard.  For Related News and Information:
Royalty Pharma Offers $6.5 Billion for Elan, Challenging CEO  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  