-- HRT Americas Cheapest as Gas Finds Dismissed: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-04-15T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/hrt-americas-cheapest-as-gas-finds-dismissed-corporate-brazil.html
Discovering natural gas rather than
oil in  Brazil ’s Amazon jungle is making  HRT Participacoes em
Petroleo SA  the cheapest energy stock in the Americas.  After a 60 percent plunge over the past year, the shares
fetch 0.37 of book value, the biggest discount among the
region’s 281 oil and gas companies with a market value of at
least $600 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are assigning no value to the Rio de Janeiro-
based explorer’s licenses in the Amazon, where it has discovered
commercial volumes of gas, and off the coast of Namibia, where
it began drilling this year, Chief Executive Officer Marcio Mello said in an April 10 interview. The company’s market value
mostly reflects cash holdings and the $75 million it will
receive from the sale of its aviation unit, he said.  “That is absurd,” Mello, 59, said. “HRT is very cheap.”  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3) , a unit of the Quieroz Galvao
engineering and construction group, leads Brazilian  oil
companies  with a price-to-book ratio of 1.37, followed by state-
controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  at 0.67, and billionaire  Eike Batista ’s  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  e Gas Participacoes SA at 0.65. Exxon
Mobil Corp., the world’s most valuable  oil company , trades at
2.41 times, while Chevron Corp.’s ratio is 1.71.  More Expensive  HRT, which raised $1.5 billion in an  initial share sale  in
2010, has seen its market value shrink to $689 million from
$1.82 billion in the past 12 months after investors were
discouraged by the company’s discovery of gas instead of oil
deep in the Amazon. Gas is more expensive to transport and sells
for less than crude. The company continues to drill for crude in
the region where Petrobras pumps 103,000 barrels a day of oil
and gas and plans to make money from its gas discoveries that
are low in sulfur and other impurities, making it cheaper to
process, Mello said.  Petrobras, which pumps more than 90 percent of Brazil’s oil
and has the only  gas pipeline  in the Solimoes basin, agreed in
October to study a partnership with HRT to make money from the
remote gas deposits.  “The consortium decided we have enough scale,” Mello
said. “The monetization process is moving along great.”  The companies are looking into liquefied natural gas and
gas-to-liquids projects, as well as fertilizer and power plants
that would use the gas produced in the region, Mello said.
Another option is using gas tankers that freeze the fuel into a
liquid and transport it down the Solimoes River, he said. HRT will 
also study supplying gas to industrial operations in neighboring
Manaus and Para states, Mello said.  Cash Levels  Partnering with Petrobras could make HRT’s Solimoes blocks
profitable even if it doesn’t find oil in the area. HRT made
five gas discoveries last year in Solimoes. The company owns 55
percent of its Solimoes Basin blocks and Kremlin-run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) 
has a 45 percent stake after it bought TNK-BP, HRT’s original
partner.  Petrobras declined to comment on the status of talks with
HRT, citing a confidentiality clause, its press office said in
an e-mailed reply to questions.  HRT’s total current assets fell to  $480 million  at the end
of 2012 from $1.5 billion a year earlier following exploration
investments in Solimoes and off the coast of Namibia.  The company is spending more efficiently as it masters
operations in the jungle where all equipment is transported by
helicopter, Mello said. The company’s best gas well to date is
capable of producing the equivalent of 45,000 barrels a day
according to production tests, he said.  Track Record  The partnership with Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil
producer, will also reduce outlays. This month Rosneft began
paying for 45 percent of costs at Solimoes, Mello said. HRT has
the option to sell an additional 10 percent stake to the state-
run company and it is committed to developing the deposits, he
said. Rosneft’s press office didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comments.  The track record in Solimoes, where HRT expected to find
oil below existing gas reservoirs, gives the region less
potential value than  Namibia  where HRT started its first well
last month, Banco Itau SA analysts Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes, based in  Sao Paulo , said in a March 26 note to clients.
Itau puts HRT’s fair value at 7.5 reais a share for end 2013,
with 3.3 reais a share for Solimoes and 3.6 reais for Namibia.
The shares gained 1.1 percent to 4.55 reais on April 12.  “After all the disappointments while ’drilling deeper’ to
find oil in the Solimoes, a successful well in Namibia is likely
the only event that can change HRT’s story, we believe,” the
Itau analysts said.  Expansion Curb  To preserve cash for existing projects, HRT is curbing its
expansion plans in Brazil. The company, which is authorized to
operate in Brazil’s deep waters, plans to bid for licenses in a
May exploration auction by offering “intellectual capital”
instead of cash to potential partners, he said.  Portugal ’s  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  bought a 14 percent stake
in HRT’s Namibia assets and the Brazilian company is seeking
more partners to help cover drilling expenses, Mello said. The
company is also in talks with potential partners in the Amazon,
he said.  “If the project is good, there won’t be a lack of cash,”
Mello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  