-- Rubio Says Citizenship in U.S. Immigration Revamp Isn’t Amnesty
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-04-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/rubio-says-citizenship-in-u-s-immigration-revamp-isn-t-amnesty.html
Millions of undocumented immigrants
in the U.S. should be allowed to earn their citizenship because
deporting them isn’t realistic, said Florida Republican Senator
Marco Rubio.  Rubio, who has emerged as a leading supporter of revamping
U.S.  immigration  laws, spoke yesterday on all five Sunday talk
shows to defend a bipartisan proposal expected to be introduced
this week in the Senate.  Rubio, speaking on NBC’s  “Meet the Press”  program,
rejected arguments that the proposal would amount to amnesty for
the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.  “It’s not amnesty because you pay serious consequences for
having violated the law,” Rubio said. “If someone believes we
can round them up and deport them, they should advocate that. I
don’t think that’s a reasonable goal.”  The plan would allow undocumented immigrants to remain and
 work  in the country if they meet certain requirements and apply
for permanent residency -- or a green card -- after 10 years,
Rubio said. They could apply for citizenship after receiving
their green cards, he said.  A group of eight senators has resolved “every significant
disagreement” when it comes to  immigration reform  and plans to
introduce a bill tomorrow, Senator Charles Schumer, a Democrat
from New York, said on ABC’s “This Week” program.  ‘Major Agreement’  “I think you’ll see a major agreement, that’s balanced but
fair, that will have the widespread support of the American
people,” Schumer, one of the group of eight, said yesterday on
ABC’s “This Week” program. “This is a balanced approach that
both prevents future waves of illegal immigration, but has
common-sense solutions.”  After being introduced, the bill will be subjected to
hearings and negotiations as lawmakers and President  Barack Obama ’s administration attempt to craft a major overhaul of U.S.
immigration laws for the first time in nearly three decades.  Vermont Senator Patrick Leahy, the Democratic chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, told reporters last week he
expects to review the proposal at an April 17 hearing.  A series of security “triggers” must be met before
undocumented immigrants can begin applying for green cards,
including tougher border security and the creation of a
nationwide worker verification system, Rubio said. The
government also must create an electronic system to verify
whether foreigners have overstayed their visas, Rubio said.  Cheaper, Faster  “It will be cheaper, faster and easier for people to go
back home and wait 10 years than it will be to go through this
process that I’ve outlined,” Rubio said during an appearance on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “That’s why it’s not
amnesty.”  Undocumented immigrants would be granted temporary work
permits to remain in the country for the 10 years before they
could apply for green cards under the plan, Rubio said.  The temporary work permits would be available as soon as
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security establishes a plan to
secure the nation’s borders.  Undocumented immigrants would have to pass background
checks and pay fines and application fees in order to receive a
temporary work permit, Rubio said. They wouldn’t qualify for
federal benefits, such as welfare, under the temporary permits,
Rubio said.  ‘Not Convinced’  Alabama Republican Senator Jeff Sessions said on ABC’s
“This Week” that he’s “not convinced” the immigration
proposal is good for the country.  It “will give amnesty now, legalize everyone that’s here
effectively today and then there’s a promise of enforcement in
the future,” said Sessions, the top Republican on the Senate
Budget Committee.  “Even if you pass laws today that appear to be effective,
it doesn’t mean they’re going to be enforced,” Sessions said.  Texas Republican Senator John Cornyn said on “Fox News
Sunday” he would find it difficult to support giving temporary
legal status to those in the country illegally until public
confidence is restored in the government’s ability to secure the
nation’s borders.  The White House disagrees with senators on the need for
enforcement triggers, Rubio said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union .” The difference must be resolved before immigration
reform legislation can be signed into law.  Regardless, Rubio said he’s optimistic the Senate will pass
an immigration reform bill this year.  “If enforcement is not a part of this, and if we don’t
modernize legal immigration, if we don’t do all these things,
then we’re going to be right back here in 10 years having this
conversation all over again,” Rubio said. “And that would be
the worst possible outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  