-- Ruble Weakens for Third Day as Oil Drops on Chinese GDP Data
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-04-15T09:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/ruble-weakens-for-third-day-as-oil-drops-on-chinese-gdp-data.html
The ruble weakened for a third day
and oil fell to the lowest level this year after economic growth
slowed more than expected in  China .  The ruble fell 0.8 percent against the central bank’s
dollar-euro basket to 35.6778, weaker than the level at which
traders says the central bank intervenes to bolster the
currency. The Russian currency declined 0.9 percent against the
dollar to 31.3660 by 1:03 p.m. in Moscow.  Crude,  Russia ’s biggest export earner, lost 2.1 percent in
London trading, falling to the lowest since July. In China, the
world’s second-largest crude consumer, gross domestic product
rose 7.7 percent in the first quarter, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing. That compares with an 8 percent
median forecast.  “The fall is undoubtedly due to the decline in  oil
prices ,” Anton Zakharov, senior commodities and currency
analyst at OAO Promsvyazbank, said by phone from Moscow.  The monthly tax period starts today with obligatory
transfers to insurance and pension funds. Taxes support the
local currency as exporters sell cash from exports to get
rubles.  Significant currency sales by exporters are unlikely before
April 25, when Russian companies pay the mineral extraction tax,
VTB Capital analysts Maxim Korovin and Anton Nikitin wrote in a
note to clients.  “The tax period may not provide the usual support for the
market, as exporters could’ve taken advantage of the ruble’s
decline last week and purchased the necessary amounts,”
Zakharov from Promsvyazbank said.  Yields on OFZ bonds due Feb. 2027 rose eight basis points,
extending a seven-basis point increase on April 12, to 7.15
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  