-- Russian Blacklist Fight Lacks Courage and Conviction
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-04-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/russian-blacklist-fight-lacks-courage-and-conviction.html
(Corrects citizenship of Browder in fourth paragraph.)  Russian officials have gotten
themselves worked up over the U.S. government’s public naming of
18 Russians it considers to be human-rights abusers. It’s hard
to understand why.  The administration of President  Barack Obama  published the
list last week, as required by a new U.S.  law  named after Sergei Magnitsky, a Russian lawyer who died in jail after trying to
expose official corruption.  Russia  retaliated by publishing its
own list of U.S. citizens who it believes have violated the
rights of Russians. Both groups are barred entry to the offended
countries.  The U.S. list looks as though it was drawn up reluctantly,
with much effort not to offend Moscow. With only 18 names, it’s
tiny compared with the more than 23,000 Russians who were denied
nonimmigrant visas by U.S. consulates in 2012 (who in turn make
up only  9.6 percent  of the total 241,000 who applied). The list
mostly includes the investigators, bureaucrats and prison
officials implicated in the death of Magnitsky. None of the
Russians on the list are particularly important: The highest-ranking official is Oleg Logunov, former deputy head of the
Investigations Committee, the Russian equivalent of the FBI, now
working as deputy to President  Vladimir Putin ’s envoy to
Russia’s Northwestern Federal District.  Magnitsky, a lawyer for the Moscow firm Firestone Duncan,
accused Russian officials of illegally obtaining a $230 million
value-added-tax refund using the companies of his client, U.K.
citizen Bill Browder’s Hermitage Fund. Magnitsky was then
charged with  tax fraud  and put in jail, where he died at the age
of 37 after being refused medical help. Browder went on a PR
offensive, convincing U.S. legislators that they had to act
against Russians guilty of human rights violations by passing
the Magnitsky act.  The people on the U.S. list aren’t all untouchable in
Russia. One of them, former tax official Olga Stepanova, is
 under investigation  in Moscow for obtaining fraudulent tax
refunds -- though not ones related to the Magnitsky case. Two
more are hardly the kind of human rights violators the Magnitsky
act targeted. Kazbek Dukuzov was accused of killing U.S.
journalist Paul Klebnikov in 2004, acquitted and then sought
again for the same crime. He is now on the run. Lecha Bogatyrev
is sought for allegedly playing a part in a contract killing of
a Russian citizen in  Austria .  There’s also a classified part of the undesirables list.
The daily Kommersant  reported , citing a “source close to the
U.S. administration,” that the secret list is “half the
length” of the public list.  According  to the  New York  Times,
 Ramzan Kadyrov , head of the once-troubled and now expensively
pacified region of Chechnya, is on the list.  Kadyrov reacted sarcastically to his reported inclusion.
“I have never had the slightest desire to visit” the U.S., he
 wrote  on Instagram. “A few months ago even my horse was not
allowed to go there to take part in the races. The poor horse
became sick with disappointment.”  Moscow’s official reaction was so hurt and indignant that
one might think Putin, not Kadyrov, had been declared persona
non grata. “These documents, the Magnitsky Act and the
Magnitsky list, are examples of illegal documents,” thundered
parliament speaker  Sergei Naryshkin ,  according  to the RIA
Novosti news agency. “I am astonished that the legislators of a
state that calls itself law-governed … can pass laws that
violate fundamental jurisprudence.”  In the time-honored diplomatic tit-for-tat tradition,
Russia’s  list  also includes 18 people: four involved with the
Guantanamo prison and the legal justification of the use of
torture there, and 14 others who handled the cases of two
Russian citizens convicted of serious crimes in U.S. courts:
pilot Konstantin Yaroshenko, sent to prison for 20 years for
drug smuggling, and  Viktor Bout , sentenced to 25 years for arms
dealing.  “In every country there is a list of people whom that
country does not want to admit” said presidential aide  Yuri Ushakov ,  according  to RIA Novosti. “We have one, the Americans
have one, and these lists are, of course, much longer than 18
people. But no one has ever mentioned this publicly. This is
something new in diplomacy and it goes against all the rules and
norms that have been accepted for centuries.”  On April 15, U.S. President Barack Obama’s National
Security Adviser Thomas Donilon visited Moscow and met with
Ushakov. The latter said after the meeting that  Washington ’s
signals were “positive” and that Putin would “pick them up,”
RIA Novosti  reported .  The Magnitsky case is not likely to turn into a major
diplomatic quarrel on the scale of the 1986 free-for-all that
resulted from the arrest of Russian diplomat Gennadi Zakharov in
Washington. Back then, the  Reagan administration  expelled about
100 Soviets, and  Mikhail Gorbachev ’s  Soviet Union  withdrew all
the Russian support staff from the U.S. Embassy and kicked out
10 diplomats.  Diplomats will, in most cases, find a way to mend fences
and maintain their working relationships, including the cool but
respectful interaction between Obama and Putin. It takes much
less courage to play tit-for-tat than to admit that Magnitsky
may have been right after all, and that the mid-ranking
bureaucrats on the U.S. list did indeed steal hundreds of
millions of dollars from Russia’s budget.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 