-- Russia Counters Obama Letter With Call to Calm Hostile Congress
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-04-15T16:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/russia-counters-obama-letter-with-call-to-calm-hostile-congress.html
The Obama administration should put
pressure on Congress to tame its hostile attitude toward Russia,
President  Vladimir Putin ’s foreign-policy aide said after a
message delivered by the U.S. leader’s envoy today.  U.S. National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon brought a
message from Obama to his Russian counterpart that included an
offer to deepen economic cooperation, Putin’s aide,  Yuri Ushakov , told reporters in Moscow. The proposal encompasses
issues of missile defense and nuclear arsenals, Interfax said.  “From one side we have a positive letter that has several
interesting proposals, from the other -- an administration
that’s taking no action regarding several figures that make our
relations worse,” Ushakov said. “They are not willing to work
with Russophobic Congress to align it with an atmosphere of
cooperation with Russia.”  The former Cold War foes are trying to mend relations that
have worsened since Putin returned to the presidency last year,
with disputes ranging from democratic rights and missile defense
to the conflict in  Syria . Three days before Donilon’s visit, the
Obama administration released a list of 18 Russians, drafted in
Congress, who will be subject to financial sanctions and banned
from entering the U.S. for playing a role in human-rights
abuses, prompting  Russia  to retaliate by imposing its own ban.  Obama offered to establish a new format for cooperation and
change the work of the U.S.-Russia presidential commission,
Ushakov said. The proposals brought by Donilon are in
contradiction to the move to blacklist the officials, he said.  Magnitsky Act  The Treasury Department acted on April 12 under a law
passed last year and known as the Magnitsky Act, named after a
Russian lawyer who accused police officials of stealing $230
million from the national treasury. Supporters of Sergei Magnitsky, who was arrested on tax evasion charges and died in
jail in 2009, say he was tortured and denied medical treatment.  The Russian Foreign Ministry countered the following day by
releasing its own list of 18 former and current U.S. officials
that will be barred from entering Russia. The ban will extend to
individuals suspected of human-rights violations against
Russians abroad and includes people the ministry accuses of
torture at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Donilon, is in Moscow April 14-15 for meetings with senior
Russian officials to review and plan the next steps in U.S.-
Russian relations. The agenda included foreign policy, security
and economic issues, said Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the
National Security Council.  G-8 Talks  The consultations come before planned meetings between
Obama and Putin during the G-8 talks in  Northern Ireland  in mid-
June and in Russia in September around the G-20 meetings, Hayden
said in an e-mail.  Obama and Putin spoke by telephone on March 1, partly to
set the stage for their meetings in June and September,
according to a White House statement at the time.  The two leaders discussed  Iran ’s ambitions to obtain
nuclear weapons, violence in Syria and ways to forge a political
transition, international economic conditions and steps to widen
trade and investment between the U.S. and Russia. The two
leaders talked after Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Russian
Foreign Minister Lavrov conferred earlier in the week in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  