-- Russia to Pitch Mechanism to Prevent Cyprus-Like Crisis to G-20
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-15T17:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/russia-to-pitch-mechanism-to-prevent-cyprus-like-crisis-to-g-20.html
Russia  plans to discuss ideas at a
Group of 20 meeting this week for an early-warning mechanism to
prevent Cyprus-like crises, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
said.  The worsening outlook for Cyprus was “clear right after
the decision to write down half the value of Greek debt,”
Siluanov told reporters in Moscow today. It would have been
better to resolve the issues of both countries simultaneously,
he said.  Finance ministers and central bankers of the G-20, which
says it represents 90 percent of the global economy, will meet
this week in  Washington . Russia, holding G-20 rotating
presidency this year, berated the initial bailout plan for
Cyprus, where Russian companies and individuals have an
estimated $31 billion in deposits, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  “Political considerations were a key contributor to the
final decision on Cyprus,” Siluanov said. “We think it’s
necessary to have an automatic warning mechanism to forestall
the development of events similar to what happened in Cyprus.”  The final G-20 communique may include “such regulations,”
according to Siluanov.  Cyprus was forced by the so-called troika overseeing euro-
area bailouts to inflict unprecedented losses on uninsured
depositors and senior bondholders as part of the 10 billion-euro
($13.1 billion) rescue of its financial system. Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  called the earlier plan that affected
insured savers “unfair, unprofessional and dangerous.”  ‘Very Serious’  As European leaders reworked the Cyprus bailout, Russia
agreed to restructure a 2.5 billion-euro loan granted to the
island nation in 2011.  Finance ministers and central bank governors will raise
questions about the Cyprus deal in Washington, Siluanov said.
The agreement created a “very serious precedent” that raised
concerns among investors about putting the burden created by
several lenders on the entire banking industry, he said.  Problem-free banks in Cyprus should be allowed to resume
transactions on frozen accounts, according to Siluanov.  The G-20 will also discuss the consequences of easing
monetary policy, including in the U.S and  Japan , according to
Siluanov. There will be questions to clarify Japan’s actions and
how they affect currency, debt and rates policies, Siluanov
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  