-- Russian Industrial Production Unexpectedly Grew 2.6% Last Month
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-15T12:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/russian-industrial-production-unexpectedly-grew-2-6-last-month.html
Russian  industrial production 
unexpectedly expanded in March for the first time this year,
growing at the fastest pace in eight months, led by gains in
manufacturing and mining.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 2.6 percent
from a year earlier after shrinking 2.1 percent in February and
0.8 percent in January, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow
said in an e-mailed statement today. The figure exceeded the
highest projection in a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists, which
had a median  estimate  of a 1 percent decline.  An upturn in industrial output bucks the trend of recent
data showing the economy of the world’s biggest energy exporter
expanding at the slowest pace since a recession in 2009. With
the government heightening calls for monetary stimulus to revive
domestic demand, Bank Rossii under outgoing Chairman Sergey Ignatiev this month took the biggest step toward easing monetary
policy since raising all rates in September.  “The extractive sector has started to recover, which isn’t
a bad signal in general and for our country in particular,
considering the role it plays in our economy,” President
 Vladimir Putin   told  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  at a meeting
broadcast on state television today.  The ruble has weakened about 2.2 percent against the dollar
in the past month, its second month of decline and the worst
performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg in that period. The ruble lost 0.9 percent
to 31.3490 per dollar at 4:30 p.m. in Moscow.  Manufacturing, Mining  Manufacturing grew 3.4 percent in March from a year earlier
and mining increased 0.6 percent, according to the report.
Production of electricity, water and heat expanded 1.1 percent,
the service said.  Still, industrial output was unchanged in the first quarter
from a year earlier. The Economy Ministry last week cut its
estimate for industrial-output growth this year to 2 percent
from 3.6 percent and reduced its investment-expansion forecast
to 4.6 percent from 6.5 percent.  “There is a lack of domestic demand due to a slowdown in
lending, low rates of state investment and savings growth,”
Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for Russia at VTB Capital, said
before the report.  High  interest rates  and a “very strong decline” in the
estimate for natural gas exports are the main reasons for a
lower growth forecast for this year, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters April 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  