-- SAC’s First Asia-Based Manager to Start Own Macro Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-04-15T04:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/sac-s-first-asia-based-manager-to-start-own-macro-hedge-fund.html
Yip Ka-hay, the first Asia-based
manager hired by Steven Cohen’s $15 billion SAC Capital Advisors
LP, plans to start a macro hedge fund in July to trade
currencies, interest-rate securities and equity indexes in the
region.  Yip, the founder of Hong Kong-based Bright Stream Capital
Management Ltd., will start trading with as much as $25 million
of his own money, he said in an interview April 12. He expects
additional capital from investors will take Bright Stream Macro
Fund’s size to as much as $300 million within 18 months.  The 42-year-old is rejoining the hedge-fund industry after
a four-year gap to take advantage of a shortage of Asia-focused
funds that bet on macroeconomic trends. Expectation for rising
interest rates and repricing of other currencies against the
dollar will make the strategy more profitable in the coming
years, he said.  “People talk about Asian macro a lot but there are not
that many dedicated Asian macro funds out there,” he said,
adding that existing funds tend to trade a lot of equities.
“There is a niche for someone to focus a specific fund on Asian
rates and foreign exchange.”  Macro hedge funds accounted for 1.6 percent of Asian hedge-
fund assets in the fourth quarter, according to Chicago-based
researcher Hedge Fund Research Inc. Globally, such funds made up
22 percent of the industry assets.  The Eurekahedge Asia Macro Hedge Fund Index, tracking five
such pools, returned 3.7 percent in the first three months, the
 best  quarter in three years. Macro is now the fourth-best
performing of nine hedge-fund strategies tracked by Eurekahedge
in the region, behind funds that bet on corporate events, stocks
and arbitrage.  Currency Repricing  Yip is readying the fund as signs of a U.S. economic
recovery raise the prospects interests rates will rise, paving
the way for more volatile rates and increased trading
opportunities for macro managers, he said.  The dollar is at a turning point as a result of reduced
U.S. dependence on Middle East oil, in addition to better
economic outlooks, said Yip, who traded dollar-yen for JPMorgan
and ran Credit Suisse First Boston’s emerging-markets desk for
Asian currencies in  Singapore  before his hedge-fund career.  “You will see a lot of repricing, whether it’s Asian
currencies or in developed markets,” he added.  Several Federal Reserve officials said the central bank
should begin tapering its bond purchases later this year and
stop them by year-end if the outlook for labor market improved
as anticipated, according to the minutes of the March Federal
Open Market Committee meeting.  Annual Return  The fund will target an annual return of 10 percent to 15
percent above the London interbank offered rate. As much as 30
percent of its investment will be in equity indexes with the
rest split between rates and currencies. It won’t trade single
stocks or single-name credit, Yip said.  Yip  joined  SAC in Hong Kong in December 2007 to run
regional macro investments after the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
hedge fund opened its first Asian office in the city. He left
SAC in early 2009 when it decided to downsize non-equity
investments, he said. After leaving SAC, Yip managed his own
investments.  Yen Depreciation  Before SAC, he was the chief investment officer of the
macro strategy at PMA Investment Advisors, a Hong Kong-based
hedge-fund company that was acquired by Japan’s  Sparx Group Co. (8739) 
in June 2006. He started the PMA Harvester Fund, the company’s
dedicated macro hedge fund, in 2007 and also ran such
investments for other PMA funds during his more than four years
stint, he said. The Harvester Fund returned annualized 10
percent to 27 percent under his oversight, he said.  The yen depreciated to 99.95 per dollar on April 11, the
weakest since April 2009, after Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda surprised markets by doubling monthly bond purchases in
an attempt to end deflation. The Japanese currency has declined
20 percent against the dollar in the last six months on Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to pull the country out of 15 years
of deflation.  William Fong, who worked with Yip at PMA, and Joshua So, a
former colleague at SAC who is in charge of operations, have
also joined Bright Stream, Yip said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  