-- Sanofi Won’t Chase Alzheimer’s Therapies, Viehbacher Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-15T08:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/sanofi-won-t-chase-alzheimer-s-therapies-viehbacher-says.html
Sanofi (SAN) , unlike rivals such as Merck
& Co., won’t push hard to find an Alzheimer’s treatment because
the science isn’t advanced enough to justify the costs to
develop a drug, Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said.  Sanofi, the French drugmaker that has gained 42 percent in
the past year, “definitely” won’t commit major resources
seeking to discover an Alzheimer’s therapy, Viehbacher said, in
contrast to the strategy announced by rivals such as Merck,  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   Drug companies are vying to be the first with an effective
drug for the mind-robbing condition. The most common of dementia
illnesses, it’s expected to affect 65 million people worldwide
by 2030 and a treatment that can slow the disease’s progress
promises tens of billions of dollars in sales. There have been
101 failures since 1998, according to the Pharmaceutical
Research & Manufacturers of America, including setbacks last
year in late-stage clinical trials by Pfizer, J&J and Elan Corp.  “I think we have to do a lot more basic science work to
understand what’s going on,” Viehbacher said in an interview in
 San Diego  at the annual meeting of PhRMA, the industry’s
Washington-based lobbying group. “We really, at best, partially
understand the cause of the disease. It’s hard to come up with
meaningful targets.”  The drugs in last year’s trials, solanezumab and
bapineuzumab, targeted the build-up of plaque in patients’ brain
called amyloid. The hypothesis was that by clearing the plaque
or stopping it from forming, therapies might be able to stop
damage that eventually leads to cognitive decline, loss of
function, and dementia.  ‘Be Humble’  Viehbacher said more research needs to be done before
taking drugs into expensive, later-stage trials.  “We start with the premise that what we know isn’t
adequate in describing this,” he said. “Unless we’ve got
better targets, we’re not really making any progress.”  The first Alzheimer’s drugs, should they prove successful,
would lead to a market worth $20 billion,  Barbara Ryan , a former
analyst with Deutsche Bank, estimated last year.  Viehbacher said an initiative by the U.S. government to map
the brain could prove helpful in finding ways to treat
Alzheimer’s, as could more collaboration across the industry.
But he warned against pushing therapies into late-stage trials
without proof of what causes the disease. “We have to be humble
in front of science,” he said.  Sanofi’s competitors are moving ahead. Merck, based in
 Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , has a drug in the second of
three phases of testing before possible approval by U.S.
regulators, with plans to take it into the final stage. The
medicine, called MK-8931, also targets amyloid plaque build-up.
Lilly of Indianapolis is continuing to study solanezumab, and
has another compound in Phase 2 testing. New York-based Pfizer
has two drugs in development as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  