-- Saskatchewan Banker Turned Oil Man Shows Way for Canada
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-15T20:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/saskatchewan-banker-turned-oil-man-shows-way-for-canada.html
Kylan Dales gave up a banking
career to work out of a mobile office and plow his pickup truck
through snow in the oil fields of Saskatchewan.  The 30-year-old’s starting salary as a field operator for
 PetroBakken Energy Ltd. (PBN)  matched what he made as a retail
marketing consultant at Servus Credit Union. Dales’s career
shift reflects a “rotation” of demand that Bank of  Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  says the economy needs -- toward business
investment and exports and away from  consumer spending .  While most of Canada faces sagging growth and slowing labor
markets, Saskatchewan is benefiting from corporate investment
aimed at tapping global demand for natural resources. Saskatoon-
based  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market capitalization, has expanded
capacity.  Cameco Corp. (CCO) , based in the same city and Canada’s
biggest uranium producer, is building its Cigar Lake mine atop
the world’s largest undeveloped high-grade uranium deposit.  “There is more going on in this province now than I have
ever seen,” said Gavin Semple, 67, chairman of farm-equipment
maker Brandt Industries Ltd. in Regina, the provincial capital.
“Whether it’s  population growth , investment, almost any
criteria that you want to use to measure, this is a high
point,” said Semple, who’s worked in the province for more than
40 years.  Jobless Rate  Saskatchewan’s 3.9 percent jobless rate is the lowest among
Canada’s 10 provinces and well below the country’s 7.2 percent
average. The province’s budget is in surplus, while other
governments struggle with deficits. Its economy will grow 2.3
percent this year, compared with 1.6 percent for the country as
a whole, according to an April 4 report from Toronto-Dominion
Bank economist Jonathan Bendiner. Next year, the province’s
growth is forecast to accelerate to 3.2 percent, outstripping
the nation’s 2.6 percent pace.  Other cities and regions are struggling. Home sales are
declining in  Vancouver , while manufacturers in Ontario and
Quebec are dealing with slower U.S. orders and a currency that
strengthened 42 percent against the  U.S. dollar  over the last
decade. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has also switched his
focus from stimulus spending to eliminating a  budget deficit ,
while warning consumers to curb their own record debt loads.  The situation is different in Saskatchewan. The population
grew 1.6 percent to 1.07 million over the past year, provincial
Finance Minister Ken Krawetz said in a March 20 budget  speech .
Local companies have still needed to recruit workers from
Ontario, Ireland and the Philippines to fill the gaps.  Creature Comforts  Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is making sure it has the
creature comforts needed to entice workers to its Jansen site, a
proposed potash mine about 140 kilometers (87 miles) east of
Saskatoon. The world’s largest mining company hired Calgary-
based ATCO Ltd. to build a camp with 2,586 beds, a 1,200 person
diner, a gym with two squash courts, two golf simulators and an
elevated running track, according to BHP spokeswoman Bronwyn Wilkinson.  China is the world’s largest potash consumer and
Saskatchewan is home to the world’s largest deposits of the
mineral used in fertilizer. Economic growth in China, the
world’s second-largest economy, unexpectedly lost momentum in
the first quarter, with output rising 7.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a gain of 7.9 percent the previous
quarter, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing
today.  Stocks Drop  The report helped send commodities and stocks lower. The
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index dropped 2.3 percent to 1,552.36 in
New York. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index declined 6.3
percent as a gauge of confidence among U.S. homebuilders
unexpectedly fell in April. Canadian  stocks  also were lower,
with the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index sliding 2.7
percent to 12,004.88, led by oil and mining shares.  While the data out of China adds to concern that the global
economy is slowing, the pace of growth among emerging Asian
economies remains stronger than in  North America .  Canadian and Indian nuclear regulators signed an agreement
last week that moves the countries closer to completing a pact
that will allow Saskatchewan to export uranium for civilian use
to India.  On top of these resources, Saskatchewan is benefiting from
output from the Bakken oil formation, the same crude source that
has led to a boom in  North Dakota , on the other side of the 49th
parallel.  Bakken Oil  Oil from the Bakken deposit is also lighter than the oil-
sands crude from  Alberta . As a result, Bakken crude trades at
much less of a discount to West Texas Intermediate than
Alberta’s Western Canada Select. Bakken UHC crude traded for
$89.79 a barrel on April 12, while Western Canada Select was at
$77.54, both less than the $91.04 WTI Midland price.  That discount cost the provincial government of neighboring
Alberta C$6 billion ($5.9 billion) in revenue, Premier Alison Redford said last month, “equivalent to our entire education
budget.”  The fiscal pressure has weighed on her government, with
only 29 percent of Albertans saying they support Redford,
according to a survey published last week by Angus Reid Public
Opinion. That compares with the 64 percent support enjoyed by
Saskatchewan’s leader Brad Wall -- 23 points more than any other
premier.  Saskatchewan’s bonds have returned 5.1 percent in the past
12 months including reinvested interest, compared with 4.5
percent for Alberta. Both provinces have AAA long-term debt
ratings from Standard & Poor’s, with Moody’s Investors Service
rating Alberta Aaa and Saskatchewan Aa1.  Multiple Resources  “What we have going for us is that we aren’t just oil; we
are fuel, fertilizer and food,” Wall, 47, said in an interview
in his legislative office, which features a bookshelf topped
with a row of football helmets, a nod to one of the region’s
favorite sports.  Wall credits Saskatchewan’s farmers with heeding Carney’s
call to export to faster-growing  emerging markets  rather than
the U.S., by moving from the wheat depicted on the provincial
 flag  to crops such as lentils for India and Bangladesh.  Investments beyond resource companies include  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s hub in Regina that opened in January to
transfer freight between trucks and trains. Loblaw Cos. Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest grocery chain, opened a distribution center
nearby, close to a new trucking  depot  run by the  Yanke Group of
Companies .  As in North Dakota, the prosperity is leading to a fierce
demand for labor.  “Anybody who wants to work in Saskatchewan is working,”
said Don Henry, chief operating officer of Morris Industries
Ltd. in Saskatoon, a maker of  farm equipment  such as seeders and
bale carriers. “We are constantly looking at resumes.”  Rental Homes  And as in North Dakota, the growth is causing stresses. In
Estevan, near the U.S. border, utility SaskPower is offering to
rent houses within 100 kilometers as it brings in workers to its
Boundary Dam station.  High-paid workers are pinched by hotel rooms going for
about C$3,300 a month, more than the median rent on a Manhattan
apartment.  Still, ex-banker Dales said from an oil battery site in
Heward, Saskatchewan, that his quality of life has improved
since starting with Calgary-based PetroBakken.  “It was always something I wanted to get into but I found
it difficult to find an  oil company  that was willing to take a
chance on someone who was green,” he said. “I go to sleep
happy every night.”  Even learning since he started in September to cope with
winter blizzards that trap vehicles and wind chills that were 20
degrees below freezing even in March has been fun, he said.  “You never know how hard some of the snowdrifts are,” he
said. “It was scary the first couple of weeks but I’ve never
looked back on my banking career.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Estevan, Saskatchewan at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  