-- Scooter Store Files Bankruptcy With Plan to Sell Assets
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-04-15T19:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/scooter-store-files-bankruptcy-with-plan-to-sell-assets.html
Scooter Store Holdings Inc. , a
supplier of motorized scooters and wheelchairs throughout the
U.S., filed for bankruptcy with a plan to sell virtually all of
its assets.  “Historical overhangs coupled with an increasingly complex
regulatory environment and mounting economic pressure in the
health-care sector have significantly impacted the company’s
ability to operate under its current model,” Chief Executive
Officer Martin Landon said today in a statement.  The closely held company, based in New Braunfels, Texas,
listed assets of less than $10 million and debt of more than
$50 million in Chapter 11 documents filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware. Seventy-one affiliates
also sought protection.  Scooter Store will use Chapter 11 “to seek to create a
new, financially healthy provider that operates in strict
accordance with all legal, contractual and regulatory
requirements,” Landon said.  The company owes more than $19 million to the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services, administrator of the two
government programs, according to court papers. Medicare
provides health-care coverage for the elderly and disabled,
funded through a payroll tax and other federal revenue. Medicaid
provides coverage for the poor, administered by states and
funded jointly by state and federal governments.  Headquarters Searched  The company said in an earlier statement that government
representatives searched corporate headquarters Feb. 20 and Feb.
21 and company officials cooperated with them. Investigations
“have created significant financial burdens, as well as damaged
the debtors’ commercial appeal,” Chief Financial Officer
Charles Lowrey said in bankruptcy papers.  The company, which has served more than 700,000 older and
disabled customers, is “heavily regulated” by the Medicare and
Medicaid systems, the Justice Department and the inspector
general’s office in the Department of Health and Human Services,
he said.  A switch by Medicare to “a 13-month capped rental model
with respect to collection of payments” for scooters,
negatively affected debt service, he said.  Also harmful has been a “criminal investigation by the
Department of Justice” into the “former management team,” and
a civil investigation into “billing and reimbursement
procedures,” he said. The probes are continuing, Lowrey said.  Law Firms  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP and  Young Conaway Stargatt &
Taylor LLP  are Scooter Store’s bankruptcy lawyers, the company
said. Morgan Joseph TriArtisan was hired to help with the asset
sales and Lawrence Young of AlixPartners LLP was named chief
restructuring officer.  Affiliates of private equity firm Sun Capital Partners ,
based in Boca Raton, Florida, purchased a majority voting
interest in the debtors in 2011. Presently, Sun “owns
indebtedness, preferred equity, and warrants to purchase a
66.82% voting ownership interest in the debtors,” court papers
show.  Creditors without collateral backing their claims include
Pride Mobility Products, with a claim of about $15.9 million,
and Shoprider Mobility Products Inc., with a claim of about
$8 million, according to court papers.  The case is In re Scooter Store Holdings Inc., 13-10904,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 