-- Shareholders Urged to Stop Paying U.K. Executives Like Boy Bands
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-15T13:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/shareholders-urged-to-stop-paying-u-k-executives-like-boy-bands.html
Shareholders should move to hold
down executive pay, the director-general of the U.K.’s Institute
of Directors said, arguing that managers are rewarded in a
manner more befitting boy bands.  “I think it’s mad that members of the boy band One
Direction made 5 million pounds each last year,” Simon Walker
told a conference on pay in  London  today. “I also don’t think
it’s any of my business. But it is shareholders’ business when
people are being paid for not delivering. Shareholders should
exercise their responsibilities over companies.”  A 2011 study by the  High Pay Commission , a pressure group
that pushes for curbs on top earners, found British directors’
salaries rose 64 percent over the past decade, while the average
year-end share price of  FTSE 100 companies  fell 71 percent. The
average annual bonus for directors rose 187 percent, according
to the panel.  Business Secretary Vince Cable has made repeated efforts to
encourage shareholders to exercise control over pay. The
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill, currently in its final
stages before Parliament, will give shareholders binding votes
on pay every three years, and require companies to publish a
single figure on what executives earn.  “We shall get much more restraint as a result of that,”
Cable told reporters at the conference today. He said that in
companies generally, “there is an issue of pay way beyond what
can be justified.”  One Direction  Cable said it would be “hopeless” for the government to
try to cap individuals’ pay, and that the focus should instead
be raising tax on wealth. He steered clear of drawing on One
Direction as a reference point.  “I don’t want to attack One Direction, one particular
group who apparently are very popular and very successful,” he
said.  The band’s recent interventions in British politics include
filming a video for a charity single that featured a cameo from
Prime Minister  David Cameron , and member Harry Styles paying
tribute to  Margaret Thatcher  on Twitter, causing confusion among
young fans who hadn’t heard of the late prime minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  