-- Siemens Stock Falls After Extra Project Charges Predicted
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-15T11:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/siemens-drops-to-lowest-since-february-on-rail-wind-charges.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  dropped to the lowest in
almost seven weeks after Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said
underperforming rail technology and offshore wind projects will
result in additional charges and dent quarterly earnings.  Earnings at  Europe ’s biggest engineering company will also
be affected by waning demand from industrial clients in the U.S.
and  Germany  as well as a weaker-than-expected recovery in  China ,
Kaeser was cited as saying by the  Rheinische Post  newspaper on
April 13. Guenter Gaugler, a spokesman at Munich-based Siemens,
confirmed the comments by phone. The manufacturer is scheduled
to release first-quarter figures on May 2.  Siemens dropped as much as 3.1 percent to 78.31 euros, the
lowest intraday price since Feb. 27, and was trading down 2.7
percent at 1:06 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 69.2
billion euros ($90.5 billion). The stock has declined 4.6
percent this year, in contrast to a 0.6 percent gain for
Germany’s benchmark DAX Index.  Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is midway
through a program aimed at cutting costs by 6 billion euros by
the end of 2014. Profitability dropped last year to the levels
when Loescher started in 2007, prompting a new reorganization in
November after the CEO acknowledged he had been too slow to
react to falling demand amid waning global economic growth.  “From today’s point of view and despite the burdens in the
first half, I continue to expect profit per share for the whole
company in 2013 to reach at least the level of the prior year,”
Kaeser was cited as saying by the Rheinische Post. “It will be
tighter on the operating side, however.”  Order Intake  Second-quarter order intake will “clearly exceed” that of
the first quarter and the year-earlier period because of several
large orders, Kaeser said.  “The charges are a surprise,” Ingo-Martin Schachel, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG with a hold
recommendation on Siemens shares, said by telephone. “Given
that they’re so big that Joe Kaeser feels he needs the occasion
to warn the market, it’s clearly a negative surprise. I will
have to increase my expectations for the project charges, but
will leave the underlying result unchanged.”  Siemens is  divesting  units that management deems may hinder
its goal of a 12 percent profit margin by the next fiscal year.
It’s spinning off the Osram lighting unit, and seeking buyers
for businesses such as airport luggage systems, mail automation
and water technology.  The planned disposal of the solar business is “not easy
due to the problematic market environment, and its handling on
the balance sheet must be reviewed,” Kaeser was cited as
saying.  The energy division is bearing the brunt of the Siemens
cost-savings program, contributing 3.2 billion euros, while the
industry sector will eliminate the greatest proportion of jobs,
cutting 4,000 positions. Operating profit at competitor  General
Electric Co. (GE)  represented 12.2 percent of sales in the three
months to the end of December, compared with a 9.1 percent
margin at Siemens, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  