-- Singapore’s Record Home Sales Adds to Concerns of More Measures
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-04-15T06:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/singapore-s-march-home-sales-rebound-from-14-month-low.html
Singapore’s March home sales rose
to a record as more developers started marketing new residential
projects, raising concerns the government will introduce more
cooling measures to tame property prices.  Home sales rose to 2,793 units in March, rebounding from a
14-month low in February and the highest since the Urban
Redevelopment Authority started releasing the information in
June 2007, according to data released today. Sales in February
slumped to 712 units, the data showed.  Prices climbed to a record in the first quarter, according
to government data on April 1. The latest measures in January,
the seventh round of curbs in about four years, included an
increase in the stamp duties for homebuyers by 5 percentage
points to 7 percentage points.  “Its definitely the pent up demand,” said Nicholas Mak,
the Singapore-based executive director at SLP International
Property Consultants. “There is also concern that the
government could introduce more cooling measures” after the
March home sales data, he said, adding that he expects sales to
decline in April.  The island-state’s private residential property price index
rose 0.5 percent in the three months ended March 31, the slowest
pace in three quarters, according to preliminary estimates
released by the authority.  D’Nest, a condominium project in the city’s northeast, sold
699 of 800 units it put up for sale, while buyers bought 238
units at Sennett Residence, and 348 at Urban Vista in the east,
according to the government data.  High Likelihood  “The buyers have come back with a vengeance,” said David
Neubronner, national director at broker Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc.’s residential project sales in Singapore. “If sales
continue at this pace, there is a very high likelihood of an
eighth round of measures.”  Sales slumped in February as the city’s businesses were
shut on Feb. 11 and 12 for the Chinese New Year holiday,
limiting sales opportunities over an extended weekend. The curbs
in January also included higher taxes on permanent residents
when they buy their first home, and for Singaporeans starting
with their second purchase.  Home sales reached 22,699 units in 2012, based on the
government data that dates back to 1996.  Singapore also plans to raise taxes for luxury homeowners
and investment properties. The higher tax will apply to the top
1 percent of homeowners who live in their own residences, or
12,000 properties, Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam said in his budget speech on Feb. 25. He said in
a Feb. 28 interview the property market is still “in a wrong
part of the cycle.”  More Measures  The government tightened loan-to-value limits for buyers
seeking a second mortgage, referring to the amount they are
allowed to borrow relative to the value of their properties. The
cash down-payment will rise to 25 percent from 10 percent
starting from the second loan, it said.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  Earlier steps taken to ease the city’s property market
included imposing additional taxes on foreigners and companies
buying properties, and moving to curb the trend of so-called
shoebox apartments. In October, it restricted home-loan
maturities to 35 years and required tighter loan-to-value limits
for loans exceeding 30 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  