-- Slovenia Asset-Sale Plan Fails to Ease Debt Squeeze Concern
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-15T13:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/slovenia-asset-sale-plan-fails-to-ease-concern-on-budget-squeeze.html
Slovenia’s plan to sell shares in
state-owned companies failed to ease investor concern that the
country will become the next euro-area nation to need a bailout.  Slovenia’s default risk rose to a six-month high and bond
yields hovered near records as the country prepares to tap
markets this week. Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s April 12
announcement of plans to sell stakes in companies, including a
bank, looks like an effort to stall rather than to obtain
financing, according to Milan Smiljanic, head of trading at
Perspektiva d.d.  “There is skepticism that they are only buying time and
will try to fix debt problems, avoiding privatization,”
Smiljanic said by e-mail from Ljubljana. “There are no bank
bidders at the moment.”  Slovenia, the European Union’s fourth-smallest economy, is
trying to avoid becoming the sixth euro-area state to seek a
bailout after international lenders agreed to help Cyprus. The
government will sell 500 million euros ($654 million) in 18-
month Treasury bills at an auction in two days as it tries to
shore up confidence that it can recapitalize its ailing banks
without seeking outside assistance.  The cost of protecting Slovenian debt against non-payment
using credit-default swaps rose to a six-month high today,
advancing six basis points to 375, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bond Yields  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated benchmark bond
maturing in 2022 is hovering close to record levels after the
Finance Ministry missed its target in last week’s auction of
Treasury bills by almost half as borrowing costs rose. It gained
five basis points to 6.22 percent as of 3:42 p.m. in Ljubljana,
compared with a March 27 high of 6.38 percent.  The government sold 56 million euros of six-month and one-
year Treasury bills on April 9, falling short of its target and
reigniting concern that it will need international assistance.
It’s seeking to buy back early as much as 855 million euros of
18-month notes due June 6, the Finance Ministry said in a
statement on its website last week.  Bratusek, whose government came to power last month, said
April 12 that she would submit an asset-sales plan to lawmakers
in two weeks.  Selloff Wishes  “We will start the privatization process of one or two
bigger companies immediately,” Bratusek said. “My wish is that
we privatize one of the banks as well.”  Slovenia holds stakes in Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d., the two biggest banks. Insurer
 Zavarovalnica Triglav (ZVTG)  d.d. -- itself a possible privatization
target -- is the single largest shareholder in No. 3 lender
Abanka Vipa d.d.  State phone operator  Telekom Slovenije d.d.  may have the
most political support for a sale, according to Perspektiva’s
Smiljanic. The situation is “more unclear” regarding
Zavarovalnica Triglav and  Petrol Group d.d. , Slovenia’s biggest
energy company, he said.  ‘Politically Unpopular’  Bratusek, Slovenia’s first female prime minster, is viewed
negatively by 42 percent of the country, according to an April
8-11 survey of 610 people conducted by the Delo Stik agency and
published in Delo newspaper today. No margin of error was given.  Telekom Slovenije canceled the sale of a 49 percent stake
in March 2008 after bidders failed to improve offers during
several sale extensions. The Ljubljana-based company had a
market value of 1.97 billion euros at the time.  It stood at 550 million euros today after the  shares  fell
4.3 percent to 84.2 euros. The stock has fallen 12 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even if the government manages to draft a plan in the time
frame it set, credible implementation won’t be quick, according
to James Howat, an analyst at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “Slovenia will also need to move toward politically
unpopular privatizations given that poorly managed state-owned
banks are at the heart of the current crisis,” Howat said in a
note to clients today. “The government has pledged to retain
blocking stakes in any privatized bank, which may discourage
potential buyers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Ljubljana at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  