-- Slovenia Needs Time to Fix Public Finances, Premier Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-16T15:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/slovenia-needs-time-to-fix-public-finances-premier-says.html
Slovenian Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said the government needs more time to repair public
finances as an asset-sale plan failed to quell concern that the
euro-area nation will be next to seek a rescue.  Bratusek called fiscal-consolidation plans drawn up by the
previous government “ridiculous” and said assumptions in this
year’s budget were too optimistic. Slovenia’s default risk rose
to a six-month high before a planned debt sale tomorrow and bond
yields advanced toward records even after the premier announced
plans to sell shares in state-owned companies.  “The situation in the budget is more serious than I
thought” when in opposition, Bratusek said last night in a
television interview in Ljubljana. “The situation is not good,
but we will take measures to improve it.”  Slovenia, the fourth-smallest economy in the euro area, is
trying to avoid becoming the sixth euro-area state to seek a
bailout after international lenders agreed to help Cyprus. The
month-old Cabinet will sell 500 million euros ($652 million) in
18-month Treasury bills as it tries to raise confidence it can
recapitalize its ailing banks without seeking outside aid.  The cost of protecting Slovenian debt against non-payment
using credit-default swaps fell two basis points to 376 from
yesterday’s six-month high, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bond Yields  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated benchmark bond
maturing in 2022 is close to record levels after the Finance
Ministry missed its target in last week’s auction of Treasury
bills by almost half. It was little changed at 6.27 percent as
of 6:19 p.m. in the capital, Ljubljana, compared with a March 27
high of 6.38 percent.  Unemployment held at 13.6 percent in February, matching the
 highest rate  since 1999 and more than double a low of 6.3
percent in September 2008, the statistics office in Slovenia
said today in a report.  Slovenia will need more than two years, as envisioned by
the previous government, to narrow a  budget deficit  that reached
3.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, according to
Bratusek. This year’s gap will widen to 5.1 percent, the
European Commission predicts.  “It’s important though to keep the problems of Slovenia in
perspective,” Jorg Decressin, deputy director of the IMF’s
research department, said at a press conference today.  Higher VAT  “The problems that Slovenia is experiencing in the banking
system can be addressed through support from the government for
recapitalization and restructuring,” Decressin said. “Then the
country can move forward, but it’s important that this is done
expeditiously.”  To help trim the shortfall, the government is considering
measures including raising the value-added tax, Bratusek said.
To protect the economy, the planned bank-recapitalization plans
are “the No. 1 priority for the government,” she said.  Funds for the bank rescue may come from the sale of state
assets announced by Bratusek on April 12. Details will be
submitted to lawmakers in two weeks.  The government plans to sell “one of the  bigger
companies ,” though it hasn’t yet decided which, Bratusek said
yesterday. It doesn’t plan to sell the  Luka Koper (LKPG)  port operator
or energy assets, which should be developed as strategic
holdings, she said.  The asset-sale plan, which includes a bank, may be an
attempt to stall rather than to obtain financing, according to
Milan Smiljanic, head of trading at Perspektiva d.d.  Buying Time  “There is skepticism that they are only buying time and
will try to fix debt problems, avoiding privatization,”
Smiljanic said yesterday by e-mail from Ljubljana. “There are
no bank bidders at the moment.”  The government sold 56 million euros of six-month and one-
year Treasury bills on April 9, falling short of its target and
reigniting concern that it will need international assistance.
It’s seeking to buy back early as much as 855 million euros of
18-month notes due June 6, the  Finance Ministry  said in a
statement on its website last week.  Slovenia holds stakes in Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d., the country’s two biggest lenders.
Insurer  Zavarovalnica Triglav (ZVTG)  d.d. -- itself a possible
privatization target -- is the single largest shareholder in No.
3 bank, Abanka Vipa d.d.  Bratusek, Slovenia’s first female prime minster, is viewed
negatively by 42 percent of the nation, according to an April
8-11 survey of 610 people conducted by the Delo Stik agency and
published yesterday in the Delo newspaper. No margin of error
was given.  Credible Implementation  Even if the government manages to draft a plan in the time
frame it set, credible implementation won’t be quick, according
to James Howat, an analyst at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “Slovenia will also need to move toward politically
unpopular privatizations given that poorly managed state-owned
banks are at the heart of the current crisis,” Howat said
yesterday in a note to clients. “The government has pledged to
retain blocking stakes in any privatized bank, which may
discourage potential buyers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  