-- S. Africa Shale-Gas Permits Unlikely in 2013 on Appeals
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-04-16T12:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/south-africa-shale-gas-permits-unlikely-in-2013-due-to-appeals.html
Explorers including  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  are unlikely to get hold of shale gas permits in South
Africa this year because of potential legal appeals, according
to law firm Bowman Gilfillan.  “Certainly it’s unlikely to be before the end of the
year,” Megan Adderley, an associate at the Johannesburg-based
law firm, said in a phone interview. “Environmental groups will
move to block this as soon as the government acts. The process
of challenges could last for some time.”  South Africa in September lifted a moratorium on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, which uses a large volume of water
pumped underground to help extract shale gas, to assess the area
known as Karoo. Shell in 2011 applied to drill 24 exploratory
wells in the arid area of western South Africa. The Karoo may
hold 485 trillion cubic feet of shale resources, U.S. Energy
Information Administration data show.  A taskforce of government agencies including the Department
of Mineral Resources, or DMR, is studying best practice on
fracking and plans to complete a draft by July, to be followed
by public consultation, Adderley said. Landowners and other
environmental groups will move to block the granting of
exploration licenses, she said.  “The hydraulic fracturing monitoring committee which is an
inter-departmental body has been established and is in the
process of augmenting the regulations,” said Trevor Hattingh, a
spokesman for the Department of Mineral Resources, in an e-mail
response to questions.  Second Half  Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd. (FO) , which was granted a technical
cooperation permit in 2009 for 7.5 million acres, expects
exploration to start in the second half of 2013, according to a
company presentation last week.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has teamed up with
Falcon on the project.  Philip O’Quigley, chief executive officer of Falcon, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  An environmental group opposed to fracking in the region
said it will challenge licenses.  “They know they are on very, very weak ground,” said
Jonathan Deal, chairman of Treasure the Karoo Action Group.  An appeal is ready to move that addresses economic,
environmental and social issues against exploration, said Deal
by phone from San Francisco where he is to receive a  Goldman
Environmental Prize  for activism.  “A decision to allow the use of hydraulic fracturing will
only be made after the promulgation of necessary regulations,”
Hattingh said. “The process of compiling regulations is aimed
at ensuring that environmental concerns are addressed.”  South Africa is “stringent” in granting exploration
licenses, Bonang Mohale, chairman of Shell’s South Africa unit,
said April 11 at a gas conference in Johannesburg. The company
has committed to the full disclosure of chemicals and will not
compete for water in the Karoo, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  