-- Symptom-Free Bird Flu Case Suggests Wider H7N9 Spread
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-15T12:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/symptom-free-bird-flu-case-suggests-wider-h7n9-spread.html
Bird flu was found in a 4-year-old
Beijing boy who has no symptoms of the infection, health
authorities said, suggesting more people may be catching the
H7N9 influenza virus than reported.  The first asymptomatic H7N9 case was discovered by health-
care workers searching for possible cases, the Beijing Municipal
Health Bureau said in a  statement  on its website today. The
boy’s parents are poultry and fish sellers, and their neighbors
across the street had bought chicken sold by the family of a 7-
year-old girl whose H7N9 infection was reported two days ago.  The boy is under medical observation. The case suggests
some H7N9 infections may be going unrecorded because of a lack
of obvious symptoms. Almost all of the 64 people diagnosed with
the virus so far have been extremely unwell, with complications
extending to  brain damage , multi-organ failure and muscle
breakdown.  “With asymptomatic cases around, I think everything
changes,” said Ian Mackay, an associate professor of clinical
virology at the University of Queensland in Brisbane, in a
telephone interview today. “There has been a spike in pneumonia
cases that have drawn the health officials’ attention, but the
virus may have been going around as a normal cold.”  The boy’s infection was picked up as part of contact
tracing -- a process whereby relatives, neighbors and others
known to have been in contact with a confirmed case are screened
for the virus. The boy was one of 24 people tested in connection
with the 7-year-old girl’s infection.  Sick or Not?  “It’s great that the authorities are showing some evidence
of prospective screening of contacts, not just asking people if
they are sick or not,” Mackay said. “It’s essential that lab
testing of contacts is carried out as soon as possible to give
us some information about the denominator: how many cases are
positive for this virus, whether they’re symptomatic or not.”  The parents of the 7-year-old patient live and sell poultry
in the Shunyi district of northeast Beijing. Her case was the
first in northern China, demonstrating that the virus is
circulating across much of the country’s east.  The girl is recovering after treatment at  Beijing Ditan
Hospital Capital Medical University , the official Xinhua News
Agency reported yesterday, citing the city’s disease control and
prevention center.  Positive Response  Her positive response shows that early treatment with
proper antiviral medication can be effective,  Michael O’Leary ,
WHO’s China representative, told reporters in Beijing yesterday.  “We know also that the virus, when untreated, is very
serious,” he said. “We advocate for early treatment and good
medical care.”  The cases in Beijing and two in  Henan province  widen the
geographic spread of H7N9, adding impetus to the government’s
efforts to gauge the magnitude of the infection in poultry and
wild birds.  Shanghai ’s government reported two deaths yesterday, and
another was reported in Jiangsu today, taking the country’s
death toll from the outbreak to 14.  Chinese Vice Premier Liu Yandong, touring Shanghai and
nearby Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces yesterday, called on
medical workers to pay more attention to the development of the
virus, speed up the study of the strain and stem the spread of
the disease, the official Xinhua news agency  reported  today.  A new case was detected in Zhejiang today, and another
infection was reported in a 60-year-old man in Anhui province,
the local health departments said on their websites.  Human Vectors?  There’s no evidence that the virus is spreading easily
among people, a critical feature preventing it from developing
into an epidemic. The H5N1 bird flu strain, which killed at
least 371 people over the past decade, also hasn’t acquired the
ability to spread easily among people. In 2009, a novel swine
flu virus, known as H1N1, touched off the first influenza
pandemic in 41 years.  A surge in bird flu cases in  China  increases the pandemic
potential of the H7N9 strain, according to a Beijing-based
supplier of influenza vaccines to the Chinese government.  Sinovac Biotech Ltd. (SVA) , the first company to win regulatory
approval for a swine flu shot in 2009, is preparing to make
immunizations against the new virus. The Nasdaq-traded company
will hold off producing the shots until it’s received an order
from the state, said Chief Executive Officer Yin Weidong.  Pandemic Threat  “The risk of this becoming a pandemic is increasing,” Yin
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in the
Chinese capital, where a second H7N9 infection was reported
today.  Sinovac has notified its suppliers that it may need to
order additional fertilized chicken eggs to produce H7N9
vaccine, Yin said.  Under an agreement with China’s  Food and Drug
Administration , a Sinovac vaccine for pandemic flu doesn’t need
to undergo clinical testing because its production methods have
already been approved and the pandemic  flu vaccine  would
represent only a change in the viral strain, he said.  Based on typical vaccine development and production
schedules, batches could be ready for commercial use as early as
late July, Yin said, adding that he is urging the  World Health
Organization  and its affiliated labs to expedite the preparation
of seed strains.  Sinovac has the capacity to produce about 30 million to 40
million doses of flu vaccine annually, said Yin, who founded the
company in 2001 to make immunizations for hepatitis. The price
to the Chinese government is about 20  yuan  ($3.23) a piece, he
said.  Experts Fly In  Four international flu experts will arrive in China within
days to help authorities respond to the country’s widening bird-
flu emergency, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Nancy Cox, director of the flu division at the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta; Anne Kelso, director
of a World Health Organization center for flu research in
 Melbourne ; Malik Peiris, chairman of virology at the University
of  Hong Kong ; and Angus Nicoll, head of the Stockholm-based
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control’s flu
program, will arrive midweek to offer technical advice, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the Chinese
government hasn’t announced that the experts are being invited.  The group will seek to assist Chinese authorities grappling
to identify the source and mode of transmission of the H7N9
avian influenza.  Cox referred questions to the WHO, while Kelso, Peiris and
Nicoll didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Gregory Hartl ,
a spokesman for the Geneva-based WHO, said the agency has
discussed a mission to China, but declined to comment on
specifics. Two calls to the press office of China’s National
Health and Family Planning Commission weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  