-- U.K. Denies Thatcher Snubs as Merkel, Rajoy Stay Away
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-15T16:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/u-k-denies-thatcher-snubs-as-merkel-rajoy-stay-away.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s
office said it wasn’t concerned that foreign leaders are staying
away from  Margaret Thatcher ’s funeral as it became clear that
the German and Spanish heads of government won’t attend.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and Spain’s prime minister,
 Mariano Rajoy , are sending their foreign ministers,  Guido Westerwelle  and Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo, to the service in
London’s St. Paul’s Cathedral on April 17, their governments
said today. Merkel signed a book of condolence for Thatcher at
the British Embassy in Berlin April 11, describing her as “one
of the great political figures of the 20th century.”  Thatcher’s and Cameron’s Conservatives were part of the
same pan-European bloc as Merkel’s Christian Democrats and
Rajoy’s People’s Party before pulling out in 2009. Cameron said
in January he will seek looser ties with the European Union if
re-elected in two years’ time, promising a referendum on
renegotiated membership terms by the end of 2017  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, asked by
reporters today if the premier is concerned about the absence of
senior statespeople at the funeral replied, “Not at all.” He
said that the list of guests already announced “says a very
great deal about the breadth of Lady Thatcher’s global
stature.”  Canada’s  Stephen Harper , Mario Monti of Italy and Polish
Prime Minister Donald Tusk are among the most prominent guests
whose attendance has been confirmed so far.  Too Strenuous  Thatcher-era German Chancellor Helmut Kohl declined an
invitation to attend the funeral because the trip would be too
strenuous, his spokeswoman, Marion Scheller, said by phone
today. Kohl, 83, is wheelchair-bound.  Former Soviet President  Mikhail Gorbachev , 82, a man
Thatcher said she “could do business with,” won’t be there.
“Unfortunately, he can’t come because of his health
condition,” his spokesman, Vladimir Polyakov, said April 10.  More than 2,000 invitations have been sent out for the
funeral, the biggest for a political leader in Britain since
that of  Winston Churchill  in 1965.  The U.K. has invited all surviving U.S. presidents but has
yet to hear who will attend. The French government has also to
announce who it will be sending. Three members of the U.S. House
of Representatives, led by Marsha Blackburn, a Republican from
Tennessee, will attend, Speaker  John Boehner  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  