-- U.S. Rice Farmers See Opening to Japan in Trade Accord
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-15T19:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/u-s-rice-farmers-see-opening-to-japan-in-trade-accord.html
U.S. rice farmers say they expect
 Japan  will open its market to imports as American agricultural
groups push a Pacific-region agreement that would create the
world’s largest free-trade area.  “Rice will be a difficult topic in these negotiations,”
Bob Cummings, chief operating officer of the Arlington,
Virginia-based USA Rice Federation industry group, said today at
a press conference in  Washington  with U.S. farm groups. “We
expect to see improvement in access.”  The U.S. on April 12 announced its support for Japan, the
world’s third largest economy, joining 11 nations working toward
the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Agriculture has long been one of
the toughest issues to negotiate in any trade deal, due to
political support for local farmers.  U.S. groups including the National Milk Producers
Federation, National Pork Producers Council, National Potato
Council and Cargill Inc. of  Minneapolis  said the pact would the
U.S. to seek lower regulatory barriers in Japan for their goods
and to eventually remove tariffs.  “Our expectation when all is said and done is that most
products -- all products -- will be going to zero, and that most
if not everybody’s going to be very happy,” said Nick Giordano,
vice president and counsel for international affairs at the
Washington-based pork group.  Resolving Issues  As part of its support for Japan’s participation in the
talks, the U.S. last week said the two nations agreed to resolve
some longstanding trade disputes. While the deal included
measures to open trade in goods such as autos and services such
as insurance, it had few details on measures for agriculture, a
frequent source of tension in U.S.-Japan trade.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said all goods in
his nation, including agriculture, will be subject to
negotiation should Japan join the TPP, acting U.S. Trade
Representative Demetrios Marantis told reporters on a conference
call announcing the agreement.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office last month cited
Japan’s policies restricting goods such as rice, wheat, pork,
citrus and dairy products as barriers to the country’s inclusion
in the trade deal. While Japan agreed to open its markets to
more American beef as of Feb. 1, it also maintains an import
tariff of 38.5 percent for the product, the U.S. agency said in
an annual  report .  The inclusion of Japan in the talks would let the U.S.
establish a free-trade agreement with its fourth-largest trading
partner, the biggest economy in Asia after  China . Though the
U.S., which accounts for almost 75 percent of TPP nations’
economic output, has given its blessing for Japan to
participate, the 11 governments negotiating the pact must still
agree to invite Japan to join.  Other nations in the TPP talks are Australia, Brunei,
Canada,  Chile ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico ,  New Zealand ,  Peru , Singapore
and  Vietnam . The U.S. has set a goal of concluding the
discussions by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  