-- High Court Justices Seek Compromise in Gene-Patent Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-16T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/u-s-supreme-court-justices-seek-compromise-in-gene-patent-case.html
A U.S. Supreme Court clash over the
patenting of human genes left several justices searching for a
middle ground in a case with the potential to redefine rights in
the biotechnology and agricultural industries.  The justices, hearing arguments yesterday in  Washington ,
discussed chocolate-chip cookie recipes, baseball bats and
Amazonian plants while grappling with a challenge to  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on genes linked to breast and ovarian
cancer. A group of doctors, patients and scientists say the
patents are stifling clinical testing and research.  In an hour-long session that repeatedly touched on the
financial incentives for research, several justices suggested
they weren’t willing to invalidate Myriad’s claims entirely.
Biotechnology innovators have received thousands of patents on
human genes over the past 30 years, and a sweeping ruling would
call some of those patents into question.  “The court’s aware that this is a huge issue and has huge
financial implications,” said Tim Holbrook, associate dean at
Emory University School of Law in Atlanta. The justices are
“unwilling to disrupt the expectations of Myriad and other
corporations.”  The case has ramifications for the growing field of
personalized medicine as well as efforts to map the human brain
and discover new uses for embryonic  stem cells . It could also
ripple well beyond medicine. Agricultural companies, including
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , inject genes into seeds, and industrial
microbiology businesses use microorganism DNA to improve biofuel
manufacturing.  Innovation Concerns  Several justices asked whether barring gene patents would
deter innovation by stripping companies of legal protection for
their research.  Without a patent, “what does Myriad get out of this
deal?” Justice  Elena Kagan  asked. “Why shouldn’t we worry that
Myriad or companies like it will just say, ‘Well, you know,
we’re not going to do this work anymore?’”  Justices Sonia Sotomayor,  Stephen Breyer  and  Anthony Kennedy  all asked about a middle ground suggested by the Obama
administration. The government filed a brief saying the court
should void parts of Myriad’s patents while leaving open the
possibility that other aspects will be upheld.  The administration says Myriad isn’t entitled to a patent
on “isolated DNA,” which the government says is merely a
snippet of the genetic sequence as it appears in the body. The
administration says Myriad might be entitled to a patent on so-
called complementary DNA, which involves a greater level of
human manipulation.  The administration’s  stance  marks a rejection of the
longstanding policy of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office ,
which has been awarding human gene patents since 1982.  Cookie Dough  Kennedy asked Myriad’s lawyer whether the administration’s
approach would “give the industry sufficient protection for
innovation and research.”  Complementary DNA, also known as cDNA, is a stripped-down
version of the genetic sequence within the body, separating out
the portion of the gene that can encode proteins.  Complementary DNA “is not a product of nature,” Sotomayor
said. “It’s a product of human innovation.”  At the same time, Sotomayor signaled skepticism about
patents on isolated DNA. She likened genetic sequences to the
ingredients for chocolate-chip cookies.  “I can’t imagine getting a patent simply on the basic
items of salt, flour and eggs, simply because I’ve created a new
use or a new product from those ingredients,” she said.  Baseball Bat  Myriad’s lawyer, Gregory Castanias, said isolated DNA was
more akin to a baseball bat carved from a tree. He said isolated
DNA and the bat both are patentable because they require humans
to determine exactly where to cut.  “A baseball bat doesn’t exist until it’s isolated from a
tree,” he said. “But that’s still the product of human
invention to decide where to begin the bat and where to end the
bat.”  Chief Justice  John Roberts  said the isolation of DNA was
less innovative than the creation of a baseball bat.  “Here you’re just snipping, and you don’t have anything
new,” said Roberts, who once said judging was like being a
baseball umpire. “You have something that is a part of
something that has existed previous to your intervention.”  Drug and diagnostic companies are increasingly using DNA to
design and target treatment for cancer and other conditions.
Salt Lake City-based Myriad is one of the few companies that has
used gene patents to keep its testing business exclusive.  Layers of Protection  Barring gene patents might affect biotechnology companies
that hold such intellectual property,  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  Chief
Executive Officer George Scangos said in an interview. Still,
most biotechnology drugs are protected by several layers of
patenting that include its protein structure, he said.  “I don’t think it’s a disaster” if the court rules
against Myriad, he said. “We depend on intellectual property
protection, and to the extent that we can’t get it to protect
some of our discoveries, then it’s incrementally less attractive
to do that.”  Even if the court rules against Myriad, the company would
still have a viable testing business because of its vast
database of mutations in the so-called BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes,
said Robert Nussbaum, a  University of California , San Francisco
geneticist. Those mutations can indicate a higher risk of  breast
cancer .  Critical Issue  Myriad’s exclusive database is a “critical public-health
issue,” Nussbaum said.  “Imagine if every radiology department in the country
never shared their images with another radiologist,” he said in
an interview. “It would be crippling.”  Myriad rose 55 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $26.65 yesterday
in  New York  trading.  The case, which the court will decide by the end of June,
is splitting the medical community. Trade groups for the
biotechnology, agriculture and drug industries are siding with
Myriad. They say gene patents have led to valuable treatments,
including  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Epogen anemia drug and synthetic insulin
developed by Genentech Inc., now part of  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   The challengers include the Association for Molecular
Pathology, represented by the  American Civil Liberties Union .
The  American Medical Association  and the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists back the challenge.  Emotionally Charged  The dispute comes to the court in an emotionally charged
package, with patient advocates accusing Myriad of standing in
the way of breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. The company at
one point demanded that the  University of Pennsylvania  stop
clinical testing of cancer patients.  Critics say Myriad’s patents effectively give the company
ownership rights over a part of the human body. Myriad says its
patents haven’t prevented researchers from publishing thousands
of papers on the genes.  The Myriad case has rekindled a debate over the
longstanding concept that patents can’t cover “laws of
nature.”  The case tests the meaning of that principle against the
backdrop of medical and scientific research. In 1994, the
company won a race among five research groups to pinpoint the
genetic sequences associated with DNA mutations that indicate
hereditary risk for breast and ovarian cancer. Myriad then
developed tests for the mutations.  The ACLU lawyer challenging the Myriad patents, Christopher
Hansen, said yesterday that researchers would continue to search
for new natural phenomena, even without the prospect of patent
protection.  ‘Enormous Recognition’  Scientists who make important discoveries will get
“enormous recognition,” he said. “We know that that’s
sufficient. We know it’s sufficient with respect to these two
genes. We also know it’s sufficient with respect to the human
genome.”  That argument drew skepticism from Kagan. “We’re supposed
to leave it to scientists who want Nobel prizes?” she asked.  Kennedy likewise signaled disagreement.  “I don’t think we can decide the case on the ground, ‘Oh,
don’t worry about investment. It’ll come,’” he said.  The justices also wrestled with the line that separates
nature from invention. Much of the discussion revolved around a
hypothetical plant that has medicinal uses and is found only in
the Amazon.  Breyer said the longstanding understanding is that someone
could patent the process of extracting sap from the plant or the
use of it to treat a disease.  “But what you can’t patent is the sap itself,” he said.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  