-- U.S. April Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-15T12:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/u-s-april-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The April 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates
that conditions for  New York  manufacturers improved slightly.
The general business conditions index fell six points, but at
3.1, remained positive for a third consecutive month. Similarly,
the new orders index was lower than last month but still
positive, dipping six points to 2.2, and the shipments index
fell to 0.8. The indexes for both prices paid and prices
received inched higher--a sign that the pace of input and
selling price increases had picked up over the month. Employment
indexes climbed, showing a modest increase in both employment
levels and hours worked. Indexes for the six-month outlook
pointed to a moderate degree of optimism about future
conditions.  In a series of supplementary questions--previously posed in
surveys conducted in April 2012 and earlier--respondents were
asked how much difficulty they had experienced finding workers
proficient in mathematical, computer, interpersonal, and other
workplace skills. As in the earlier surveys, the most widespread
difficulties related to the search for workers with advanced
computer skills. In addition, a skill set that has reportedly
grown harder to find is punctuality and reliability. Responses
to other supplemental questions indicated that firms expected
wages to rise by roughly 2.5 percent, on average, over the next
twelve months, and that, for nearly a third of firms, retaining
skilled workers would become increasingly difficult in the year
ahead.  Business Conditions Marginally Improve  The general business conditions index was positive for a
third consecutive month, though at 3.1, it suggested that
conditions had improved only slightly. Twenty-five percent of
respondents reported that conditions had improved over the
month, while 22 percent reported that conditions had worsened.
The new orders index posted a similar decline, falling six
points to 2.2--an indication that orders were just slightly
higher. The shipments index, down seven points to 0.8, showed
that shipments were little changed. The unfilled orders index
inched down a point to -3.4, and the delivery time index also
fell one point to -3.4. The inventories index held steady at -
4.6, indicating that inventory levels fell slightly.  Price Increases Pick Up a Touch  The indexes for both prices paid and prices received rose a
few points, suggesting that both input prices and selling prices
increased at a somewhat faster pace this month. The prices paid
index rose three points to 28.4, its highest level in several
months. The prices received index rose four points to 5.7.
Employment indexes pointed to some firming in labor market
conditions. The index for number of employees rose four points
to 6.8, indicating a modest increase in employment levels, and
the average workweek index rose six points to 5.7, indicating a
modest increase in hours worked.  Future Conditions Expected to Improve  Indexes for the six-month outlook pointed to a moderate
level of optimism about future business activity. The future
general business conditions index fell four points to 32.0,
while the future new orders and future shipments indexes were
little changed from last month’s relatively strong levels. The
future prices paid and future prices received indexes fell,
suggesting that future prices increases were expected to be
somewhat slower in the months ahead. The indexes for expected
number of employees and average workweek climbed, conveying an
expectation that employment would expand. The capital
expenditures index rose five points to 20.5, and the technology
spending index fell six points to 12.5.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York 