-- UBS Hires Nomura’s Vereker as Orcel Overhauls Lender
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-04-16T07:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/ubs-said-to-hire-nomura-s-vereker-as-orcel-overhauls-swiss-bank.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  hired  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s
former co-head of investment banking,  William Vereker , to help
oversee its merger advisory and capital markets operations in
Europe.  Vereker, 46, who took up the post of vice chairman of
Nomura’s investment-banking operation in London seven months ago,
will join UBS June 1 as head of corporate client solutions for
Europe, according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg
News. David Soanes, who currently holds that job, will lead a
new unit focusing on clients in the financial-services industry.  Andrea Orcel  has been overhauling the Zurich-based firm’s
advisory business since he became chief executive officer of
UBS’s investment bank in November, adding advisory bankers as
the firm scales back its capital-intensive fixed-income unit.
Carsten Kengeter, who helped to oversee the fixed-income
division, is preparing to leave the bank, UBS said in February.  Officials at Nomura and UBS declined to comment. Reuters
reported the move earlier.  The firm hired Piero Novelli from Nomura in January, naming
him chairman of global mergers and acquisitions. The following
month, the firm appointed Mark Yallop, a former chief operating
officer at ICAP Plc, to the new post of U.K. group country CEO,
responsible for operations in Britain.  Vereker, a utilities and natural resources banker, worked
with  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  on its merger with  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) 
announced last year. He joined Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
London unit in 2005 from Morgan Stanley.  Lehman Purchase  Nomura has struggled for four years to build an investment
banking business overseas after it bought Lehman’s European and
Asian units in 2008. The Tokyo-based bank has seen an exodus of
former Lehman bankers amid losses posted by overseas operations.  Vereker, a 1988 graduate of Cambridge University, joined
Morgan Stanley’s merger department in 1996 after stints at J.
Henry Schroder & Co. and Babcock & Brown LP. He moved into the
firm’s global energy and utilities group in 2000, and was
appointed head of European utilities two years later.  At  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Vereker worked on National Grid Transco
Plc’s 5.8 billion-pound ($8.9 billion) sale of four natural-gas
networks, the biggest European utility deal of 2004, as well as
International Power Plc’s $2.3 billion purchase of  Edison
International (EIX) ’s non-U.S. assets.  Soanes has previously run investment banking for European
banks and insurers. He ran global capital markets at UBS before
being appointed head of the corporate client solutions group. He
will continue to report to Orcel in his new position, according
to the memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  