-- UBS Said Planning to Fire 60 in Brazil in Restructuring
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-04-16T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/ubs-said-planning-to-fire-60-people-in-brazil-amid-restructuring.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank,
will fire as many as 60 employees in Brazil as part of its
international restructuring plan, three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  The dismissals will affect staff in investment banking,
operations, back office, broker dealer, fixed income and
commodities and be announced in coming weeks, said one person,
who requested anonymity because the plans aren’t public. The
Zurich-based bank, which has 220 workers in Brazil, aims to add
people to its wealth-management division in the South American
country, two people said.  Sylvia Coutinho, who heads retail banking and wealth
management in Latin America for  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , is the
leading candidate to replace local Chief Executive Officer Lywal Salles, who will retire, two people said. Salles was hired in
October 2010 under a two-year contract to build a local
subsidiary for UBS and agreed to stay until the government
authorized the company to open a bank in the country. That
happened in January.  Coutinho and Salles declined to comment and a press officer
for London-based HSBC said the company doesn’t comment on market
rumors. A UBS spokesman said the firm has no knowledge of the
job cuts or management changes.  UBS said in October it will cut 10,000 jobs worldwide as
part of a plan to focus on wealth management and boost
profitability. The firm took over brokerage Link Investimentos
in February to tap growing demand for equity trading in  Brazil .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  