-- Lukoil Raised at S&P to Russia’s Rating on Output Stabilization
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-04-15T13:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/lukoil-raised-at-s-p-to-russia-s-rating-on-output-stabilization.html
OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-largest
oil producer, was lifted one step at  Standard & Poor’s , matching
the country’s BBB rating.  S&P raised non-state Lukoil’s long-term ratings to its
second-lowest investment grade category with a stable outlook,
the service said in a statement today.  Lukoil’s hydrocarbon production may “slightly increase”
after output stabilized last year, S&P said. Adjusted debt will
remain below 1.5 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization under a standard oil price
scenario, the ratings company said.  “The upgrade reflects our expectation that Lukoil’s
hydrocarbon production will be stable or will grow slightly,
even before factoring in the contribution from the production
sharing agreement in Iraq,” S&P said.  Lukoil has boosted investment in drilling and acquisitions
to stabilize domestic oil output after declines since 2009. The
company agreed to buy Samara Nafta from Hess Corp. this month
for $2.05 billion and won an auction for the Imilor field in
Siberia for $1.7 billion late last year. The producer also has
the rights to  Iraq ’s West Qurna-2, the world’s second-largest
undeveloped field, according to its website.  Lukoil dollar bonds maturing in June 2022 were little
changed, yielding 4.01 percent, according to data of Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The rating upgrade has been already priced in and there
probably won’t be any “significant action” in the company’s
Eurobonds, according to Alexander Sklemin, deputy head of credit
research at Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Vienna.  Still, “this rating action could create a positive
technical background for the company’s potential new Eurobond
issues as we do not exclude the possibility of Lukoil returning
to the Eurobond market as early as this year with an eye to
proactively refinancing its debts due in 2014,” he said in an
e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  