-- Hungarian Rate Setter Vows Caution After Record Reduction
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-15T13:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/hungarian-rate-setter-vows-caution-after-record-reduction.html
The Hungarian central bank will
proceed in a “conservative” fashion after helping the economy
weather its second recession in three years by cutting interest
rates to a  record  low, a rate setter said.  “Our task for the future is to take policy steps with
caution, premeditation and based on careful analysis to regain
the trust of international investors,” Ferenc Gerhardt, a
member of the Monetary Council, said at a parliamentary hearing
in Budapest today. The market has “agreed with” recent rate
cuts, said Gerhardt, a nominee for central bank deputy governor.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the two-week deposit rate
for an eighth month in March to 5 percent as policy makers
sought to help spark a recovery. New Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy
announced measures this month aimed at offering preferential
loans to small businesses to boost investment and refinance
foreign-currency debt. The bank plans to use 10 percent of the
nation’s foreign-currency reserves to fund the plan.  Gerhardt is set to succeed Julia Kiraly as deputy governor
after Kiraly submitted her resignation last week, saying the
bank’s credibility was being jeopardized by Matolcsy’s overhaul.
The appointment will give Matolcsy two deputies while the
council will have four non-executive members. Non-executive
members are non-political, said Gerhardt, who was nominated by
Prime Minister Viktor Orban.  Forint Drop  The forint has depreciated 0.9 percent against the euro
this year and was trading 0.5 percent stronger at 293.93 at 3:31
p.m. in Budapest. Yields on 10-year bonds slipped 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to an eight-year low of 5.56
percent amid expectations that slowing inflation will help the
central bank deepen rate cuts beyond a record low.  Hungary is targeting an “equilibrium” interest rate that
doesn’t fuel inflation and helps growth, Gerhardt said today.
Such a rate is between 4.5 percent and 5 percent, he said in a
Nov. 5 interview. Since then, government-mandated household
energy-price cuts helped push the  inflation  rate to 2.2 percent
last month, the lowest in almost 39 years and below policy
makers’ 3 percent target.  Price growth will average 2.6 percent this year and 2.8
percent in 2014, the central bank’s said in a March 26 report.  Future monetary easing hinges on “benign” market
conditions as inflation is poised to decelerate further below
target, according to the minutes of the March policy meeting
published on April 10. The council agreed that future rate cuts
will come only if “medium-term inflationary pressures remained
moderate and the uncertainty surrounding financial-market
developments diminished,” according to the minutes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  