-- Turkish Pianist Fazil Say Sentenced for Insulting Islam
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-04-15T12:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/turkish-pianist-say-sentenced-for-insulting-islam-on-twitter.html
A Turkish court convicted  Fazil
Say , the classical pianist and composer, on charges of inciting
hatred and insulting Islam on Twitter.  The Istanbul 19th criminal court handed Say, one of
Turkey’s most internationally renowned artists, a suspended
sentence of 10 months in prison today, according to his lawyer,
Meltem Akyol. Say, 43, has played piano with the  New York 
Philharmonic and Berlin Symphony orchestras.  The court said Say would be allowed to go free, and would
be subject to the prison time should he commit a similar crime
within five years, Akyol said.  “I am very sorry for my country over the court decision,”
Dogan News Agency quoted Say as saying in a statement today. “I
am disappointed from the viewpoint of freedom of expression. The
fact that I have been convicted, although I am not guilty, is
more worrying for the freedom of thought and belief in Turkey
than for myself.”  Culture Minister Omer Celik said he does not wish to see
people, especially artists, on trial for expressing views.
Still, he said, “there is a court decision.”  European Criticism  The European Commission “has learned with concern that
Fazil Say, a former EU cultural ambassador, has been given a
suspended jail sentence for blasphemy,” Maja Kocijancic,
spokeswoman for the commission, the European Union executive,
told reporters today in Brussels.  “The commission underlines the importance for  Turkey  to
fully respect freedom of expression in line with the European
Convention on Human Rights and case law of the European Court of
Human Rights,” Kocijancic said.  Turkey’s bid to join the European Union has been stalled
partly due to shortcomings in democratic reforms and “recurring
infringements of the right to liberty and security and to a fair
trial, as well as of the freedom of expression, assembly and
association,” the European Commission said in an October
report.  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his ruling Islamic-
rooted Justice and Development Party have also been criticized
by the Committee to Protect Journalists, Reporters Without
Borders and Amnesty International for curbing free speech.  “The right to freedom of speech is under attack in
Turkey,” Amnesty said in a report last month that called it one
of the country’s “most entrenched human rights problems.”  Chivas Regal  Nobel laureate Orhan Pamuk was put on trial for commenting
about the mass killings of Armenians by Turks in 1915, under a
law that made it a crime to insult Turkish identity. The
government softened that legislation in an amendment in 2008, a
year after a gunman shot dead ethnic Armenian journalist Hrant Dink for his comments about the killings.  Say had demanded his acquittal in the opening hearing on
Oct. 18, denying allegations that he insulted Islamic religious
values.  The case against him was based on about half a dozen
postings on Twitter mentioned in the indictment, including one
mentioning a Turkish liquor and whiskey: “What if there is raki
in paradise but not in hell, while there is Chivas Regal in hell
and not in paradise? What will happen then? This is the most
important question!”  Say’s comments in April 2012 drew criticism from some in
predominantly Muslim Turkey, as alcohol is banned by Islam. Say
said he was only criticizing the exploitation of religion for
profit.  Holy Values  Another tweet makes fun of a muezzin for taking only 22
seconds to sing the call to prayer, asking if he has a mistress
or some raki waiting for him to get back to. Another suggests
that whenever people are notably greedy or thieves or otherwise
bad, they turn out to be “exceedingly” pious.  “Those who say that Fazil Say’s posts should be considered
within the scope of freedom of thought appear not to be
completely aware of what Fazil Say actually wrote,” Emre
Bukagili, a plaintiff in the case, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Fazil Say did not repeat the words of a poet, but
attacked religion and the holy values of religion.”  Bukagili said the sentence could be lifted on evidence that
Say suffered from autism.  “As a result of my inquiries, I found out that there are
suspicions that Fazil Say suffers from autism,” he said. “If
these suspicions have any basis, of course, as a conscientious
person, I would not seek any punishment against him, as he
suffers from a significant disorder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  