-- Muthoot Falls in Mumbai on Report of More RBI Gold Loan Scrutiny
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-04-15T06:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/muthoot-falls-in-mumbai-on-report-of-more-rbi-gold-loan-scrutiny.html
Muthoot Finance Ltd. (MUTH) , India’s
biggest lender using gold jewelry as collateral, fell the most
in more than a year in Mumbai after a report that the central
bank may boost scrutiny of industry loans as gold prices sink.  Muthoot led gold-based lenders lower in the city, falling
as much as 19 percent, the most since March 22, to 121 rupees
and trading at 128.15 rupees as of 10:55 a.m.  Manappuram Finance
Ltd. (MGFL)  dropped 9.6 percent to 17.45 rupees, the lowest since
August 2009.  The Reserve Bank of India will collect data from gold loan
companies and provide direction to those whose loans exceed the
value of gold holdings, The Times of  India  reported, citing
unidentified sources. Gold priced in rupees dropped 6.2 percent
last week, the sharpest weekly decline since December 2008,
leading to possible repayment delays, said Himanshu Kuriyal, a
banking analyst at Marwadi Share & Finance Ltd.  “Borrowers are delaying repayment of gold loans as the
price of the collateral falls below the amount that has to be
repaid,” Kuriyal said by phone. “With stringent norms in place
for auctioning the collateral, time required to recover bad
loans also increases.”  The RBI in March 2012 capped the firms’ loan-to-value ratio
at 60 percent, which will stem any immediate crisis, the Times
said. While the limit will ensure falling gold prices don’t
trigger a selloff of the metal, bankers are unsure what stand
the RBI may take on the loan-to-value ratio given gold price
declines, it reported.  V.P. Nandakumar, chairman of Manappuram, said his firm has
not been contacted by the RBI and that the company is fully
compliant with the central bank’s rules. George Alexander Muthoot, managing director at Muthoot Finance, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Gold futures on the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX) 
have fallen 9.5 percent so far this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  