-- Venezuela Bonds Sink Most in Two Months After Maduro Wins
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-15T21:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/venezuela-bonds-drop-after-maduro-elected-president-by-one-point.html
Venezuela ’s bonds tumbled the most
in two months and the nation’s default risk rose as opposition
parties challenged the election victory of ex-President Hugo
Chavez’s handpicked successor, Nicolas Maduro.  Government dollar bonds due 2027 plunged 2.6 cents to 98.11
cents on the dollar, the biggest drop since February 12,
boosting the yield to 9.49 percent at 4:41 p.m. in New York on
concern the opposition’s challenge to the smallest margin of
victory in four decades may create instability.  Maduro, who became acting president following Chavez’s
death March 5, beat Henrique Capriles by less than 2 percentage
points on a campaign to deepen his mentor’s 14-year socialist
campaign. Capriles, the 40-year-old governor of Miranda state
who according to a Datanalisis poll would lose by 10 percentage
points, said he wouldn’t accept the results until officials held
a recount. The process may take as long as two weeks, according
to the electoral council.  “This is a scenario where you have a lot of instability in
the short term, with the opposition going for the recount of the
votes,” Alejandro Arreaza, an analyst at Barclays Plc in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  Maduro, who served as foreign minister and vice president
under Chavez, takes over an economy with the highest inflation
rate in the Americas after a February currency devaluation and
food shortages triggered by government-set price controls.  Victory Margin  Maduro received 50.7 percent of the votes, versus 49.1
percent for Capriles. The margin of victory was the narrowest
since the 1968 presidential election.  “We had a fair and constitutional victory,” Maduro said
in a speech after the results were announced. “This is another
victory, an homage to our Comandante Hugo Chavez.”  Maduro said he had a 15-minute conversation with Capriles,
who proposed they hold off on releasing the results until the
recount was done. Maduro said he told Capriles that while he
disagreed with that plan, he supported a recount.  National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello said today the
country will not recount the election vote by vote, while
Interior Minister Nestor Reverol told reporters the country’s
military is dispatching tanks and anti-riot forces in Caracas.  The opposition has evidence of irregularities that affected
hundreds of thousands of votes, Capriles told reporters less
than an hour after the official result was announced. A recount
is necessary to avoid protests, he said today, calling on
supporters to march tomorrow asking for a recount.  While Maduro’s supporters celebrated by setting off
fireworks in Caracas, Cabello posted on his Twitter account that
the government needs to engage in “profound self-criticism”
following such a narrow margin.  The selloff in Venezuela may be limited as the narrow vote
margin signals Maduro might have to be more moderate, according
to Claudia Calich, who oversees $3.1 billion in emerging-market
debt as a senior portfolio manager at Invesco Advisers Inc.  ‘50 Percent’  “If the results at the recount don’t reveal any major
fraud, then that could be a midterm positive if this result
would then narrow a bit the freedom for Maduro’s policy,”
Calich said in an interview in  London . “He may have to appease
now 50 percent of the country who did not vote for him.”  The cost to insure Venezuelan debt against default for five
years with credit-default swaps jumped 41 basis points, or 0.41
percentage point, to 731 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  “The election was a lot tighter than most observers were
expecting,” said Risa Grais-Targow, an analyst at political
risk consultancy Eurasia Group Ltd. in New York. “The fact that
he won by a narrow margin is going to make it very difficult for
him pretty quickly, just because he’s not starting his term in a
position with a lot of power.”  Bond Losses  Venezuela’s bonds were last month’s worst performers in
Latin America, with losses at 2.7 percent. They had gained 2.1
percent this month, according to data compiled by JPMorgan.  With the narrow margin of victory, Maduro will be starting
his term with a weaker mandate than his predecessor and a
country facing significant challenges including low growth and a
shortage of dollars, according to Lars Krabbe, who manages about
$3 billion in emerging-market debt as a senior portfolio manager
at BankInvest Asset Management in Copenhagen.  Chavez nationalized more than 1,000 companies or their
assets, imposed currency controls and used revenue from the
state-run oil monopoly to fund spending on health and food for
the poor as part of what he called his socialist revolution.  “There are a lot of big leftover challenges from the
Chavez era,” Krabbe said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  