-- LVMH Sales Meet Estimates as Duty-Free Offsets Fashion Woes
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-04-15T17:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/lvmh-first-quarter-sales-meet-estimates-as-duty-free-stores-soar.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
reported first-quarter sales in line with forecasts as gains at
beauty retailer Sephora and DFS duty-free stores helped offset
worse-than-expected fashion and leather goods growth.  Revenue climbed 6 percent to 6.95 billion euros ($9.1
billion) in the three months through March, Paris-based LVMH
said today in an e-mailed statement, meeting the average of 13
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 7 percent excluding
exchange-rate fluctuations and acquisitions, compared with 14
percent in the first quarter of last year and 8 percent in the
final three months of 2012.  Sales at the company’s so-called selective retailing unit,
which includes Sephora and DFS, advanced 17 percent on an
organic basis as growth in Asian tourism fueled demand, LVMH
said. Analysts were expecting a 12 percent rise, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fashion and leather goods sales rose 3 percent on the same
basis, short of analyst estimates for 5 percent growth. Italian
rival  Prada SpA (1913)  this month reported an uneven start to the year,
saying cold weather, the economic crisis in  Europe  and threats
of nuclear strikes by  North Korea  had hurt demand.  “In an economic environment which remains uncertain in
Europe, LVMH will continue to focus its efforts on developing
its brands,” the world’s largest luxury goods company said in
the statement, which was released after markets closed. It will
also “maintain a strict control over costs,” it said.  Wine, Spirits  LVMH rose 0.3 percent to 131.25 euros in Paris trading
today. The  shares  have dropped 5.4 percent this year, trailing a
1.9 percent gain in the benchmark CAC 40 Index.  Sales of wines and spirits rose 7 percent on an organic
basis as “robust” demand for champagne in  Asia  made up for a
“softer” performance in Europe, LVMH said.  Perfume and cosmetics sales gained 5 percent excluding
currency moves and acquisitions, while watches and jewelry
increased 2 percent, LVMH said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  