-- Walter Energy Declines the Most in 18 Months After China Slows
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-04-15T17:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/walter-energy-declines-the-most-in-18-months-after-china-slows.html
Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) , the U.S.
producer of metallurgical coal that is the target of a
shareholder action, fell the most in 18 months after unexpected
slowing of economic growth in  China , the metal’s biggest user.  Walter tumbled 12 percent to $21.28 at 1:50 p.m. in New
York after the Birmingham, Alabama-based company fell as much as
13 percent, the most since Sept. 21, 2011.  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR) , the country’s second-largest coal miner by
sales, fell as much as 11 percent.  China’s economic growth lost momentum as factory output
weakened last month, according to data from the National Bureau
of Statistics in Beijing. The economy expanded at a 7.7 percent
annual pace in the first quarter, the bureau said today,
compared with 8 percent expected by  analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Walter led declines in companies producing metals and
steelmaking ingredients because investors are concerned about
the outcome of a shareholder action at the company, said Daniel Scott, an analyst at Cowen and Co. in New York.  “Everything is getting obliterated by the Chinese data,”
Scott said in an interview by phone today. Walter “has just got
the stigma of uncertainty to it on top of everything else.”  Audley Capital Advisors LLC has nominated five directors to
Walter’s board, saying the company’s administrative costs and
debt are too high. Egan-Jones Ratings Co., Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc., and Glass Lewis & Co. LLC have
recommended shareholders vote for the existing directors.
Walter’s annual meeting is scheduled for April 25.  Citigroup Inc. expects the price of metallurgical coal to
fall 4 percent to $165 a ton in the third quarter from $172 this
quarter, according to an April 12 report. Low-volatility coking
coal traded at $157.50 on March 22, according to data from
Knoxville, Tennessee-based Energy Publishing Inc.  The largest U.S. coal producer is  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  