-- Warsaw Bourse Switches to NYSE Platform as Volumes Surge
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-04-15T07:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/warsaw-bourse-switches-to-nyse-platform-as-volumes-surge.html
The  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW)  switched
to  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s new trading system to speed up transactions
after stock turnover on central  Europe ’s fastest-growing equity
market soared almost four-fold over the past decade.  The operator entered a strategic partnership with NYSE
Euronext in 2010 and bought its Universal Trading Platform,
which enables high-frequency transactions. The number of
companies listed on Warsaw’s main market has doubled, while the
average daily turnover soared to about 750 million zloty ($238
million) since the previous Warset system was started in 2000,
according to data on the exchange’s  website .  “All’s working fine,” Blazej Karwowski, a spokesman for
the bourse, said after the session started at 9 a.m. today.  The bourse, founded two years after  Poland ’s communist
government collapsed in 1989, currently lists 438 companies on
its main market, including PKO Bank Polski SA, the largest
Polish bank, and PZU SA, the country’s biggest insurer, with a
combined value of 710 billion zloty. In 2007 the state-
controlled operator started the NewConnect market for smaller
companies and two years later bought MTS-CeTo, a platform for
bond trading, from  Italy ’s MTS SpA and local banks.  The benchmark  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  fell 0.7 percent to 2,381.12 at
9:01 a.m. in Warsaw, extending this year’s decline to 7.8
percent. Warsaw Exchange shares gained 0.9 percent to 39.59
zloty, climbing for a fifth day.  Together with the start of the new system the exchange cut
equity trading hours by 30 minutes to end at 5:05 p.m. local
time as of today. The bourse won’t hold a trading session
tomorrow to “minimize risks related to transactions
settlement,” after the new system was started, Chief Executive
Officer Adam Maciejewski said in a statement on April 9.  The exchange is in preliminary talks on a merger with the
Vienna bourse that would create a hub for equities trading and
initial share offerings. The operators, which have fought for
dominance in the region, will decide in the next few months on
whether to start advanced negotiations, Leszek Pawlowicz,
chairman of the Warsaw exchange’s board, said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  