-- Why Well-Informed People Are Also Close-Minded
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-15T22:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/why-well-informed-people-are-also-close-minded.html
How do people form political
beliefs? When will they change their minds? When will actual
facts matter? A recent  study , conducted by political scientist
 Brendan Nyhan  of  Dartmouth College  and two co-authors, offers
some clues.  One group of participants was provided with a 2009 news
article in which Sarah Palin claimed that the  Barack Obama 
administration’s Affordable Care Act created death panels and
that these panels included bureaucrats authorized to decide
whether seniors were “worthy of health care.” A separate group
was given the same news story, but with an appended correction
saying that “nonpartisan health care experts have concluded
that Palin is wrong.”  The study’s big question: Would the correction have any
effect? Would people who saw the correction be less likely to
believe that the  Affordable Care Act  calls for death panels?  Not surprisingly, the correction was more likely to
convince people who viewed Palin unfavorably than those who had
a high opinion of her. Notably, the correction also tended to
sway the participants who liked Palin but who didn’t have a lot
of political knowledge (as measured by their answers to general
questions, such as how many terms a president may serve).  Here’s the most interesting finding in the study. Those who
viewed Palin favorably, and who also had a lot of political
knowledge, were not persuaded by the correction. On the
contrary, it made them more likely to believe Palin was right.  Correction Backfires  This finding presents an intriguing puzzle. While the
correction tended to convince Palin supporters who lacked
political knowledge that she was wrong about death panels, it
generally  failed  to persuade Palin supporters who had such
knowledge. For those supporters, the correction actually
backfired. How come?  There are two explanations, and they tell us a lot about
current political controversies -- and about why the U.S. and
other nations remain so badly polarized. The first is that if
you know a lot about politics, you are more likely to be
emotionally invested in what you believe. Efforts to undermine
or dislodge those beliefs might well upset you and therefore
backfire. The second  explanation  is that if you have a lot of
political knowledge, you are more likely to think you know what
is really true, and it will be pretty hard for people to
convince you otherwise.  The general lesson is both straightforward and disturbing.
People who know a lot, and who trust a particular messenger,
might well be impervious to factual corrections, even if what
they believe turns out to be false.  It is important to distinguish between two kinds of
political “validators”: the expected and the surprising. For
informed listeners, certain messengers will be hopelessly
ineffective and maybe even counterproductive, not because of
what they say, but because of who they are. When Democrat  Nancy Pelosi , the House minority leader, argues that  climate change  is
a serious problem, or when Republican  John Boehner , the House
speaker, contends that increases in the minimum wage will reduce
employment, their messages are expected and to that extent
uninformative. Skeptics are more likely to yawn than to shift
their own views.  But some political validators are surprising. If Boehner
suddenly announced that climate change is an urgent problem that
needed to be addressed, or if former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  proclaimed that increases in the minimum wage are a
terrible idea because they would reduce employment, skeptics
might well stop and notice, even if they are well-informed.  Establishing Credibility  Consider Republican Senator  Rob Portman ’s recent expression
of support for same-sex marriage. That statement was newsworthy,
and may have moved people, precisely because he was a
Republican. (It is interesting to wonder whether the message was
strengthened or weakened by the knowledge that Portman’s son is
gay.)  There is a clear implication here for those who provide
information. Balanced presentations may divide people even more
sharply than before, and factual corrections may backfire. When
people begin with clear convictions, efforts to correct their
errors may have the perverse effect of entrenching them -- at
least if the messengers aren’t seen as credible.  The most important  lesson  may be for those who receive
political information. Sure, it is important to consider the
source, but the content matters, as well. Our favorite
messengers are sometimes wrong and our least favorite messengers
are sometimes right. It’s sometimes worthwhile to pay a lot more
attention to what is being said, and a lot less to the identity
of the person who is saying it.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” published this month by
Simon and Shuster. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 