-- Won Forwards Advance as North Korea Invited to Talks; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-15T01:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/won-forwards-advance-as-north-korea-invited-to-talks-bonds-gain.html
Won forwards advanced after the
U.S. agreed to work with China, Japan and South Korea to lure
North Korea back into nuclear talks.  Government bonds  rose.  At the end of his Asian tour, Secretary of State  John Kerry 
left the door open for a U.S. meeting with the North Korean
dictator Kim Jong Un. Foreign investors net-sold $3.2 billion
worth of stocks this year as Kim’s regime repeated warnings of
missile strikes and nuclear tests. The timeframe for a North
Korean missile launch is until April 15, the South’s defense
ministry said last week. Today marks the birth anniversary of
the North’s founder,  Kim Il Sung .  “Won movements are likely to be limited as long as the
North Korea factor remain a potential risk,” said Jeon Seung
Ji, analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Foreign
investors’ repatriation of dividend payments from their stock
investment is also likely to push the won lower, while
exporters’ dollar sales will limit further declines in the
won.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.5 percent to
1,143,20 per dollar at 10:25 a.m. in  Seoul , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts are settled in dollars. In
the spot market, the won rose 0.2 percent to 1,127.70, the data
show. One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 9.40 percent.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due March
2018 fell one basis point to 2.76 percent in Seoul, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The cost to lock in borrowing
costs for one year using  interest-rate swaps  was little changed
to 2.69 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula have heightened since
February, when  North Korea  ran an underground nuclear-weapon
test in defiance of United Nations Security Council resolutions.
Kim’s regime has threatened war against the U.S. and South Korea
over UN sanctions enacted after the Feb. 12 blast.  North Korea still spurns overtures by its southern neighbor
as “empty shell” efforts without content, reported the Korean
Central News Agency, the regime’s vehicle to communicate with
the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  