-- Won Gains Most in Two Months as Tensions Ease; Bonds Advance
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-04-15T08:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/won-gains-most-in-two-months-as-tensions-ease-bonds-advance.html
South Korea ’s won rose the most in
more than two months after the U.S. agreed to work with China,
Japan and South Korea to try and draw  North Korea  back into
nuclear talks.  Government bonds  gained.  At the end of his Asian tour, U.S. Secretary of State  John
Kerry  left the door open for a meeting with North Korean
dictator Kim Jong Un, easing fears of a military conflict.
Foreign investors have sold $3.2 billion more South Korean
stocks than they have bought this year as the North threatened
to attack the South and the U.S. The yen has gained 1.5 percent
against the dollar since April 10, paring its decline this year
to 12 percent, and the U.S. Treasury said April 12 that Japan
should refrain from competitive devaluation of its currency.  “The two main factors supporting the won’s gains are
easing tensions with North Korea and the slowing of the yen’s
fall,” said Hong Seok Chan, an analyst at Daishin Economic
Research Institute in Seoul. “The  U.S. Treasury ’s report asking
countries to refrain from intervening in the market sends a
signal not only to Japan but also to the Korean government.”  The won rose 0.8 percent to 1,120.48 per dollar, the
biggest gain since Feb. 4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 70 basis
points, or 0.7 percentage point, to 8.8 percent.  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said today the weaker yen was
one of the reasons the government cut its 2013 economic growth
forecast to 2.3 percent from 3 percent. Korean automotive and
electronics companies compete against their Japanese
counterparts in the international marketplace.  Debt Sales  South Korean authorities will try to stabilize the  currency
market  against herd behavior and increase fiscal and financial
support to help an economic recovery, the finance ministry said
in a statement today.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due March
2018 slipped two basis points to 2.75 percent in Seoul,
according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices. The cost to lock in
borrowing costs for a year using  interest-rate swaps  fell two
basis points to 2.68 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government will issue about 16 trillion won ($14.3
billion) of debt to fund a stimulus package, Hyun said in
parliament today. The nation’s economic growth may reach 2.7
percent to 2.8 percent this year if the extra budget is
implemented in a timely manner, he said.  Separately, the government sold 1.8 trillion won of 10-year
securities at a yield of 2.98 percent at an auction today, the
 finance ministry  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  