-- Woods Penalty Lingers After He Leaves Masters Without Title
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/woods-leaves-masters-without-title-as-penalty-raises-questions.html
Tiger Woods entered the Masters
Tournament with perhaps his best chance at a major championship
victory in the past five years. He didn’t win, and golf analysts
said he left with a mark against his reputation.  Woods’s game rebounded this year since a 2009 car accident
that led to his admission of serial infidelity and resulted in a
personal and golfing decline. He finished tied for fourth,
unable to collect his fifth Masters title as Adam Scott became
the first Australian to win. Woods’s two-stroke penalty for a
rules violation and his decision not to withdraw might be
remembered more than his performance.  The potential damage to Woods’s golfing integrity in a
sport that values fair play is more significant than his fourth-
place finish at Augusta National Golf Club, said former PGA Tour
player Brandel Chamblee, now a Golf Channel analyst.  “Ignorance is not an excuse, so I thought the right thing
for Tiger Woods to do was to withdraw,” Chamblee said in an
interview yesterday at the Augusta, Georgia, club. “The onus
was on him.”  After the second round, Woods was assessed a two-stroke
penalty by the rules committee when he said during a press
conference that he intentionally dropped his ball two yards
behind the original location after he hit it into water. It was
his third shot on the par-5 15th hole, and it caromed off of the
flag stick and into a pond in front of the green.  Initially Cleared  The committee had initially cleared Woods of any wrongdoing
during the round after a television viewer reported the
infraction. The incident was reviewed again after Woods said he
dropped the ball further back to assure his next attempt would
land short of the flag, a violation of a rule that states the
ball must be dropped “as near as possible” to the original
location.  “It certainly was not as close as the rule says,” Woods
said after his final round.  Once he had been cleared to play, Woods said he never
considered withdrawing. Had he dropped out, the move would have
drawn strong support in the golf community, Chamblee said.  “He would have been universally lauded,” he said.
“Everybody that I’ve talked to thinks as much. That to me is
the fine point. If he were to go on to win, the win would raise
more questions than answers. There would be an asterisk.”  Golf has a history of players calling penalties on
themselves, including Masters co-founder Bobby Jones. Chamblee
recounted how in the 1925 U.S. Open, Jones called a penalty on
himself when his ball moved while he prepared to hit a shot. At
the time, rules officials and playing partner Walter Hagen tried
to talk him out of it. The penalty resulted in a 36-hole
playoff, which Jones lost to Willie MacFarlane.  Probable Birdie  Had Woods’s shot not ricocheted into the water, the 14-time
major winner said he probably would have birdied the 15th hole
in the second round. Without a one-stroke penalty for hitting
the ball in the water and the additional two-shot penalty, Woods
would have entered the final round tied for the lead.  After a final-round 2-under-par 70, Woods finished four
shots out of a playoff between Scott and Angel Cabrera of
 Argentina  and said he didn’t think about what could have been.  “We could do that ‘what if’ in every tournament we lose,”
Woods told reporters. “We lose more tournaments than we win out
here.”  Woods’s game and personal life has rebounded since the 2009
scandal, when his admission resulted in a divorce and in the
subsequent fallout he lost sponsors including AT&T Inc, and
 Accenture Plc. (ACN)  He fell to No. 58 in the Official World Golf
Ranking. He’s No. 1 now, won three tournaments this year, and he
and World Cup and Olympic champion skier  Lindsey Vonn  announced
they were in a relationship.  Birdie Putt  Scott, 32, prevailed with a 12-foot birdie putt on the
second playoff hole after he and Cabrera had birdied the 18th
hole in regulation to force a playoff. Scott, with Woods’s
former caddie Steve Williams carrying his golf bag, prevailed
nine months after his runner-up finish to Ernie Els in the
British Open.  Nick Faldo, a three-time Masters winner, was among those
who had called for Woods to do what he called the “manly”
thing and withdraw.  Faldo pointed to current PGA Tour player Brian Davis of
 England , who penalized himself during a playoff at a 2010 event
in Hilton Head, South Carolina. Davis said he saw a reed move
slightly as he hit a shot out of a hazard, a rules violation.
Davis alerted an official and asked him to review video of the
shot, which confirmed Davis’s suspicion. The ensuing two-stroke
penalty ended the playoff and Davis is still winless in the U.S.  ‘I’ll Walk’  “We’ve done this for years, all of us,” Faldo said on the
Golf Channel during third-round play. “We’ve all policed
ourselves. That’s the most wonderful thing about this game of
golf. Sometimes the black and white is harsh, but I think Tiger
would gain massive brownie points if he stood up and said, ‘You
know, you’re right, guys, I clearly have broken the rules. And
I’ll walk, I’ll see you next week.’”  In 2011, the U.S. Golf Association and Royal & Ancient Golf
Club, golf’s governing bodies, announced a new interpretation of
rule 33-7/4.5 -- in which a player is disqualified for signing
an incorrect scorecard. The change applies in “limited
circumstances” where disqualifications are caused by scorecard
errors resulting from video review. That revision helped Woods
avoid disqualification.  The groups said the change addressed the situation where a
player is not aware he’s breached a rule “because of facts that
he did not know and could not reasonably have discovered prior
to turning in his scorecard.” At the discretion of the
tournament committee, the player is still penalized, but isn’t
disqualified.  However, the disqualification penalty would still apply for
scorecard breaches that arise from ignorance of the rules of
golf.  “This is not a difficult rule and everybody knows it,”
Chamblee said. “Tiger was clearly ignorant of the rule or he
wouldn’t have been talking about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta, Georgia, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  