-- Woori Chairman to Quit Amid South Korea’s Fourth Sale Effort
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-04-15T06:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/woori-chairman-to-quit-amid-fourth-sale-attempt-by-south-korea.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  Chairman
Lee Pal Seung plans to step down ahead of the South Korean
government’s fourth attempt to find a buyer for its  stake  in the
country’s biggest financial services group.  Lee, who has been chairman and chief executive officer
since June 2008, announced his resignation yesterday without
giving a reason for the decision, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Seoul-based company. The 69-year-old will
continue with his duties until a successor is found, according
to a spokesman who asked not to named due to company policy.  Shares of Woori fell today, valuing the government’s stake
in the lender at about $4.8 billion.  South Korea  is preparing a
plan to sell its 57 percent holding by June, Financial Services
Commission Chairman Shin Je Yoon told lawmakers last month. The
government’s three previous attempts to sell  Woori Finance 
starting in 2010 have failed due to lack of buyer interest.  “They will have a new chairman who can get along well with
the new administration, which will clearly show the new
government’s will for privatization,” Sohn Joon Beom, an
analyst with LIG Investment & Securities Co., said by phone.
“Still, there’s a bumpy road ahead for privatizing Woori
Finance.”  Lee and KB Financial Group Inc. Chairman Euh Yoon Dae are
among executives who were appointed to run finance companies
during the tenure of South Korea’s ex-president  Lee Myung Bak .
Park Geun Hye, who became South Korea’s first female president
in February, asked cabinet members on March 11 to appoint new
chiefs at companies affiliated with the government who share her
administration’s vision.  Shared Philosophy  FSC’s Shin echoed the sentiment on April 4, when he said
Woori needs a chief who shares the government’s will and
philosophy for privatization, according to an e-mailed statement
by the regulator.  Shares of Woori declined 0.4 percent to 11,700 won in Seoul
trading, compared with the benchmark  Kospi index’s  0.2 percent
drop. The stock has fallen 5.7 percent in the past year.  Lee joined the company in 1967, and oversaw the
government’s divestment of 17 percent of Woori since becoming
chairman five years ago through block sales, according to the
statement. His second, three-year, term as head of the company
was set to end in March.  “I heartily support the early privatization of Woori
Finance for the development of South Korea’s financial
industry,” Lee said in the e-mailed statement.  Woori’s  current structure  was created in 2001 as a holding
company for banks rescued by the government following the Asian
financial crisis in 1997-1998, as part of a push to make the
industry more competitive.  The government’s attempts to sell its shares in Woori have
met with opposition from labor unions. The Korean Financial
Industry Union, which includes Woori employees, last year
announced plans for its first nationwide strike in more than a
decade, saying the government should sell the stake publicly to
individual investors rather than pursue consolidation with other
firms. The union dropped the plan after the sale failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  