-- World Bank Says East Asia Should Consider Stimulus Withdrawal
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-04-15T02:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/world-bank-says-east-asia-should-consider-stimulus-withdrawal.html
Asia ’s emerging economies should
consider reining in monetary stimulus to curb the risks of asset
bubbles and inflation as policy easing in developed nations spur
capital inflows, the World Bank said.  Demand-boosting measures that helped sustain growth “may
now be counterproductive,” the Washington-based lender said in
its East Asia and Pacific Economic Update released today. “As
the global economy recovers, an emerging issue is the risk of
overheating in some of the larger economies,” it said in a
release accompanying the report.  The  International Monetary Fund  warned last week that risks
from the easing policies of central banks around the world are
increasing as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  joined its counterparts in the
U.S. and Europe in unleashing monetary stimulus to end 15 years
of deflation. Gross capital inflows into the  East Asia  and
Pacific region surged 86 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the World Bank said in its report, adding to
pressure on inflation and asset prices.  “Near-zero interest rates and new and protracted rounds of
quantitative easing in the United States, European Union, and
 Japan  are inducing large capital inflows into  emerging markets 
including in East Asia,” the  World Bank  said. “The risk of an
asset boom in the markets, in which global liquidity spills over
is emerging, with asset valuations moving ahead of fundamentals
and possibly a correction down the road.”  Some countries in the region, which accounted for 40
percent of global growth last year, need to manage renewed
capital inflows through “an appropriate macroeconomic stance
and sufficient flexibility in the  exchange rate ,” the lender
said.  Withdrawing Support  The World Bank’s comments echo those of International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  and the  Asian
Development Bank  this month.  Central banks in Asia should “think about the timing and
pace of withdrawing monetary support” as strong credit growth
has seen a buildup of financial imbalances, Lagarde said in a
speech in Boao, southern  China  on April 7. The ADB said in an
April 9 report that the region’s growth recovery faces the risk
of asset bubbles from rising capital inflows.  The World Bank trimmed its estimate for 2013 growth in
Developing East Asia, which excludes Japan and India, to 7.8
percent from a 7.9 percent forecast previously. That’s still
more than three times faster than the 2.4 percent it projects
for the world economy. Its estimate for the region’s growth next
year is unchanged at 7.6 percent.  China Headwinds  “This remains the most dynamic region in the world,” Axel van Trotsenburg, the bank’s vice president for East Asia and
Pacific, said in an interview. “After some softening of growth
in 2012, we will see some pick up in 2013 in developing East
Asia. This is largely due to China.”  China, the region’s biggest economy, will expand 8.3
percent this year, the  World Bank  forecast, lowering its
estimate from 8.4 percent previously.  Indonesia  is projected to
grow 6.2 percent, down from a 6.3 percent forecast.  Internal rebalancing in China poses a continued risk to the
region’s outlook, with “domestic headwinds” including risks in
the property sector, financial system and local government
finances “buffeting the government-managed slowdown,”
according to the report. A 5 percentage-point drop in the pace
of China’s  investment growth  would reduce the region’s aggregate
gross domestic product by 1.3 percent and drag down exports, it
said.  Yen Depreciation  The World Bank also warned that continued depreciation of
the yen could affect trade in the region in the short term,
although if Japan manages to escape deflation and rekindle
growth, “all developing economies in the region would benefit
through higher exports,” it said.  Officials from  South Korea  to the Philippines have taken
action, or are studying measures, to counter capital inflows and
central banks across the region kept borrowing costs unchanged
this month.  Indonesia last week held its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low, as policy makers assess the need to support growth
against rising inflationary pressures fueled by plans to cut oil
subsidies. Thailand’s central bank kept borrowing costs
unchanged earlier this month and said it will be vigilant about
asset-price risks as it resisted calls by the government for
monetary easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  