-- Yen Slide May Boost Japan Shipers’ Profit by $500 Million
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-04-16T10:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/yen-slide-set-to-give-japan-shipping-lines-profit-boost.html
Japanese shipping lines, buffeted
by a decline in freight rates, are set to get a more than $500
million boost to their earnings from a weaker yen.  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) ,  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104)  and  Kawasaki
Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , the nation’s three biggest carriers, may add
a total of 51.6 billion yen ($527 million) to their pretax
profit this fiscal year as a weaker yen raises the value of
contracts, said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Barclays Securities
 Japan  Ltd. The forecast assumes a 95 yen average to the dollar.  Gains from the currency will help Japanese carriers offset
a decline in shipping rates caused by overcapacity and a global
economic downturn. The yen has tumbled about 11 percent this
year, helping boost repatriated earnings from dollar-based
contracts, as Japan stepped up its campaign to end 15 years of
deflation that has depressed growth.  “The currency will be the biggest impact on profits this
year,” said Tokyo-based Himeno. “There aren’t really any other
drivers for profit: the shipping market isn’t likely to get much
better this year.”  The yen fell to a four-year low of 99.95 on April 11. It
traded at 97.85 versus the dollar as of 11:11 a.m in  London .  Shipping charges priced in dollars account for more than 80
percent of domestic shipping companies’ international revenue,
according to  The Japanese Shipowners’ Association , a group of
 100  vessel owners.  Unprecedented Stimulus  The currency’s declines have deepened as Japan’s central
bank this month announced unprecedented stimulus aimed at
doubling the monetary base by the end of 2014 through buying
government bonds. The central bank has given itself a two-year
horizon to meet a goal of 2 percent inflation.  Japan’s economy, the world’s third-biggest, expanded an
annualized 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year after
two straight contractions. Prices excluding fresh food haven’t
risen 2 percent in any year since 1997, when the sales tax was
increased.  Nippon Yusen said in January that every 1 yen decline
against the dollar would raise profit by  1.1 billion yen  in the
year ended March 31. Mitsui O.S.K. said a similar drop in the
second half of the year would boost profit by  900 million yen ,
while Kawasaki Kisen said such a drop would increase profit by
 500 million yen .  The shipping lines, all based in  Tokyo , declined to comment
on profit for the year started April 1 before their earnings
announcement on April 30.  Annual Profit  Nippon Yusen may post a net income of  29 billion yen  this
fiscal year, according to the average of 13 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg, compared with 8.9 billion yen predicted for the
previous 12 months. Kawasaki Kisen may also boost its profit
while Mitsui O.S.K., which has the world’s largest merchant
fleet, may return to an annual profit.  “Profit will naturally increase,” said Rikard Vabo, an
analyst with Oslo-based Fearnley Securities AS. “All the
earnings are in U.S. dollars and when they get more yen from
each dollar, they are able to pay off debt easier.”  Nippon Yusen fell 1.6 percent to 244 yen at close of
trading in Tokyo. The stock has  gained  21 percent this year.
Mitsui O.S.K. has jumped 36 percent and Kawasaki Kisen soared 60
percent. In comparison, the Nikkei 225 Stock Average has risen
27 percent.  The weaker yen isn’t solving all the challenges facing
shipping lines. An oversupply of vessels to carry commodities
including iron-ore and coal is continuing to put pressure on
freight rates. The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a measure of prices for
transporting commodities by sea, has dropped 10 percent in the
past year to 876 in London yesterday.  ‘Lot of Ships’  “They ordered a lot of ships in 2007 at the peak of the
shipping cycle, when they were very expensive,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees the equivalent of $1.7 billion in assets in
Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. “They are the beneficiaries
of the strengthening world economy and weakening yen, but the
demand-supply outlook is weak.”  Hire costs for the world’s fleet of 9,658 commodity ships
will remain under pressure throughout this year and may
“flatten at low levels” by the end of 2014,  DVB Bank SE (DVB) 
predicted in December.  Still, as the weaker yen spurs demand for Japanese goods,
that may lead to increased transportation of products such as
cars,  Johnson Leung , Boyong Liu and Benjamin Wang, analysts at
Jefferies Group LLC, wrote in a  report  in February.  Jefferies predicts the yen could slide to as low as 108
against the dollar, according to Leung. He didn’t give a
timeframe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  