-- Zoomlion Slumps After Forecasting Lower Profit: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-04-15T05:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-15/zoomlion-slumps-after-forecasting-lower-profit-hong-kong-mover.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157) , China’s second-biggest construction equipment
maker, fell to the lowest level in almost 19 months in  Hong Kong 
after forecasting profit may slump as much as 80 percent.  Zoomlion declined as much as 9.8 percent to HK$7.49, the
lowest price since September 2011. It was the  third-worst
performer  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The stock has dropped
34 percent this year, compared with a 4 percent fall for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The company, based in Changsha,  Hunan province , expects
first-quarter net income to fall 60 percent to 80 percent as a
slower economic recovery damps demand for construction
machinery. China’s economic growth unexpectedly lost momentum in
the quarter, data released today showed, as gains in factory
output and consumption weakened.  “It will be difficult for Zoomlion to meet its guidance of
a 15 percent increase in 2013 sales,” analysts Joseph Ho and
Winston Cao at Daiwa Securities Group Inc., wrote in an April 12
note. “We expect the market to remain skeptical and we now see
lukewarm interest from investors to accumulate the stock.”  Daiwa lowered its  recommendation  on Zoomlion shares to hold
from outperform.  Zoomlion said April 12 that it expects first-quarter
 profit , based on Chinese accounting standards, to fall to
between 417.8 million  yuan  ($68 million) and 835.5 million yuan.
That compares with a 2.09 billion-yuan profit in the year-
earlier quarter, according to the statement.  The company’s profit last year missed analyst estimates as
government measures to cool the  property market  damped demand.
The machinery maker is also seeking to boost investor confidence
after its shares slumped following a January report in Hong
Kong’s Ming Pao newspaper that the company’s sales may have been
exaggerated. Zoomlion has repeatedly denied the allegations.  China’s economy  expanded 7.7 percent in the January-March
period, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing. That
compares with the 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 41 analysts and 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  