-- ‘Roommate’ Is Top Film at Theaters With $15 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2011-02-08T00:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/-the-roommate-is-no-1-film-this-weekend-with-15-6-million-in-receipts.html
The thriller “The Roommate” opened
in first place at U.S. and Canadian theaters this Super Bowl
weekend, taking in $15 million in ticket sales for  Sony Corp .’s
Screen Gems.  The 3-D action film “Sanctum” came in second place, with
$9.4 million in receipts for  Comcast Corp .’s  Universal Pictures ,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Sales were hurt by the Super Bowl telecast. The weekend of
the U.S. professional football championship game typically is
among the year’s worst for ticket sales, with revenue dropping
as much as 60 percent on Sunday from Saturday, according to
Hollywood.com. Sales declined for a 13th straight weekend.  “The box office is down because the movies have been
largely unappealing, especially the ones that are supposed to be
mainstream,” said  Brandon Gray , president of Box Office Mojo.
“Some of the Oscar contenders have done well, like ‘The King’s
Speech’ and ‘True Grit,’ but the mainstream fare has been
severely uninspiring.”  Receipts have declined in part, too, due to the December
2009 release of  “Avatar,”  which lifted sales during January
and February of 2010.  James Cameron ’s 3-D movie went on to
become the highest-grossing movie of all time.  According to Hollywood.com, the record for continuous sales
declines is 19 weeks, set between February and July 2005.   Star
Wars : Episode III -- Revenge of the Sith,” “War of the
Worlds” and “Mr. & Mrs. Smith” were among the No. 1 movies
during that period.  ‘Sanctum’  This week’s top film, “The Roommate,” stars Leighton Meester as a college freshman who becomes obsessed with her new
roommate, played by Minka Kelly. The film was made for about $8
million, according to the Internet Movie Database.  “Sanctum,” about an underwater diving expedition that
goes wrong, includes “Avatar” director Cameron as executive
producer. In the film, made for an estimated $30 million, a team
of divers is forced to stay in a deep underwater cavern they
were exploring after a tropical storm hits the surface. The
movie stars Ioan Gruffudd and Rhys Wakefield.  The romantic comedy “No Strings Attached” fell to third
from second with $8 million for  Viacom Inc .’s  Paramount
Pictures . The movie, starring  Ashton Kutcher  and  Natalie Portman , is about a man and woman who agree to a relationship of
uncommitted sex.  ‘The Green Hornet’  Weinstein Co.’s “The King’s Speech” was fourth with $7.7
million. The film, which stars  Colin Firth  as King George VI of  England , secured 12 Oscar nominations on Jan. 25. The movie
chronicles the monarch’s relationship with his unorthodox speech
therapist.  “The Green Hornet,” from Sony’s  Columbia Pictures , had $6
million in sales, dropping to fifth place from fourth. The film,
based on the 1930s radio program and comic books, features Seth Rogen as a wealthy newspaper heir who secretly fights crime and
Jay Chou as his sidekick Kato.  Domestic box-office sales this year total $987.8 million,
down 24 percent from a year earlier. Attendance is off 25
percent. Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend was $73.4
million, down from $99.6 million a year earlier, according to
Hollywood.com.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Feb.
4-6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  