-- Bank Indonesia May Keep Raising Rates to Curb Price Pressures
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2011-02-06T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/bank-indonesia-may-keep-raising-rates-to-curb-price-pressures.html
Indonesia’s central bank may
continue to raise  interest rates  after its first increase in
three years last week aimed at curbing inflation that risks
hurting household spending.  Bank Indonesia boosted its benchmark  reference rate  by
25 basis points to 6.75 percent on Feb. 4, and economists
from UBS AG and Royal Bank of Canada are among those
predicting borrowing costs will reach 8 percent in 2011. The
increase came before the government releases a report today
that is forecast to show the economy grew last quarter at the
fastest pace in 2 1/2 years.  Higher borrowing costs in a nation where the  World Bank 
estimates 29 percent of the population earn less than $2 a
day may help anchor inflation expectations and support its
currency and longer-term bonds, according to Citigroup Inc.
With  Indonesia ’s rate increase, the Philippines is the only
major Southeast Asian economy using interest rates as a
policy tool that hasn’t raised its borrowing cost.  “Hiking rates now prevents a sharp weakness in the
currency and a selloff in the markets,” said Johanna Chua,
the Hong Kong-based head of Asian economic research at
Citigroup, who expects another half percentage point of
increases this year. “The anxieties that Bank Indonesia is
behind the curve should lessen. A gradual rate-hike cycle
should not dampen growth as the economy is still doing
well.”  Inflation Concern  The  Jakarta Composite Index  had slid about 8 percent as
of Feb. 2 from its Dec. 9 record high as investors were
concerned the central bank has fallen behind regional peers
in boosting rates to cool inflation. It rose 0.4 percent on
Feb. 4. The rupiah,  Asia ’s fourth-worst performer in the past
year among the 10 major Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg
News, climbed to a four-week high.  In a  statement  announcing its rate decision,  Bank
Indonesia  said it will keep a “close watch on future
inflation developments and strengthen the rupiah exchange-
rate policy in line with measures to curb future inflationary
pressures.”  Benchmark 10-year government notes advanced after the
rate increase amid optimism the central bank’s actions will
damp price pressures. Two-year bonds declined. Short-maturity
bonds are more sensitive to central bank rate expectations
than bonds with longer tenors, which typically decline on
signs of accelerating inflation because it erodes the value
of debt’s fixed payments.  Growth Rate  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.3 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, accelerating from a 5.82 percent rate in the
three months through September, according to the median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The central bank refrained from raising rates since 2008
as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono targeted annual average
economic growth of 6.6 percent through the remainder of his
term ending in 2014. Companies from PT Bank Pan Indonesia to
AirAsia Bhd. are counting on rising demand in the world’s
fourth-most populous nation to boost their businesses.  Bank Indonesia maintained its inflation forecast for
2011 in the range of 4 percent to 6 percent and said the
economy will probably expand by 6 percent to 6.5 percent this
year. Higher borrowing costs aren’t likely to hurt the
Indonesian economy, said Vishnu Varathan of  Capital Economics 
(Asia) Pte.  “There is no compelling sign that the economy is
slowing dramatically,” said Varathan, a Singapore-based
economist. “Domestic consumption continues to be strong. The
real risk is that inflation would affect private consumption
if Bank Indonesia didn’t prudently decide to raise interest
rates.”  Rising Rates    Brian Jackson , Hong Kong-based senior emerging markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, predicts the central bank
will add another 1.25 percentage points of increases this
year, starting at the next meeting in March.  “With inflation well above the target range and likely
to stay high in coming months, Bank Indonesia clearly has
more work to do,” Jackson said. He expects the rupiah to
strengthen to 8,500 per dollar by end-2011, from 8,992 on Feb.
4.  “This theme of tolerating currency appreciation to help
curb price pressures also underpins our forecast for other
emerging market Asian currencies to strengthen this year,”
Jackson said.  In the  Philippines , where inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in four months in January, the central bank has
kept the benchmark rate at 4 percent for more than a year.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas policy makers meet on Feb. 10 and
will keep borrowing costs unchanged, according to 10 of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The central bank may raise inflation forecasts this week,
Governor Amando Tetangco said Feb. 4, adding that he doesn’t
see an immediate need to raise interest rates.  “Some have raised the point that the Philippine central
bank is behind the curve,” said  Luz Lorenzo , an economist at
ATR-Kim Eng Securities Inc. in  Manila . “Especially now that
all over the world there is a fear of inflation, if you take
your time, you may have to do more tightening than originally
planned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  