-- BHP, Rio to Reap Profit as Costs Hurt ArcelorMittal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2011-02-07T21:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/bhp-rio-will-reap-record-profits-as-costs-pummel-arcelormittal.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd .,  Vale SA  and Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s three largest mining companies, are set
for record profit totaling $52 billion as they accelerate
earnings growth at the expense of their biggest customers.  The companies, also the largest iron-ore exporters, may
post an average 66 percent jump in the annual earnings they
report this year compared with 2007, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In contrast, ArcelorMittal,
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Posco and Nippon Steel Corp., the
largest publicly traded steelmakers, may see an average 31
percent slump in profit over the same duration.  The contrasting fortunes will probably widen further this
half should steelmakers fail to pass on rising  iron-ore  and coal
costs, which are forecast to peak in the second quarter,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The steel producers
have struggled to adapt to changes in raw-material pricing
introduced last year as mining companies ended a decades-old
system of annual contract talks in favor of quarterly accords.  “It was a dramatic impact,” said  Charles Kernot , director
of metals and mining at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.
Mining companies are going to see “very significant earnings
growth,” he said.  Rio advanced 2.9 percent in London to 4,625 pence as of
4:30 p.m. local time, the highest close since July 2008. BHP
climbed 0.8 percent to 2,541.5 pence. ArcelorMittal gained 2.3
percent to 27.25 euros in Amsterdam trading. Vale fell 0.1
percent to 50.32 reais in Sao Paulo at 6:07 p.m. local time.  Quarterly Pricing  BHP led the change to price iron-ore and coking-coal sales
each quarter, saying it better reflected shifts in the market.
Steelmakers opposed the move, arguing it hampered efforts to
predict costs and pass them onto consumers.  “The pricing power remains firmly in favor of the
miners,” Richard Knights, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.,
said by phone from  London . “The change to quarterly pricing has
been significant because if we had settled iron-ore and coking-
coal prices in March last year, the average achieved price over
the course of the year would have been significantly lower.”  In January of last year, analysts estimated the iron-ore
annual benchmark may increase 30 percent to 50 percent in 2010
from 2009’s $61 a metric ton. Instead, the first quarterly
contract for BHP’s ore was set starting April 1 at $120, double
the previous annual price, according to UBS AG.  It rose for two of the three subsequent quarters and was
set at $143 for the current quarter, UBS said.  Iron Ore, Coal  Vale and London-based Rio also ship coking coal, and BHP is
a partner in the world’s biggest exporter, the  BHP Billiton-
Mitsubishi Alliance . Steel producers use about 1.6 tons of iron
ore and half a ton of coking coal to make 1 ton of the alloy.  The combined cost of the raw materials may peak next
quarter, Merrill said in a Jan. 25 report. The contract coking-
coal price may leap 78 percent to a record $400 a ton during the
quarter, the bank said. Credit Suisse Group AG said last month
that the spot price of iron ore could jump to $250 a ton.  “2011 will see record amounts of cash generated by the
industry,” said  Andrew Keen , an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in
London. “You are seeing high coking coal, very high iron-ore
prices and that’s all accreting to the miners.”  BHP Earnings  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, may report record
profit of $21 billion for the year ending June 30, 2011,
according to the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company’s iron-ore unit delivered 26 percent of
BHP’s earnings in the previous fiscal year and may contribute
about a third of earnings before interest and tax for the first
half, Liberum said. BHP reports first-half results on Feb. 16.  Rio will post record annual profit of $14.2 billion this
week, according to the average estimate of 16 analysts. Iron ore
may comprise 62 percent of earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization for 2010, according to Liberum.
Vale is estimated to report net income of $17.2 billion.  “The iron-ore miners risk killing the goose that laid the
golden egg,” said Gordon Moffat, director-general of Eurofer,
representing European steelmakers including  ArcelorMittal . “The
reason they have huge profitability is because of behavior that
is not aligned to market conditions. It’s not sustainable.”  ArcelorMittal said in October that fourth-quarter earnings,
due Feb. 8, would drop as much as a third from the prior three
months after steel prices declined and costs rose. The shift to
quarterly pricing is increasing “volatility in steelmaking
margins,” HSBC’s Keen said.  ArcelorMittal Profit  ArcelorMittal may post net income for 2010 of $3.6 billion,
according to the average estimate of 21 analysts. That compares
with record profit of $10.4 billion in 2007, the first complete
earnings year following the creation of the company through the
$38 billion acquisition of Arcelor SA by Mittal Steel Co., the
steel industry’s biggest takeover. ArcelorMittal spokesman Giles Read didn’t return a call seeking comment.  “The issue is for the steel producers, and therefore the
auto-manufacturers: every quarter they’ve had to think about re-
pricing the steel that they produce and therefore the cars that
are produced from that steel,” Evolution’s Kernot said. That
“makes the whole market much, much more complicated.”  Nippon Steel, based in Tokyo, cut its full-year profit
forecast on Jan. 28 after prices fell and floods in  Australia 
pushed up the cost of steelmaking ingredients.  South Korea ’s  Posco  reported a bigger-than-expected decline in quarterly
earnings after raw-material costs expanded and demand waned.  Customers Suffer  “We have annual contracts with some of our main customer
groups and, unlike the iron-ore industry, we’re not prepared to
see our customers suffer disproportionally,” Moffat said. “We
negotiate with our customers, we don’t impose price increases.”  Nippon Steel and  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd ., Japan’s
largest and third-biggest steelmakers, last week agreed to
combine to cut costs. The merger plan, to be completed by 2012,
would produce the world’s second-largest steelmaker in a deal
valued at about 2 trillion yen ($24 billion), according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nippon Steel last week said annual profit may be $1.15
billion, 63 percent less than in 2007. Posco reported 2010
profit of $3.6 billion last month. Baoshan Iron & Steel,  China ’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, posted a $1.89 billion
profit in 2010, compared with $1.67 billion in 2007. The company
was the world’s second-largest steelmaker in 2009, climbing from
fifth place in 2007, according to the World Steel Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 