-- Bonds to Lead Gulf Debt Refinancing, Standard Chartered Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2011-02-06T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/bonds-to-lead-gulf-debt-refinancing-standard-chartered-says.html
Gulf Arab countries are likely to
raise at least half their  debt capital  from bond sales this year
as banks are still reluctant to lend, the head of capital
markets for the Middle East at  Standard Chartered Plc  said.  “The current trend of a lot of the loans being refinanced
in the bond market will continue,” Deepak Kohli said in an
interview in Dubai on Feb. 3. “If the bond markets continue to
be conducive, I would think the bond and loan volumes will be
around 50-50, if not favoring the bond market a little bit.”  Governments and companies in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes oil-rich Saudi Arabia, the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait , raised $32.6 billion from 58
bond sales in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was 40 percent of the $80 billion raised in debt capital
last year, data provided by  Standard Chartered  show.  Bonds represented 49 percent of the $77 billion raised in
debt capital in 2009, compared with 11 percent in 2008 and 22
percent in 2007, Standard Chartered estimates. The six Gulf
countries, which also include Qatar, Bahrain and Oman, have $70
billion of loans maturing in 2011, the bank said Jan 11.  Many Gulf banks are raising money at “spreads higher than
top-rated companies and it makes sense for high-quality
corporates to go directly to the bond market,” Kohli said.
Banks are also unlikely to lend for more than three to five
years and borrowers are looking at longer maturities, he said.    Emaar Properties PJSC , the U.A.E.’s biggest real-estate
developer by market value, got $500 million from the sale of a
5.5-year sukuk on Jan. 27 to help repay short-term loans. The
sale attracted $1.7 billion in orders.  League Tables  Standard Chartered was ranked second behind  HSBC Holdings
Plc  in the GCC bond league tables last year, a list that ranks
banks by the amount of money they helped clients raise. It was
one of the managers of the $1.25 billion bond sold by the
Government of Dubai in September, the first sale of such
securities by the emirate since the Dubai World debt crisis, and
the $1.25 billion issue of Qatar Telecom QSC in October.  More banks are likely to sell bonds this year and a greater
number of issuers are likely to sell in currencies other than
dollars such as the Malaysian ringgit, the Swiss franc and the
euro, Kohli said.  Bank lending in the U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab
economy, grew 2.3 percent in the 11 months through November on
top of 2.4 percent rise in 2009, according to central bank data.
Lending expanded by more than 30 percent annually from 2005 to
2008, the data show. Bank lending to the private sector in  Saudi
Arabia , the biggest Arab economy, increased 5.7 percent in 2010
after remaining unchanged in 2009, according to data from the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency , the country’s central bank.  The appeal of Gulf Arab bond issues is growing as fixed-
income investors in the U.S. and  Europe  are looking to diversify
their portfolios and considering investing in securities from  Asia  and the Middle East, Kohli said. Gulf Arab bonds also offer
investors a proxy for a hedge against oil prices, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  