-- Chi-X Australia Start Delayed on Wait for Timetable
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-07T08:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/chi-x-australia-s-start-date-uncertain-as-regulatory-timetable-is-delayed.html
Chi-X Global Inc.’s bid to challenge  Australia ’s main stock exchange operator  ASX Ltd . has been held
up as the company waits for the nation’s markets regulator to
finalize new competition guidelines.  Chi-X Australia Pty, which planned to begin operating by
March, says it’s now unable to give a specific start date until
the  Australian Securities & Investments Commission  publishes a
timetable to enable rivals such as Chi-X to compete with ASX.
Chi-X received “in principle” approval from the government for
a license in March 2010.  The process of introducing competition to the exchange
market -- a key policy of Financial Services Minister  Bill Shorten  -- was held up by a general election in August that led
to a minority government, prompting ASIC to assess the new
administration’s commitment to earlier government proposals. The
situation was further complicated in October when  Singapore
Exchange Ltd ., which has agreed to start a dark pool with Chi-X
Australia’s parent company, launched a takeover bid for ASX.  A dark pool is a private trading platform that doesn’t
publicly display prices.  “We don’t yet have a date on when we might get a
timetable,”  Peter Fowler , Chi-X Australia’s chief operating
officer, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. “We understand
that ASIC, the Treasury and Minister Shorten’s office are all
allocating a high priority to the matter.”  Competition Framework  ASIC’s timetable is expected to outline key milestones,
such as adoption of the new competition framework, the
finalization of fresh market integrity rules, and the licensing
of competitors.  ASIC released a consultation paper in November proposing a
new framework for regulating Australia’s equity markets, in part
to promote competition between exchanges. The consultation,
which included submissions from ASX, was closed last month.  The consultation document proposed market integrity rules
including an obligation on market participants to notify ASIC of
“suspicious activity.” ASIC also proposed new transparency
requirements for an environment where there are more exchange
operators, as well as strategies to prevent extreme share-price
movements.  “We are currently reviewing the submissions with the
objective of releasing a timetable as soon as practicable,”
Kyla Morgan, a spokeswoman for ASIC, said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News.  ‘Financial Hub’  The minority Labor government, led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , supports competition between financial markets in
Australia, according to a statement from Shorten’s office.  “A final decision on the introduction of competition to
the market will be made after the necessary regulatory framework
is in place and the market is ready to operate in a competitive
environment,” the statement said. “The government’s decision
to support competition is a vital step in the development of
Australia as a financial hub.”    Singapore Exchange  offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 for A$8.4
billion ($8.4 billion) in a cash and share deal that would
create the world’s fifth-largest listed exchange company.  Singapore Exchange’s bid won the approval of the  Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission  on Dec. 15, overcoming one
of several hurdles to getting the go-ahead. It still needs the
support of Treasurer  Wayne Swan , the Foreign Investment Review
Board, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, ASIC, and parliamentarians,
several of whom have opposed the sale.  The competition regulator, which examined the impact of
Chi-X Global’s agreement with Singapore Exchange, said the
merger wouldn’t adversely affect competition in the exchange
industry, according to an ACCC statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley at   gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 