-- Cost Plus Weaves Wicker Into Ninefold Gain to Lead 2010 Nasdaq
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2011-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/cost-plus-weaves-wicker-into-ninefold-gain-to-lead-2010-nasdaq.html
The best performer on the technology-
heavy Nasdaq Stock Market last year doesn’t sell software,
Internet ads or computers. Instead, it hawks hand-crafted door
knobs and embroidered pillows.    Cost Plus Inc ., the Oakland, California-based home-goods
retailer, gained 851 percent in 2010, besting the other 2,673
members of the  Nasdaq Composite Index , including Silicon Valley
titans  Apple Inc .,  Oracle Corp . and  Google Inc .  The company is benefiting from consumers increasing their
spending on goods for the home as the economy recovers. U.S.
household purchases rose 4.4 percent last quarter, the most
since early 2006. Rising incomes and a cut in payroll taxes this
year will probably continue to drive demand.  Cost Plus is poised to return to profit after four years of
losses by stocking its stores with cheaper, artisanal items that
the previous management team abandoned during the housing boom,
said Barry Feld, president and chief executive officer. The
company had tried to shift to more expensive merchandise.  “We had price credibility for decades, and so when we
walked away from it, it really hit our core customer hard,”
Feld said in an interview at the company’s headquarters. “Had
it gone another year, I don’t know if we could have brought the
company back from the brink.”  Cost Plus sells both eclectic home furnishings and gourmet
food, competing with  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc ., Crate & Barrel,  Pier 1 Imports Inc ., Trader Joe’s Co. and  Williams-Sonoma Inc .,
which owns Pottery Barn. Cost Plus wasn’t the only retailer to
see a boost as the economy recovered. The Standard & Poor’s 500
retailing index rose 24 percent last year.  Pier 1 shares, which finished 2008 at 37 cents, began 2011
at $10.50. Bed Bath & Beyond almost doubled during the same
time, and Williams-Sonoma more than quadrupled.  Paying Down Debt  “Throughout the last 10 years, U.S. consumers were willing
to run up credit-card debt,” said Greg Girard, program director
of Retail Merchandise Strategies at IDC Retail Insights.
“They’re not doing that now. In fact, they’re paying down debt,
which makes the recent performances by these companies all the
more remarkable.”  Cost Plus was founded more than 50 years ago by William
Amthor, a wicker-furniture importer who sold his wares for 10
percent more than he paid for them. He opened his first shop at  San Francisco ’s Fisherman’s Wharf in 1958. By 1996, when the
company first sold shares to the public, it had grown to 50
locations in 10 states.  Expensive Furniture  The stock peaked at $47.72 in 2003, when the company had
expanded to 200 stores. At the time, Cost Plus envisioned
growing to 600 locations. In a bid to boost sales, it added more
expensive furniture, with some items costing more than $1,000.
Sales rose 13 percent to $908.6 million in 2004. The strategy
eventually backfired as consumers visited stores less frequently
and complained about rising costs, Feld said.  “We had $1,500 leather sofas in the store,” he said. “We
were in the $15 soap business. Our customers don’t buy $15
soap.”  The chain, which had been what Feld describes as a
housewares store with some furniture, became the opposite -- a
furniture store with some housewares. Feld, who has served on
the board for more than a decade and was named to his current
position in October 2005, proposed to reverse some of the
changes immediately.  Then came the recession. The economy shrank 4.1 percent
from late 2007 to mid-2009, the most in any downturn since the
1930s, according to the Commerce Department.  Years of Losses  Cost Plus fell into the red, and sales declined for the
first time since the company went public. By 2008, the shares
had plummeted to less than $1.  In June of that year, Pier 1 offered to buy the company for
about $88 million, or $4 a share. Cost Plus rejected the offer,
saying it wasn’t “attractive.” By February 2009, the stock had
reached its nadir of 55 cents.  The company began to adapt to the changing economic
climate, saying in January 2009 that it would close 26
underperforming stores of the 296 total in 33 states. Sales at
stores opened at least a year declined 7 percent in 2009.  Things improved last year. Holiday sales rose to $277.5
million, a 7 percent gain at stores opened at least a year. The
company said it saw an increase in both customers and the amount
they spent. Cost Plus is forecast to post its first annual
profit since 2005 when it reports fourth-quarter results in
March, according to Bloomberg data.  Household Knickknacks  During a walkthrough of the company’s recently revamped
store in Oakland’s Jack London Square, Feld pointed to areas of
jewelry accessories, wicker baskets, paper goods and accent
chairs.  “If you had come into this store with me, in early 2007,
basically this entire whole center of the floor would have been
a sea of sofas and dining rooms,” he said. “We exited the
backscratcher business -- I know that sounds sort of hokey --
but these little areas where you’re doing hundreds and hundreds
of thousands of dollars of business --- we were always the sum
of these unique little parts.”  Cost Plus shares rose last year as high as $12.88 in
December and closed at $9.70. The last time the stock traded
that high was in May 2007, before the recession began.  Less Competition  “People are spending again on home items, and the
competition is much less -- you had a lot of store closures,”
said Braden Leonard, whose Zionsville, Indiana-based BML Capital
Management owns 5.4 percent of Cost Plus’s shares. “It’s not
rocket science.”  Warren Stephens, Cost Plus’s largest shareholder with a 13
percent stake, declined to comment. The company’s second-largest
investor, Red Mountain Capital Partners, holds 12.5 percent and
is run by Willem Mesdag, who serves on Cost Plus’s board. Mesdag
also declined to comment.  Cost Plus’s return from its near-death experience has
included some bumps in the road. Its shares fell more than 11
percent last month, even after a holiday boost, and closed Feb.
4 at $8.60. The stock’s gain over the past year now ranks second
among Nasdaq Composite members.  Even with a sluggish economy and unemployment at 9 percent,
Feld is confident the company has worked its way out of trouble.  “Because we’ve aligned ourselves to where our customer’s
head is at, and we’re playing into the trends of the future,
we’re nicely positioned,” he said. “We feel like we’re in for
a pretty solid year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  