-- Jews in Damascus Restore Synagogues as Syria Tries to Foster Secular Image
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2011-02-07T09:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/damascus-jews-restore-synagogues-as-syria-seeks-secular-image.html
Albert Cameo, leader of what remains
of the Jewish community in  Syria , says he’s trying to fulfill an
obligation to his religious heritage.  The 70-year-old is organizing the restoration of a
synagogue called Al-Raqi in the old Jewish quarter of Damascus
built during the Ottoman Empire about 400 years ago. The
project, which began in December, will be completed this month
as part of a plan to restore 10 synagogues with the backing of
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and funding from Syrian Jews.  “Assad sees the rebuilding of Jewish Damascus in the
context of preserving the secularism of Syria,” said Josh Landis, director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the
University of Oklahoma in Norman. “This is an effort by the
regime to show its seriousness and an olive branch to the Jewish
community in America, which they have been wooing.”  While Syria is still officially at war with  Israel , the
country is trying to portray itself as a more tolerant state to
help burnish its image internationally. Syria’s 200 Jews are
mirroring the actions of their co-religionists in Lebanon, where
restoration work began on Beirut’s Maghen Abraham Synagogue in
July 2009.  Diversity  “For Syria there is a clear dichotomy between the Arab-
Israeli conflict and the Palestinian cause on one hand and her
pride of her diverse cultural heritage on the other hand,” said
Imad Moustapha, Syria’s ambassador to Washington.  Indirect peace talks between Israel and Syria, mediated by  Turkey , broke down in December 2008 when Israel began a military
offensive in the  Gaza Strip  that it said was aimed at stopping
Islamic militants from firing rockets into southern Israel. The
previous round collapsed in 2000, when the two nations failed to
agree on the return of the  Golan Heights , which Israel has
occupied since 1967.  The largest Syrian-Jewish community, estimated at 75,000,
is centered in  Brooklyn ,  New York  and  New Jersey . Emigration
dates back to the Young Turk Revolution in 1908, “when Jews
feared their sons would be drafted into the Ottoman Turkish
army,” according to Sara Reguer, author of “The Jews of the
Middle East and North Africa in Modern Times.”  Joey Allaham, 35, a Syrian Jew living in New York, still
considers Syria his homeland.  In December, he helped set up a meeting between Assad and
Malcolm Hoenlein, executive vice chairman of the  Conference of
Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations , an umbrella
organization of Jewish groups in an effort to foster ties
between Syria and the American Jewish community.  Hoenlein Visit  During their visit, Allaham and Hoenlein toured the Franji
synagogue across from the  Talisman Hotel  in Bab Touma, in the
old city of the Syrian capital. The synagogue, also known as
Ilfrange, gets its name from the Jews who came from  Spain  and
dates back 400 years, according to Cameo.  “President Assad was kind enough to support us,” Allaham
said in an interview. “We are going to bring support
financially.”  Syrian Jews, a group dating back to the Roman Empire,
numbered as many as 30,000 in 1947 and were indigenous Arabs or
Sephardim who fled to Syria after their expulsion from Spain in
1492, according to Reguer.  The community resided in the cities of Aleppo, Damascus and
Qamishli, dwindling in size because of emigration to the U.S.,
western  Europe  and South America from the early 1900s.  The “big flight” of Syrian Jews came after the creation
of Israel in 1948 when riots erupted in Aleppo, resulting in
Syria prohibiting Jews from leaving the country because they
were going to Israel, said Landis.  Dwindling Population  The remaining Jews were allowed to leave Syria in 1990 as
relations with the U.S. thawed because  Washington  sought the
country’s support to oust former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein
from  Kuwait , Landis said.  “Syrian Jews living in Israel, Turkey, Western Europe, and
the  United States  feel a positive affinity toward their
homeland,” said Tom Dine, who used to head the  American Israel
Public Affairs Committee , said by e-mail. “Reconciliation is
long overdue.”  Unlike his three brothers who live in  Mexico , Cameo says he
has no desire to leave Syria.  “Morally I can’t leave my country and the religious places
of worship here,” Cameo said from his home in Damascus. “I
have a duty to preserve our heritage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  