-- Euro Declines as Weaker-Than-Forecast Factory Report Spurs Economy Concern
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2011-02-07T12:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/dollar-nears-two-week-high-on-signs-of-u-s-growth-higher-treasury-yields.html
The euro declined for a fourth day
against the dollar as data showed German factory orders fell
more than analysts forecast in December, while U.S. reports this
week are forecast to indicate its recovery gaining strength.  The 17-member common currency erased earlier gains versus
the yen after the Economy Ministry in Berlin reported factory
orders dropped 3.4 percent from November. The pound rose against
13 of its 16 most-traded counterparts on speculation the  Bank of
England  will be forced to raise interest rates to contain
inflation. The yen weakened as rising stock markets led
investors to sell securities denominated in the Japanese
currency in favor of higher-yielding assets.  “We’re used to some fairly disappointing data coming from
the periphery and it has been the core that has been holding
Europe up and driving growth,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “The fact that
we are seeing weaker data at the core of Europe as well is a
worrying sign for the euro.”  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.3550 as of 7:45 a.m. in  New York , after climbing to $1.3627. The single currency was
little changed at 111.57 yen. The dollar strengthened 0.2
percent to 82.35 yen.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.8 percent, and futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent.  Economists forecast a 1.5 percent decline in German factory
orders, according to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  A report today is forecast to show consumer borrowing in
the U.S. rose in December for a third month. Credit climbed by
$2.5 billion after increasing $1.3 billion in November, the  Federal Reserve  will say today in  Washington , according to the
median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Japanese Rates  Initial jobless claims fell by 5,000 to 410,000 in the week
ended Feb. 5, the Labor Department will say on Feb. 10,
according to a separate survey. The U.S. unemployment rate
unexpectedly dropped to 9 percent last month from 9.4 percent in
December, the Labor Department said on Feb. 4.  The yen fell versus the  U.S. dollar , Australian dollar and
the British pound on signs the global economy is picking up.  “While rates everywhere else are likely to go up, people
don’t expect Japanese rates to follow,”  Paul Robson , a senior
foreign exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
London, said. “The yen has just been caught out by rate spreads
and reviving risk appetite with people looking through some of
the weather distortions on payrolls and seeing that as a
positive for the global environment.”  Sterling Yields  The pound rose as short-term rates increased. The two-year
gilt yield climbed three basis points to 1.55 percent, after
reaching 1.63 percent, the most since February 2009. The implied
yield on short-sterling futures contracts for December 2011,
which anticipates where short-term  interest rates  will be, rose
four basis points to 1.74 percent as traders added to bets for
higher borrowing costs.  A report today is forecast to show U.K. manufacturing
expanded for an eighth month in December. Output rose 0.4
percent after a 0.6 percent gain in November, the  Office for
National Statistics  is predicted to say Feb. 10.  On the same day, the Bank of England is forecast to keep
its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($323 billion) and
leave benchmark rates at a record low 0.5 percent, according to
all 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Upside Risk’  “The risk is to the upside at the moment for sterling
because the Bank of England is clearly getting more hawkish,”
said  Thomas Harr , Singapore-based head of Asia foreign-exchange
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc. “You will see support for
sterling around that meeting.”  Policy makers split last month.  Martin Weale  joined Andrew Sentance’s push to raise the key rate a quarter point to control
prices, while  Adam Posen  continued a drive he started in October
to expand bond purchases to support growth.  The pound strengthened 0.3 percent to 84.09 pence per euro,
and 0.2 percent to 132.61 yen. It was little changed at $1.6109.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 