-- Eagles Quarterback Michael Vick Selected NFL Comeback Player of the Year
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2011-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/eagles-quarterback-michael-vick-selected-nfl-comeback-player-of-the-year.html
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick  was chosen the  National Football League ’s Comeback
Player of the Year in his second season after serving a federal
prison term for his participation in a dog-fighting ring.  Vick, 30, who was elevated to starting quarterback in the
second week of the season, scored 30 touchdowns in 12 games. He
led the Eagles to a 10-6 regular season and first place in the
National Football Conference East division. Philadelphia lost to
the  Green Bay Packers  in the opening round of the playoffs.  “I’m thankful I have an opportunity to play in this league
again,” Vick said in a televised interview from  Dallas  where
the Packers play the Pittsburgh Steelers today in the  Super Bowl .
“I just want to go out and play football.”  Vick received 29.5 votes from the 50 media representatives
who regularly cover the NFL. Seattle Seahawks wide receiver Mike Williams was second with eight points. The  Associated Press 
compiled the ballots.  Vick completed 62.6 percent of his passes for 3,018 yards
and 21 touchdowns, all career highs. He also rushed for 676
yards and nine touchdowns. Vick’s 6.7 yards per rush were best
in the league among players with at least 100 attempts.  Once the highest-paid player in the league when he was with
the  Atlanta Falcons , Vick was described as “cruel and
reprehensible” by NFL commissioner Roger Goodell for
participating a ring in which dogs that lost fights were drowned,
hanged, shot or electrocuted.  In April 2007, he took part in the killing of eight animals,
one of which was dispatched by slamming it into the ground, his
criminal indictment said.  Three months after his release in May 2009, he signed a
two-year deal with the Eagles, and after serving a league-
imposed suspension, returned to the field for the first time
since 2006.  “I’ve come a long way,” Vick said. “I hate to live in
the past. I want to go forward. Everything happens for a
reason.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  