-- Egypt Pound Tumbles to Six-Year Low on Instability Concern as Banks Open
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2011-02-06T15:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/egypt-s-pound-weakens-to-lowest-in-6-years-as-lenders-open.html
The Egyptian pound weakened to the
lowest level since 2005 as banks opened for the first time since
anti-government protesters took to the streets of the North
African country more than a week ago.  The pound dropped 1.3 percent to the 5.9330 against the  U.S. dollar  as of 5:18 p.m. in Cairo from 5.857, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since January
2005.    Egypt ’s central bank used military cargo planes to
transport 5 billion pounds ($854 million) of cash as depositors
gained access to their savings. The government plans to sell 15
billion pounds in treasury bills tomorrow after canceling last
week’s auction as protests against President  Hosni Mubarak 
intensified.  “The pound is directly linked to the political situation
and uncertainty, if there is more uncertainty that will pressure
the pound to weaken further,” John Sfakianakis, Riyadh-based
chief economist at  Banque Saudi Fransi , said in a telephone
interview today. “Tomorrow is the most important day as markets
are open all around the world.”  The demonstrations, which left at least 300 people dead
according to the  United Nations , roiled financial markets
worldwide and sent yields on Egyptian bonds higher. The stock
market, which has been closed for six days, will remain shut at
least through Feb. 8. The benchmark EGX 30 Index tumbled 16
percent in the week to Jan. 27.  “Weakening is to be expected, if the pound goes into 6.0,
6.1 territory then authorities may have to take action,”
Sfakianakis said.  The central bank doesn’t have a target range for the pound,
Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez told CNBC Arabiya today. The
central bank intervenes in “rare” cases, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  