-- Egypt Plans Record $2.6 Billion Bill Sale as Bankers Predict Rising Yields
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2011-02-07T10:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/egypt-plans-record-2-6-billion-sale-as-yields-forecast-to-rise.html
  Egypt  is seeking to raise as much as
15 billion Egyptian pounds ($2.6 billion) in a record sale of
Treasury bills, with bankers predicting yields will rise as
foreign investors avoid the auction in the wake of deadly anti-
government protests.  Banks that opened yesterday for the first time in more than
a week are demanding yields on three-month local-currency bills
150 basis points to 200 basis points more than at the last sale
on Jan. 27, according to four of 15 primary dealers in Cairo.
Local lenders have enough funds to buy all the debt, central
bank Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television.  “Banks are full of liquidity,” he said. The yields “will
move up but not as high as people are expecting,” Ramez said.  A lack of international investor participation may further
weaken the pound, which fell today to the lowest level since
January 2005, according to UBS AG. Foreign investors, who hold
no more than 8 percent of all Egyptian bills, sold $1.7 billion
of their holdings yesterday, pushing up yields 50 basis points,
or 0.5 percentage point, Ramez said.  “I don’t see the possibility of foreigners coming in and
buying in this market any time soon,” said  Bhanu Baweja , global
head of emerging-market fixed-income and currency strategy at
UBS in London. “Every day that passes the economy and the pound
will pay the price.”  Protests  Protests to unseat President  Hosni Mubarak  that began Jan.
25 have left about 300 people dead, according to United Nations
estimates. They also disrupted the government’s financing
program as the central bank postponed the sale of 4 billion
pounds planned for Jan. 30 after raising 2.5 billion pounds on
Jan. 27. The average yields on the sale of 182-day bills jumped
40 basis points to a one-year high of 10.6 percent in the last
sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank is auctioning 8 billion pounds of 91-day
bills, 5 billion pounds of 182-day bills and 2 billion pounds of
273-day bills, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The pound fell 0.2 percent at 1:02 p.m. in Dubai after
sinking 1.3 percent against the dollar yesterday to 5.933, as
banks opened for the first time in more than a week and hundreds
of Egyptians queued outside to withdraw funds. The central bank
guarantees all deposits, Governor Farouk El-Okdah said in an
interview with state-run television on Feb. 5.  The pound may slump 20 percent in the “short term,”
Credit Agricole CIB said in a report on Feb. 3. The currency’s
three-month non-deliverable forwards rose to a record last week,
suggesting the currency may fall more than 7 percent against the
dollar.  ‘Not Concerned’  “I am not concerned about the currency,” Ramez said.  The central bank moved 5 billion pounds of cash into the
financial system, using military cargo planes to bring in the
funds, El-Okdah said in the interview.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent bond due in April 2020
dropped 22 basis points to 6.37 percent at 10:14 a.m. in Cairo,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Egypt’s debt for five years with
credit-default swaps soared to 430 basis points on Jan. 28, the
highest since April 2009. They closed at 380 on Feb. 4, CMA
prices in  London  show. Egypt’s bourse has been closed since the
end of trading on Jan. 27 and will remain shut until at least
Feb. 8.  Local Banks  “Given where the hard currency denominated Eurobonds are
trading I see little incentive to buy local T-bills, so I expect
foreign demand to be anemic at best,” Ahmad Alanani, director
of Middle East fixed-income sales at Dubai-based Exotix Ltd.,
said by e-mail yesterday. “I find it hard to believe that the
central bank would come about an issue like this without gauging
the capacity of the local banks to take it up.”  “The last thing they want is for an auction to fail,”
Alanani said.  Opposition leaders have agreed after talks with Vice
President  Omar Suleiman  to form a committee to study
constitutional changes, according to a government statement
yesterday. Among the opposition’s demands is for the government
to ease current constitutional curbs that make it difficult for
independent candidates to run for president.  “We have no idea when this conflict is going to be
resolved and what new economic policies we’ll see, there’s very
little incentive for foreigners to buy,” UBS’s Baweja said.  Meeting Obligations  The protests in Egypt were inspired by a revolt in  Tunisia 
that led to the ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on
Jan. 14. The Tunisian central bank will have “no problem” in
repaying almost $800 million of bonds denominated in euros and
yen maturing this year, Mohamed Salah Souilem, general manager
of external finances for Banque Centrale de Tunisie SA, said in
a faxed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  Egypt’s newly appointed Finance Minister Samir Radwan said
in an interview on Feb. 4 that the most populous Arab country
will honor all its debt obligations.  In an attempt to placate the protesters, Radwan said on
Feb. 5 that the government won’t reduce subsidies even if global
prices of food and commodities rise. Public spending will be
used as a tool to “achieve social justice,” he told a news
conference in Cairo.  An increase in public spending may push the budget gap to
“double digits” in 2011, compared with 8.1 percent in the
fiscal year that ended in June,  Standard & Poor’s  said last week
after lowering the country’s credit ratings a notch to two
levels below investment grades.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service also cut Egypt’s ratings.  “The government fiscal balance is likely to deteriorate,”
Baweja said. “Expenditure will increase. One of the reasons
that people are on the streets is that food prices are quite
high, so subsidies won’t be cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  