-- Egyptians Line Up for Cash as Banks Open, Currency Plummets to 2005 Low
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2011-02-06T15:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/egypt-moves-854-million-to-financial-system-as-banks-open-after-protests.html
Hundreds of Egyptians queued outside
banks to withdraw funds as lenders opened for the first time in
more than a week amid protests demanding the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . The pound dropped to the lowest level since 2005.  At a Cairo-based branch of  Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE , the nation’s biggest publicly-traded lender, one man
stood at the main door taking names of customers. “Banks need
to open more branches,” Mahmoud Eliwa, a 68-year-old retiree
who wanted to withdraw 5,000 pounds, said in an interview
outside the bank. Eliwa left after learning he needed to wait
for about 100 people before him.  The central bank moved 5 billion pounds ($854 million) of
cash into the financial system as depositors gained access to
their savings. The regulator, which has $36 billion in reserves
and guarantees deposits, used military cargo planes to bring in
the funds, Governor Farouk El-Okdah said yesterday on state-run
television.  The demonstrations, which left at least 300 people dead
according to the  United Nations , roiled financial markets
worldwide and sent yields on Egyptian bonds higher. The stock
market remained closed for a sixth day after the benchmark  EGX
30 Index  tumbled 16 percent in the week to Jan. 27.  Weakening Currency  The pound weakened 1.3 percent to 5.9330 against the  U.S.
dollar , the lowest level since January 2005, at 5:07 p.m. in
Cairo, from 5.857, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank published on its website a list of more
than 200 bank branches resuming operations today between 10:00
a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Customers are allowed to withdraw up to
50,000 Egyptian pounds and $10,000 a day.  The government plans to sell 15 billion pounds in treasury
bills tomorrow after canceling last week’s auction as protests
against Mubarak intensified. Yields on Egypt’s bills may surge
about 30 percent, said Shahinaz Foda, the head of treasury at
BNP Paribas  Egypt . Credit Agricole CIB expects the pound to
slump 20 percent in the “short term.” The currency’s three-
month non-deliverable forwards rose to a record last week,
suggesting the currency may fall more than 7 percent against the
dollar.  Egypt’s stock exchange will remain shut until at least Feb.
8, communications manager Hisham Turk said in a telephone
interview today.  Treasury Bills  The central bank postponed the sale of 4 billion pounds
planned for Jan. 30 after raising 2.5 billion pounds on Jan. 27.
The average yields on the sale of 182-day bills jumped 40 basis
points to a one-year high of 10.6 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank plans to auction 8 billion pounds in 91-day bills,
5 billion pounds in 182-day bills and 2 billion pounds in 273-
day bills, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank
will announce the results Feb. 8, Deputy Governor Hisham Ramez
said yesterday.  Yields on three-month treasury bills should be “not less
than” 12.5 percent in upcoming auctions, up from 9.5 percent
last month, Cairo-based Foda said yesterday. The yield on the
one-year bills may climb to 14 percent from 10.6 percent, she
said.  Public Spending  In an attempt to placate the protesters, newly appointed
Finance Minister Samir Radwan reiterated yesterday that the
government won’t reduce subsidies even if global prices of food
and commodities rise. Public spending will be used as a tool to
“achieve social justice,” he told a news conference in Cairo.  An increase in public spending may push the budget gap to
“double digits” in 2011, compared with 8.1 percent in the
fiscal year that ended in June, rating company  Standard & Poor’s 
said last week after lowering the country’s credit ratings a
notch to two levels below investment grades.  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service also cut Egypt’s ratings.  The unrest sent the yield on the country’s 5.75 percent
bond due in April 2020 to a record 7.2 percent on Jan. 31. The
yield has dropped 62 basis points since and ended the week at
6.59 percent. The cost of insuring Egypt’s debt for five years
with credit-default swaps soared to 430 basis points on Jan. 28,
the highest since April 2009. They closed at 380 on Feb. 4, CMA
prices in London show.  Not Defaulting  Radwan said Egypt will honor its debt obligations and urged
foreign investors to have confidence in the country. “All the
bond obligations, everything will be honored on time,” Radwan
said in a Feb. 4 telephone interview from Cairo. “We are not
defaulting on any obligations.”  Banks held 937 billion Egyptian pounds in deposits in
November, according to preliminary data published on the  central
bank’s website . Of that, households held 505 billion pounds,
while private companies held 124 billion, the data show. The
country’s banks have an average loan-to-deposit ratio of about
53 percent, Mohamed Barakat, head of the banking association,
said in an interview on Jan. 30.  Some Egyptians, such as 32-year-old pharmacist Moustafa
Awwad, said they won’t rush to take their money out.  “I have enough cash and the central bank guarantees all
deposits,” he said in a telephone interview from Cairo.
“Having money at the bank is safer than holding cash.”  Pound Forwards  Egypt’s three-month non-deliverable pound forwards
strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.325 per dollar on Feb. 4 from 6.34
the previous day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts reflect bets the currency will weaken 7.4 percent in
three months from the spot rate of 5.8570. A drop in the pound
may prompt the central bank to intervene, John Sfakianakis,
chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi Credit Agricole Group,
said in a note Feb. 3.  “Over the short term we expect the Egyptian pound to fall
by 20 percent, which would require the central bank to intervene
on several occasions,” he wrote. “The drawdown in reserves
would be a crucial factor in supporting the Egyptian pound, but
increased political tensions, a run on local banks as well as
expected dollarization of some of the deposits will impact the
short-term currency outlook.”  The central bank doesn’t have a target range for the pound,
Ramez told CNBC Arabiya today. The central bank intervenes in
“rare” cases, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  