-- Facebook May Not Be Dominant in Japan, Zynga Says
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 2011-02-07T09:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/facebook-may-never-surpass-mixi-in-japan-farmville-developer-zynga-says.html
Facebook Inc. may not overtake  Mixi
Inc . in Japan as the lure of connecting with friends overseas
isn’t enough for users to switch services, according to the U.S.
social-networking site’s biggest games developer.  Japan “is one place where Facebook may not end up being
dominant,” Robert Goldberg, head of  Zynga Game Network Inc. ’s
operations in the country, said in an interview in Tokyo.
“Despite the unique cultural challenges that Japan presents, we
fully expect Facebook to be successful in this market as they
have across the world.”  Facebook, boasting more than 500 million users and a
valuation above $80 billion, is focusing on expanding in Japan
and  Russia , Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said in
July. Mixi, which began social network operations in 2004, has
about 22 million customers in the country, 10 times the number
of Japanese Facebook users.  Concerns over privacy issues and early problems with site
design and translation have also set back Facebook’s popularity
in the country, Goldberg said.  Closely held Facebook introduced simpler privacy controls
in May and said it was reducing the amount of user information
that’s publicly available after U.S. lawmakers and advocacy
groups complained that the service shares too much personal
data.  ‘Hard to Change’  “Networks are kind of funny, they get an imprint on them
when they get designed and it’s pretty hard to change,”
Goldberg said.  Facebook, available in more than 70 languages, almost
doubled its subscriber base in Japan in the past six months to
about 2.2 million, according to market researcher  Socialbakers .
The country ranked 49th in terms of total users registered for
the service, with the U.S. topping the list at 148.9 million.  “We are excited to see that more Japanese people have been
choosing Facebook as a platform to connect and share with their
friends and family over the past year,” said Kumiko Hidaka, a  Palo Alto , California-based spokeswoman at Facebook.  “More
brands, celebrities, and organizations are increasingly coming
to Facebook to engage with their audiences also.”  Job Search  The company opened an office in Japan in September and a
month later introduced an application that assists Japanese
university students with their job search process, Hidaka said.
The service, only available to people in Japan, helps students
to find and connect with alumni, friends and classmates
interested in similar companies and industries, or those who
have already accepted job offers, she said.  Zynga chose Mixi for the Japan release of its “FarmVille”
hit title in December. The game is Facebook’s second most
popular title with 53 million users, after Zynga’s “CityVille”
with 98.6 million, according to researcher  AppData.com .  Goldberg declined to disclose the user numbers for
FarmVille in Japan.  Mixi is better suited for Japanese users because it gives
subscribers more control over who sees their content and
personal data is more secure, President Kenji Kasahara said in
an interview on Dec. 15. Users can also send Twitter-like
messages limited to 150 characters, a service that began in
September 2009 and isn’t available on Facebook, Kasahara said at
the time.  Masashi Tokuda, a Tokyo-based spokesman at Mixi, said the
company’s stance hasn’t changed since Kasahara made the
comments.  Shares Decline  Mixi fell 5.8 percent to 427,500 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo, compared with a 0.5 percent gain in the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. Zynga is closely held.  Mixi’s monthly active users, subscribers who log in at
least once a month, have reached 14.5 million as of Dec. 31, the
Tokyo-based company said earlier this month. That compares with
Facebook’s more than 500 million users worldwide and 24.5
million for DeNA Co., Japan’s biggest developer of social games
for mobile phones.  “Japan is a unique marketplace and it is necessary to take
care when bringing a global product and localizing it to the
Japanese culture,” Goldberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  