-- Germans Score First Show in ‘World’s Biggest Museum’ in Beijing
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2011-02-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/germans-move-into-tiananmen-square-for-opening-of-world-s-biggest-museum-.html
As  China  prepares to open what it
bills as the biggest museum in the world, the Germans are the
first to get a slice of the action in Beijing.  The  National Museum of China  reopens on Tiananmen Square,
near the Forbidden City, in April. A German architecture firm,
 Gerkan, Marg und Partner , is extending and adapting two existing
museums on the site. Berlin, Dresden and Munich, having seen off
competition from Paris and  London , are lending their treasures
for the first exhibition, “ The Art of the Enlightenment .”  Those involved are awed by the scale of it.  “We don’t associate these dimensions with museums in  Europe ,” Michael Eissenhauer, the director general of  Berlin’s
public museums , said in an interview. “The volume reminds you
of 19th-century rail stations. It’s like a market square with a
roof, for huge crowds of people.”  The two museums formerly on the plot -- the Chinese History
Museum and the Chinese Revolutionary Museum -- were built in
1959 to feature among the Ten Great Buildings erected to mark
the 10th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic.  The new foyer is 300 meters long and 30 meters high, and
the museum can accommodate 19,000 visitors. Construction began
in 2007 and took three years and a budget of 250 million euros
($343 million). At times, there were 8,000 builders on the site,
according to Stephan Schuetz, the partner overseeing the project
for Gerkan, Marg und Partner.  Schuetz said both the  Louvre  and the  State Hermitage Museum 
have more exhibition space, though the building will be the
biggest museum under one roof, including its archives.  Chinese Speed  “It’s amazing that it all went so quickly and so
smoothly,” said Schuetz, whose company beat bids from  Foster
and Partners  and Herzog & de Meuron. “It wouldn’t be possible
to build a museum in  Germany  at that speed. China can mobilize
unbelievable forces when it’s for something important.”  Berlin, Dresden and Munich are loaning about 600 works of
art, including masterpieces by Caspar David Friedrich, Francisco de Goya, Jean Antoine Watteau and Thomas Gainsborough, as well
as furniture and scientific instruments. Germany is providing
funds of 7 million euros. The opening is scheduled for April 1.  Martin Roth, the director of  Dresden’s art collections , has
traveled to China over the past 20 years and staged exhibitions
in Shanghai and Beijing.  “If anyone had told me 15 years ago that I would be doing
an exhibition on Tiananmen Square about the Enlightenment in
2011, I would never have believed it,” Roth said. “China has
opened up enormously.”  Celebrating Confucius  A statue of Confucius, the Chinese philosopher born in 551
B.C., now stands in front of the museum, Roth said. After the
Communist Party took power, celebrating Confucius was banned. It
is only since the 1990s that a ceremony honoring his memory has
been reinstated.  The Age of the Enlightenment is a European concept that has
no parallel in China, Eissenhauer said. Its themes of individual
and artistic freedom could even be seen as provocative in China,
where the writer, democracy campaigner and Nobel Peace Prize
Winner  Liu Xiaobo  is imprisoned. Yet, Eissenhauer said, the
Chinese authorities set no terms for the exhibition content.  “No one ever even suspected or dreamed that anyone would
say we don’t want this artwork, or we have to change this
text,” Eissenhauer said. “Nor did they need to -- nothing like
that happened. In this respect, it was just like doing an
exhibition in the U.S. -- absolutely problem-free.”  As well as 18th- and 19th-century works, the show will
include art by  Andy Warhol , Joseph Beuys and Georg Baselitz.  Combining Chinese and European traditions has been part of
Schuetz’s challenge as architect. The building alludes to the
Forbidden City, with its wooden roof, square eaves and rows of
columns. Gerkan, Marg und Partner’s first proposal was rejected
as too heavy a contrast with the architecture of the square.  “There has been criticism that western architects have
used China as a laboratory for their visions,” Schuetz said.
“By definition, this museum has to make the national identity
visible.”  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Bloomberg Muse, the arts
and leisure section of News. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 