-- Australia Must Cut Some Programs to Pay for Cyclone Rebuilding, Swan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-07T03:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/gillard-sees-budget-cuts-levy-to-meet-cost-of-floods-cyclone.html
  Australia  will have to cut spending
on some government programs to pay for rebuilding after  Tropical
Cyclone Yasi  hit Queensland state last week, said Treasurer  Wayne Swan , echoing comments from other top leaders.  “Certainly it’s going to be a lot of money, it’s not just
the damage to the towns,” Swan told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. radio today, without saying where spending would be
reduced. “It is the damage to the critical infrastructure, and
of course it is the damage to some of those critical primary
industries as well.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and Finance Minister  Penny Wong  have also said the government is reassessing the budget
after Yasi tore through sugar and banana-producing areas. Damage
from the cyclone adds to that from flooding that left 35 people
dead and disrupted coal mining over the past two months.  Gillard’s government on Jan. 27 announced a A$1.8 billion
($1.8 billion) levy on middle- and high-income earners as well
as A$2.8 billion in budget cuts and A$1 billion in delayed
infrastructure projects to pay for rebuilding after the floods.
The floods would cut 0.5 of a percentage point from national
economic growth in the year ending June 30, she said. Economists
have estimated the damage may reach $20 billion, or about 1.5
percent of the $1.3 trillion economy.  A new inspectorate will scrutinize the national
government’s spending on rebuilding and the states will have to
provide audited financial statements, Gillard said in Canberra
today. She also appointed Zurich-based  UBS AG ’s Australia
chairman Brad Orgill and Department of Regional Australia
secretary Glenys Beauchamp to the Queensland Reconstruction
Authority.  Gillard, whose  Labor Party  forms a minority government,
needs to convince independent lawmakers to support the flood
levy law after it is introduced in Parliament on Feb. 10. The
opposition Liberal-National coalition won’t back the levy.  Levy Support  Fifty-five percent of 1,200 people supported the levy, a
Newspoll published today in the Australian newspaper said. The
poll, taken between Feb. 4 and 6, had a margin of error of 3
percentage points.  “It is an ugly precedent that has been set by the Gillard
Labor government,” opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey 
told ABC Radio today, adding that his coalition would soon
outline budget cuts that could replace the levy.  Flood warnings were in place in areas of Queensland, New
South  Wales  and Victoria yesterday, while regions of South
Australia state were issued with alerts for severe
thunderstorms, the Bureau of Meteorology said on its  website .
Several towns in Victoria were evacuated over the weekend
because of flash flooding, Lachlan Quick of Victoria’s  State
Emergency Service  said in a phone interview.  ‘Considerably Higher’  The cost of rebuilding after Yasi will be “considerably
higher” than A$2 billion,  Stephen Roberts , senior economist at
Nomura Australia Ltd., wrote in a Feb. 3 report. Yasi will trim
economic growth 0.6 of a percentage point in the first quarter
and mean higher banana, beef and sugar prices, he wrote.  Loans of as much as A$100,000 should be made available to
businesses in declared disaster areas that aren’t eligible for
existing relief loans and have experienced a significant
financial burden due to the floods, opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said in a statement yesterday.  Suncorp Group Ltd., the largest insurer based in
Queensland’s state capital,  Brisbane , expects its net claims
costs arising from Tropical Cyclone Yasi will be capped at A$10
million.  “We have substantial premiums across Queensland, but our
exposure in Queensland is not disproportionate to the exposure
we have across the whole of Australia,” Chief Executive Patrick Snowball told ABC TV’s Inside Business program yesterday.  Queensland Output  Queensland contributes about 19 percent of Australia’s
economic output, producing about 80 percent of the country’s
coking coal, and is responsible for 10 percent of its exports,
Swan said last month.  “Cyclone Yasi is also going to compound the cost of living
pressures that families have already been facing from the
floods,” he said yesterday. “While it’s too early to tell what
the full impact of Cyclone Yasi will be, we do know it will make
what was already a very difficult situation even worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net 
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  