-- Gruebel's Rebuilt UBS Trails Credit Suisse in Money From Rich
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2011-02-07T11:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/gruebel-s-rebuilt-ubs-trailing-credit-suisse-competing-for-money-from-rich.html
  UBS AG , rebuilding after a government
bailout and a U.S. tax investigation that forced it to hand over
names of rich clients, probably attracted fresh funds to its
private bank for a second straight quarter.  The reversal, after 27 months of outflows, is a sign that
Chief Executive Officer Oswald Gruebel has patched up
Switzerland’s largest bank following its near collapse in 2008
and the U.S. probe. The Zurich-based company may report 2010
earnings of 7.2 billion francs ($7.5 billion) tomorrow, its
first annual profit since 2006, according to 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The challenge now: Generate fatter profits from the $1.7
trillion UBS oversees for wealthy clients while elbowing aside  Credit Suisse Group AG , which raked in more assets than any
Swiss bank since the financial crisis began. As both face an
erosion of profitability from an assault on banking secrecy, UBS
has to fight that much harder to attract rich clients, who
removed 251.6 billion francs in the nine quarters through June.  “UBS has been reinvesting in wealth management in terms of
hiring people and restructuring business quite dramatically,”
said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst with Mediobanca
SpA who rates the bank “neutral.” “They’re trying to bring
confidence back and to get four quarters of net new money
inflows this year. That’s the big thing Gruebel wants to see.”  Slower Pace  The bank is still attracting funds at about a fifth of the
pace of its biggest Swiss competitor, analysts estimate. UBS may
have added a net 2.4 billion francs from investors at its
wealth-management units in the fourth quarter, a survey of
analysts by Bloomberg News showed, after inflows of 1.2 billion
francs in the previous three months.  Credit Suisse, which oversees 935 billion francs in assets
for the rich, attracted 137.5 billion francs of net new funds
since the beginning of 2008 and probably brought in 11 billion
francs in the final quarter of last year, according to analysts’
estimates.  Officials at the two banks declined to comment before
fourth-quarter earnings reports this week.  Wealth management and retail banking contributed 50 percent
of pretax profit in the first nine months of the year at UBS and
44 percent at Credit Suisse, company reports show. The
businesses will become even more important as stricter capital
requirements in the wake of the financial crisis make  investment
banking  more costly.  15 Percent ROE  A Swiss government-appointed committee in October proposed
almost doubling the capital requirements for UBS and Credit
Suisse compared with international Basel III rules that are
scheduled to come fully into force in 2019. Profitability at
banks’ securities units, and fixed-income trading in particular,
will be hit the most by the changes,  Morgan Stanley  analysts led
by Huw van Steenis said in a Jan. 17 note.  Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan said in an interview in
October that “it remains to be seen” whether higher capital
requirements will prove a disadvantage for the Swiss banks.
“We’ve got a business model that can actually cope with some
higher level of capital requirement,” Dougan, 51, said.  Managing money for the rich may allow UBS and Credit Suisse
to produce a 15 percent return on their  shareholders’ equity 
once tougher capital rules are in place, compared with between
11 percent and 13 percent for almost any other commercial or
investment bank, estimated Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a London-based
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Jewel in Crown  UBS earned an ROE of 18 percent in the first nine months of
2010, as the pretax return on equity at the wealth management
and Swiss bank unit was 48 percent, compared with 11 percent at
the investment bank, company reports show. Credit Suisse’s
return on equity was 16 percent in the same period, with a
pretax return of 48 percent at the private-banking division, and
21 percent at the investment bank.  “Wealth management is the jewel in the crown, that’s what
you own these banks for,” said Hoffmann-Becking. A sizable
private-banking operation lifts return on equity, “which is one
of the reasons why everyone is trying to get into it.”  UBS is the world’s second-largest wealth manager after  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp . took the
top spot by purchasing Merrill Lynch & Co. during the financial
crisis. Credit Suisse ranks fifth after New York-based Morgan
Stanley and  Wells Fargo & Co . of  San Francisco , according to a
survey by London-based  Scorpio Partnership , which provides
research and analysis on the industry. Wealth managers typically
cater to clients with at least $1 million to invest.  New Leadership  UBS rose 1.4 percent and Credit Suisse gained 1.3 percent
as of 12:22 p.m. in Zurich trading. The gains so far this year
of 15 percent for UBS and 18 percent for Credit Suisse compare
with a 12 percent increase in the 48-company Bloomberg European
banks index. UBS has said it won’t pay a dividend and will use
earnings to boost capital, while Credit Suisse said in October
it’s been accruing a dividend in line with its “historic”
payout ratio.  Gruebel, 67, who ran Zurich-based Credit Suisse until his
retirement in 2007 and took over UBS two years ago, brought in
executives from his former employer and other competitors to
help turn around UBS. In April, he hired Lukas Gaehwiler, 45,
from Credit Suisse as CEO for  Switzerland  and co-head of the
wealth management and Swiss bank unit with Juerg Zeltner, 43.  In October, Jakob Stott, 55, previously with JPMorgan Chase
& Co., joined to run wealth management for European clients who
hold their assets where they reside. Christian Wiesendanger from
Credit Suisse and Paul Raphael, who has worked for  Salomon
Brothers , Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse, joined to head wealth
management in Switzerland and the business in emerging markets,
respectively, at the same time.  Swiss Profits  Robert J. McCann, 52, a Merrill Lynch veteran, joined UBS
in October 2009 to help restore profitability at the wealth
management Americas division, which includes the former Paine
Webber brokerage that the Swiss bank acquired in 2000.  Zeltner’s unit has “great potential” to become “even
more profitable than it has been before,” Gruebel told
investors and analysts at a November presentation in  London . In
the Americas, the bank needs to “sustain our recent track
record of improving profitability,” he said.  Managing funds in Switzerland is most profitable for UBS
and Credit Suisse, as they benefit from economies of scale and
offer a broader array of products. In the first nine months of
2010, Credit Suisse made $1.35 in revenue for every $100 of
assets managed in Switzerland, including money from clients who
don’t live there. That compares with 96 cents on funds outside
Switzerland, excluding the U.S. UBS made $1.12 for every $100 of
assets booked in Switzerland, compared with 89 cents on
international assets and 80 cents in the Americas, according to
company reports.  Out of Switzerland  The banks used to earn even more. Profitability is
shrinking as some clients pull assets from Switzerland on tax
concerns and as the banks invest to expand worldwide. UBS
pocketed 33 percent of nine-month revenue in wealth management
as profits, compared with 49 percent in 2007. At Credit Suisse,
the ratio fell to 26 percent in 2010 from 38 percent in 2007.  “Profitability now is fairly poor by historical
standards,” said Hoffmann-Becking. “If you can grow in
Switzerland, everyone is happy. If you grow in  Asia , the
question really is will the operating margin hold?”  Since UBS said in May 2008 that it was under investigation
in the U.S. on allegations of helping Americans evade taxes, the
list of countries seeking repatriation of undeclared money from
Switzerland has expanded from the European Union to  India .
Switzerland is negotiating dozens of tax treaties and is in
talks with  Germany  and the U.K. on withholding taxes on money
held in Swiss banks.  Funds at Risk  The U.S.  Justice Department  in October dismissed the case
against UBS after the expiration of an 18-month deferred
prosecution the bank signed to avoid criminal charges. The U.S.
Internal Revenue Service dropped a demand for the identities of
Americans who hold secret offshore accounts at UBS in November,
after the bank turned over data on more than 4,000 clients.  UBS, which managed 108 billion francs in Switzerland for
customers from the U.K., Germany,  France ,  Italy  and Austria as
of September 2009, said last year these clients withdrew more
than 20 billion francs in the 12 months through September. As
much as 40 billion francs are still at risk from further tax
regulations, the bank told investors in November.  Credit Suisse said it may lose between 25 billion francs
and 35 billion francs to tax initiatives in other western
European countries. Germany, Italy, the U.K. and France
accounted for 106 billion francs in assets under management in
Switzerland at the end of September, after 15 billion francs in
net outflows from those clients since the start of 2009, the
bank said in its third-quarter report.  More Trading  To counter narrowing profit margins and a slump in client
trading, the banks are revamping their charges for wealthy
clients. Credit Suisse increased fixed fees it charges private-
banking clients in Switzerland for custody accounts and lowered
transaction fees. UBS is putting a stop to discounts it was
offering to halt outflows that plagued the bank since 2008.  A pickup in client trading would do the most to raise
profitability at the private-banking units, said  Kian Abouhossein , a London-based analyst with JPMorgan. He estimates
the banks’ wealthy customers are keeping about a third of their
assets in cash, unwilling to trade while financial markets
remain turbulent in the aftermath of the credit crunch and amid
concerns over European sovereign debt.  “A reinvestment of the cash or at least half of the cash
would have a materially positive impact on the banks’ profits,”
more than offsetting the effect of clients moving funds out of
Switzerland, said Abouhossein.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 