-- Gulf Shares Gain as Egypt Government Meets With Opposition; Emaar Advances
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2011-02-06T14:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/gulf-shares-gain-as-egypt-government-meets-with-opposition-emaar-advances.html
Persian Gulf shares gained, sending
Dubai’s index to a week high, as Egypt’s government met with
opposition leaders to quell protests, stoking speculation the
turmoil in the country may ease. Qatar’s stocks advanced.    Emaar Properties PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’ developer
with investments in Egypt’s real-estate industry, advanced 1.5
percent. Air Arabia PJSC rose for the third time in four days.
The  DFM General Index  rallied 1.6 percent to 1,605.89, the
highest since Jan. 27, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. Qatar’s QE
Index gained 1.5 percent, led by banks, after the central bank
ordered conventional lenders to stop offering Islamic banking
services.  “The Gulf Cooperation Council markets took a breather as
the tension in Egypt seems to ease,” said Mahdi Mattar, head of
research at Abu Dhabi-based CAPM Investment PJSC, an investment
banking company.  Egypt’s Vice President  Omar Suleiman  met with opposition
leaders today to discuss possible constitutional changes and
avert an escalation of protests. Suleiman may name a committee
of 25 people today to prepare the amendments, said Nabil Zaki, a
Tagammu party spokesman.  Emaar, the builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper in
Dubai, increased to 3.30 dirhams, the highest since Jan. 27. The
company’s Egyptian unit,  Emaar Misr for Development SAE , has
investments of about 29 billion dirhams ($8 billion) in the
North African nation, according to its website.  Air Arabia , the
low-cost carrier with a hub in Alexandria, Egypt, advanced 1.6
percent to 82 fils, the highest since Jan. 27.  Egypt’s Bourse  Egypt’s stock exchange has been closed since Jan. 30 amid
demonstrations demanding an end to President HosniMubarak’s 30-
year rule. It will remain shut until at least Feb. 8,
communications manager Hisham Turk said in a telephone interview
today. Gamal Mubarak, the president’s son, yesterday resigned as
head of the ruling National Democratic Party’s policy committee.    Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index  increased a fourth
day, gaining 0.8 percent, and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of
Gulf stocks increased 0.1 percent.  “Some fingers have been pointed at Saudi as being
susceptible to any contagion spread by Egyptian unrest, so if
the Tadawul is firm, other GCC markets are likely to be so,”
said Julian Bruce, director of equity sales at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Dubai. The six-member GCC includes Saudi Arabia,
the U.A.E. and Bahrain.  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah has backed the Egyptian
government and condemned the protesters, while trying to address
imbalances in the largest Arab economy. The kingdom’s
“perfectly unstable” like Egypt,  Nassim Taleb , the author of
“The Black Swan” said Feb. 3.  Banking Rules  Saudi Arabia announced a 1.44 trillion-riyal ($384 billion)
five-year development plan in August as the nation seeks to
bolster growth through spending on human resources, housing,
education and transportation.  Qatar’s  QE Index  rallied the most since Jan. 11, led by  Qatar Islamic Bank  SAQ, the country’s biggest Shariah-compliant
lender. Qatar Islamic rose the most since October 2008, gaining
9.4 percent to 88.3 riyals.  Masraf Al Rayan , the second-largest
Islamic bank, surged 10 percent, the most since July 2006, to
23.1 riyals.  The central bank’s circular on Feb. 1 said conventional
lenders must close Islamic branches by year-end and stop taking
deposits in those units immediately, said a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the directive
hasn’t been made public. Officials at the central bank declined
to comment.  Israel Rallies  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  climbed 1.1 percent and
Oman’s MSM30 increased 0.4 percent. Kuwait’s SE Price Index
declined 0.4 percent, while Bahrain’s BB All Share Index rose
0.6 percent.    Israel ’s TA-25 Index gained 1.6 percent, the most since
Dec. 29, to 1,319.44 at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The
yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020
rose five basis points to 5.11 percent, the highest since
January 2010.  -- With assistance from David Wainer in Tel Aviv. Editors:
Shanthy Nambiar, Claudia Maedler  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  