-- RBI Says Egypt Crisis Adds Uncertainty to Oil Price, May Affect Policy
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-02-07T04:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/india-rbi-says-egypt-crisis-adds-uncertainty-about-oil-may-impact-policy.html
  Egypt ’s political crisis poses a risk
to oil prices and will “impact” the Indian central bank’s
actions, Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said.  “A whole set of events unfolded in the Middle East which
are starting to have an impact on oil prices and that is
something which we didn’t anticipate at the time of making the
policy announcement on Jan. 25,” Gokarn said yesterday in
Dabolim, in the western Indian state of Goa. “It is going to
have an impact on our thinking, on our actions going forward.”    Asia ’s third-largest economy, which meets about three
quarters of its annual energy needs from imports, is bracing for
the economic impact of higher fuel costs. Oil prices could more
than double if the unrest in Egypt forces the closure of the  Suez Canal , Venezuelan Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said Feb. 4.  “Uncertainty in the Middle East will impose risks on oil
and higher prices of oil could lead to inflation,” Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, said in  New Delhi  on
Feb. 5. “In the short-run, it may make the recovery more
difficult.”  Asian economies including  India  and  China  led a global
recovery last year that’s been restrained by Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis and a U.S. job market where unemployment has stayed
above or at 9 percent since May 2009.  Bond Yields  India’s 11-year bond dropped for a third day. The yield on
the 8.13 percent 2022 bond rose two basis points to 8.26 percent
as of 9:11 a.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive
Index rose 0.3 percent while the rupee advanced 0.1 percent to
45.56 against the dollar.  The  Reserve Bank  of India last month increased its key
repurchase rate for the seventh time in a year, boosting the
measure by a quarter of a percentage point to 6.5 percent, to
rein in inflation.  Protests demanding an end to President Hosni Mubarak’s 30-
year rule erupted Jan. 25 in Cairo and have left as many as 300
people dead, according to the  United Nations . Concern that
turmoil in Egypt could force the closure of the Suez Canal,
halting crude shipments through the crucial waterway, sent North
Sea  Brent crude  oil prices above $100 a barrel for the first
time since October 2008 last week.  Brent crude for March settlement was at $100.20 a barrel,
up 37 cents on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.
Prices have climbed 44 percent in the past 12 months.  About 2.5 percent of world oil output moves through Egypt
via the waterway and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Opposition Talks  Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman  and some members of
the opposition yesterday agreed on limited steps to resolve the
crisis, even as the government stood firm against the demand
from protesters that Mubarak resign.  India’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Feb. 4 the
nation needs to urgently contain prices, that are rising at the
fastest pace among major economies in Asia, as inflation poses a
“serious threat to the growth momentum.”  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
8.43 percent in December, from 7.48 percent in the previous
month, due to higher costs of food and oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  