-- Iran Starts Trial of U.S. Nationals on Charges of Espionage, Illegal Entry
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2011-02-06T12:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/iran-starts-trial-of-u-s-nationals-on-charges-of-espionage-illegal-entry.html
Iran began the trial of three
Americans charged with espionage and illegal entry into  Iran  at
the Revolutionary Court in Tehran.    Josh Fattal  and  Shane Bauer  were detained alongside Sarah
Shourd in July 2009 for illegally crossing into Iran from  Iraqi
Kurdistan . The U.S. government has said the trio mistakenly
wandered across the border during a hiking trip.  The detentions have increased tension between Iran and
the U.S., which accuses the Persian Gulf country of seeking to
build atomic weapons under cover of its nuclear program. Iran
rejects the claim.  Iran freed Shourd in September 2010 on bail of $500,000 and
she left the country within hours. Shourd was summoned last week
by the Iranian judiciary to return for the trial.  All three denied the charges through their Iranian lawyer
Masoud Shafiei, who said he’ll represent Shourd at the trial
regardless of whether she attends.  Shourd used to live with Bauer in the Syrian capital,
Damascus, where she learned Arabic and taught English, according
to  freethehikers.org . Bauer, 28, is a freelance journalist and
photographer, while Fattal, 28, is an environmentalist who was
visiting Damascus before they headed to Iraq, according to the
website.  ‘Urgent Plea’  Iran allowed the mothers of the three to visit them in
Tehran in May last year, citing “humanitarian” reasons. The
reunion was broadcast with state television commentators
equating the case to that of Iranians in U.S. custody.  In February 2010, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Iran
may be ready to exchange the detainees with Iranians held in the
U.S., an overture that was dismissed by the State Department.  In a  documentary  called “Free Shane and Josh: An Urgent
Plea for Compassion” released earlier this year, Shourd
narrates their arrest. She said the three were hiking near the
Ahmed Awa waterfall in northern  Iraq  when they met a soldier who
motioned for them to step off the trail and go toward him.  “He said Iran and pointed to the ground where we were
standing and then he pointed to the trail we had been and said
Iraq,” Shourd says. “According to that soldier we did not
enter Iran until he gestured for us to come off the trail into
Iran.”  The trio was arrested and taken to the capital after the
soldiers found American passports in their bags, she said.  Iran routinely accuses the U.S. of sending agents and
seeking to topple the Islamic regime.  The U.S. cut diplomatic ties with Iran in the aftermath of
the 1979 Islamic revolution in response to the seizure of the
embassy in Tehran, where 52 American diplomats were held hostage
for 444 days. Iran says the hostage taking was a reaction to the
U.S. refusal to hand over the Shah who had been admitted there
for medical attention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  