-- Liverpool Overcomes Exit of Fernando Torres With 1-0 League Win at Chelsea
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-02-07T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/liverpool-wins-1-0-at-chelsea-as-fernando-torres-makes-debut-for-the-blues.html
Liverpool overcame  Fernando Torres ’s
transfer deadline day exit with a 1-0 win at Chelsea, the
Spanish striker’s new team, to continue its resurgence under  Kenny Dalglish .  Jamie Carragher returned in defense for Liverpool at
Stamford Bridge yesterday as Torres’s former teammates kept him
quiet in his first game since a 50 million-pound ($80.5 million)
move on Jan. 31 -- a record between U.K. soccer clubs.  “Fernando is one of the best strikers in the world and I’m
sure he’ll prove that for Chelsea but he’s not with us now,”
Carragher told Sky Sports. “We’ve got to focus on our own team,
do our own jobs and that’s what we did.”  Raul Meireles scored after 69 minutes to give Liverpool its
fourth straight Premier League win without allowing a goal. It
was the Portugal midfielder’s fourth goal in five games.  The victory lifted Liverpool into sixth place with 38
points, six behind Chelsea and Tottenham. Manchester United tops
the standings with 54 points, four ahead of Arsenal, with  Manchester City  a point further back.  In yesterday’s other game, Birmingham beat West Ham 1-0 to
move out of the three-team relegation positions and leave the
Hammers in last place.  Torres lined up in attack with Didier Drogba and Nicolas Anelka at Stamford Bridge for his Chelsea debut. He fired over
from long range in the second minute of the game.  There were few clear chances in the first half, although
Liverpool’s  Maxi Rodriguez  hit the bar from close range after 33
minutes with an empty goal to aim at.  Torres Replaced  Torres was replaced in the 66th minute by  Salomon Kalou .
Three minutes later Liverpool went ahead, Meireles putting the
ball into the net after  Steven Gerrard ’s cross evaded teammate  Dirk Kuyt .  Chelsea also gave a debut to Brazilian defender David Luiz
in the second half as the defending league champion tried to
avert its seventh loss of the season. Two of those defeats have
come against Liverpool.  Dalglish, who was appointed as Liverpool manager until the
end of the season on Jan. 8, said Torres’s presence in the
Chelsea lineup hadn’t provided extra motivation.  “Our incentive was to get three points and that’s what we
did,” Dalglish told Liverpool’s website. “Whatever someone
wants to do with their life, that’s entirely their choice.”  After the game, Gerrard withdrew from the England squad to
play Denmark on Feb. 9 because of a groin strain, Dalglish said.  At Upton Park, Nikola Zigic’s goal lifted Birmingham to
16th, one point above the relegation positions. West Ham dropped
to 20th, behind  Wolverhampton Wanderers  on goal difference.  United Upset  Wolves upset Manchester United 2-1 two days ago in a first
league loss for Alex Ferguson’s team this season. In other
games, Newcastle fought back from 4-0 down to tie 4-4 against
10-man Arsenal, Everton defeated Blackpool 5-3, and Wigan beat
Blackburn 4-3.  Tottenham beat Bolton 2-1, Aston Villa tied 2-2 against
Fulham, Manchester City defeated West Bromwich Albion 3-0, and
Stoke beat Sunderland 3-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 