-- New England Patriots Quarterback Tom Brady Wins His Second MVP Award
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-02-06T17:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/new-england-patriots-quarterback-tom-brady-wins-his-second-mvp-award.html
New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , who led the  National Football League  in passer rating and
touchdowns, was named the Most Valuable Player for the second
time.  Brady, 33, helped the Patriots to the NFL’s best regular
season record (14-2) and passed for a league-high 36 touchdowns.
He received all 50 votes from a nationwide media panel and was
the first unanimous choice for the award, which is presented by
the  Associated Press .  Brady led the league with a 111.0 passer rating, bolstered
by the lowest turnover total of his 11-year career. He threw
four interceptions in 492 attempts, and none in the final 11
weeks of the regular season. In that stretch Brady went 335
consecutive passes without an interception, breaking a 19-year-
old record held by Bernie Kosar of the  Cleveland Browns .  Brady completed 65.9 percent of his passes this year for
3,900 yards. The Patriots won the American Football Conference
East division and after a first-round bye, lost at home to the  New York Jets  in the second round of the playoffs.  A sixth-round pick in 2000 out of University of Michigan,
Brady was elected to his sixth Pro Bowl this year and earned his
second first-team All-Pro selection.  New England traded seven-time Pro Bowl wide receiver Randy Moss after four games this season, and wide receiver Wes Welker,
Brady’s favorite target each of the last three seasons, battled
a lingering knee injury for much of the year. Both of Brady’s
tight ends, Aaron Hernandez and Rob Gronkowski, were rookies and
neither of the team’s two top running backs had rushed for more
than 300 yards in a single season.  Brady won his first MVP in 2007, when he threw for a
league-high 4,806 yards and an NFL-record 50 touchdowns. That
year the Patriots were one win shy of a perfect season, falling
17-14 to the  New York Giants  in the  Super Bowl . Indianapolis
Colts quarterback  Peyton Manning  is the only other active player
to win the award more than once.  A three-time Super Bowl champion and two-time Super Bowl
MVP, Brady has won his last 28 regular season home games, an NFL
record. He has not lost at the Patriots’ Gillette Stadium during
the regular season since a Nov. 11, 2006, a 17-14 loss to the
Jets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 