-- Obama's Budget to `Cut What We Can't Afford,' Lew Writes in New York Times
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2011-02-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/obama-s-budget-to-cut-what-we-can-t-afford-lew-writes-in-new-york-times.html
President  Barack Obama  will send
Congress a “tough choices” budget next week that would cut
some of his own programs in the environment, community
development and services for the poor to rein in the deficit,
White House budget director  Jacob Lew  said.  “Make no mistake: this will not be easy,” Lew wrote in an
op-ed piece published in yesterday’s  New York Times . “We have
to cut what we cannot afford.”  The budget for fiscal 2012 that goes to Congress on Feb. 14
would cut $350 million from the community services program under
the  Department of Health  and Human Services; $125 million from
the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative under the Environmental
Protection Agency and $300 million from the Community
Development Block Grant program under the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, Lew said.  The total savings of $775 million in these three programs
represent a small fraction of a budget whose deficit is likely
to exceed $1 trillion, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office . The fiscal year begins Oct. 1.  “We had to choose programs that, absent the fiscal
situation, we would not cut,” Lew wrote. “It will require
tough choices since every decision to invest in one program will
necessitate a cut somewhere else.”  ‘Sparrow Belch’  Former Wyoming Senator  Alan Simpson , co-chairman of the
White House Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform and a
Republican, said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program
yesterday that promises to cut earmarks, waste, fraud and abuse
and foreign aid are “sparrow belch in the midst of the
typhoon.”  Congressional Republicans are wrestling with their own
spending cuts promised in the November elections. Simpson said
on CNN that Republican proposals to revert to 2008 spending
levels would result in “peanuts” in savings. This year’s
budget is projected to end with a record $1.5 trillion deficit,
the CBO said Jan. 26.  Still, Obama’s cuts in the budget for 2012 are likely to
spark opposition from environmentalists, mayors and advocacy
groups for the poor.  The three examples cited by Lew are part of Obama’s call
for a five-year freeze on discretionary spending outside of
national security, for a savings of more than $400 billion over
the next decade. Discretionary spending is money approved by
Congress each year and accounts for a little more than 10
percent of the federal budget, Lew said.  Mandatory spending including Social Security, Medicare,
Medicaid and interest on the national debt accounts for about
two-thirds of the budget.  ‘The Big Four’  “I’m waiting for the politician to get up and say,
’There’s only one way to do this: You dig into the big four,
Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and defense,” Republican
Simpson said on CNN. “And anybody giving you anything different
than that, you want to walk out the door, stick your finger down
your throat, and give them the green weenie.’”  Community services block grants include money for housing,
food and medical programs for low-income people, “the kinds of
programs that President Obama worked with when he was a
community organizer, so this cut is not easy for him,” Lew
said. The program would be cut in half to save $350 million, and
the remainder would be converted into a competitive grant
program, Lew said.  The budget will trim $125 million, or about a quarter of
current financing, from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative,
which supports environmental cleanup and protection.  Housing, Streets  The Community Development Block Grant program subsidizes
housing, sewers and streets and economic development in low- and
moderate-income neighborhoods in cities across the country. The
White House will seek a 7.5 percent cut, or $300 million. The
program is currently funded at about $4.4 billion, the
Department of Housing and Urban Development said on its Web
site.  “These three examples alone, of course, represent only a
small fraction of the scores of cuts the president had to
choose, but they reflect the tough calls he had to make,” Lew
said.  Some of the savings from program cuts will be diverted to
increased spending in education, innovation and infrastructure,
Lew said, “so that we can return to robust economic and job
growth” and reduce the unemployment rate of 9 percent last
month.  Obama also “wants to work with Congress to reform and
simplify our  tax code ” and take steps to “strengthen and
protect Social Security,” Lew said, though he offered no
details.  “We cannot win the future, expand the economy and spur job
creation if we are saddled with increasingly growing deficits,”
Lew said. “The plan will incorporate many tough choices and
deep cuts -- as well as smart investments -- to broaden our
recovery, spur  job creation  and prepare the  United States  to win
in the world economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  