-- Obama Says Egypt Will Not Return to the Way It Was Following Mass Protests
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2011-02-07T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/obama-says-there-is-no-turning-back-for-egypt-update1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said  Egypt 
will not go back to the way it was before thousands of people
began protesting the government of President  Hosni Mubarak , and
that a transition of power must begin soon.  “Egypt is not going to go back to what it was,” Obama
said in an interview on  News Corp .’s Fox broadcast network.
“The Egyptian people want freedom, they want free and fair
elections, they want a representative government, they want a
responsive government.”  While Mubarak has been a “good partner” for the U.S. in
keeping peace with  Israel  and on anti-terrorism, the time is
“now” for a new government, Obama said. He wouldn’t predict
whether Mubarak will step down, saying, “only he knows what
he’s going to do.”  Obama also said he won’t retreat from supporting the
health-care law he pushed through Congress last year and
defended his economic policies, saying he acted in response to a
“complete crisis” that put the U.S. on the brink of another
depression.  Obama was interviewed at the White House by Fox News
Channel anchor  Bill O’Reilly  as part of the network’s pre-game
coverage of the Super Bowl. Each year of his presidency, Obama
has sat down to answer questions on the network broadcasting the  National Football League  championship game.  Pushing for Talks  The president and members of his administration have been
pushing the Egyptian government to negotiate with the opposition
and begin immediately preparing for a transition of power.  “I have confidence that if Egypt moves in an orderly
transition process, that we will have a government in Egypt that
we can work with together as a partner,” Obama said.  Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman  held the first formal
meeting with members of the opposition yesterday, including the
Muslim Brotherhood -- which is officially banned from running in
elections -- even as some opponents continued to demand
Mubarak’s immediate resignation.  Obama said the anti-government protests in Egypt, which
began Jan. 25, must lead to a “representative government” in
the country. He downplayed concerns about the Muslim
Brotherhood’s participation in the negotiations, calling it
“one faction” of the opposition to Mubarak and saying that it
doesn’t have majority support in Egypt.  The U.S. can’t “dictate” the outcome, Obama said.  Oil Jitters  Oil traded near the lowest in a week as the protests showed
signs of easing. The March contract was at $89.13 a barrel, up
10 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 11:17 a.m. Singapore time. It declined $1.51 to
settle at $89.03 on Feb. 4, the lowest since Jan. 27, two days
after the uprising started.  The prospect of a disruption to shipments through the  Suez
Canal  last week sent North Sea Brent crude above $100 a barrel
for the first time since October 2008 last week.  The interview also touched on Obama’s view of the
presidency. He called being “inside the bubble” the worst part
of being president. He said a particular burden of the office is
that only the most difficult issues in need of decisions reach
the president’s desk.  “By the time it gets to me you don’t have easy answers,”
he said. “There’s no doubt that the weight of the office has an
impact.”  Being interviewed before the  Super Bowl  may help the
president reach a wider audience. Yesterday’s National Football
League championship between the Green Bay Packers and Pittsburgh
Steelers may top the record 106.5 million viewers who watched
last year’s game on CBS. That game was the most-watched TV
program in U.S. history, according to Nielsen Co.  Health-Care Debate  Obama said a judge who ruled the health-care law
unconstitutional “was wrong” and cited other courts that have
thrown out legal challenges. The case likely will reach the U.S.
Supreme Court.  “I don’t want to spend the next two years refighting the
battles of the last two years,” he said.  Obama said he “absolutely” is not interested in
redistributing wealth and defended what his administration had
to do early in his presidency in response to the financial
crisis.  “We had to take a bunch of extraordinary steps in order to
make sure that the economy was growing again, which it is now,”
he said.  The economy lost 8.75 million jobs as a result of the
recession. The 18-month contraction was the longest since the
43-month slump during the Great Depression, according to the  National Bureau of Economic Research . Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg in January projected unemployment will average more
than 9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  