-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Widened as Imports Increased to Meet Demand
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-02-06T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-widened-as-imports-increased-to-meet-demand.html
The  U.S. trade deficit  probably
widened in December for the first time in four months as the
cost of imported oil climbed, economists said before a report
this week.  The gap grew to $40.2 billion from the $38.3 billion
shortfall in November, according to the median of 58 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of the Commerce Department’s
Feb. 11 report. Other figures may show  consumer confidence 
climbed this month and claims for jobless benefits fell.  In addition to oil, imports may have also been boosted by
the need to rebuild inventories at the end of the year after
American consumers spent at a faster clip in the fourth quarter.
At the same time, manufacturers like  Caterpillar Inc . are
enjoying sales gains overseas as demand picks up from customers
in emerging economies, including China and  Brazil .  “In order to rebuild inventories of  consumer goods , you
would expect to see stronger import growth,” said  Jay Bryson , a
global economist at Wells Fargo Securities Inc. in Charlotte,  North Carolina . “Export growth remains pretty strong as most
trading partners are experiencing solid rates of growth.”  With American factories churning out more goods to meet
growing global demand, manufacturer shares have strengthened.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Industrial Machinery Index,
which includes manufacturers such as Caterpillar and Deere &
Co., has jumped 64 percent in the past 12 months, almost three
times the 23 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  Spending Climbs    Consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the  U.S. economy , rose at a 4.4 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter, the biggest gain since in four years, according to
Commerce Department figures.  China, set to become the world’s second-largest economy
this year, expanded 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier.  India  grew 8.9 percent in the third quarter and
Brazil, South America’s largest economy, advanced 6.7 percent.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, posted fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates as sales advanced in China,  Australia  and Latin
America. The Peoria, Illinois-based company said 2011 sales will
top $50 billion after coming in at $42.6 billion last year.  “Sales are improving in every region, and are at or near
records in the developing world,”  Mike DeWalt , director of
investor relations at Caterpillar, said on a Jan. 27
teleconference. “Over the past quarter, we’ve become somewhat
more positive about economic growth in the developed economies
of  North America ,  Europe , and Japan.”  Imported Oil  A product of stronger global growth is higher commodities
costs. America’s energy bill may have increased at the end of
the year, boosting the value of imports in the Commerce
Department’s trade report. The price of imported petroleum
climbed 3.9 percent in December from the prior month, and was up
14 percent from a year earlier, according to figures from the
Labor Department.  Oil prices also partly reflect a weaker dollar, which is
down 3.8 percent in the year to Jan. 28 against a basket of
currencies of the U.S.’s leading trading partners. The dollar’s
decline makes American-made goods cheaper for buyers abroad,
boosting exports and helping generate more orders to U.S.
manufacturers.  President  Barack Obama , who has set a goal of doubling
American exports by 2014, said last month in his State of the
Union address that the U.S. has made progress.  Obama’s on Exports  “Already, our exports are up,” Obama said Jan. 25.
“Recently, we signed agreements with India and  China  that will
support more than 250,000 jobs here in the  United States . And
last month, we finalized a trade agreement with  South Korea  that
will support at least 70,000 American jobs.”  Also on Feb. 11, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
consumer sentiment index may have increased as the economy
showed more signs of picking up and stocks increased. The
preliminary February reading rose to 75 from 74.2 in January,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  A Labor Department report on Feb. 10 may show fewer
Americans filed initial jobless claims. New applications for  unemployment benefits  probably declined by 5,000 to 410,000 in
the week that ended yesterday, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  