-- Rains From Ex-Cyclone Yasi Trigger Evacuations of Towns in Victoria State
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2011-02-06T01:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/rains-from-ex-cyclone-yasi-trigger-evacuations-of-towns-in-victoria-state.html
Ex-Tropical  Cyclone Yasi , which
battered towns in  Australia ’s Queensland state with winds
stronger than  Hurricane Katrina , triggered the evacuation of
towns in Victoria, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.  “We are heading for some major problems in Victoria,”
Gillard told Channel Ten’s “Meet The Press” program today.
“This is going to get very tough indeed.”  Heavy rain has brought the threat of localized flash
flooding, Lachlan Quick of Victoria’s State Emergency Service
said in a phone interview from the state capital,  Melbourne .
Evacuation alerts were issued for towns including Halls Gap and
Koo Wee Rup.  Yasi cut a destructive path through sugar- and banana-
producing areas in Queensland earlier this week. Australia’s
southern and eastern states have been swamped by flash floods,
rain and swollen rivers for the past two months, leaving 35
people dead and a damage bill that economists say may reach A$20
billion ($20 billion).  About 90,000 homes and businesses remain without power in
Queensland, less than half of Ergon Energy Corp. customers in
the cyclone-affected area, Rod Rehbein, a Brisbane-based
spokesman for the energy retailer, said in a phone interview
today. About 120,000 customers were without power yesterday.  Flood warnings  are in place in areas of Queensland, New
South  Wales  and Victoria, while regions of South Australia state
have been issued with alerts for severe thunderstorms, the
 Bureau of Meteorology said  on its website. Melbourne is forecast
to have isolated showers today that will clear later.  Yasi is now a low-pressure system about 130 kilometers (80
miles) south of the Northern Territory town of Alice Springs,
which has also been issued with a flood alert, the bureau said.  Victoria’s emergency services received 6,100 calls for
assistance between 4 p.m. Melbourne time on Feb. 4 and 9:30 a.m.
today, with 4,546 of those in the Melbourne area, Quick said.
About 118 people needed to be rescued.  The service has received 16,000 calls for assistance in the
past five weeks, compared with 30,000 in the year to June 30,
2010, Quick said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  