-- ECB May Raise Rates If Inflation Not Declining by Year End, Gonzalez Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-02-06T09:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/rates-will-rise-if-inflation-holds-ecb-s-paramo-says-update1-.html
Interest rates will have to rise if
inflation doesn’t start to decline by the end of this year, Jose
Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, a European Central Bank executive board
member, said, according to Spain’s ABC newspaper.  “We cannot let it get beyond our control,” Gonzalez-
Paramo said, the newspaper  reported today , citing an interview.
Even so, the ECB thinks the pick-up in inflation is temporary,
linked to raw materials prices, and that it will start to fall
again at the end of the year, Gonzalez-Paramo said, according to
ABC.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said Feb. 3 that its
benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent, remains
“appropriate” and despite “short-term upward pressure,”
inflation risks are balanced.  In the ABC report, Gonzalez-Paramo said the sovereign debt
crisis is being resolved. “What is clear is that if a country
wants to benefit from the benefits of a supranational currency,
it has to take on the fact that the rules are going to be very
strict,” he said, according to ABC.  There is “no reason” why Europe cannot grow at rates
close to its potential of about 2 percent this year, Gonzalez-
Paramo said, according to the newspaper.  Spain has begun a “very good path” towards resolving its
weaknesses that have made it the subject of market attacks and
the “fundamental challenge” for the country is the reform of
wage negotiation because linking salary to inflation is a
“defect” in the modern world, he said, according to ABC.  Spain 
has to take the “most urgent measures” to address youth
unemployment which at 40 percent is a “true drama,” the
newspaper quoted him saying.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at    fconnelly@bloomberg.net  