-- Formula One Driver Kubica Is in Induced Coma After Operation to Save Hand
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2011-02-07T14:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/renault-team-says-driver-robert-kubica-airlifted-to-hospital-after-crash.html
Formula One driver  Robert Kubica  is
in a “much better” condition and was briefly woken from an
induced coma after surgery for injuries sustained in a high-
speed rally crash in  Italy , his Lotus Renault GP team said.  Kubica, 26, underwent a seven-hour operation yesterday at
the Santa Corona Hospital in Pietra Ligure after suffering
multiple fractures to his right arm and leg. Several days will
be needed to assess whether the operation has been 100 percent
successful, the team said today.  “In order to avoid any physical stress, Robert will be put
under gentle medication in order to sleep for the next 24 hours
at least,” Lotus Renault said in an e-mailed statement.
“Meanwhile, the doctors will decide how they will treat his
elbow and shoulder fractures. Robert may have to undergo surgery
once again for this, but not for a few days.”  Kubica was able to talk to his relatives today and move his
fingers, which is “encouraging for the rest of his recovery
process,” the team said. Professor Mario Igor Rossello, a
specialist hand surgeon who was involved in the operation, did
not notice any swelling or infection on Kubica’s forearm, which
is “another good sign,” according to the statement.  The accident came five weeks before the  2011  Formula One
season starts in Bahrain and places doubts over whether the Pole
will be healthy enough to compete in his fifth full season in
the sport.  Rossello told reporters at the hospital yesterday that it
would be about a week before the success of the surgery could be
judged, the official Formula One website  reported . He also said
Kubica may face a 12-month rehabilitation to regain full use of
his right hand, the website added.  New Season  The first race in the 2011 F-1 championship is March 13.
Kubica’s driving partner with Lotus Renault is  Russia ’s Vitaly Petrov. One of the team’s reserve drivers, Bruno Senna of  Brazil 
or Romain Grosjean of  France , may replace Kubica if he can’t
race. Senna is a nephew of former F-1 champion Ayrton Senna, who
was killed in an accident in 1994.  Lotus Renault GP didn’t give details about yesterday’s
crash near Genoa. Kubica was driving a Skoda Fabia when the car
left the road about 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) after the start,
broke the crash barrier and collided with a church wall,
according to  Poland ’s TVN24. A part of the barrier penetrated
the car, the broadcaster said.  Lotus Renault principal Eric Boullier defended the decision
to let Kubica take part in the rally.  ‘True Racer’  “Robert is a true racer, his life is motor racing,”
Boullier told BBC Radio 5 Live. “It was agreed between us that
he keep doing the rallies because it was part of his balance in
his life. We knew the risks of doing the rally. He knew it as
well, it was agreed together.”  Kubica made his F-1 debut in 2006 and has competed in 76
Grand Prix races, scoring his only victory in  Canada  in 2008 for
the BMW-Sauber team. The previous year he avoided serious injury
when he crashed into a wall at the Canadian race in an incident
that largely destroyed his car.  After four years with Sauber he joined Renault for the 2010
campaign and finished eighth in last season’s standings with
three podium finishes. The team has linked up with Lotus cars as
a partner for the new season.  Kubica’s best performance in the drivers’ championship came
in 2008 when he finished fourth in the standings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 