-- Resurgent Obama Has Limited Power to Shape 2012: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2011-02-06T16:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/resurgent-obama-has-limited-power-to-shape-2012-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
President  Barack Obama  is riding
high, with legislative successes in the lame duck congressional
session, an inspirational speech after the Tucson shootings and
a can-do State of the Union address.  Given what looks like an unusually weak Republican
presidential field, Obama today is a favorite for re-election.  Yet as events in the  Middle East  over the last two weeks
show, unforeseen crises can shake up the political dynamics. If
over the next year regimes that are more Democratic and not
hostile to U.S. interests emerge in  Egypt  and elsewhere, the
president will win praise for skillful diplomacy; if chaos or
more radical elements take over, his political stock will drop.  Frustrating for Obama is that there isn’t a lot he can do
to shape this outcome. The same is true of several variables
that likely will be determinative in the 2012 election: the
economy, the war in  Afghanistan  and the behavior of the House
Republican majority.  Since World War II, no president or incumbent party has won
re-election in a presidential race when the  unemployment rate  is
higher than 7.5 percent. The current rate officially is 9
percent, and if those who have given up looking for a job are
included, it’s actually greater than 10 percent; almost no
expert thinks it will drop sharply in the next year and a half.  Home Prices, Debt  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc., sees
unemployment close to 8 percent in the autumn of 2012. He offers
three caveats that could worsen the outlook: if the weakness in
U.S. home prices persists, or, on a global level, if the
European debt crisis worsens, or if  China ’s economy, the world’s
second-largest, has a bumpier landing than envisioned.  An 8 percent jobless rate in October of next year probably
would be a political winner, Zandi suggests, as voters would see
a clear pattern of progress. One model may be President  Ronald Reagan  in 1984. Despite the memories of “the morning in
America,” a Reagan theme that year, the unemployment rate on
Election Day was 7.4 percent. A year earlier, it had been 8.8
percent. It was the direction that mattered.  The Obama White House would settle for anything resembling
such signs of forward movement in Afghanistan. That may be
tough. Last year, U.S. deaths in that conflict reached almost
500, up 60 percent from the year before and more than triple the
number two years earlier. The number of wounded more than
doubled from 2009, as the U.S. struggles to counter the
improvised explosive devices that are the largest cause of
casualties.  Loss of Holbrooke  The government of President  Hamid Karzai , insiders
acknowledge, is as corrupt as ever. And Obama lost his most
creative diplomat when Richard Holbrooke, the special envoy for
Afghanistan and Pakistan, died suddenly in December, though the
White House foolishly didn’t fully utilize his talents.  The president has vowed to start withdrawing some of the
100,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan starting in July. That
assumes progress, a dicey assumption.  The government’s own review at the end of last year was
optimistic that al-Qaeda and the Taliban militants have been
weakened, and the influence of Pakistan reined in.  Bruce Riedel ,
a former Central Intelligence Agency officer and Afghanistan
expert, now at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington, says the
U.S. is “no longer close to the precipice of defeat and
strategic disaster,” as it was when Obama took office in
January 2009.  Yet, especially with a delicate state of play in  Pakistan ,
he also writes, “we are far from being on the edge of anything
anyone would describe as success.” The administration’s own
review warns the situation “remains fragile and reversible.”  Tea Party Overreach  When it comes to domestic politics, the White House and
other Democratic strategists are optimistic that congressional
Republicans, with the take-no-prisoners Tea Party newcomers,
will overreach. They believe the president will be able to out-
position and outmaneuver the opposition, a brightening picture
that began to emerge with the State of the Union address.  There already are schisms within Republican ranks.
Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, the self-styled Tea
Party leader, has made clear she has no intention of following
the line of the House speaker, Ohio Representative  John Boehner ,
or other leaders. Nationally, the ubiquitous Sarah Palin hijacks
the agenda anytime she weighs in.  The establishment Republican leaders, including
Representative Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin , who has received mostly
uncritical press for months, will soon have to produce on the
tough fiscal issues, specifically by showing how they would
slash domestic spending or whether to touch politically lethal
entitlements like Social Security and Medicare. Democrats are
salivating over these pending particulars -- such as proposed
cuts in education or health research -- which will come as early
as this week.  No Election Mandate  There remain a few Republicans who misread last November’s
election as a mandate for their agenda rather than a protest
against the governing party and tough economic times. Even a
seasoned professional like the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, sometimes seems tone deaf. “If the president is
willing to do what I and my members would do anyway, we’re not
going to say no,” the Kentucky Republican cracked the other
day.  Still, top Senate Republicans such as McConnell,  Arizona ’s
Jon Kyl and  Tennessee ’s Lamar Alexander aren’t likely to provide
many such openings for the Democrats to exploit. And Tom Davis,
a former top Republican congressman who is an astute analyst of
U.S. politics, suggests the White House is miscalculating that
 House Republicans  will make the same mistakes their predecessors
did in 1995 when they shut down the government, assuring
President  Bill Clinton ’s re-election.  Boehner, Not Gingrich  “John Boehner is not Newt Gingrich; he’s not out there
going to the zoo,” Davis says, noting the different styles and
skills of the current Republican House speaker and the one 15
years ago. “The Republican base in the House is fractured but
Boehner is the right guy to manage it well.”  The odds are the economy will continue to improve over the
next year and half, the situation in Afghanistan won’t
deteriorate and the Republicans will overreach on unpopular
positions. If one, or certainly two, of these occur, and there’s
no global cataclysm, bet on Obama’s re-election. That, however,
largely is out of his control.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 