-- Russia Follows China in Using Reserve Ratios to Curtail Inflation Threat
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2011-02-06T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/russia-follows-china-in-using-reserve-ratios-to-curtail-inflation-threat.html
Russia, the only one of the so-called
BRIC countries without  capital controls , is following China and
Turkey in relying on reserve requirements to drain cash from the
economy and avoid luring more speculative investment.  “We stand ready to continue increasing mandatory
requirements, if needed,” Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev
said in  Frankfurt  on Feb. 4. Policy makers will “act decisively
to meet the forecast” for 2011 annual inflation of between 6
percent and 7 percent, he said.  The central bank on Jan. 31 increased the mandatory reserve
ratio while unexpectedly leaving its deposit rates unchanged
after inflation in January accelerated to the fastest in 15
months. Policy makers cited the threat of rising capital inflows
driven by higher oil prices.  Emerging economies are weighing the need to curb inflation
against the risk of attracting speculative capital from near-
zero interest rates in the U.S. and  Europe . The threat of a
stronger ruble and stifled exports may be a “big headache” for
Russia, central banker Alexei Ulyukayev said last month.  The ruble is the third-best performer against the dollar
this among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, having gained 3.9 percent.  Prices Surge  Consumer prices in January surged 9.6 percent from a year
earlier, triggered by the worst drought in at least 50 years,
while monthly inflation was 2.4 percent, the quickest in two
years. Grain  costs  climbed an annual 70 percent last month and
fruit and vegetables increased 51 percent.  Central bankers have kept the benchmark refinancing rate at
a record-low 7.75 percent since June, opting to increase the
deposit rate in December. They last week raised the mandatory
reserve level for liabilities to 3.5 percent for non-resident
companies and 3 percent for individuals and others, both from
2.5 percent.  The policy response in countries including Turkey and  Russia  is “highly unorthodox” and may lead to more aggressive
rate increases as inflationary expectations mount, said Maria Gordon, a London-based emerging-market equity portfolio manager
at Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees about $1.2
trillion.  “I would be looking for a combination of maximum fears,
when the local markets will start pricing in a large degree of
tightening and I would start taking positions on interest-rate
sensitive stocks,” she said in an interview in Moscow on Feb. 3,
without specifying companies.  ‘Hard Landing’  Traders are pricing in 0.88 percentage point of rate
increases over the next three months, forward rate agreements
show. Expectations on Jan. 26 were the highest in more than a
year, with the forwards signalling bets for 1.15 percentage
points, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging markets risk a “hard landing” as they start
raising interest rates to fight inflation,  Nouriel Roubini , the
New York University professor who predicted the credit crisis,
said at a conference in Moscow on Feb. 3.  China set record-high  reserve requirements , raising the
level four times in about two months. Latin American nations
from  Brazil  to  Peru  are lifting the ratios and returning to
capital controls to stem a rally in their currencies.  Bank Rossii raised the reserve level for liabilities to the
highest since 2008 after lowering the ratio at the height of the
financial crisis that year to help lenders weather the credit
squeeze. It last lifted the requirement level in August 2009.  Medvedev’s Growth Target  Banks including OAO Sberbank and VTB Group, the country’s
two largest, may need to set aside about 100 billion rubles to
meet the new requirements, according to calculations by BNP
Paribas and ZAO Raiffeisenbank.  Policy makers in Moscow are also reluctant to increase
interest rates to avoid throttling economic growth, which they
said is “uncertain.” Gross domestic product grew 4 percent in
2010 after shrinking 7.8 percent a year earlier.  The government predicts GDP will rise 4.2 percent this
year, or less than half the 10 percent target set by President  Dmitry Medvedev  to pull the country in line with  China , Brazil
and  India .  “Raising reserve requirements is the only available
instrument for monetary tightening in these conditions,” Pavel Pikulev, a Moscow-based fixed-income strategist in Moscow at OAO
Gazprombank, the lending arm of Russia’s gas export monopoly,
said by phone on Feb. 4. “There’s a risk that the central bank
will later hike rates more aggressively than it would like now.”  ‘Capital Onslaught’  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries means that countries reliant on natural
resources face an “onslaught of more capital,” Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said in Moscow on Feb. 2.  Capital inflows in 2011 may exceed the official estimate for
$15 billion after three years of  capital flight , Ulyukayev said
on Jan. 21.  Turkey  the previous day reduced its benchmark rate
for a second month and said it will continue to raise reserve
requirements after lifting in December the ratio for deposits
and savings of up to one month to 8 percent from 6 percent.  Russian-focused equity funds inflows extended to a 10th
week in the seven days ending Feb. 2, posting the only gain
among BRIC countries and taking in $196 million,  Alfa Bank  said,
citing data compiled by EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research company.  “In many countries around the world there are more active
policies aimed at preventing capital inflows,” Stiglitz said.
There’s “more sensitivity on monetary policy, keeping the
interest rate down and using other instruments like reserve
requirements to restrain domestic aggregate demand. You see a
lot of interesting experiments going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 