-- S. Korea to Implement Emission Trading Scheme in Flexible Manner, Lee Says
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2011-02-07T08:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/s-korea-to-implement-emission-trading-scheme-in-flexible-manner-lee-says.html
  South Korea ’s government will
complete a draft bill on emissions-trading this week and
President  Lee Myung Bak  said the plan will be implemented in a
“flexible manner,” amid opposition from industries.  “We will decide the details of the bill, including the
timing of its introduction, by the end of this week,” Jung Do
Hyun, an official of Lee’s  presidential committee , said by phone
today from Seoul.  South Korea,  Asia ’s fourth-biggest polluter, said in
November it aims to adopt a carbon-trading system in 2013 to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fight global warming. The
committee is due to submit legislation on carbon-emissions
trading to parliament this month.  The Federation of Korean Industries and other business
groups have asked the government to delay the plans, saying the
system will increase costs and make companies less competitive
than rivals from Japan and  China , which don’t have similar
programs. The system would cost companies 14 trillion won ($13
billion) a year, Korea Energy Management said on Jan. 11.  The government will consider global trends and industrial
competitiveness and introduce the system at an “opportune
time” after hearing the views of companies, President Lee said
today in a biweekly radio address.  “Some people worry that policies for energy saving and
reduction of  greenhouse gases  might lead to a substantial burden
on the economy,” Lee said. “However if that path is
inevitable, we need to be leaders in taking it.”  The government also announced on Sept. 28 that companies
with factories producing at least 25,000 metric tons of carbon
dioxide a year must set energy-saving and greenhouse gas-
reduction targets by September 2011. They will face fines of as
much as 10 million won for failing to meet the targets.  South Korea said in 2009 that it would voluntarily reduce  carbon emissions  by 30 percent from the expected 2020 level, or
4 percent below its emissions in 2005. South Korea may become
the second nation to start emissions trading in Asia, after  New
Zealand , if parliament approves the plans.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shinhye Kang at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 