-- Sanofi Is Still Reviewing Genzyme Books as It Nears $19.2 Billion Takeover
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2011-02-06T22:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/sanofi-s-due-diligence-for-genzyme-acquisition-isn-t-complete-wsj-reports.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA  is still examining
the books of  Genzyme Corp . as it works toward a $19.2 billion
takeover of the U.S. biotechnology company.  Sanofi and Genzyme are discussing a price of about $74 a
share plus potential additional payments tied to the performance
of a Genzyme drug, and the boards were slated to meet today,
four people with knowledge of the plan said earlier. An
announcement was possible as early as tomorrow, they said.  “As we have previously said, we’ve signed a
confidentiality agreement with Genzyme and are continuing to
review non-public information,” Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman
for Paris-based Sanofi, said in a telephone interview today.
“We have no further comment.”  Acquiring Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines
for rare genetic disorders, would help Sanofi Chief Executive
Officer Chris Viehbacher compensate for revenue losses as some
of Sanofi’s biggest-selling products face competition from
generic versions. Sanofi would gain treatments for Fabry,
Gaucher and Pompe diseases.  Sanofi’s review of finances and facilities for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Genzyme is taking longer than expected and
the companies remain confident a deal can be reached early this
week, the Wall Street Journal said today, citing people familiar
with the plan.  Contingent Value Right  One point of discussion is a so-called contingent value
right, a tradeable contract tied to Genzyme’s experimental
multiple sclerosis drug Lemtrada, Bloomberg News reported
earlier today. The contract may be valued at about $3 when it
begins trading and have a higher nominal value, said three
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
confidential.  Excluding the CVR, a deal may value Genzyme at about $19.2
billion. Genzyme rose 14 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $73.40 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading on Feb. 4. Sanofi gained 30 cents,
or 0.6 percent, to 50.30 euros in Paris.  Genzyme has projected peak annual sales of as much as $3.5
billion for Lemtrada, known as Campath when used for blood
cancer. Sanofi said in October that analysts’ estimates of about
$700 million were a valuation “probably closer to the reality
of the product.” Lemtrada is in the final stages of testing and
Genzyme expects data from those trials this year.  The acquisition would be the biggest industry takeover
since Merck bought rival Schering-Plough Corp. for about $47
billion in November 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  