-- HSBC in Talks With Qatar to Clarify Order Shutting Islamic Banking Units
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2011-02-07T10:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/hsbc-in-talks-with-qatar-on-bank-order-to-shut-islamic-units.html
  HSBC Holdings Plc  is seeking
clarification of an order by Qatar’s central bank requiring non-
Islamic lenders in the nation to end services that comply with
Shariah law.  HSBC Amanah, the Islamic banking unit of  Europe ’s largest
bank, is in discussions with the central bank “to find a
workable solution,” the company said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. HSBC has had operations in Qatar since 1954 “and has
established strong and positive relations with the regulators,”
the statement said.  “The Qatar Central Bank’s ruling of forcing conventional
banks to cease their Islamic banking opportunities will prove
detrimental to future earnings of a few conventional banks,
whilst provides further market share opportunity for the
dedicated Islamic banks,” Omair Ansari, equity strategist at
Dubai-based Gulfmena Alternative Investments, said today.  Qatari Islamic banks surged yesterday, sending  Masraf Al
Rayan  to the highest level since 2008, on speculation earnings
will climb following the central bank’s decision. The Feb. 1
statement called for non-Shariah compliant banks to close
Islamic branches by year-end and stop taking deposits in those
units immediately.  Doha Bank  Masraf Al Rayan, Qatar’s second-largest Islamic lender,
rose 3.6 percent to 23.92 riyals at the 1:10 p.m. close in Doha
today.  Qatar Islamic Bank  SAQ, the Persian Gulf country’s
biggest Islamic bank, fell 0.8 percent and  Qatar International
Islamic Bank  retreated 1.8 percent today. Both shares soared
more than 9 percent yesterday.  Qatari banks with Islamic banking units such as  Qatar
National Bank SAQ  and Doha Bank declined today. Qatar National,
the country’s biggest lender, fell 1.9 percent to 136.4 riyals,
the lowest level since Dec. 2. Doha Bank dropped 1 percent.  The central bank order was “just to make sure you do what
you’re good at and what you were meant for,” Doha Bank Chief
Executive Officer  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We can always invest in Islamic banking,
in Islamic funds.” He didn’t comment on the future of Doha
Islamic, the bank’s Shariah-compliant arm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.netEI  rbos  Corp hcp 