-- South Africa Inflation May Hit Top End of Central Bank Target, Marcus Says
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2011-02-06T09:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/south-african-inflation-may-reach-upper-end-of-target-update1-.html
South African inflation may reach the
upper end of the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target
range “sooner than expected” as oil and food prices increase,
Governor Gill Marcus said.  While there is limited scope for the bank to cut its
benchmark interest rate further, raising the rate may undermine
the economy’s recovery, Marcus said in a speech on Feb. 4 in  Pretoria , according to a written copy on the bank’s website.  The Reserve Bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent on Jan. 20, as three rate cuts
last year helped to spur  consumer spending  and food and energy
costs climbed. The rand has also reversed some of its gains of
2010, weakening 8.8 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of the year, adding to price pressures.  “Should food and oil prices impact on domestic inflation
by more than is currently expected, we may see inflation moving
towards the upper end of the target range sooner than
expected,” Marcus said. In countries where inflation pressures
are rising and economic growth is still weak, “raising  interest
rates  will not only exacerbate the fragility of the recovery but
may not do much to alleviate the first-round effects of these
shocks.”  ‘Vibrant Growth’  Inflation slowed to an annual 3.5 percent in December from
3.6 percent the month before, remaining inside the central
bank’s target range. The bank on Jan. 20 raised its inflation
forecast for this year to an average of 4.6 percent from 4.3
percent, and its 2012 estimate to 5.3 percent from 4.8 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  expects economic growth to average 3.4
percent in 2011 and 3.6 percent in 2012, which is “somewhat
below the market consensus,” Marcus said. Consumer spending is
“exhibiting signs of a sustained recovery,” she added.  Africa’s biggest economy expanded an annualized 2.6 percent
in the third quarter, down from 2.8 percent in the previous
three months, the statistics office said on Nov. 23.  “The South African recovery has been relatively
hesitant,” Marcus said. “However, recent indicators are more
positive and suggest that the recovery will be sustained, and we
can look forward to more vibrant growth in the coming years. But
significant challenges remain.”  Growth still isn’t fast enough to cut the jobless rate
significantly, Marcus said.  South Africa ’s unemployment rate of
25.3 percent is the highest of 61 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
or Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  