-- Steelers Embrace Super Bowl Hoopla, Packers Stick With Pregame Routine
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S i l l u p
-- 2011-02-06T17:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/steelers-embrace-super-bowl-hoopla-packers-stick-with-pregame-routine.html
The  Green Bay Packers  stuck to
typical pregame preparation before today’s  Super Bowl , while the
Pittsburgh Steelers broke with routine by inviting family
members to watch their final practice and changing hotels.  “Nothing else was normal,” Steelers coach Mike Tomlin
said after yesterday’s practice at  Texas Christian University  in  Fort Worth , Texas. “But there’s not a lot about this week that
is, so we’re not going to fight against it.”  The two teams meet at 6:30 p.m. New York time today at
Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas, in the  National Football
League ’s championship game. The Packers, winners of 12 NFL
titles, were 2 1/2-point favorites over the Steelers, who have
won six.  After the Steelers’ final practice, children scampered
around the practice field while players and their families posed
for photos.  “Their love and support is the reason why these men are
here,” Tomlin said. “But also we use them to a degree because
we had to get some work done today and nothing outside of the
white lines was normal, but let’s face it, nothing tomorrow
night outside the white lines is going to be normal.”  Tomlin also had the team switch hotels last night.  Same Hotel  The Packers, meanwhile, tried to keep their standard
pregame routine at their hotel in Irving,  Texas . The offensive
and defensive units jogged through plays and they had a team
meeting at night.  “I really liked today’s schedule because finally this gets
you back on the routine you’ve been on for the last five
years,” coach  Mike McCarthy  said. “We’ve had an opportunity
for our final corrections in our meetings. The coordinators have
given their last message to each unit and they had their final
walkthrough, like we always do.”  McCarthy decided not to switch hotels the night before the
game.  “I’ve received feedback from clubs that have left the
hotel and stayed,” McCarthy said. “Seeking routine and
consistency in how we’ve operated in the past. I chose to stay
in the same hotel.”  At the Cowboys Stadium on Sunday morning, workers were
removing what snow remained on the roof, after ice and snow slid
off Friday injuring six NFL workers. A high of 47 degrees
Fahrenheit (8 Celsius) was forecast for today, with a 50 percent
chance of rain and snow showers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Sillup in Dallas at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  