-- Mubarak Divides Egypt Opposition to Retain Hold on Power as Protests Fade
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-02-07T08:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/mubarak-divides-egypt-opposition-to-carry-out-mandate-as-protests-subside.html
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , who
may have won concessions yesterday allowing him to serve the
rest of his mandate, did so with the same tactics that kept him
in office since 1981: Divide and conquer the opposition.  “The regime is really good at what it does,” said Shadi Hamid, director of research at the Brookings Doha Center. “It’s
very good at dividing the opposition. That’s its skill and we’ve
been seeing it for 30 years.”  Vice President  Omar Suleiman  and opposition groups agreed
to conclude studying constitutional amendments by the first week
of March and form a committee to oversee progress, according to
a statement distributed in Cairo yesterday.  The opposition, which ranges from the Muslim Brotherhood,
to the socialist Tagammu party, may struggle to gain a foothold
in  Egypt ’s political system as years of government
marginalization and internal divisions weakened them. The Wafd
party, billionaire Naguib Sawiris and some representatives of
the country’s youth also attended the meeting.  Concern that turmoil in Egypt would spread sent the Dubai
Financial Market General Index down 4.3 percent on Jan. 30.
Since then, the measure has recovered and was little changed
today at 1,605.72 at 12:48 p.m. The cost of insuring Egypt’s
debt for five years with credit-default swaps closed at 380
basis points on Feb. 4 after hitting 430 on Jan. 28, the highest
since April 2009, CMA prices in London show.  ‘Gaining Momentum’  Mubarak appointed Suleiman on Jan. 29, his first vice
president since he came to power. Mubarak’s declaration Feb. 1
that he will step down later this year failed to appease
protesters who want him to quit immediately, and prompted a call
from President  Barack Obama  for the transition to “begin now.”
Mubarak said he’ll stay on to ensure “stability.”  The protests, which grew from Jan. 25 to Feb. 1, were
shaken on Feb. 2 after the army didn’t move to prevent Mubarak
supporters from battling demonstrators, some of them charging
into Tahrir Square on horseback. The two sides spent the next
two days hurling rocks, bottles and concrete chunks at each
other. About 300 people have died in the clashes, according to
the  United Nations .  Police last year detained hundreds of supporters
campaigning for the Muslim Brotherhood in the run-up to a
parliamentary election, in what the movement said was part of an
effort to drive it out of politics. The Brotherhood said Nov. 22
that police had detained more than 1,200 of its supporters.  “Suleiman is gaining political momentum and enjoys a clear
advantage in terms of his ability to negotiate favorable
terms,” Hani Sabra, a Middle East analyst at Eurasia Group in  New York , said in a note to clients. He’s “already been
successful in splitting off the soft Mubarak opponents.”  Armchair Interview  Sabra said Suleiman’s Feb. 3 interview with Egyptian state
television, in which he sat in an armchair and said he had heard
the protesters demands, may have led some to believe the
government is serious about making changes.  “The protesters are amorphous,” Sabra said. “Suleiman is
pursuing a divide-and-conquer strategy.”  In the same Feb. 3 address, Suleiman split the opposition
by saying that talks would be held with willing parties and not
the Muslim Brotherhood because of its reluctance to negotiate.
The group later changed its stance and attended the talks.  Fragmented Opposition  Diluting the opposition’s influence are the many voices
with which it speaks. On some occasions, the same party has held
different views. Yesterday, for example, Mohamed Saad El-
Katatni, a member of Muslim Brotherhood’s top executive body,
said keeping Mubarak in power while changes are made is a
“safer option” to win implementation.  Three hours later, Mohammed Morsey, another spokesman for
the Muslim Brotherhood, said they still wanted Mubarak gone.
“We’re in the field, and we’re in the dialogue, there’s no
contradiction,” he said.  Youth organizations, including a group called the April 6,
initiated the original Jan. 25 demonstration that started the
uprising. The speed with which the rally grew in size blurred
party lines so that no single group speaks for the all.  “The opposition is fragmented,” said Abdulkhaleq
Abdullah, a professor of politics at the United Arab Emirates
University in Al Ain. “The opposition is not the one who speaks
for the Y2K generation.”  The agreement forged yesterday may not represent some of
those who packed into Tahrir Square for a 13th day of protests.  No Alternative  “We all insist that there is no alternative to Mubarak
stepping down,” said Ahmed Maher, who led a group of youth
gathering in the square. “Those meeting with the regime do not
represent us and they cannot move the people.”  In the last presidential election in 2005, Mubarak won 88
percent of the votes. Ayman Nour, who ran a distant second, was
jailed in December 2005 for four years on fraud charges.    Mohamed ElBaradei , 68, the Nobel Prize winner who formerly
ran the UN’s nuclear watchdog agency, has emerged as a surprise
face of the opposition. Still, having spent most of his adult
life outside of the country, he has none of the organizational
structure that other groups have.  “The opposition’s weakness was greatly caused by their
inability to be united,” said Samer S. Shehata, assistant
professor of Arab politics at  Georgetown University  in  Washington . “The only thing that united them is that Mubarak
must leave. Once they abandon that they risk basic goals that
they want to realize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 