-- Perth Area Declared Disaster Zone as Out-of-Control Wildfire Razes Homes
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-07T05:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-06/western-australia-bushfire-destroys-homes-rages-out-of-control.html
Western Australia’s state premier,  Colin Barnett , declared an area near the state capital of Perth
a natural disaster zone after a bushfire raging out of control
on the fringes of the city destroyed 59 structures.  Homes, sheds and carports have been destroyed by the blaze,
Natasha Thorson, a spokeswoman with the Fire & Emergency
Services Authority, or  FESA , said in a phone interview today.  The fires started yesterday in the Roleystone and Kelmscott
areas in Perth’s south-east from sparks by a machinist using an
angle grinder, WAToday.com cited a FESA spokesman, which it
didn’t identify, as saying.  More than 100 firefighters are battling the blaze, which is
moving at 100 meters an hour in numerous directions with flames
reaching three meters, FESA said. The bushfire poses a “threat
to lives and homes,” the authority said.  The blaze has burned about 440 hectares, has cut power and
closed two schools in the area. Two helicopters are assisting,
FESA said. There are no reports of injuries.  The state government will provide immediate financial help
to people affected by the fire, Barnett said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Authorities have issued emergency warnings for the south
western part of Roleystone and south eastern part of Kelmscott
in Armadale, about  30 kilometers  from Perth’s city center.
Emergency warnings are also in place for Brigadoon, Baskerville,
Millendon, Red Hill and Herne Hill in the city of Swan.  The fires are threatening outlying suburbs of Perth almost
two years to the day bushfires cut a swath through the state of
Victoria in  Australia ’s southeast corner. Bushfires that swept
across Victoria on Feb. 7, 2009 killed 173 people and razed
450,000 hectares of land as temperatures soared to as high as 48
degrees Celsius (118 degrees Fahrenheit).  Services were being held across Victoria today to mark the
anniversary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net  