-- 3D Systems, Science Friday: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-11-27T19:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/3d-systems-science-friday-intellectual-property.html
Formlabs Inc. , a Massachusetts
company that used  Kickstarter Inc. ’s crowd-sourcing funding
platform to raise money to produce three-dimensional printers,
was sued for patent infringement by  3D Systems Inc. (DDD)   According to a complaint filed Nov. 20 in federal court in
Rock Hill,  South Carolina , Formlabs began a campaign through
Kickstarter Sept. 26 with the aim of raising $100,000. Instead,
by Oct. 26, Formlabs had been pledged $1,945,885 by 2,068
backers, some of whom pledged as little as $5.00.  Kickstarter’s website specified that those who choose to
back a project are charged their pledge amount on their credit
cards when the fundraising goal is met. 3D Systems claims that
Formlabs has used this mechanism to sell 1,028 Form 1 3D
printers that allegedly infringe patent 5,597,520, which was
issued in January 1997.  It was “well-known in the industry” that Formlabs’
printer would infringe the patent, according to the complaint.
3D Systems accused Formlabs of “willful blindness” to the
patent.  Kickstarter is co-defendant with Formlabs. Rock Hill-based
3D Systems said that by providing the funding mechanism for
Formlabs’ printer project, the company induced infringement of
the patent.  In addition to seeking money damages, 3D Systems asked the
court for extra damages to punish the defendants for their
actions, awards of attorney fees and litigation costs. 3D
Systems requested a court declaration that its patent is valid
and enforceable and infringed by the defendants.  Formlabs didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment. Kickstarter spokesman Justin Kazmark said in an e-
mail that his company declined to comment.  The case is 3D Systems Inc. v. Formlabs Inc., 12-cv-03323-
MBS, U.S. District Court, District of South Carolina ( Rock
Hill ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  ScienceFriday Says Pastor’s ‘Real Science Friday’ Infringes Mark  ScienceFriday Inc., producers of the  Science Friday radio
show , sued the pastor of a Colorado church for trademark
infringement.  A complaint was filed in both state and federal courts in
 New York . The plaintiff accused  Bob Enyart , pastor of the Denver
Bible Church, of infringing the “ScienceFriday” trademarks by
taking the name “Real Science Friday” for his radio program
and the website he used to promote his program.  ScienceFriday also claims a logo used by Enyart infringed
the trademark, and that Enyart uses “Real Science Friday” in
connection with videos posted on Google Inc.’s YouTube video-
sharing site.  According to exhibits filed with the complaint, Enyart
seeks to debunk evolution and states that one of the causes of
school gun violence is the tolerance of abortion. He also
devotes space on his website to arguments countering those who
say the Apollo 11 moon landing was fake.  ScienceFriday, which airs on more than 300 National Public
Radio stations and in its 22nd year of broadcast, asked the
court to bar Enyart’s use of “Real Science Friday,” and for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Enyart didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment on
the lawsuit. A  notice on his website  states that the suit
“threatens to severely impact not only Bob’s ministry; but
creation ministries across the globe, as the law is used as a
weapon to silence God’s word that He is our Creator.”  The state court case is ScienceFriday Inc. v. Bob Enyart
Inc., 653879/2012, New York Supreme Court, New York County. The
case in federal court is ScienceFriday Inc. v. Bob Enyart Inc.,
1:12-cv-08558, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  Facebook Responds to CVG-SAB’s ‘Want’ Infringement Suit  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest provider of social-
network services, has responded to a trademark suit brought by
CVG-SAB LLC of Farmington Hills,  Michigan .  The  Menlo Park , California-based was sued in federal court
in Flint, Michigan, on Oct. 12. CVG objected to Facebook’s
introduction of a “want” button on its social media site.  The Michigan company claimed that it has used a “want”
button on its own social-media site since September 2010. It
said that its “want” button provided its users to indicate a
“preference or purchasing intent” for products of services
offered by its customers.  CVG said it registered the mark with the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  and has pending registrations for other uses.
It claimed that Facebook’s use of the term caused consumer
confusion, and that the  California  company was trying to pass
itself off as the senior user of the mark.  In its Nov. 14 filing, Facebook denied that its use of
“want” caused confusion. Facebook said the word “want” is so
commonplace that it’s not entitled to trademark protection. The
term is generic, Facebook argued, and is in widespread use by
English-speaking people.  It asked for the court to find it hadn’t infringed and
sought an order canceling CVG’s various “want” registrations
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Facebook also sought
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is CVG-SAB LLC v. Facebook Inc., 4:12-cv-14521-
GAD-DRG, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Flint).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Winehouse Play Canceled in Copenhagen by Copyright Agency  A play about the late singer  Amy Winehouse  has been
canceled because of copyright issues, the Copenhagen Post
 reported .  The play looks at issues in Winehouse’s life including her
relationship with drugs, according to the newspaper.  Koda,  Denmark ’s copyright agency, withdrew authorization
for the play without giving any reason, the Post reported.  The singer’s father, Mitch Winehouse, had opposed the play,
saying the creators were “only interested in making money.”  U.S. Photo Groups Join Forces to Protest U.K. Legislation  A coalition of photography-industry trade groups sent a
letter to the U.K.’s parliament protesting proposed changes in
copyright-licensing policy in that country.  The letter, which was  posted  on the PetaPixel photography
news blog, was signed by representatives of the American Society
of Media Photographers, Professional Photographers of America,
National Press Photographers Association, Picture Archive
Council of American, American Photographic Artists and Graphic
Artists Guild.  Their concern is a provision that would potentially place
so-called “orphan works” in a licensing program without the
knowledge or consent of their foreign owners. A photograph or
other piece of visual art could be designated an “orphan work”
as long as a “diligent search” for the owner of the copyright
proved unfruitful.  The trade groups argued that the U.K. has no legal right to
determine the fees or other compensations due foreign creators
in exchange for the exploitation of their copyrights in the U.K.  The proposed legislation to which they are objecting is
Clause 68 of the U.K.’s Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Wilson Sonsini Hires Jasemine Chambers From U.S. Patent Office  Wilson Sonsini  Goodrich & Rosati PC hired Jasemine Chambers
for its IP group, the  Palo Alto , California-based firm said in a
 statement .  Chambers  joins from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
where she served as deputy administrator for the Office of
Policy and External Affairs. She has also directed the patent
office’s Technology Center 2600, which covers design patents;
and Technology Center 1600, where she oversaw the examination of
patent applications related to biotechnology, pharmaceuticals
and organic chemistry.  She has also worked on IP-related trade issues, and was a
member of the patent office’s Policy Council and Management
Council.  Chambers was a judicial clerk to Chief Judge Randall R.
Rader of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, the
Washington-based court that hears appeals of patent cases.  Before she was a lawyer, Chambers was a researcher at the
Department of Microbiology and Immunology at  Duke University ,
and was a senior staff fellow at the Laboratory of Molecular
Genetics at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke at the  National Institutes of Health .  Chambers has an undergraduate degree in biology from Agnes
Scott College, a doctorate in molecular biophysics from  Florida
State University  and a law degree from George Washington
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 