-- IPIC Said to Raise $2.9 Billion in Biggest Arab Company Bond
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-11-27T13:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/abu-dhabi-ipic-said-to-raise-about-2-9-billion-from-bond-sales.html
International Petroleum Investment
Co. plans to raise about $2.9 billion in bonds, the biggest Arab
corporate debt sale this year, as the Abu Dhabi state-owned
investor considers financing for energy projects.  The company, known as IPIC, plans to sell $750 million in
three-year bonds and two-part 1.65 billion euro-denominated
($2.14 billion) debt maturing in 5.5 years and 10.5 years,
according to six people familiar with the transaction. The size
of the sale surpasses  Qatar National Bank (QNBK) ’s total offerings of
about $2 billion this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’ve seen how high the appetite is for Abu Dhabi paper
this year and the hunger for yields, and that there’s a lot of
liquidity in the market,”  Haissam Arabi , chief executive
officer of Dubai-based hedge fund Gulfmena Investments Ltd.,
said by telephone today.  IPIC, which raised $3.75 billion from bond sales in October
last year, is considering financing options for refinery and
liquefied natural gas projects that include non-recourse  project
financing . It has $17.3 billion of debt outstanding and $4
billion of loans due next year, and is rated Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the fourth-highest investment grade.  Yields Tumble  Borrowing costs of companies in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council have tumbled this year as the economies
expanded and state-linked entities in Dubai restructured and
paid debts. The yield on IPIC’s 5.5 percent dollar bonds due
March 2022 tumbled 190 basis points, or 1.90 percentage points,
this year to 3.58 percent today, after touching a record 3.44
percent Oct. 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield on GCC company bonds dropped 169 basis
points to a record 3.53 percent on Nov. 13, before trading at
3.6 percent yesterday, HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s GCC Conventional
Corporate U.S. Dollar Bond Index shows.  “IPIC is one of the most stable and fast growing energy
companies in the region,” said Hakim Azaiez, the London-based
head of investment at GCA Asset Management, adding that he bid
for IPIC’s securities. “The company has a clear strategy and a
solid management.”  IPIC’s refinery project in Fujairah, one of seven
sheikhdoms in the  United Arab Emirates , is expected to have
capital expenditure of about $3.5 billion, the company said in
the bonds prospectus. The company is also building a refinery at
the port of Duqm in  Oman , splitting the $6 billion cost evenly
with Oman Oil Co., according to the prospectus.  Pricing Range  IPIC may price the three-year dollar-denominated bonds in
the range of 135 basis points to 140 basis points above the
benchmark midswap range, according to the people, who declined
to be identified because the details are private. The 5.5-year
euro-denominated notes may be priced in the range of 145 basis
points to 150 basis points above the benchmark rate, while the
10.5-year euro securities may be priced at 195 basis points to
200 basis points above midswaps, the people said.  BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC , Natixis SA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are arranging the sale, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  