-- ACC Sues University of Maryland for Quitting Conference
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-11-27T22:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/acc-sues-university-of-maryland-for-quitting-conference.html
The  Atlantic Coast Conference  sued
the University of Maryland for $52.3 million in penalties after
the school said its teams would leave to compete in the Big Ten,
joining a recent rearrangement of collegiate sports leagues.  A member that withdraws from the conference is subject to a
payment three times the organization’s operating budget, the ACC
said in a filing yesterday in superior court in North Carolina.
The annual operating budget for the 2012-2013 year is
$17.4 million, according to the complaint.  “There is the expectation that Maryland will fulfill its
exit-fee obligation,” John Swofford, the ACC commissioner, said
in a statement.  Dozens of National Collegiate Athletic Association schools
have announced conference moves in recent years as athletic
departments jockey for financial paydays from television
contracts as well as stable affiliations.  The 12 ACC teams voted in September to boost exit fees,
with  Maryland  and Florida State University voting against the
increase. Maryland, which is a 59-year charter member of the
Greensboro, North Carolina-based ACC, said on Nov. 19 that it
would move to the Big Ten on July 1, 2014.  University of Maryland President Wallace Loh said at the
news conference announcing the move that the school would
discuss the exit payment privately with the ACC.  Crunching Numbers  “As we crunch those numbers, we are able to deal with this
issue,” Loh said. In an e-mail, Brian Ullman, a spokesman for
Maryland, declined to comment on the ACC’s lawsuit.  Maryland, whose teams are known as the Terrapins, is the
first school to exit the ACC since the University of South
Carolina left in 1971. Rutgers University, currently in the Big
East, is joining Maryland in the Big Ten, the New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based school announced last week.  Syracuse University and the University of Pittsburgh are
joining the ACC from the Big East next year. Notre Dame
University, a Big East member for all sports except football,
also announced plans to join the ACC. New Orleans-based Tulane
University, along with East Carolina University’s football
program, said today that they would join the Big East for the
2014-15 school year, leaving Conference USA.  The ACC said in its complaint against Maryland that the
withdrawal payment provision “provides some measure of
financial protection against potential damages and losses for
members of the ACC that remain after withdrawal by one or more
of the members.”  ACC Constitution  Loh “has made it clear that defendant Maryland does not
intend to pay the amount provided by the ACC’s constitution,”
according to the complaint.  Financial difficulties led Maryland’s athletic department
to eliminate seven of its 27 varsity sports this year. Joining
the Big Ten and its TV network, which reaches 73 million cable
and satellite subscribers, will allow the Terrapins to consider
reinstituting some of those sports, the school said.  Maryland, which would earn about $17 million from the ACC
after Syracuse and Pittsburgh join, can expect a guaranteed
payment of about $24.6 million as part of its new conference
affiliation, according to the Washington Post.  The Big Ten, which will renew its television contract in
2017, may become even more valuable with the addition of
Maryland and Rutgers, schools that provide an East Coast
footprint for the largely Midwestern conference.  Other ACC members include Boston College, the University of
Virginia and the University of North Carolina.  The case is Atlantic Coast Conference v. University of
Maryland, 12-10736, State of North Carolina, Guilford County,
General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  