-- Accenture Says European Crisis Spurs Acquisition Interest
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-11-27T14:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/accenture-says-european-crisis-spurs-acquisition-interest.html
Half of the bigger companies in the
eurozone area are seeking acquisitions in the region as the
sovereign debt crisis has boosted opportunities, according to a
survey by  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-largest technology
consulting company.  “The eurozone remains a good long-term bet and a
significant number of high performing companies see
opportunities for organic and inorganic growth,” Mark Spelman,
managing director of strategy at Accenture, said today in a
statement.  Within the eurozone, 58 percent of German respondents said
they were planning acquisitions in the region, compared to 57
percent of Spanish companies and 36 percent of French firms.
Dublin, Ireland-based Accenture said it surveyed 450 executives
globally, with 96 percent of the participating companies having
revenues of at least $1 billion.  European  consumer confidence  declined to the lowest in 3
1/2 years last month as the lingering debt crisis and a
deteriorating economic outlook undermined sentiment. An index of
household confidence in the 17-nation euro area dropped to minus
26.9 from minus 25.7 in October, the European Commission in
Brussels said in an initial estimate Nov. 22. That’s the lowest
since May 2009.  Among non-euro zone companies, Chinese are the most
interested in making acquisitions in the region, Accenture said.
Seventy-one percent of Chinese respondents are planning to buy
companies in the region, compared to 30 percent of U.K.
companies and 20 percent of U.S. firms, the consultancy said.  Bank financing may be a hurdle for some of the acquisitions
plans. Forty-five percent of the surveyed companies in the
eurozone said their primary bank’s ability to lend has been
hampered, according to Accenture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  