-- Adcock Drops to 2-Year Low as Profit Falls: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-11-27T15:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/adcock-ingram-full-year-profit-falls-as-gross-margin-decline-1-.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) , a South
African supplier of hospital products and over-the-counter
medicines, fell to its lowest level in more than two years after
it said profit declined.  The shares dropped 2 percent to 53.65 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, the lowest since February 2010. About 2 million
shares changed hands, or more than five times the daily average
over the last three months.  Net income decreased 6 percent to 706 million rand ($80
million) in the 12 months through September from a year earlier,
the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today.
Earnings per share declined 9 percent to 4.18 rand, missing the
median  estimate  of 4.32 rand of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “We didn’t really succeed in arresting the declining
margins,” Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Louw said by phone.
“Our margins are still very robust. It is difficult to raise
prices when you operate in a cost-control environment.”  Adcock reported a decline in  full-year  gross profit margin
to 45.5 percent from 48.7 percent a year earlier. The company
said on May 29 the first-half margin had been 46.7 percent
following an average 2 percent reduction of selling prices.  The margin was hit by inflation in the cost of production,
upgrades to facilities and the weaker rand, the company said.
The rand has slumped 8.6 percent against the dollar this year,
the worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after  Brazil ’s real.  Big Issue  “A big issue for Adcock is the gross margin for its over-
the-counter division,” Mathew Menezes, an equity analyst at
Avior Research, said by phone from Johannesburg before the
results were released. “They need to come up with a solution to
stop the margin declines.”  Adcock said the full-year dividend would be 201 cents, up
from 187 cents in 2011.  Adcock, which sells Panado painkillers and Corenza cold
medicine, said revenue increased 2 percent to 4.6 billion rand.
 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) , South Africa’s largest generic
drugmaker, said on Sept. 12 sales rose  23 percent  for the 12
months through June compared with a year earlier.  “In  South Africa , drug prices are driven, to a large
extent, by the government’s single exit price guidelines,” said
Menezes. He cut his recommendation of Adcock to under-perform
following the company’s half-year earnings in May.  Adcock said on July 10 it agreed to buy some assets of
Cosme Farma Laboratories Ltd., based in Goa,  India , for 708
million rand. The company owns  Ayrton Drug Manufacturing Ltd. (AYRTN) , a
Ghanaian drugmaker. Adcock’s sales from outside South Africa
increased 15 percent to 295 million rand a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  