-- Tahan Capital Sees Yen Falling to April 2011 Low on BOJ Stimulus
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-11-27T03:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/tahan-capital-sees-yen-falling-to-april-2011-low-on-boj-stimulus.html
The yen will fall to the lowest
level since April 2011 by year-end as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  pumps
more currency into markets to revive the world’s third-largest
economy, according to Tahan Capital Management Pte.  The Japanese currency may drop to as low as 85 per dollar
by Dec. 31 on speculation a new government next month will boost
pressure on the central bank to step up its economic stimulus
program, said Joseph Lam, Singapore-based co-founder and partner
at the hedge fund run by former UBS AG traders. Japan will hold
an election on Dec. 16 after Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
called for a vote on Nov. 14, even as polls showed his
 Democratic Party  of Japan will lose.  “The market is focused on next month’s election to see
what kind of pressure they will put on the BOJ,” Lam, 39, said
in an interview on Nov. 23. “We see large companies being
downgraded and there will be more pressure from the corporates,
households and politicians for BOJ to stimulate. We tend to
agree the yen will weaken.”  The yen traded at 82 per dollar as of 12:19 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
depreciated 5.9 percent since reaching a seven-month high of
77.13 on Sept. 13. The yen has weakened 11 percent to 106.46
versus the euro from this year’s high of 94.12 on July 24.  The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase program for the fourth
time this year on Oct. 30 to 66 trillion yen ($805 billion),
having already cut its target interest rate to 0.1 percent.
 Japan ’s gross domestic product shrank at an annual rate of 3.5
percent last quarter. Public approval for Noda’s party fell
below 20 percent as it failed to revive growth, end deflation or
enact campaign promises on social spending.  ‘More Aggressive’  A new government may add pressure on the central bank to
set a higher inflation target, boost asset purchases, or remove
the time-limit on its monetary-stimulus program, said Lam.  “I do see the BOJ becoming more aggressive with the
easing,” he said. “We are talking about one of the biggest
economies with a long history of easing policy. The policy has
not been effective enough to help the economy recover.”  Tahan Capital started its Asian macro and credit strategy
fund in September 2009 and currently manages about $500 million,
said Lam. It handed investors “in excess of 30 percent net”
since inception with low volatility, he said, declining to
disclose the fund’s current bets.  The euro will trade near $1.30 in a month, holding its 5.5
percent gain since July, as European leaders strengthen efforts
to contain their region’s fiscal crisis and on optimism U.S.
policy makers will resolve a budget deadlock involving $607
billion of automatic spending cuts and tax increases, said Lam.  “We expect it would not take extremely long for the U.S.
to resolve the issue such that the economy deteriorates in that
time,” he said. “Therefore, there is room for the market to be
more optimistic than it is now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  