-- Alagna Takes Center Stage With Belly Flops, Sicilian Song
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-11-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/alagna-takes-center-stage-with-belly-flops-sicilian-song.html
Even a dog can’t run away with the
show when  Roberto Alagna  is on stage. As the sweetly silly
farmhand in “L’Elisir d’Amore,” now at London’s  Royal Opera
House , the tenor hogs the limelight with his seductive voice and
athletic belly flops.  Before the dress rehearsal is over, the fit singer tosses
his shirt at a gaggle of happy peasant girls -- just one of the
amusing moments in a production which features a running dog, a
moped and a truck (and also soprano  Aleksandra Kurzak ).  Backstage moments later, Alagna, 49, appears in a V-neck
sweater and jeans. We sit down in an antechamber next to the
director’s box.  In person, the tenor is nothing like the back-slapping
Nemorino. He’s friendly yet guarded -- wary of journalists, he
later explains, because he doesn’t recognize their descriptions
of him. As the interview progresses, Alagna loosens up. He
breaks into song on camera, and gives me a farewell hug.  “My story is a fairy tale,” says  Alagna . “I’m very
lucky, because I will turn 50 next June, and I’m here playing,
singing with young people: This cast are 10 or more years
younger than me.”  “I’ve had success everywhere in the world,” he says in a
carpeted antechamber to the director’s box. “I’ve had, also,
difficulties sometimes.”  Booed by Nuts  Career-wise, Alagna is in a good place. His crossover
albums of Sicilian and Latin American songs have sold hundreds
of thousands of copies. He has long overcome a 2006 episode at
Milan’s La Scala where he dramatically walked off the stage
after being booed by a few nuts in Verdi’s “Aida.”  Next month, he sings “Aida” at the  Metropolitan Opera  in
 New York . In the first half of next year, he’s down to perform
three operas in Vienna: Verdi’s “Un Ballo in Maschera,”
Massenet’s “Werther,” and “Carmen.”  The man long identified as half of opera’s power couple --
his wife is soprano  Angela Gheorghiu  -- brushes aside any
questions about their current projects together. The pair met
performing “ La Boheme ” at the Royal Opera House in 1992, and
married on stage at the  Metropolitan Opera  four years later.
They separated in 2009 because of the strains of parallel
careers, and got back together last year; they’re still married.  “You can’t control my schedule: You will see, it’s all the
time very, very full. It’s impossible to stay home,” explains
the tenor. “Angela, she’s different: She likes to stay home, to
have holidays, to enjoy life.”  Bricklayer’s Son  For a top tenor, Alagna had unusual beginnings. Son of a
Sicilian bricklayer, he was born in an opera-loving household in
the Paris suburbs. He made his singing debut in a pizzeria, and
performed in four or five cabarets a night from the age of 15,
including one that’s now a couscous place.  Cabaret brought him in contact with topless dancers,
magicians and comedians, and taught him how to get audience
attention. By day, he studied opera.  Fate came knocking in 1987 when a friend took the 24-year-
old Alagna to a Paris record signing by  Luciano Pavarotti . He
was invited by Pavarotti to enter an international singing
competition, which he won in 1988. Debuting in “La Traviata”
at the Glyndebourne Festival that year, he was soon on every
world stage.  He married, had a baby girl, bought his first apartment,
and got a nice car. “I felt at that moment like I was in the
sky, flying,” he recalls. Then his first wife died suddenly of
a brain tumor, leaving the 31-year-old with an orphaned toddler.  Working Harder  “When you are too happy, after that, you have a bad
surprise,” says the wisened Alagna. “It’s better to stay in
the middle.”  Reviewers have always been lukewarm, says the tenor,
wistfully. “I never received wonderful critiques in my life,
never: I don’t know why,” he laments. “It was difficult for
them to make a classification of my voice, of my style.” The
challenge has made him work ever harder.  (In fact, he’s always been adored by many critics. His
Nemorino won him plaudits. Bloomberg’s Warwick Thompson said
Alagna was “delightful” in the part and had “a real flair for
comedy.” The Observer termed it a “stunning performance:
boyish, lyrical, acrobatic and touching.”)  Alagna can’t predict whether he’ll sing into his seventies
like Placido Domingo. What he is sure of is that he can’t
survive without singing, no more than  Maria Callas  could.  “When you are a real singer, it’s not something built,
it’s something you have inside of you,” he says. Losing the
voice is “like when your children die before you: It’s not
natural.”  “For me, it’s the same,” he says. “I hope to die before
my voice.”  “Elisir d’Amore” is at the Royal Opera House through Dec.
7. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris art and  James S. Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 