-- Malaysian Airline Slumps on Planned Rights Issue
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-11-28T09:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/malaysian-air-plans-1-billion-rights-issue-after-profit.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , the
nation’s largest long-haul carrier, slumped to a record low in
Kuala Lumpur trading after announcing plans to raise as much as
3.1 billion ringgit ($1 billion) from a rights issue.  The  stock  fell 17 percent to 84 sen, its lowest close since
the shares began trading in 1987, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The carrier has slumped 35 percent this year,
compared with a 5 percent advance in the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  Malaysian Air, which hasn’t decided on the price or
entitlement basis for the rights offer, is seeking funds to pare
debts and to help pay for new fuel-efficient planes. The carrier
is also working on a turnaround plan as it contends with slower
global travel and competition from budget carrier  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)   “Most investors are not quite in the mood for a massive
cash call,” Joshua Ng, an analyst at RHB Capital Bhd., wrote in
a report today. “We remain cautious on Malaysian Air given the
extent of its structural and operational problems that are not
adequately addressed with a turnaround plan that we find
shallow.”  The carrier separately yesterday posted its first profit in
 seven quarters . It had  net income  of 37.1 million ringgit in the
three months ended Sept. 30, compared with a loss of 477.6
million ringgit a year earlier. Revenue fell 2 percent to 3.47
billion ringgit, it said.  The  stock  is rated underperform at RHB with a price target
of 83 sen. Of the 16 analysts tracked by Bloomberg, only one has
a buy recommendation. Two have holds while the remaining 13
recommend selling the shares.  Plane Payments  The Subang Jaya, Malaysia-based airline will use some of
the rights-offering proceeds to make pre-delivery payments to
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS in the next two years for new aircraft.
It also proposes restructuring its capital by cutting the par
value of its existing shares to 10 sen each, the company said in
a filing yesterday.  Reduced capacity helped Malaysian Air cut its fuel costs by
9 percent, it said in the statement. Yields, a measure of
average fares, rose 3 percent while passenger numbers fell 1.5
percent to 3.3 million in the quarter. Average  jet-fuel  cost was
$131 per barrel in the period, or 4.4 percent lower, the company
said.  “Revenue initiatives have started to gain traction,”
Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Jauhari Yahya said in a separate
statement. “Our focus remains to increase revenue and manage
our costs.”  The carrier started flying Airbus A380s to  London  in July.
The superjumbos have helped lure lucrative business travelers,
Duncan Bureau, senior vice president for sales, said in an
October interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  