-- Tobacco Companies Must Admit They Lied on Products, Ads
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/altria-group-corrective-ad-statements-decided-by-u-s-judge.html
U.S. tobacco companies including
 Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s  Philip Morris USA  were told by a judge they
must publish warnings with their products, in advertisements and
on their websites saying they lied to the public about the
health hazards of smoking.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in Washington yesterday
ruled on the text of so-called corrective statements proposed by
the  Justice Department . According to the ruling, one states:
“Tobacco companies intentionally designed cigarettes to make
them more addictive.” Another says: “All cigarettes cause
cancer,  lung disease , heart attacks, and premature death.”  The statements stem from the government’s 1999 case against
the tobacco industry. In 2006, Kessler found the defendants,
also including  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard Tobacco, violated anti-
racketeering law by conspiring to hide cigarettes’ risks.  Kessler previously ordered the companies to stop marketing
cigarettes as “light” and “low-tar” and to make statements
about the health effects of smoking in newspapers and magazines
and on materials attached to cigarette packages.  Court’s Mandate  “This court has heeded its mandate to fashion corrective
statements that are purely factual and uncontroversial and are
directed at preventing and restraining the defendants from
deceiving the American public in the future,” Kessler said in
yesterday’s 55-page ruling.  Each of the five categories of statements begins with a
similar introduction stating that “a federal court has ruled
that the defendant  tobacco companies  deliberately deceived the
American public” then says “here is the truth” before going
into specifics on the dangers of smoking, health effects of
exposure to secondhand smoke, the addictiveness of nicotine and
the manipulation of cigarette design and composition.  One statement among those on adverse health effects reads:
“More people die every year from smoking than from murder,
AIDS, suicide, drugs, car crashes, and alcohol, combined.”  Yesterday’s ruling didn’t set a deadline for publication.
The types of media the companies use to convey commercial
messages changed dramatically in the six years since her initial
ruling, the judge said. She told the parties to report to her by
March 1 on efforts to devise a plan to disseminate the
statements.  Company Spokesmen  Brian May, a spokesman for Richmond, Virginia-based Altria,
said the company is studying the judge’s decision. He declined
to comment further. Bryan Hatchell, a spokesman for R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco, said the company was reviewing the decision
and considering its next steps.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, said in an
e-mail message that the department is pleased with the ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 99-cv-02496,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington federal court
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 