-- Amazon Fills Coffers Before Headquarters Deal: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-11-27T17:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/amazon-fills-coffers-before-headquarters-deal-corporate-finance.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  raised $3 billion in
the  bond market  after an absence of more than a decade as its
planned headquarters purchase is pushing  capital spending  beyond
the cash it generates for the first time since 2001.  The world’s largest online retailer issued three-, five-and
10-year debt yesterday in its first dollar-denominated offering
since 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds
will help fund the $1.16 billion purchase of Amazon’s corporate
base, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  That transaction, which the Seattle-based company expects
to complete in the fourth quarter, may boost 2012  capital
expenditures  to a record $3.1 billion, which would exceed
operating cash flow of $2.5 billion. Amazon’s bond sale after it
posted almost $3 billion of cash on Sept. 30 signals the company
may be willing to raise its debt burden to fund future
investments, according to DoubleLine Capital LP.  “Whether or not they’re going to be willing in the future
to push leverage up for capex is the main concern,” Jeffrey Lee, an analyst at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, which oversees
$50 billion of assets, said in a telephone interview. “Rates
are low and they’re just jumping on the bandwagon to issue.”  Amazon issued $750 million of 0.65 percent notes due in
2015, $1 billion of 1.2 percent, five-year debt and $1.25
billion of 10-year securities that pay a 2.5 percent coupon,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Investment Mode’  The coupons are less than the average yields of U.S.
investment-grade bonds with similar maturities, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Investment-grade bonds
maturing in about three years yield an average 1.7 percent, with
five- and 10-year bonds paying an average 2.1 percent and 3.5
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Amazon’s three- and 10-year debt fell today, with the 2.5
percent securities declining 0.17 cent on the dollar to 99.1
cents and yielding 2.6 percent 11:50 a.m. in  New York , according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. The five-year bonds rose 0.09
cent to 99.67.  “We’re in investment mode,” Craig Berman, an Amazon
spokesman, said yesterday in a Bloomberg television interview
with  Cory Johnson . “To accommodate the growth, and to
accommodate customers continuing to visit Amazon, we’ve been
expanding our fulfillment center network.”  Ty Rogers, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment on the
debt offering, which the company said in a regulatory filing
would fund general corporate purposes.  Capital Spending  “They’ve started to expand their product diversification,
as well as spend more money on infrastructure, to meet the
growth trajectory that they’ve experienced over the years,”
 Thomas Chow , a  money manager  at Delaware Investments in
Philadelphia with about $170 billion under management, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s one of those names that you just
don’t foresee being a near-term problem” with Amazon managing
“a very conservative balance sheet to this point,” he said.  Yesterday’s offering should  bolster  Amazon’s $5.2 billion
of cash and short-term investments, with capital spending set to
surge almost 70 percent from 2011, Bloomberg data show. The bond
sale will also more than double the company’s $2.7 billion of
long-term liabilities, which have increased from $652 million in
the first quarter of 2009.  11-Building Complex  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  “always has a long-term
focus on customer satisfaction and lowering costs, and that
historically has led to significant capital outlays,”  Joel Levington , managing director for corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment Management Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail
message. “The bonds provide flexibility for these actions.”  The debt will fund the purchase of Amazon’s 11-building
complex with 1.8 million square feet (167,000 square meters) of
space in  Seattle ’s South Lake Union neighborhood, Moody’s said
in the report. The transaction would be the largest of more than
$3 billion of office deals under contract or on the market in
Seattle, Kevin Shannon, vice chairman at Los Angeles-based real
estate services firm CBRE Group Inc., said before the agreement
was announced in an October regulatory filing.  The increase in spending coincides with cash from operating
activities that may drop 35 percent in 2012 to the lowest level
since 2008, Bloomberg data show. Amazon’s profit margin of 0.07
percent in the last 12 months is the least among profitable
companies in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index of stocks. The
gauge has declined from 3.83 percent in March 2010.  ‘Their Dominance’  Narrowing margins also helped to push Amazon’s  credit
rating  down to Baa1, according to Moody’s senior credit officer
Margaret Taylor. That’s four grades below the level implied by
Bloomberg’s  default risk scale .  “You look at the strength of the brand name, the size of
the business, their dominance in their market -- all of those
factors would support a higher rating,” Taylor said in a
telephone interview. “What brought them down from all those
really strong qualitatives were our concerns around the level of
future earnings.”  The online retailer is betting investments in technology
and hardware for the Kindle Fire tablet released last year and
money spent in its server-renting business will pay off down the
line. Equity investors are showing confidence the company will
make good on its growth plans. Shares of Amazon, which have
 surged 41 percent  this year and now cost 461 times its annual
earnings, are the most expensive of any company in the  S&P 500 ,
Bloomberg data show.  Cyber Monday  Amazon is poised to benefit from a record $43.4 billion
holiday sales season, according to a  report  from  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) ,
as shoppers increasingly rely on social networks and mobile
devices to find and buy merchandise. Web retailers have been
eager to exploit the growth of smartphones and tablets by
offering sales, with the bulk of deals rolled out yesterday on
so-called Cyber Monday.  “We see no danger to Amazon’s leading market position,”
David Kuntz, a credit analyst at S&P who ranked Amazon’s new
debt AA-, said in a report yesterday. A strong brand name, broad
product offerings, experienced management and geographic
diversity “far more than offset some of the risks from a rapid
growth strategy, margin erosion due to significant investment in
infrastructure and the drag of shipping costs exceeding shipping
revenues,” he wrote.  Amazon’s  sales  may rise to $62.1 billion this year, up from
$24.5 billion in 2009 and more than 400 times the sales recorded
in 1997, when the company went public after Bezos wrote out a
business plan for an online bookseller on a cross-country car
ride to Seattle.  While sales growth of 41 percent last year was more than
triple the average among S&P 500 firms, increases in operating
expenses at the online retailer have outpaced its rise in
revenue for the past three years, Bloomberg data show. Expenses
of $13.1 billion in the last 12 months accounted for 23 percent
of revenue, the highest level since 2001.  “They’re involved in some pretty capital-intensive
projects in terms of trying to win more market share,”  James Goldstein , an analyst at bond research firm CreditSights Inc. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “Going to the bond
market and issuing at the prices they’re seeing, which are
pretty low, is attractive to them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  