-- Manchester United Wants QPR’s Taarabt, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-11-27T11:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/manchester-united-wants-qpr-s-taarabt-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Taarabt Manchester-Bound?  Manchester United  manager  Alex Ferguson  may make a move for
Queens Park Rangers’ midfielder Adel Taarabt, the  Sun  reported.  The 23-year-old from Morocco could be brought in as a
replacement for Portugal winger Nani and England international
 Ashley Young , the newspaper said.  Nani has scored two goals this season, while Young is still
seeking his first.  Taarabt was sold to QPR from Tottenham Hotspur for one
million pounds ($1.6 million) in the 2010-2011 season.  Baines to Leave?  United’s Ferguson is also targeting Everton’s Leighton Baines as a replacement for Patrice Evra, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Ferguson had tried to land Ashley Cole from Chelsea, but
has given up as it looks “increasingly likely” the England
player will join his former boss  Carlo Ancelotti  at Paris Saint-
Germain, the paper said.  Ferguson now wants to re-open talks with Everton for the 15
million pound-defender.  Suarez’s Price Tag  Liverpool player  Luis Suarez  may leave Anfield at the end
of the season for as much as 40 million pounds, the  Daily
Express  reported.  The player, who joined Liverpool from Ajax in January 2011
for 22.8 million pounds, is wanted by Chelsea and Manchester
City. The Uruguay player is top scorer in the Premier League
with 10 goals.  De Rossi’s City?  Manchester City has held talks with 29-year-old Italy and
AS Roma player Daniele de Rossi about a January move, the  Daily
Star  reported.
 The midfielder, who is valued at 25 million pounds, has played
 for Italy 82 times and is the best-paid player in the Serie A.  Jack’s Talks  Arsenal has started new contract talks with midfielder  Jack Wilshere , and may be offered the captain’s role, the  Daily Mail 
said.  The 20-year-old would get a big increase on his current
50,000 pound a week contract, which expires in 2 ½ years, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  