-- Apple, LG Electronics Face Alcatel-Lucent in Patent Trial
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-11-27T23:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/apple-and-lg-electronics-face-trial-over-alcatel-lucent-patents.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
infringed an  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  unit’s patents for electronic
devices including phones and computers, a lawyer said at the
start of a trial.  The  jury trial , which began today in federal court in San
Diego, stems from a 2010 lawsuit by the Paris-based company’s
Multimedia Patent Trust accusing Apple and LG Electronics of
copying video-compression technology that allows data to be sent
more efficiently over communications media, including the
Internet and satellites, or stored on DVDs and Blu-Ray disks.  “Apple and LG have chosen not to license these patents
while 33 other companies have paid over $190 million for these
licenses,” Frederick Lorig, an attorney for the patent trust,
told the jury. He said the trust was unable to negotiate a
license with Apple “even though a company as prominent as
Motorola is paying $18 million to license the patents. And Apple
sells four times the number of infringing products that Motorola
does.”  The trust claims its patents are infringed by products
including multiple versions of Apple’s iPhone, iPod, iPad and
MacBook, as well as LG Electronics’s Chocolate Touch VX8575,
Bliss UX700, Touch AX8575, Lotus Elite LX610, Mystique UN610 and
Samba LG8575.  “The motion pictures you see on your screens are made
possible by these patents,” Lorig said today. “This technology
lets you download in half the time and store twice as much
content.”  Electronic Advances  Attorneys for Apple and LG Electronics told jurors that
their companies had already paid the Multimedia Patent Trust for
the technology covered by the patents from an industrywide
“pay-as-you-go” pool. They said the trust is trying to broaden
the scope of its intellectual property to cover new electronic
advances in the allegedly infringing products based on
technology that supersedes the patents.  “LG and Apple are not going to pay rent for technology
they do not use,” said Juanita Brooks, an attorney for
Cupertino, California-based Apple. “Why are we here in this
trial? They are trying to get $170 million from Apple. I can
think of 170 million reasons they are asking us to pay more than
all of the other licensees combined.”  Michael McKeon, an attorney for Seoul-based LG Electronics,
told jurors “what we have here is MPT trying to double dip. It
is suing over technology it does not own.”  The Alcatel-Lucent patent trust said in court filings that
it seeks a “reasonable royalty” based on what it would have
been paid if a licensing agreement had been reached before the
infringements began.  Licensing Negotiations  Those licensing negotiations would have occurred in 2005
for the Apple products and 2009 for the LG Electronics products,
according to court filings. Apple is accused of infringing three
Alcatel-Lucent patents and LG Electronics is alleged to have
infringed two of the patents.  The Alcatel-Lucent trust didn’t specify in pretrial filings
how much it seeks in damages. According to court filings, a
financial expert for the trust estimated that licensing
negotiations could have resulted in Apple paying a $195.9
million royalty and LG Electronics a $9.1 million royalty.  U.S. District Judge Marilyn Huff ruled that some of the
economic assumptions made by the patent trust’s expert weren’t
proper and said those figures should be adjusted.  Huff told jurors to expect the trial to take about two
weeks.  The case is Multimedia Patent Trust v. Apple, 3:10-
cv-02618, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California 
( San Diego ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in federal court in San Diego at
 Callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  