-- Arafat Remains in Ramallah Are Exhumed in Poisoning Probe
-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-11-27T14:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/arafat-remains-in-ramallah-are-exhumed-in-poisoning-probe-1-.html
The remains of former Palestinian
leader Yasser Arafat were exhumed today as part of a probe into
allegations he was poisoned.  Arafat’s tomb in the West Bank city of Ramallah was opened
at about 5 a.m., according to a senior Palestinian security
official, who was at the site and declined to be identified
because of the sensitivity of the matter. It will take three
months to get the results, according to Abdullah Al Basheer, a
member of the investigating team.  Arafat’s wife Suha requested an autopsy after reports in
July that a Swiss laboratory had detected high levels of the
radioactive isotope polonium in Arafat’s clothes, which have
been in storage since his death in 2004. Palestinians have
accused  Israel  of causing Arafat’s death, though no conclusive
evidence has been presented. Israel denies killing him.  “We are convinced that Israel did it, but we are after
proof in order to take Israel to the  International Criminal
Court ,” Tawfiq Tirawi, head of the Palestinian investigation
committee into Arafat’s death, said in Ramallah today.  Palestinians planned to have the process of opening
Arafat’s tomb medically and legally supervised by teams of
experts from Switzerland,  France  and  Russia , Tiwari told
reporters on Nov. 24. The tomb would then be closed again within
a few hours after testing, and no member of the Arafat family
would be present, he said.  Forensic Test  “A Palestinian forensic did the testing according to the
instruction of the teams,” Hani Abdeen, the Palestinian
Authority’s health minister, said today. The site of Arafat’s
resting place was covered with blue tarpaulins, obscuring it
from view from passersby.  Arafat, who founded the  Palestine Liberation Organization ,
died in a French hospital at the age of 75. Doctors at the Percy
military hospital in Clamart, France, said he suffered from a
brain hemorrhage and fell into a coma before he died.  Polonium, which had been stirred into a cup of tea, was
identified as the substance that killed  Alexander Litvinenko , a
former KGB agent who became a critic of the Russian government.
Litvinenko died in 2006 after being poisoned in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  