-- Archstone Deal Gives High-Growth Units to Zell, AvalonBay
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t ,   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-11-27T21:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/archstone-deal-gives-high-growth-units-to-zell-avalonbay.html
Buying  Archstone Inc. (ASN)  will give
Equity Residential and  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)  apartments in
U.S. markets where development is difficult and rents are rising
even as growth of the multifamily market slows nationally.  Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential, the largest publicly traded
U.S. apartment landlord, will acquire about 60 percent of
Archstone, and AvalonBay, the second-biggest, will get the rest,
the companies said yesterday. The purchase from Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., valued at $6.5 billion in cash and stock, will
increase the size of Equity Residential’s portfolio by 20
percent and AvalonBay’s by 37 percent.  The acquisition will help the landlords grow quickly in
coastal cities where expansion is hard because of the scarcity
and high cost of land, said Craig Leupold, president of Green
Street Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach , California-based research
firm. Those areas are likely to hold up better than the U.S.
overall, with its slowing growth in rents and occupancies.  The markets “have traditionally been more highly sought
after because they tend to have higher barriers to entry and
have enjoyed better demand, translating into better-than-average
rent growth,” said Leupold, who has buy ratings on  Equity
Residential (EQR)  and AvalonBay. “Also, the cost of homeownership is
much higher in those markets, so the propensity to rent is
higher.”  Coastal Markets  Equity Residential’s properties will be located mostly in
 Washington , D.C.;  San Francisco ; Southern  California ; and  New
York , while AvalonBay’s will be chiefly in the mid-Atlantic
region and  Southern California , the real estate investment
trusts said in separate statements. The transaction will give
Chicago-based Equity Residential 78 properties with 23,110
apartments, while Arlington, Virginia-based AvalonBay will
receive 66 complexes with 22,222 units, putting it ahead of
Camden Property Trust and Apartment Investment & Management Co.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Equity Residential climbed 1.5 percent to $55.25 at the
close of New York trading, while AvalonBay rose 2.6 percent to
$132.35. While investors will benefit from the deal because
Lehman scrapped an Archstone initial public offering as part of
the plan, there may be “near-term pain” for shareholders
because the companies are issuing stock that may dilute value,
Rod Petrik, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore,
said in a note to clients today.  “The equity raised for this deal will pale in comparison
to the potential of the $6.5 billion Lehman equity overhang, had
the IPO moved forward,” Petrik wrote.  Growth Peaks  Multifamily REITs have fallen this year as the rental
market slows. While U.S. apartment rents are projected to rise
through 2017, the rate of annual growth peaked in the second
quarter of 2011 at 5.1 percent, Axiometrics Inc. said in
September. Rents are on pace to gain about 4 percent nationally
this year, according to the Dallas-based research firm.  A Bloomberg gauge of 16  apartment REITs  fell 1.2 percent in
2012 through yesterday. A decline for the year would be the
first since the financial crisis in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Including reinvested dividends, the gauge
has returned 1.3 percent this year, trailing a 14 percent gain
for a broader index of 126 publicly traded REITs, the data show.  Investor interest in apartments is waning, in part because
record-low  mortgage rates  are turning some potential renters
into homebuyers. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo index of  builder confidence  increased to 46 this month,
the highest level since May 2006, from 41 in October, figures
from the Washington-based group showed on Nov. 19.  ‘Particularly Attractive’  With the purchase of Archstone, AvalonBay and Equity
Residential are focusing on expanding in markets where they
expect apartment demand to stay relatively strong.  “It has been our strategy to more deeply penetrate our
high-barrier-to-entry core coastal markets,” AvalonBay Chief
Executive Officer Timothy J. Naughton said yesterday on a
conference call about the deal. The Southern California
properties are “particularly attractive not only over the
longer term but also over the next several years.”  Equity Residential has been “working hard to reduce the
capital commitment in lower-barrier, lower-cost housing markets,
and redeploy this capital into more urban, high-barrier markets
along the coasts,” CEO David Neithercut said on the call. “The
Archstone portfolio contains the kind of high-quality properties
in these core markets that we’ve been adding to our own on a
one-off basis over the last 10 years.”  Property Sales  The company said it will fund the acquisition in part
through the sale of as much as $4 billion in properties. Equity
Residential will sell “a large portion of our remaining
assets” in Phoenix; Atlanta; Orlando and Jacksonville,  Florida ;
and California’s  Inland Empire , Neithercut said. Its purchase
includes four projects with 1,225 units that are under
construction and 15 parcels of land.  The combined purchase price includes $2.69 billion in cash
and Equity Residential and AvalonBay shares valued at $3.8
billion as of the market’s close on Nov. 23. The buyers will
assume about $9.5 billion of debt and $330 million of preferred
equity. Of the debt to be assumed, about $8.6 billion is held by
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  “By bringing in AvalonBay as a partner, EQR was able to
share the risk and finance the deal more easily than working
alone,” Alexander Goldfarb, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, said in an interview. He has a buy
rating on Equity Residential and a hold on AvalonBay. “It’s a
unique opportunity,” he said.  Cash, Stock  Equity Residential said that it will pay its portion of the
transaction with about $2.02 billion in cash and 34.5 million
shares issued to Lehman. It will assume $5.5 billion of debt,
and obtained a commitment for a $2.5 billion bridge loan from
Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc.  Equity Residential expects the transaction to lower its
2013 normalized  funds from operations  by as much as 4 cents a
share, chiefly because of the planned property sales, it said in
its statement. FFO is a measure of  cash flow  used by real estate
investors.  The company intends to sell between $3 billion and $4
billion of assets, with $1 billion expected to close before the
Archstone deal, $650 million under contract or intended to be,
and the rest over the course of 2013. It will sell 19 million
shares to help fund the acquisition.  “If capital market conditions erode, EQR could see
increased dilution from the transaction,” Jeffrey Donnelly, an
analyst at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC , wrote in a note today.  Share Sale  AvalonBay’s portion of the transaction includes $669
million in cash, about 14.9 million shares issued to Lehman and
the assumption of $3.9 billion of debt. Goldman Sachs Lending
Partners LLC agreed to provide a $2.2 billion bridge loan should
“additional lender consents not be received,” AvalonBay said.
The company also is selling 14.5 million shares to the public.  AvalonBay said it expects to increase its first-quarter
 dividend  by 8 percent to 12 percent, in part because of the
acquisition.  Equity Residential and AvalonBay have 120 days to complete
the transaction, which isn’t subject to shareholder approval and
doesn’t have any financing contingencies. The purchase is
scheduled for completion in the first quarter of 2013. Should
the buyers fail to “perform their obligations” under the
transaction agreements, they will be required to pay damages to
Lehman of as much as $800 million, AvalonBay said.  After the deal is finished, Lehman will be the single
biggest investor in both Equity Residential, with a 9.8 percent
stake, and AvalonBay, with 13.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  