-- Argentina Rating Downgraded by Fitch on ‘Probable’ Default
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-11-27T22:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/argentina-downgraded-by-fitch-on-probable-default-from-ruling.html
Argentina ’s credit rating was cut by
Fitch Ratings, which said a default is probable after a U.S.
judge ruled the country can’t make payments on its restructured
bonds unless it pays holders of defaulted debt by Dec. 15.  The rating on Argentina’s international law bonds was
lowered to CC, eight levels below investment grade, from B,
Fitch said today in an e-mailed statement. It cut the rating on
bonds sold under Argentine law to B- from B.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa ruled on Nov. 21
Argentina must deposit $1.33 billion for creditors who rejected
the terms of the country’s two debt restructurings before it
makes a $3 billion coupon payment to holders of performing
securities next month. Fitch said the country’s failure to make
a payment on warrants that are linked to economic growth would
be considered a default on the country’s other debt securities
issued under international law.  “The downgrade of the long-term foreign currency IDR
reflects Fitch’s view that a default by Argentina is probable,”
Lucila Broide, an analyst at Fitch in New York, said in the
statement.  Yesterday, the Argentine government and holders of the
country’s restructured bonds asked a federal appeals court for
an emergency stay to block the judge’s orders. In an e-mailed
statement, the  Economy Ministry  said that Griesa’s decision is
unfair and that a scenario where holdouts seek equal terms as
investors who accepted swaps in restructurings could be debated
in Congress.  Speculation that Argentina will halt payments on performing
bonds rather than pay the holdouts has made its debt the
costliest in the world to insure against non-payment, according
to credit default swaps. Argentine dollar bonds have plunged 13
percent since Griesa’s decision, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lester Pimentel at 
 lpimentel1@bloomberg.net  