-- Marvin Miller, Union Chief Who Reshaped Baseball, Dies at 95
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-11-27T17:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/marvin-miller-union-leader-who-reshaped-baseball-dies-at-95.html
Marvin Miller , who transformed the
economics of  Major League Baseball  as the longtime leader of its
players union, has died. He was 95.  He died at his Manhattan home early this morning, the  Major
League Baseball Players Association  said. He had been diagnosed
with  liver cancer  in August, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing his daughter, Susan.  As the first full-time executive director of the players
 association , from 1966 to 1983,  Miller  led a labor uprising that
established players as so-called free agents who could sell
their services to the highest bidder. The shift radically
reduced the power of baseball team owners.  Miller’s legacy included big pay raises for players --
average salaries rose to $326,000 from $19,000 during his tenure
and have reached  $3 million  -- as well as recurring labor wars
that hurt the sport. Baseball endured three strikes by players
and two lockouts by owners during Miller’s 17-year tenure, twice
resulting in canceled games.  That tumultuous legacy made  baseball  the big-money industry
it is today and left Miller both respected and resented.  “If baseball ever buys itself a mountain and starts
carving faces in it, one of the first men to go up is sure to be
Marvin Miller,” historian  Bill James  wrote in an introduction
to Miller’s 1991  memoir .  ‘Hired Gun’  Miller’s longtime adversary, baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn, called him “a prisoner of his own ego above all things.”
Robin Roberts, a player who helped select him to head the union,
later lamented that Miller “often acted like he was just a
hired union gun” unconcerned with “the welfare of the game of
baseball.”  On three occasions, Miller was nominated for election to
the National Baseball  Hall of Fame  but didn’t earn enough votes
from veteran executives, players and sportswriters.  Those paying tribute to Miller today included union leaders
of other major sports. “It is impossible to overstate Marvin
Miller’s impact on the growth and structure of the modern sports
industry,”  Billy Hunter , executive director of the National
Basketball Players Association, said in a statement.  “His most powerful message was that players would remain
unified during labor strife if they remembered the sacrifices
made by previous generations to make the game better,” said
 DeMaurice Smith , executive director of the National Football
League Players Association.  Lacking Power  Miller was a 25-year veteran of labor negotiations when he
took over the baseball union in 1966. He found a sport that
would hardly be recognized today.  Salaries ranged from $6,000 to $100,000. Players lacked the
power to change teams and so were “held as property” by
owners, Miller wrote in his memoir, “A Whole Different Ball
Game.” Many players, grateful for the chance to play sports for
a living, looked skeptically at union activity.  “I loved baseball, and I loved a good fight, and, in my
mind, ballplayers were among the most exploited workers in
America,” Miller wrote.  Over the next few years, Miller’s union made strides in
negotiating baseball’s first collective bargaining agreements.
The minimum salary was raised to $10,000. Loosened eligibility
rules made more current and former players part of the pension
plan.  Biggest Battle  Miller also bargained hard with the Topps Co., doubling to
$250 the annual fee to players for appearing on trading cards.
More important, the union got a cut of card sales, its first
independent source of funding.  The biggest battle was over baseball’s “reserve clause,”
which bound a player to his team even after his contract
expired.  In 1969  Curt Flood , a veteran outfielder for the  St. Louis
Cardinals , was traded to the  Philadelphia Phillies . Since his
contract with  St. Louis  had expired, Flood wanted to sign with a
team of his choosing.  With support from Miller and the union, Flood went to court
to overturn baseball’s exemption from antitrust laws,
established in a 1922 Supreme Court decision.  Though Flood lost, his case opened up another route to
challenge the system. In 1970 Miller got the league to agree to
send player-management disputes to an independent arbitrator.
Owners had previously insisted that the commissioner handle such
matters; now they needed to blunt Flood’s argument that players
had no rights.  Test Case  Miller immediately sought to test the new system by having
a player go through a season without signing a contract and then
declare himself a free agent. The league, invoking the reserve
clause, would say he had to stay put. Then the union would take
a challenge to the arbitrator.  In 1975, pitchers  Andy Messersmith  of the  Los Angeles
Dodgers  and Dave McNally of the Montreal Expos played the season
unsigned. Arbitrator Peter Seitz ruled both could sign with new
teams, and the reserve system crumbled.  Seitz later called Miller “the Moses who led baseball’s
children of  Israel  out of the land of bondage.” Owners and
players agreed in 1976 that players can become free agents after
six years in the big leagues. That system exists today.  The era of owner dominance was over. In 1990, baseball
owners agreed to pay hundreds of millions of dollars after
arbitrators found they had colluded to restrain the free-agent
market. Although owners in 2002 created a “luxury tax” on the
highest-paying teams in an attempt to control soaring payrolls,
baseball remained the only one of the four major American sports
without a cap on player salaries.  Brooklyn Upbringing  Marvin Julian Miller was born on April 14, 1917, in  New
York  City and grew up in  Brooklyn  not far from  Ebbets Field ,
home of the Dodgers. He said his love of baseball, stickball and
handball stole time from Hebrew school, forcing him to cram for
his bar mitzvah.  His father, Alexander, sold women’s coats in lower
Manhattan. His mother, Gertrude, taught elementary school.  Miller skipped grades and entered high school at 11. He
said the Great Depression influenced his decision to study
economics and advocate for workers.  He graduated  New York University  in 1938 and worked at the
 New York City  welfare department. After the war he worked as a
commissioner with the U.S. Labor Department’s Conciliation
Service, then as a negotiator with the International Association
of Machinists and the  United Auto Workers .  Chief Economist  He joined the Steelworkers in 1950 as a staff economist and
worked his way up to chief economist and assistant to the
president.  In 1965 Miller met with Roberts, a Philadelphia Phillies
pitcher active in the players’ union. The players, concerned
about the share of television revenue going to their  pension
plan , had decided to hire a full-time director after years of
running the union themselves.  Miller started work on July 1, 1966. By year’s end,
baseball had its first agreement reached through collective
bargaining, covering pensions and insurance. An agreement on
salaries took effect in 1968.  Relations between players and owners deteriorated,
culminating in a 1972 strike that Miller insisted was the “very
last thing I wanted.” He accused owners of baiting players into
the 13-day strike by proposing to cut their contribution to the
pension plan.  The walkout was a turning point. “After that first strike,
it seems to me that Marvin became a much more confrontational,
combative union head,” Roberts wrote in his 2003  memoir .  Lockouts, Strikes  Owners briefly locked players out of spring training in
1973, part of a showdown that ended with players earning the
right to have salary disputes decided by binding arbitration.
Another pre-season lockout occurred in 1976, as owners and
players haggled over the mechanics of free agency.  Players struck in 1980 and 1981 over proposals by owners
for teams to be compensated when they lose a free agent. The
1981 midseason strike forced the cancellation of 712 games over
50 days.  Miller worked as a consultant to the players’ union after
retiring as executive director in 1983. He downplayed concerns
that steroid use undermined the game’s integrity.  “Alleged to be of crisis proportions, the matter of
steroids continues to be a media-driven series of stories,
helped along by politicians currying votes,” he wrote in a 2004
afterword to his memoir.  Miller married Theresa Morgenstern. Their son, Peter, has
represented the U.S. baseball players’ union in  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  