-- Marvin Miller’s Combative Legacy: Labor Peace
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-11-27T18:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/marvin-miller-s-combative-legacy-labor-peace.html
The  National Hockey League  is
currently in the midst of a crippling owner lockout that’s
threatening to wipe out its second season in fewer than 10
years. An owner lockout last year forced the  National Basketball
Association  to shorten its schedule by 16 games. And then
there’s the  National Football League , which locked out its
players before last season and its officials this season.  Only one of the U.S.’s four major professional sports
leagues has been blissfully free of labor strife in recent
years:  Major League Baseball . In baseball, and baseball alone,
the owners and players are content divvying up the soaring piles
of money generated largely by TV revenues.  In fact, it’s been so long since baseball suffered a
serious labor dispute -- nearly two decades, if you’re counting
-- that it’s easy to forget that it wasn’t always thus. There
was a time when the owners had all of the power, and with it all
of the money. A provision in the standard labor contract known
as  the reserve clause  allowed them to keep players for the
duration of their careers -- and even cut their pay by as much
as 20 percent.  And then along came  Marvin Miller , who  died today  at the
age of 95.  Miller arrived at the  Major League Baseball Players
Association  in 1966 from the Steelworkers union, and he didn’t
see any reason why ballplayers should be any less aggressive
than steel workers about asserting their rights. It took some
doing. At the time, most players saw it as a privilege to be
getting paid to play a kids’ game. They considered baseball a
sport, not a business.  Miller persuaded the players to trust him, and persuaded
the courts that he was right -- that ballplayers were no
different from any other U.S. workers. All of them deserved the
right to seek the highest available price for their services.  When he locks down what will almost certainly be a $200-
million plus deal this off-season,  Josh Hamilton  may want to
thank not only the divine being whom he credits with saving him
from drug addiction and poverty, but the earthly one who
delivered him from baseball’s reserve clause.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
 Follow  him on Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the
Ticker .
 