-- Stocks Retreat While Treasuries Rise on Budget Deadlock
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2012-11-27T21:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/asian-stocks-climb-euro-strengthens-as-greece-aid-deal-reached.html
U.S. stocks fell for a second day
and Treasuries rose as Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said
budget talks in  Washington  have made little progress. The dollar
strengthened while oil, gold and cocoa led commodities lower.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.5 percent to close
at 1,398.94 at 4 p.m. in New York after earlier climbing 0.2
percent. The dollar rose against 13 of 16 major peers, while
crude and gold futures decreased at least 0.4 percent. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  ended 0.3 percent higher. Ten-year Treasury
yields were down 2.6 basis points at 1.64 percent.  Equities  extended losses  as Reid told reporters he was
disappointed with the lack of progress among lawmakers in budget
talks, and “we have to get away from the happy talk and start
talking about specific things.” Concern about the budget
deadlock overshadowed economic data showing demand for U.S.
capital goods increased, home prices rose by the most since 2010
and consumer confidence reached a more-than four-year high.  “Comments from Majority Leader Reid about ‘little
progress’ being made in fiscal-cliff talks, after last week’s
optimism, sparked an immediate knee-jerk reaction lower,”
Michael James, a managing director of equity trading at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in Los Angeles, said in an e-mail.  Gauges of energy, financial and telephone companies lost at
least 0.7 percent to lead declines among the  10 main industry
groups  in the S&P 500, with only utilities advancing.  Market Leaders  Hewlett-Packard Co. slipped 3 percent after saying it
uncovered evidence of improper accounting at Autonomy Corp., a
software company it bought last year. Seagate Technology Plc
slumped 5.1 percent after a CLSA Asia Pacific Markets analyst
said the “magnitude” of the personal-computer slowdown in
 emerging markets  was worse than previously thought. Corning Inc.
jumped 6.9 percent after forecasting stronger-than-anticipated
retail demand for consumer electronics this quarter.  U.S. stocks retreated yesterday following a 3.6 percent
rally in the S&P 500  last week . The index has lost 2.1 percent
since President  Barack Obama ’s re-election on Nov. 6 set up a
budget showdown with House Republicans, paring a decline of as
much as 5.3 percent through Nov. 15. The Congressional Budget
Office has said a failure to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff
could lead to a recession and a jobless rate of about 9 percent,
compared with the October rate of 7.9 percent.  Reid said that following a Nov. 16 White House meeting,
Republicans backed away from earlier openness to considering new
tax revenue as part of a year-end deal to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff, $607 billion in tax increases and spending
reductions set to begin in January.  ‘Happy Talk’  “They talked some happy talk about doing revenues, but we
only have a couple weeks to get something done,” Reid said.
“So we have to get away from the happy talk and start talking
about specific things.”  The dollar also strengthened as Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas President Richard Fisher said he advocates putting limits
on U.S. quantitative easing. The Fed could announce “a limit as
to how much we are going to acquire of Treasuries and mortgage-
backed securities,” Fisher said today in Berlin. “It is my
personal preference to do it sooner than later, perhaps at the
next meeting.”  Durable Goods  In economic reports, bookings for non-defense capital goods
excluding aircraft, a proxy for future business investment, rose
1.7 percent last month, the most since May, the Commerce
Department said. Orders for all durable goods were little
changed, beating the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg that projected a 0.7 percent drop.  Home prices  rose in the year ended in September by the most
since July 2010, showing the recovery in the U.S. real estate
market is a source of economic strength. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of values in 20 cities climbed 3 percent from September
2011, after advancing 2 percent in the year to August. The
median forecast of 29 economists in a survey projected a 3
percent gain.  U.S.  consumer confidence  rose in November to the highest
level since February 2008. The Conference Board’s confidence
index climbed to 73.7, the highest since February 2008, from a
revised 73.1 reading the prior month. The median forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a reading of 73.  European Markets  Three shares gained for every two that declined in the
Stoxx 600. The gauge slipped 0.5 percent yesterday, halting a
five-day advance.  Germany ’s 10-year yield touched a three-week
high after the Greek aid deal was struck.  The euro weakened against 12 of 16 major peers, losing more
than 0.3 percent versus the South African rand and South Korean
won, on concern an aid deal for  Greece  may falter. Euro-area
finance chiefs and the International Monetary Fund said they
would cut Greece’s interest rates and give it more time to pay
back rescue loans after the repurchase of government debt.  “Giving Greece more money is not the solution to any
problem -- it’s a Band-Aid at this stage,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York. “Any kind of rattling news that something
will jeopardize the deal, or further demands, is going to have a
negative effect.”  The price of Greece ’s 2 percent bonds maturing in February
2023 climbed 0.645 to 34.94 percent of face value. European
finance ministers said in a statement that “any tender or
exchange prices” as part of a buyback of Greek securities “are
expected to be no higher than those at the close” on Nov. 23,
when the price was 34.355 cents on the euro.  European Yields  Italy’s two-year yield fell two basis points to 1.97
percent after the government sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion) of 2014 notes, the maximum set for the auction, at the
1.923 percent, down from 2.397 in October. The rate on similar-
maturity Spanish notes fell eight basis points to 2.92 percent.  Gold futures declined the most in a week, losing 0.4
percent to $1,742.30 an ounce, after UBS AG analysts said buying
in  India  has retreated. Silver futures for March delivery slid
0.5 percent to $34.07 an ounce in New York while Crude oil
declined 0.6 percent to $87.18 a barrel.  Speculators raised bullish commodity wagers for the first
time since early October as signs of improving economic growth
in the U.S. and  China  pushed prices higher for three straight
weeks.  Hedge funds and other money managers increased combined
net-long positions across 18 U.S. futures and options by 9.6
percent to 846,321 contracts in the week ended Nov. 20,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. That was the
biggest gain since mid-August. Corn holdings rose the most since
July, and those on silver reached a five-week high.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index erased earlier gains to fall 0.9 percent,
while India’s Sensex rallied 1.7 percent. Benchmark gauges in
South Korea,  Thailand  and the Czech Republic added at least 0.5
percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped below the 2,000
level to the lowest close since January 2009, and  Russia ’s Micex
Index lost 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  