-- Asian Stocks Rise on Greece Debt Deal; China Shares Fall
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-11-27T10:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/asian-stocks-gain-as-draghi-says-greece-accord-reached.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a fifth day
after European finance ministers cut borrowing costs for  Greece .
Chinese shares fell, with the Shanghai Composite Index closing
at a three-year low, even as the nation’s industrial profits
accelerated.  CSL Ltd. (CSL) , Australia’s biggest drugmaker, surged 6.9 percent
in Sydney to a record after saying it expects profit growth of
about 20 percent. Tatts Group Ltd. jumped 2.8 percent after the
lottery operator won a 40-year gaming contract in  South
Australia . China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd.
and Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. each fell more than 3
percent after billionaire Zhang Zhi Rong quit as chairman of the
companies.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.4 percent to 123.84
as of 7:50 p.m. in  Tokyo , extending the benchmark gauge’s
longest winning streak since the second week of September.
 International Monetary Fund  Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said her aim to get Greece’s debt on a “sustainable path” was
achieved in discussions in Brussels.  “They jumped the latest hurdle in the crisis, and the
market is taking a sigh of relief,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, Tokyo-
based senior strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of
Japan’s third-largest bank by market value. “Budget issues for
Greece will probably come back a few times.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.4 percent,
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.7 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi Index jumped 0.9 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
added 0.3 percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.3 percent, closing
at its lowest level since Jan. 23, 2009, while Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index lost 0.1 percent.  ‘No Confidence’  “Investors have no confidence in long-term growth
prospects and the government isn’t doing much to reverse the
situation,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment
officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co., which manages $120
million. “Trading values may fall even further.”  Trading volume on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index was 17
percent below the 30-day intraday average, while that on the
Shanghai Composite Index was 7.8 percent lower, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  S&P 500  swung between gain and losses today.
The gauge fell 0.2 percent yesterday, following its biggest
weekly advance since June, as U.S. lawmakers prepared to debate
the so-called fiscal cliff.  Congress will return from the Thanksgiving recess this
week, seeking a budget deal to avoid more than $600 billion of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts next year. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has said a failure to avoid the
fiscal cliff could lead to a recession and a jobless rate of
about 9 percent, compared with the October rate of 7.9 percent.  Greek Deal  In the fourth Greek crisis meeting in two weeks, euro
region finance ministers persuaded a skeptical International
Monetary Fund that Europe has a formula for rescuing the country
that triggered the debt crisis. Greece also was cleared to
receive a 34.4 billion euro ($44.7 billion) loan installment in
December.  “All initiatives decided upon today will bring Greece’s
public debt clearly back on a sustainable path,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters after chairing
a meeting that ended early today. “This has been a very
difficult deal.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 13 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through yesterday as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a slowdown in
China may be ending. The gauge traded at 13.9 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.6 times for the  S&P 500 Index  and
12.4 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  CSL Soars  CSL soared 6.9 percent to A$50.01 after the drugmaker  said
earnings  after tax in constant-currency terms will climb 20
percent in the year ending June 2013 on higher revenue from its
blood products unit and sales of Gardasil cervical cancer
vaccine.  Tatts Group climbed 2.8 percent to A$2.91. The company will
pay A$427 million ($447 million) for the 40-year gaming
contract, which leaves it with control of lotteries in seven of
Australia’s eight states and territories. The deal will help
lift lottery earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization to more than A$300 million in the year through June
2014, up from A$224 million last year, it said.  Miners Jump  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, rose
0.6 percent to A$34.20 and Rio Tinto Group gained 1 percent to
A$57.78 in Sydney as copper climbed for a fourth day on the
London Metals Exchange.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  gained 3.7 percent to 225,000 won and Kia
Motors Corp. rose 2.9 percent to 59,500 won in Seoul amid
speculation U.S. sales at the Korean carmakers will weather
lawsuits tied to overstated mileage claims.  Among stocks that dropped, China Rongsheng Heavy declined
6.7 percent to HK$1.40 and Glorious Property slid 3.2 percent to
HK$1.20. Zhang, the founder and biggest shareholder in both
businesses, quit their boards about five weeks after another
company he controlled agreed to pay $14 million to resolve U.S.
inside-trading claims. His departure is unrelated to the claims,
iPR Ogilvy in  Hong Kong , which handles his public relations,
said in an e-mailed reply to questions from  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  