-- Australia, N.Z. Growth Outlook Cut by OECD on Weaker Global View
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-27T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/australia-n-z-growth-outlook-cut-by-oecd-on-weaker-global-view.html
Australia  and New Zealand will grow
at a slower pace than previously forecast, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said, reflecting sustained
strength in their currencies and a weaker global outlook.  Gross domestic product will rise 3 percent in Australia in
2013, still the group’s fastest-growing developed economy, down
from 3.7 percent projected in May, the OECD said in a report
released in Paris today. New Zealand will expand 2.4 percent
next year, compared with a prior prediction of 2.8 percent, the
report showed.  Policy makers in the export-driven economies are grappling
with the best performing Group of 10 currencies in the past
year, weaker commodity prices, strengthening property markets
and fiscal tightening.  New Zealand  is rebuilding earthquake-
devastated areas, while Australia’s central bank is trying to
spur residential construction to take up slack in the economy as
a mining-investment boom crests.  In Australia, “activity should remain sluggish in many
sectors that must adjust to a strong dollar, and budget-
tightening will damp demand in 2012-13,” the OECD said. “These
factors will be partially offset, however, by easier monetary
and financial conditions, which should stimulate housing
investment.”  The OECD projects the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will lower
the  overnight cash rate target  from the current 3.25 percent as
“credit growth has remained subdued, partly reflecting
households’ reduced appetite for housing debt because of rising
global uncertainties.”  Rate Bets  Traders are pricing in a 61 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 3 percent
at its meeting Dec. 4, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s still above the near zero rates in the U.S.,  Japan  and
 Europe  that have encouraged buying of the Australian dollar.  In New Zealand, the central bank has kept borrowing costs
at a  record low of 2.5 percent  since March last year to help the
economy recover from quakes that rocked the South Island city of
Christchurch.  “The economy is set to expand at only a modest pace with
headwinds from weak external demand, a strong currency, high
household indebtedness and fiscal consolidation,” the OECD said
of New Zealand. It projects reconstruction from the temblors
will provide “the main impetus” for growth over the next two
years.  Traders are pricing in an 86 percent chance New Zealand’s
central bank will hold its benchmark borrowing cost at its
meeting Dec. 6, the swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “As earthquake rebuilding accelerates, however, supply
constraints and skills shortages are likely to boost wage and
price pressures, especially in the construction sector,” the
OECD said. The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand “will need to
monitor these developments closely and, as slack is taken up,
begin removing monetary stimulus in 2014,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  