-- Hostess Chapter 11 Trustee Sought by Bakers’ Union
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-11-27T20:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/bakers-union-asks-hostess-judge-to-appoint-trustee.html
A Hostess Brands Inc. union and a
pension fund asked the judge overseeing the company’s bankruptcy
to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee to wind down the maker of
Twinkies and Wonder Bread.  “A Chapter 11 trustee must be appointed to oversee the
debtors’ orderly liquidation and protect the best interest of
creditors,” according to a filing today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  White Plains ,  New York , by the Bakery, Confectionery,
Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union and the
 Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry International
Pension Fund .  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , last week won interim
approval from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain to shut down
and start selling assets after last-minute mediation with the
bakers’ union failed to resolve a contract dispute, leaving more
than 18,000 jobs at risk.  Drain rejected a request by U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis
to convert the Hostess case to a Chapter 7 liquidation from
Chapter 11, which would have handed control over the asset sales
to a conservator. Conversion “would be a disaster,” Drain
said.  Union and pension-fund lawyers said in court papers they
support an “orderly” wind-down but “object to that process
being carried out by incumbent management.” The company is
incurring debt that can’t be repaid in an attempt to implement a
reorganization plan that can’t be confirmed, they said.  Exit Strategy  If the proposed asset sales are completed, ‘in the absence
of unanimous creditor consent, there is no viable exit strategy
from these administratively insolvent cases,’’ the lawyers said.
Hostess eventually will have to pay for both the Chapter 11 case
and a subsequent Chapter 7 proceeding, they said.  The union and the pension fund asked to have the request
for a trustee heard on Nov. 29, when Hostess will seek final
approval for its wind-down motion.  “The debtors believe that there are serious legal
deficiencies in the relief requested,” Hostess said in court
papers objecting to the request to have the matter heard on
short notice. “These issues must be considered and addressed
and, where appropriate, briefed.”  Hostess, the 82-year-old maker of Ding Dongs, Ho Hos and
Drake’s Devil Dogs, said it was pushed toward liquidation when
the bakers’ union went on strike Nov. 9 after Drain imposed
contract concessions opposed by 92 percent of the union’s
members.  Hostess sought court protection in January, its second time
in bankruptcy, listing assets of $982 million and debt of $1.43
billion.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  