-- BBVA Sells Mexico Pension Fund to Banorte, IMSS for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-11-27T23:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/banorte-imss-to-acquire-bbva-mexico-pension-fund-for-1-6-bln.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
agreed to sell its Mexican pension fund to local buyers,
including a state-owned agency, for $1.6 billion to raise
capital and focus on its consumer-banking operation.  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and  Mexico ’s Social Security
Institute, known as IMSS, will each pay half of the price for
the Afore Bancomer unit, creating the nation’s largest pension
fund, the companies said yesterday. The price will be adjusted
based on the amount managed by the fund when the transaction
closes, which may add $130 million to the deal, BBVA said.  Spanish banks are selling off assets as the government
requires them to recognize more losses on real estate piled up
on balance sheets during the country’s boom. BBVA had said it
would consider selling pension funds in Chile, Colombia and  Peru 
in addition to Mexico because there wasn’t a big enough overlap
between those units and consumer banking in those countries.  The purchase will allow Afore XXI Banorte, the pension fund
co-owned by the Banorte and the social-security agency, to cut
costs and provide lower commission fees to clients, the
Monterrey, Mexico-based bank said. The combined fund will manage
516 billion pesos ($39.6 billion) in assets and will have 11.8
million accounts, it said.  ‘Very Positive’  “This is very positive for Banorte,” said Felipe
Carvallo, an analyst with Moody’s Investors Service, in a phone
interview yesterday. “However, we need to know how the bank
plans to pay for its stake. I might get worried if they’re
increasing their debt levels.”  Tonatiuh Rodriguez, chief executive officer for Afore XXI
Banorte, declined to comment. Banorte and IMSS didn’t respond to
interview requests.  Banorte  cut  total debt to 20.09 times earnings before
interest and taxes in the third quarter from 23.87 at the end of
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banorte  climbed  0.1 percent to 74.11 pesos yesterday in
Mexico City before the deal was announced. Bilbao, Spain-based
BBVA was little changed at 6.41 euros in  Madrid .  BBVA’s pension-fund unit is currently the second-largest
pension fund in Mexico, trailing the one run by Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit, according to the nation’s  pension regulator . Afore
XXI Banorte is fourth, following  Grupo de Inversiones
Suramericana SA. (GRUPOSUR)   The transaction is estimated to close in the first quarter
of 2013 and will represent an after-tax gain of 800 million
euros ($1.04 billion), BBVA said. The deal requires the approval
of Mexico’s pension and antitrust regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  