-- BBVA, Accenture Bringing Real-Time Banking to the U.S.
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-11-27T13:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/bbva-completes-362-million-accenture-deal-for-real-time-banking.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, completed a $362 million project
with help from  Accenture Plc (ACN)  that brings so-called real-time
banking to its U.S. customers, speeding up transactions.  The technology, which the company already uses in the rest
of the world, allows customer transactions to be recorded
immediately instead of in delayed batches. The move will help
BBVA cut processing costs by as much as 20 percent, said Sergio
Fidalgo, chief information officer for the bank’s U.S. unit.  The change also gives BBVA an edge over U.S. rivals, which
haven’t embraced the approach. Banks have been hesitant to
change their core technology because switching can be risky,
vulnerable to delays and disruptive for customers, Fidalgo said.  “We realized that there is an opportunity in the banking
industry here in the  United States (X)  mainly because of
technology,” he said in an interview. “By the time these other
banks will be ready to move, we will have leadership.”  The Bilbao-based company owns  BBVA Compass , which has 716
branches in Alabama, Arizona, California,  Colorado , Florida,  New
Mexico  and Texas. Real-time systems will let branches open a new
account in as little as 5 minutes, BBVA said. The $362 million
figure represents BBVA’s internal and external costs, including
payments to Accenture.  Trend Beginning?  Accenture sees the project as a way to spur other U.S.
banks to adopt real-time transactions. BBVA will act as a
showcase for the technology’s benefits, said Bruce Voelker,
senior managing director for financial services at Accenture, a
consulting firm incorporated in Dublin.  “A number of banks are looking at core replacement,” he
said. “It’s hopefully one that will start a trend.”  The traditional approach of batch processing made more
sense when people relied heavily on checks, said  Bart Narter , a
senior vice president of the banking group at research firm
Celent in San Francisco. Now that more transactions are
electronic, it’s more practical to process them in real time.  As other banks transition to the technology, it could
generate billions for companies like Accenture, Narter said.  “It’s basically the rest of the banks in the U.S.,” he
said. “It’s a huge market opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  