-- Berkowitz’s Returns Rise From Worst to First as AIG, BofA Rally
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-11-27T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/berkowitz-s-returns-rise-from-worst-to-first-as-aig-bofa-rally.html
Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Fund is
poised to post its best year in a decade, led by the rebound of
financial firms that fueled what he called a  “horrible”  2011.  The fund had advanced 30 percent this year through last
week. Holdings in  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  contributed
about half of that gain, while  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  accounted for approximately 20 percent of
the climb, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkowitz, 54, has cited the companies as examples of a
strategy to “embrace the hated” and bet on the recovery of
stocks that fell out of favor. The approach spooked some
investors who withdrew funds as the lender and AIG plunged more
than 50 percent in 2011. Bank of America had surged  78 percent 
this year through last week as capital levels rose, while AIG
gained 42 percent as it bought back shares acquired by the U.S.
in a 2008 bailout.  “In the long run, and Berkowitz is a long-run kind of guy,
he’ll be thrilled to own what will be the dominant” property-
casualty insurer, said Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. who predicts AIG will beat the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index by more than 15 percentage points in the next year.  Berkowitz avoided the industry groups that  underperformed 
this year through Nov. 23, like energy, which advanced 2.5
percent, or utilities, which slumped 5.9 percent. His greatest
concentration is in financials, the leading performer in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with a 22 percent gain.  Best Ideas  The  fund manager  has said he would rather focus investments
on his  best ideas  than spread them out. More than three-quarters
of the  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  was invested in seven companies as of Aug.
31, with 37 percent of the portfolio in New York-based AIG’s
common stock, 8.8 percent in Bank of America and 10 percent in
retailer  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)   That strategy fueled volatility. The fund finished 2011 in
the last percentile among peers, and is in the top percentile
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Berkowitz
didn’t respond to a request for comment left with a spokesman.  Berkowitz still trails the  S&P 500  for some periods longer
than a year even after the gains in AIG and Bank of America.
Returns for the equity benchmark beat the Fairholme Fund by 21
percentage points in the last three years and 1.9 percentage
point in the five years through Nov. 23, according to Bloomberg
data.  The fund charges annual operating fees of 1.02 percent and
early withdraws are subject to a 2 percent fee, according to its
prospectus.  Financial Bets  Berkowitz also recovered from a sub-par 2003, when he
finished in the lowest 10 percent because he missed a rally in
technology companies. The next year his performance was in the
top decile as  Intel Corp . and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  stock faltered
and he benefited from bets on financial companies.  Berkowitz was named the U.S. domestic stock-fund manager of
the decade in 2010 by Morningstar Inc. The Fairholme Fund has
returned an annualized 9.6 percent since its inception at the
end of 1999 through 2011, compared with a gain of less than 1
percent a year for the S&P 500, according to his last  annual
report . The 30 percent return from Dec. 31 through last week is
15 percentage points above the S&P 500, on pace to be the fund’s
best year since 2002, relative to the benchmark.  Berkowitz built his AIG stake in 2010 and 2011 at a
fraction of book value, or assets minus liabilities. Even as the
insurer shrank through asset sales, it  maintained  a leading
global property-casualty operation and U.S. life company, he
said.  “When a recovering icon trades at half of our
understanding of intrinsic value for a reason that has nothing
to do with its prospects, we swing big,” Berkowitz  wrote  of AIG
to the fund’s investors in July 2011.  Purchasing Shares  The insurer has surged this year after repurchasing $13
billion of its shares from the U.S. Treasury Department. The
buybacks were coordinated with sales to the private market that
reduced the government’s stake from 77 percent at the end of
2011 to  16 percent . Berkowitz’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC
is the next-largest shareholder with a 5.9 percent stake.  AIG is driving growth of book value per share by
repurchasing shares, Stirling said. “It’s people like Berkowitz
that can ride this stock back.”  Bank of America plunged last year amid concerns it would
have to raise funds to comply with stricter international
banking regulations and to settle legal disputes related to the
housing crisis. In August 2011, Berkowitz hosted a conference
call with Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  to answer
questions from other shareholders and “skeptics.” Later that
month,  Warren Buffett  agreed to invest $5 billion in the lender.  Bank Recovers  That injection has helped Bank of America strengthen its
balance sheet after the  Federal Reserve  in 2011 rebuffed a plan
to return more capital to shareholders. The lender’s Tier 1
common capital ratio reached almost 9 percent at Sept. 30 under
the newest international standards, up from 8 percent three
months earlier.  Moynihan’s firm has also benefited from a rebounding U.S.
housing market.  Rising home prices  help limit the bank’s risk on
mortgages after faulty loans and foreclosures cost the lender
more than $40 billion since the start of 2007.  The last few years have shown that holding Bank of America
is not for the “faint of heart,” said  Marty Mosby , an analyst
at Guggenheim Securities LLC. Still, investors can “come out
over the next three to five years realizing the franchise value
of a company that stretches the whole country and is one of the
leading providers of bank services.”  Sears Investment  Fairholme Fund benefited this year from its holding in
Sears, which has climbed 66 percent from Dec. 31 through last
week. The retailer has sought to cut inventory and other costs
amid revenue declines that began in 2007. It’s also been selling
stores and other assets.  Berkowitz has praised the company’s leadership and Chairman
 Edward Lampert . In January, the fund manager compared the
retailer’s transition to Buffett’s transformation of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. from a failing textile maker into a company valued
at more than $200 billion selling products from insurance to
chocolate.  “For many reasons, including management, we continue to
believe the assets of this iconic brand to be a multiple of
values implied by its current stock-market price and continue to
see the beginning of a new Berkshire Hathaway,” he wrote in a
January  letter  to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  