-- Billionaire Joins Boomless Supersonic-Jet Quest
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-11-28T19:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/billionaire-joins-quest-for-boomless-supersonic-jets.html
(Corrects 20th paragraph of story published Nov. 27 to
show Bass is founder of Oak Hill Partners.)  Supersonic flight, a longtime dream
for makers and owners of private planes, is inching closer to
reality.  Nine years after the last trip of the Concorde jetliner,
the quest for speed without window-rattling sonic booms is
spurring research by billionaire Robert Bass,  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream,  Boeing Co. (BA) , Lockheed Martin Corp., the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration and others.  The efforts signal that the time may finally be nearing for
corporate aircraft flying faster than sound, about 750 miles
(1,207 kilometers) per hour at sea level. Technological leaps
since the Concorde’s development in the 1960s are converging
with the willingness of globe-trotting chief executive officers
to pay more for ever-bigger and longer-range jets.  “Most all of the manufacturers have done size, have done
luxury and opulence,” said Andrew Hoy, a managing director at
broker ExecuJet Aviation Group in Zurich. “Time is the biggest
opportunity for them all and the only differentiator left.”  High operating costs and scant demand for the Concorde’s
premium fares forced its retirement in 2003 after 27 years in
service. The 100-seat jets streaked from New York to  London  at
twice the speed of sound, slicing travel times in half to about
three hours.  Planemakers took away a lesson in supersonic economics: It
may be easier to find CEOs and wealthy individuals who crave
faster corporate aircraft than to persuade airlines to invest in
a Concorde successor.  ‘More Sense’  “Given the amount of fuel you need to burn to achieve
supersonic speeds, it’s going to be a more expensive proposition
that only a sliver of the market is going to pay the price
for,” said George Hamlin, president of Hamlin Transportation
Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia. “When you’re talking about a
supersonic business jet, that begins to make more sense.”  The largest corporate planes already cost almost as much as
the smallest Boeing and Airbus SAS airliners, and can fly about
90 percent as fast as sound. Gulfstream’s G650 lists for $58.5
million.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s Global 7000 and 8000 jets retail for
as much as $65 million.  Warren Buffett ’s NetJets unit ordered 20
last year.  The chief obstacle to supersonic flight is the same one
that bedeviled the Concorde: the sonic boom. The U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration outlawed such flights by civilians over
land in 1973 because of the noise, and other countries followed.  FAA Rules  Reversing that ban will be pivotal to any revival of
supersonic travel, because the planes would lose their business
case if they can’t fly at top speed, according to Savannah,
Georgia-based Gulfstream.  “That requires a solution to the sonic boom problem, and
that’s where our research efforts are focused,” Preston Henne,
Gulfstream’s senior vice president of engineering and test, said
during an aviation conference in  Orlando ,  Florida , on Oct. 29.
“We continue to make progress on that.”  NASA  expects to start building a demonstrator plane in 2016
to show that disruptive booms can be minimized, and that jet may
fly after 2020, according to Peter Coen, chief of supersonic
research. In an industry in which Boeing’s Dreamliner took more
than a decade to go from the Sonic Cruiser concept to first
delivery, that’s not a long-range timeline.  “This is a high-value niche market; the winner here will
be the first to market,” said Brian Foley, an aviation
consultant based in  Sparta , New Jersey. “That’s why there’s
interest and that’s why there’s motivation for these people to
keep on trying.”  Risks Ahead  Success for a new generation of planes is hardly assured,
said Foley, who spent 20 years as marketing director at  Dassault
Aviation SA (AM) ’s Falcon business-jet unit.  No follow-on aircraft has emerged since Air France and
British Airways parked their Concordes, which were grounded for
more than a year after the 2000 crash in Paris that killed 113
people when one of the Air France jets struck runway debris.  The planes slurped twice as much fuel as a Boeing 747 jumbo
jet with only about a quarter of the passengers, and round-trip
tickets in 2003 fetched as much as $13,500, then the sticker
price on a Dodge Neon compact.  While new designs and engines may tame the roar billowing
from a supersonic jet in flight, engineers still must muffle the
so-called focused boom, the sharp crack that occurs as a plane
first goes past the sound barrier. Emissions and maintenance on
high-performance engines also remain challenges.  ‘Magic Number’  “It doesn’t matter which manufacturer is working on it at
the time, when you ask them when it’s going to be a reality,
they generally all say, ‘Within 12 years,’” Foley said. “That
seems to be the magic number. It doesn’t matter if someone asks
them in 1980, 1990 or 2000, there will be one within 12 years.”  Supersonic-flight boosters such as NASA’s Coen see reason
for optimism. Planemakers can employ more-powerful engines, use
new materials such as the lightweight composites on Boeing’s
Dreamliner and draw on years of aeronautical knowledge from the
Concorde’s operations and from making supersonic warplanes.  Gulfstream is experimenting with a telescoping rod
protruding from a jet’s nose to disrupt the sound waves that
cause sonic booms. Bass, founder of investment firm Oak Hill
Capital Partners LP, has hired a NASA research jet to test a
high-speed wing design from his Aerion Corp.  Boeing and  Lockheed (LMT)  have devised supersonic concepts with
slender fuselages and rear-mounted engines to damp drag that
contributes to the noise. NASA is testing models as long as 3
feet (0.9 meter) in wind tunnels and studying nozzles from
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  for future
engines, Coen said.  ‘Pretty Close’  “We were able to achieve both good aerodynamic elements
and low sonic boom simultaneously,” Coen said. “We think we’re
there or pretty close. That was a really exciting development
over the past year.”  After holding public meetings on supersonic flight from
2008 through 2011, the FAA is shifting to gather data from NASA
and industry groups as it weighs noise regulations.  “Current research has demonstrated enough progress on
reducing impact of sonic booms before they reach the ground for
us to revisit this issue,” the FAA said in an e-mailed response
to questions. No new public sessions are scheduled.  Bass’s Aerion doesn’t want to wait for any regulatory
changes. The Reno, Nevada-based company has a low-drag wing
design that it says will allow a jet to fly efficiently at
subsonic speed over land and at as much as Mach 1.6, or 1.6
times the speed of sound, over the ocean.  Aerion was in “deep discussions” on a planemaker partner
to build the craft as the recession began in late 2007, Chief
Operating Officer Douglas Nichols said. Before the economy
tanked, Aerion had 50 commitments for an $80 million supersonic
plane, Nichols said. Bass declined to comment on Aerion through
a spokeswoman, Marcia Horowitz.  “We have a thoroughly committed and patient investor who
believes these things and is heavily involved in the business,”
Nichols said. “The next frontier is speed and the industry will
get there sooner or later. Our wish is sooner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  