-- Muddy Waters Retreats on Short Selling Chinese Stocks
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-28T04:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/block-gives-up-as-short-selling-declines-china-overnight.html
Carson Block  says it’s become too
difficult to short Chinese equities in the U.S. as bets on stock
declines drop by 50 percent from a year ago.  Block, known for his allegations that Chinese companies
traded in North America engaged in accounting fraud, said in an
interview yesterday that he’s lost interest in betting against
the stocks because the government helps protect them. Short
interest in the 83 biggest Chinese firms listed in New York has
dropped to an average 2.61 percent of the total outstanding,
from 5.22 percent a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg and the
U.K. researcher Markit show.  Short sellers, who sell securities they don’t own to buy
them later at a lower price, are retreating as  China  limits
access to corporate filings and companies such as  Focus Media (FMCN) 
Holding Ltd. try to withdraw from the market through buyouts.
The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. has climbed 1.5 percent this year and Focus
Media, which Block’s Muddy Waters LLC targeted last year, has
reversed losses to gain 22 percent in 2012.  “Investors will be more comfortable knowing that the
threat of short seller attacks is a lot less than it used to be
and a lot of companies have stepped up their corporate
governance,” Kevin Pollack, a managing director at Paragon
Capital in New York, which invests in Chinese stocks, said by
phone yesterday. “The fact a guy like Carson Block isn’t
aggressively shorting companies hopefully will lead to more
investor interest that otherwise would have been scared away.”  Stocks Fall  The Bloomberg China-US index lost 1.4 percent yesterday to
91.43, trimming its gain this year.  Pactera Technology
International Ltd. (PACT) , a Chinese software-outsourcing provider,
slipped 1.8 percent after Chief Executive Officer Tiak Koon Loh
said sales will slow in 2013.  The Shanghai Composite Index of domestic stocks closed
below 2,000 for the first time since 2009 yesterday, as the
value of shares traded slumped to the lowest in four years. It
fell 0.7 percent today as of the mid-day trading break.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 1.3 percent to $36.86
in New York yesterday, as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. equities dropped 0.5 percent.  Block, a 36-year-old lawyer, became the face of the short
sellers against overseas-traded Chinese companies last year
after his report accusing Sino-Forest Corp. of overstating its
plantation assets prompted the shares to slump 74 percent. Sino-
Forest, based in Hong Kong and Mississauga, Ontario, filed for
bankruptcy protection in March, wiping out more than $3 billion
in value.  New Oriental  Since Sino-Forest, Muddy Waters has focused on  New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  and Focus Media. Their shares
have all rebounded after initial slumps when Block questioned
their accounting. Both companies have denied any wrongdoing.   New Oriental, an education service provider based in
Beijing, has risen 28 percent since July 17, the day before
Block said financial statements from the company’s units were
fraudulent and that its auditor would resign. Focus Media, a
Shanghai-based advertising company, has recouped 93 percent of
its losses since Nov. 18, 2011, a day before Block claimed it
overstated its ad network. The company has attracted a $3.5
billion takeover offer from a group of private-equity firms
including  Carlyle Group LP. (CG) , which would be the largest leverage
buyout deal.  Short interest  on Focus Media has declined to 4.7 percent
of total shares outstanding, from 81 percent a year ago,
according to Bloomberg and Markit data. The ratio for New
Oriental has fallen to 6.7 percent, from 12.8 percent in July,
when Block started questioning the company’s accounting.  ‘Conceal Records’  China began limiting access to corporate filings at the
 State Administration for Industry and Commerce  this year after
short sellers used them to highlight accounting discrepancies in
companies listed abroad, lawyers including Nathan Bush, a
Beijing-based partner at the law firm O’Melveny & Myers LLP,
said in interviews in June.  “China has gotten harder in the sense that the government
has really taken the side of the fraud,” Block said in an
interview on with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.” “The government is working with
a number of these companies to try to conceal records that are
public. When you are up against that sort of strength of the
ability to revise history, it becomes difficult. That is one of
the reasons we’re not that interested in China anymore.”  Olam International  The  State Administration for Industry and Commerce , which
compiles corporate records in China, didn’t immediately respond
to faxed questions seeking comment today. An official at China’s
consulate in New York, who asked not to be identified because
it’s against their policy, said that she’s not in a position to
respond to Block’s comments.  In a sign that he’s moving on from targeting the Chinese
companies, Block is attacking Singapore-listed  Olam
International Ltd. (OLAM) , saying in a 133-page report published
yesterday that the commodities trader runs a high risk of
failure. Olam, the world’s second-largest rice trader, is the
first non-Chinese company Block has said he is betting against.  Olam is suing Muddy Waters and Block for defamation as the
stock has slumped more than 10 percent in  Singapore  since the
short seller’s first allegations against the company on Nov. 19.  Block’s allegations over the past two years have increased
investor scrutiny of Chinese companies trading on North American
stock exchanges, especially so-called reverse mergers, a process
that involves buying a publicly traded shell company. The
Securities and Exchange Commission has said reverse mergers may
be prone to “fraud and other abuses.”  Reverse Mergers  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks
the 81 Chinese companies that gained U.S. listings after buying
firms that already trade, has tumbled 68 percent since the end
of 2009. Companies including China MediaExpress Holdings Inc.,
an advertising company listed through a reverse merger, have
been delisted after Block exposed financial irregularities.  “Carson’s really is a victim of his own success here,”
Eric Jackson, managing partner of Naples, Florida-based Ironfire
Capital LLC, said by phone. “His greatest successes in shorting
Chinese stocks were these very small reverse-listed companies,
and, partly because he’s done such a great job of pulling back
the curtain, those companies are by and large gone now.”  Delisting Shares  With short sellers pushing down valuations, a growing
number of Chinese companies are seeking to exit U.S. exchanges.
Since April 2010, 49 companies -- including Focus Media and  7
Days Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN)  -- have announced their intention to go
private and delist from U.S. markets, according to a report by
Roth Capital Partners issued Nov. 5.  China Development Bank Corp., the state-owned lender, is
providing more than $1 billion to assist companies, including
meat producer  Zhongpin Inc. (HOGS)  and  Fushi Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , a
manufacturer of steel wire, to leave the U.S. market.  “Because of Muddy Waters and other short sellers, there
has been a cleansing period and companies have stepped up,”
said Paragon’s Pollack. “There are just fewer bad apples that
are easily identifiable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  