-- Bombardier Wins $7.8 Billion Order From U.K.’s VistaJet
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n ,   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-11-27T21:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/bombardier-wins-record-7-8-billion-order-from-u-k-s-vistajet.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  won the biggest
business-jet deal in its history with luxury air-charter company
VistaJet Holding SA, exceeding a transaction five months ago
with  Warren Buffett ’s plane-leasing unit.  VistaJet ordered 56 Global-series aircraft and took options
for 86 more as it taps Asian demand. The deal has a value of
$3.1 billion, which would rise to $7.8 billion should all the
planes be taken, Montreal-based Bombardier said today in a
statement.  Bombardier shares  gained the most in about a year.  The business-jet agreement marks a second significant win
for Bombardier, which in June reached a $7.3 billion agreement
for as many as 275 of its Challenger aircraft with the NetJets
unit of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Purchases of private
aircraft had languished amid a recession and the global
financial crisis that intensified in late 2008.  “These orders reinforce the outlook for solid growth in
production rates in the large-cabin business-aircraft segment
over the next several years,” said  Fadi Chamoun , a BMO Capital
Markets analyst in Toronto, who rates Bombardier shares
outperform.  The sizable cabins on Global-series planes make them well-
suited to demand in  China , where the emphasis is on high-status
models, as well as promising markets including Indonesia, said
Paul Sheridan, head of Asian consulting at aviation advisory
firm Ascend Worldwide Ltd.  Business-Jet Outlook  VistaJet’s order comprises 25 Global 5000 planes, which can
seat 20 people and connect  San Francisco  with  Seoul , 25 Global
6000s seating eight and able to fly from London to  Tokyo , and
six Global 8000s that can also carry eight and travel 7,900
nautical miles (14,630 kilometers) to link  New York  with  Hong
Kong . The options are for 40 each of the 5000 and 6000, plus six
8000s.  Deliveries will begin in January 2014 and unfold at a rate
of one a month for 10 years.  Bombardier sees demand for 24,000 business jets during the
next two decades, with 45 percent of sales falling into the
Global family segment, Steve Ridolfi, president of the company’s
business-aircraft unit, said at a press briefing in London.  The Global 5000 carries a catalog price of $48.6 million,
while the 6000 is listed at $58.5 million and the 8000 at $66.3
million, Bombardier said.  Today’s order probably means that Bombardier will boost
output of the Global, said  Cameron Doerksen , an analyst at
National Bank Financial in  Montreal . The Global is Bombardier’s
highest-margin aircraft, he said in a telephone interview.  ‘Good Spot’  “It’s a good spot to be in to have your most profitable
plane with a huge backlog and your production rate fairly secure
for the next number of years,” said Doerksen, who rates the
shares sector perform. “It’s my belief that this order will
assure a production rate increase on the Global line.”  Bombardier had orders equivalent to 34 months of production
for the Global as of Sept. 30, according to its third-quarter
filing. That exceeds the company’s target of 24 to 30 months.
VistaJet’s purchase probably expands Bombardier’s backlog for
Global jets to 41 months of output, Benoit Poirier, an analyst
at Desjardins Securities in Montreal, said today in a note to
clients. He recommends buying the shares.  Bombardier’s widely traded Class B  stock  climbed 8 percent
to C$3.37 at 4:28 p.m. in Toronto, the most since October 2011.  Bombardier Bonds  The cost to insure the company’s debt for five years using
credit-default swaps fell 7.3 basis points to 434.74 basis
points, the biggest drop among members of Canada’s benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  Bombardier’s $500 million of 5.75 percent notes due in
March 2022 fell 0.85 cent to 101.25 cents, yielding 5.57
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ridolfi said in an interview last month that Bombardier was
thinking about a production increase for the Global amid growing
demand for large  business jets .  “You have to take it up slowly, given all the magnitude of
the work and the intensity of the completion process,” Ridolfi
said at the time. “The Global has been a tank for us right
through this recession. It’s continued to grow and grow.”  Even so, orders from fleet operators such as VistaJet are
more likely to be scrapped if the global economy starts
faltering, National Bank’s Doerksen said.  Top End  “Large orders such as these have historically carried a
higher risk of cancellation should there be a market downturn,”
he said in a note to clients. “Given the heavy weighting of
NetJets and now VistaJet, we would argue that Bombardier’s
backlog carries a higher degree of risk.”  Domiciled in  Switzerland  with its main base in  London ,
VistaJet already has 50 planes with which it targets corporate
customers and wealthy individuals traveling point to point at
short notice. The new jets will link remoter markets with the
rest of the world, especially for clients whose travel patterns
don’t justify membership in a time-share style program like
NetJets, owner Thomas Flohr said today in an interview.  “We’re advising clients not to take fractional assets just
for wanting to fly 100, 200 hours a year,” said Flohr, who
founded VistaJet seven years ago. “We’re focusing on the very
top end of the market, which is intercontinental traffic.”  Requirements such as a need to fly from New York to
 Shanghai  non-stop and as fast as possible are tilting the market
toward the biggest, most luxurious models such as the Global
8000, he said. VistaJet said it will deploy its jets in markets
such as China,  Russia , the  Middle East  and  Africa .  Growth in  emerging markets  is poised to switch demand
toward more modern aircraft from older, secondhand planes, said
Flohr, who plans a 13-day sales trip to 17 cities in nations
including Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Angola and Azerbaijan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  