-- BP Appears in Court to Enter Criminal Plea Over Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-11-27T20:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/bp-appears-in-court-to-enter-criminal-plea-over-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  appeared in federal court in
New Orleans to answer U.S. charges brought over the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill , entering a not guilty plea that won’t affect
its $4 billion criminal settlement with the U.S.  BP’s deal with the Justice Department announced Nov. 15
requires it to plead guilty and pay $4 billion to end all
criminal charges related to the largest offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. Under the plea deal, BP will enter a formal guilty
plea at a later hearing.  “At this time all I can do is take a not guilty plea,”
U.S. District Judge Ivan Lemelle in New Orleans said at a court
hearing today. Lemelle said he conferred with Chief Judge
Sarah Vance, who has been assigned the case. “Anything else
will be done before her” at a later date, Lemelle said.  BP’s settlement with the U.S. includes a record $1.256
billion criminal fine, which would be paid over five years. BP
agreed to five years’ probation and extensive monitoring of its
drilling operations, according to court papers.  Along with the criminal fine, the resolution with the
Justice Department includes a total of $2.4 billion that will be
paid to the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation over five years.
Another $350 million will be paid to the  National Academy of
Sciences  over that same period.  “This is a very substantial criminal penalty,” said Ed
Sherman, a law professor at  Tulane University  in  New Orleans .
“This is much more than a slap on the wrist,” he said.  Highly Regulated  “They are going to be more highly regulated than any other
 oil company  in history,” Sherman said, pointing to requirements
in the agreement for monitoring BP’s oil and gas operations.
“The monitoring is particularly focused on safety.”  Beyond the $4 billion criminal settlement, BP will pay an
additional $525 million to resolve claims by the Securities and
Exchange Commission that the London-based company underestimated
the size of the spill to bolster stock prices.  BP agreed to plead  guilty  to 14 criminal counts including
11 for felony manslaughter for the 11 people who died when the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded and sank, according to
the  Justice Department .  The  company  also pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count
under the  Clean Water Act , one misdemeanor count under the
 Migratory Bird Treaty Act  and one felony count of obstruction of
Congress, the U.S. said.  Congress  Thirteen of the 14 criminal charges against BP are related
to the accident itself and are based on negligent
misinterpretation of the negative pressure test conducted on
board the Deepwater Horizon, BP said in a Nov. 15 press release.
The final count involves BP’s communications on flow rate
estimates to a congressional subcommittee, the Justice
Department said in a court filing.  BP officials told Congress in May 2010 that the company’s
“best guess” estimate of the spill flow rate was about 5,000
barrels a day, even though some of its own scientists had
suggested much more oil was flowing into the Gulf, according to
the Justice Department.  The U.S. also charged two BP well-site managers with
involuntary manslaughter and a former  executive  with obstruction
and false statements. Lawyers for the three men said their
clients were innocent. The men are scheduled to be arraigned
tomorrow in federal court in New Orleans.  Evidence Destruction  Kurt Mix, a former BP engineer, had previously been charged
with destroying evidence in the probe of the spill. Mix, who
worked on BP efforts to estimate the amount of oil leaking from
the well, has pleaded not guilty.  The blowout and  explosion  aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and started
millions of barrels of crude leaking into the gulf. The accident
prompted hundreds of lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services.  The Justice Department sued BP in December 2010, alleging
the company failed to prevent or contain the spill and seeking
fines for each barrel of oil discharged.  The department’s lawsuit hasn’t been settled and BP remains
at risk for as much as $17.6 billion in potential fines from
alleged violations of the Clean Water Act and demands by the
U.S. and Gulf states for enough money to restore the region’s
coastline and waters to their condition before the spill.  The government estimated that more than 4 million barrels
of oil were spilled. If BP is found to be grossly negligent, a
legal standard the government would have to prove showing the
accident resulted from a conscious BP act or omission, it could
be fined as much as much as $4,300 per barrel.  Pollution Fines  BP set aside $3.5 billion to pay potential Clean Water Act
fines, using its own estimate of 3.2 million barrels and a
maximum fine of $1,100 per barrel without gross negligence.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who’s
overseeing much of the spill litigation, has set Feb. 25 for a
nonjury trial to apportion fault and decide whether BP is liable
for gross negligence.  BP reached a settlement with most non-government plaintiffs
in March, agreeing to pay an estimated $7.8 billion. That
settlement postponed the first trial date to determine liability
for the disaster. Barbier is considering whether to approve the
settlement.  Florida, Texas  The settlement excluded claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by
the spill. It also doesn’t cover federal government claims and
those of Gulf Coast states  Louisiana  and  Alabama , or lawsuits
against co-defendants.  BP and lawyers representing non-government victims of the
spill won preliminary court approval of the proposed partial
settlement agreement in May and argued for final approval at a
hearing on Nov. 8. A decision is pending.  The criminal case is U.S. v. BP Exploration and Production
Inc., 12-00292, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The criminal cases against the
individuals are U.S. v. Kaluza, 12-cr-00265; and U.S. v. Rainey,
12-cr-00291, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  The government civil case is U.S. v. BP Exploration &
Production Inc., 2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana (New Orleans). The lawsuit is part of In
Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of
Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans,
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  