-- Buccaneers’ Wright Is Latest NFL Player Banned for Adderall Use
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-27T18:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/buccaneers-wright-is-latest-nfl-player-banned-for-adderall-use.html
Tampa Bay Buccaneers cornerback Eric Wright will miss the team’s next four games after his appeal of
a ban for violating the  National Football League ’s policy on
performance-enhancing drugs by using the prescription drug
Adderall was denied.  Wright, 27, joined the Buccaneers in March after signing a
five-year, $37.5 million contract. He started this season’s
first 10 games before sitting out a 24-23 loss to Atlanta two
days ago with an Achilles tendon injury.  Wright said in a statement that the NFL suspension was the
result of taking Adderall in July for “health issues.”
Adderall is a stimulant used to treat attention-deficit
hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, and Wright said yesterday he
was extremely disappointed that the discipline was upheld.  Former Buccaneers cornerback Aqib Talib, who’s now with the
 New England Patriots , also received a four-game ban this season
for Adderall.  New York  Giants safeties Will Hill and Tyler Sash,
Cleveland Browns cornerback Joe Haden and Atlanta Falcons
offensive lineman Joe Hawley said their suspensions earlier this
year were also because of Adderall.  Seattle Seahawks  starting cornerbacks Richard Sherman and
Brandon Browner are facing four-game suspensions for the use of
the stimulant, according to ESPN.  “This is a widespread issue throughout the National
Football League right now, it isn’t Tampa exclusive,”
Buccaneers coach  Greg Schiano  said at a news conference. “I
hope we educate our guys, we talk to them quite a bit. You do
your best and then you have to trust the guys.”  A player can receive a “therapeutic use exemption” for
Adderall if he submits a doctor’s prescription to the league
before using it. The stimulant has been on the NFL’s list of
banned performance-enhancing drugs since 2006.  Boosts Energy  Leah Lagos, a New York-based sports psychologist who’s
helped provide NFL teams with player evaluations for the draft,
said Adderall can significantly help a player increase focus,
decrease anxiety and provide an energy boost.  “It’s like taking 100 cups of coffee,” Lagos said in a
telephone interview. “You’re operating faster, you’re paying
more attention and those can be very performance-enhancing
characteristics for a football player who’s tired after a long
practice or looking for an extra edge before a game.”  Side Effects  Lagos said there can be serious side effects of Adderall
use, even for those with prescriptions, and there needs to be
more education about abuse of the drug. She said it’s an
addictive, brain-altering substance that can have effects that
mimic a schizophrenic break, paranoia and hallucinations.  The drug is made by Dublin-based  Shire Plc. (SHP)   “The long-term effects of Adderall use are still
relatively unknown,” Lagos said.  Wright, who had an interception return for a touchdown this
season, will miss games against the  Denver Broncos ,  Philadelphia
Eagles ,  New Orleans Saints  and  St. Louis Rams . He’ll be eligible
to return for Tampa Bay’s season-ending game in Atlanta on Dec.
30.  The Buccaneers are 6-5 and trail the Falcons by four games
in the National Football Conference South.  1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  