-- Burmese Ruby Necklace Tops $74 Million Hong Kong Auction
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-11-28T08:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/burmese-5-7-million-ruby-necklace-leads-hong-kong-sale.html
A Burmese “Pigeon’s Blood” ruby
and diamond necklace sold for HK$39.9 million ($5.1 million) in
 Hong Kong , the most expensive item in last night’s Christie’s
International jewelry sale.  Demand for precious gems as an investment class has gained
steadily in recent years. On Nov. 23 in Hong Kong, the Bonhams
auction house set a per-carat record for a Sri Lankan sapphire
with the sale of a 43-carat sapphire and diamond ring for HK$12
million.  “Investors clearly realize that super high-quality gems
hold their value extremely well and have tended to appreciate
through and after the financial crisis,” Claudio Ribeiro, chief
executive officer of Singapore-based gemstone trading house
Primacy Holdings said before the sale.  Ribeiro said a Burmese unheated sapphire sold for $75,000
per carat in an auction last week, while comparable stones were
selling for $50,000 three years ago.  The necklace was the last of 300 lots to go on the block,
the slot reserved for the most expensive jewelry item, bringing
the sale total to HK$577 million. The lot comprised 26 oval
Burmese “Pigeon’s Blood” rubies ranging from 1.27 to 5.38
carats each surrounded by a cluster of marquise and pear-shaped
diamonds, according to the sale  catalog .  Chinese Ceramics  The final total raised at the end of the series by 
Christie’s was HK$2.5 billion, according to figures compiled by 
Bloomberg based on  Christies.com  sales figures.  The sales this morning of Chinese ceramics and works of
art, as well as Chinese furniture, showed strong demand, dealers
said.  “The market looks very strong,” said Daniel Eskenazi a
London-based  art dealer  who paid HK$1.8 million for a 17th
century huanghuali wood-folding chair. “What’s interesting is
not so much the end price but to see how deep the market is.”  A pair of 18th-century lantern stands made of rare zitan
wood which once graced the Imperial Palace in Beijing and also
belonged to Bela Lugosi, the Hungarian actor known for his role
as Dracula, fetched HK$6.5 million, compared with a pre-sale
high estimate of HK$4 million.  James Hennessey, the dealer buyer of the pair, joked that
he purchased them on behalf of a client “who signs his checks
in blood.”  Xu Beihong  The top lot of the HK$416 million two-day sale of fine
Chinese modern paintings that ended yesterday was a hanging
scroll of ink and color on paper depicting two magpies on
branches by 20th century master Xu Beihong. It sold for HK$22
million, more than seven times its presale high estimate,
excluding buyer’s premium.  Christie’s holds sales of Chinese furniture, ceramics and
works of art and watches today.  The star lot of the  watch sale  is a rare Patek Philippe
platinum-repeating tourbillion wristwatch estimated to sell for
as much as $550,000.  Christies and  Bonhams  have been joined by  Beijing Poly
International Auction Co. ,  Ravenel International Art Group ,
Seoul Auction, Tiancheng Auction and  United Asian Auctioneers  in
an eight-day marathon ending today.  Hirst Stratocaster  Some of the star lots so far include a HK$480,000 Damien Hirst Fender Stratocaster at Ravenel, a HK$1.7 million case of
Romanee-Conti Domaine de la Romanee-Conti 2005 at Christie’s and
a vintage Leica camera at Bonhams.  On Nov. 24, an abstract oil painting entitled “La foret
blanche II” by 20th-century Chinese-French master Chu Teh-Chun
sold for a record HK$60 million at Christie’s.  Poly Auction house made a solid debut in Hong Kong, raising
HK$520 million over two days of sales including jewelry, Chinese
ink paintings, and Chinese modern and contemporary art.  That exceeded proceeds from Beijing rival  China  Guardian
Auctions Co., which raised HK$455 million on Oct. 7 at its
inaugural Hong Kong auction. The arrival of China’s two biggest
auction houses confirms Hong Kong’s status as  Asia ’s commercial
arts hub.  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris Art and  James S. Russell  on architecture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  