-- Californians Told to Prepare for Series of Storms and Heavy Rain
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-11-27T20:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/californians-told-to-prepare-for-series-of-storms-and-heavy-rain.html
California  emergency officials
warned residents to get ready for a series of windy storms that
may snap trees and drop 15 inches (38 centimeters) of rain in
higher elevations.  By the time the three storms end this weekend, San
Francisco may receive 6 inches of rain and be whipped by winds
of 35 to 45 miles (56 to 72 kilometers) per hour, said Logan
Johnson, a warning coordination meteorologist with the  National
Weather Service  in Monterey, California.  “The impacts are going to be pretty far-reaching,”
Johnson said by telephone. “Most of the state of California is
going to be receiving rain, wind and snow in the high
elevations.”  Gale warnings stretch from Olympia,  Washington , to central
California and high-wind warnings and watches reach from  Oregon 
to Monterey, south of San Francisco. The California Emergency
Management Agency urged residents to prepare for power failures
and mudslides and to plot escape routes in case of flooding.  “Even though California has a robust emergency response
system and a significant number of resources, it’s critical that
the public take a personal interest in preparing for this storm,
and the storms that will follow through the winter season,”
 Mark Ghilarducci , secretary of the agency, said in a statement.  Opening Salvo  Johnson said the first storm will arrive late today with
high winds and about 0.5 inch of rain for San Francisco. The
next two storms are expected to drench the region for the rest
of the week.  The heavy rain may trigger mudslides, especially in areas
where there have been wildfires, according to Ghilarducci. At
elevations higher than 2,000 feet, wind may gust to 60 mph,
Johnson said.  A large trough of low pressure that developed off the West
Coast is acting as a conveyor to bring the storm systems in from
the southwest to the northeast through the weekend, Johnson
said. While the wind and rain won’t be as severe in southern
California, the coast there is expected to be buffeted by high
surf.  If the forecast models bear out, the storms may be some of
the worst of the year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  