-- Canada’s Dollar Slips From 3-Week High Amid U.S. Budget Concern
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-11-27T22:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/canada-s-dollar-slips-from-3-week-high-amid-u-s-budget-concern.html
The Canadian dollar declined from
the strongest level in almost three weeks against its U.S.
counterpart amid concern a budget showdown in Washington will
derail the economy of  Canada ’s biggest trade partner.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, had gained earlier as  Greece  won
easier terms on its debt and economic data in the U.S. fueled
speculation America’s recovery is gaining momentum. It erased
the advance amid drops in crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
and U.S. stocks as America’s approach toward a fiscal cliff
damped risk appetite.  “It’s all focused on external issues, the U.S. fiscal
cliff and whether the euro zone is going to defer its issues
with Spain and Greece,” Greg Moore, a currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“Not much is happening in Canada at the moment.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.1 percent to 99.46 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m in Toronto. It appreciated earlier to
99.06 cents, the strongest level since Nov. 7. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0054.  The nation’s government bonds climbed, pushing the yield on
benchmark  10-year debt  down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.73 percent. It was the lowest level in a
week. The price of the 2.75 percent securities maturing in June
2022 increased 30 cents to C$108.94.  Bond Auction  Canada will auction $1.6 billion ($1.61 billion) tomorrow
of 3.5 percent debt due in December 2045. The last offering of
the maturity, a $1.4 billion sale in September, drew an average
yield of 2.466 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was
2.62 percent. The average at the past five auctions was 2.53
percent.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian currency slid to the lowest level
since May 2001, 5.55 percent. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings. The average over the past decade is 9.98
percent.  “The market is sitting back in wait-and-see mode,” Steve Butler, managing director in Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s
Scotiabank unit, said in a telephone interview. “It’s been very
orderly trading -- almost too orderly.”  Crude oil for January delivery fell 0.5 percent to $87.34 a
barrel in New York after rising 0.6 percent earlier. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day down 0.5 percent after
gaining as much as 0.2 percent.  ‘Little Progress’  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Democrats and
Republicans have made “little progress” in negotiations on how
to cut the U.S. budget deficit by year-end. If the two sides
can’t reach agreement, $607 billion in automatic spending cuts
and tax increases starting Jan. 1 will cause the world’s biggest
economy to contract 0.5 percent next year, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  Lawmakers need to “get away from the happy talk” and
start discussing specifics, Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters in  Washington  today.  “There was a glimmer of hope that the two sides might come
together, but we all know politicians and that there won’t be a
solution until the 11th hour,” Scotiabank’s Butler said. “The
Canadian dollar would be one of the first currencies to get hit
by selling if we do fall off the cliff.”  Greece Agreement  The loonie gained earlier as risk appetite increased after
European finance ministers cut the rates on Greek bailout loans,
suspended interest payments for a decade, gave the nation more
time to repay and engineered a bond buyback.  Europe ’s debt
crisis began in Greece three years ago.  The agreement was reached as European officials grappled
with swelling financing needs in Cyprus and a potential aid
request by Spain, the fourth-largest euro economy.  In the U.S.,  consumer confidence  climbed,  home prices  rose
in the year ended in September by the most since 2010 and demand
for American capital goods unexpectedly increased.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities climbed 3 percent from September 2011, after advancing 2
percent in the year to August, the group said today in New York.  Demand for U.S. goods such as machinery and electronics
climbed in October by the most in five months. Bookings for non-
defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for future
business investment, rose 1.7 percent last month, the most since
May, the Commerce Department reported today in Washington.  The Conference Board’s  U.S. confidence  index increased to
73.7 this month, the highest level since February 2008, from a
revised 73.1 reading the prior month, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  