-- Canada’s Conservative Party Retains Seats in By-Elections
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-11-27T14:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/canada-s-conservative-party-retains-seats-in-by-elections.html
Canada ’s ruling  Conservative Party 
retained two districts in special elections last night, turning
back a challenge from the Liberal and Green parties and avoiding
an upset in the city Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  represents.  With all polls reporting, Conservative Joan Crockatt had
about 37 percent of the vote to win Calgary Centre, a downtown
district of condo dwellers and oil and gas headquarters, beating
the Liberal challenger who had 33 percent support and the Green
candidate who had 26 percent. In Durham, outside Toronto, Erin
O’Toole retained the seat for the Conservatives with more than
half of the vote.  In the Calgary race, “it’s remarkable that the
Conservatives have gone from winning a minimum of 51 percent of
the vote to about 36 percent,” said Melanee Thomas, an
assistant professor at the University of Calgary political
science department. “That’s a pretty significant erosion of
their support base.”  Still, the results may not signal widespread disenchantment
with Harper and his policies. Voter turn out was low and by-
elections often speak to “local context,” Thomas said.  The Conservatives under Harper won their first  majority
mandate  last year after running minority governments since 2006,
winning 166 seats in the 308-seat legislature. The by-election
in Calgary was closely watched, as early public opinion polls
suggested Crockett risked losing to either the Liberals or
Greens in a close three-way race. The Liberals haven’t won a
seat in Canada’s oil and gas capital since 1968.  Alberta Economy  Alberta was Canada’s third largest economy in 2011,
according to 2011  Statistics Canada . It grew 5.1 percent last
year, almost twice as fast as the national rate, with mining and
oil and gas extraction directly accounting for about 19 percent
of output. Calgary’s jobless rate was 4.7 percent in October,
Statistics Canada reported earlier this month, compared with 7.4
percent  nationally .  In Victoria, British Columbia, the official opposition  New
Democratic Party  held its district after a strong challenge from
the Green Party. The NDP’s Murray Ranking took 37 percent of the
vote to win, while Green candidate Donald Galloway had 34
percent, according to  Elections Canada .  With the results, the Conservatives will have 165 seats,
while the New  Democratic Party , the official opposition, will
have 101. The Liberals still hold 35, the Bloc Quebecois four,
the  Green Party  one and two seats are held by independents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  