-- Carney May Limit BOE’s Bond Purchases, Pimco Says
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-11-27T15:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/carney-may-limit-boe-s-bond-purchases-pimco-says.html
The Bank of England’s new governor
Mark Carney may shift the central bank’s policy away from bond
purchases, removing one of the supports of the gilt market,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.  Carney, who will replace  Mervyn King  in July, has preferred
to use a policy of signaling future rate decisions in his role
at the  Bank of Canada , said Michael Amey, a portfolio manager at
Pimco in  London . U.K. gilts have outperformed  Canada ’s bonds
this year as the Bank of England extended asset purchases, a
policy known as quantitative easing.  Carney has “been more keen on forward guidance on interest
rates rather than pure QE, and we know that Governor King has
not been particularly keen on forward guidance,” Amey said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with
 Francine Lacqua . “That’s something that we’ll be looking at.”  Carney, a 47-year-old former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
managing director, will become the first foreigner to run the
318-year-old institution as it absorbs new powers to oversee
banks. BOE policy makers have used  record-low   interest rates  and
 asset buying  to help the U.K. economy recover from its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s.  ‘Less Imminent’  Carney told reporters last month the need to raise interest
rates in Canada is “less imminent” after stating since April
that the strength of the nation’s economy might require
borrowing costs to be increased.  Gilts returned 2.8 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Canadian government
debt gained 2.3 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 2.5 percent.  The Bank of England increased its bond-buying target from
275 billion pounds ($441 billion) at the end of last year to a
total of 375 billion pounds of purchases completed this month.  Bank of England  policy makers voted 8-1 to stop expanding
bond purchases this month as the majority said uncertainty among
consumers and companies may be affecting the impact of the
program on the economy.  “Potentially the risk for gilts is that once the market
starts to form more of an opinion about what Carney could do
with the job, we reach the conclusion there is less emphasis on
QE and more emphasis on communication and forward guidance,”
said  Sam Hill , an interest-rate strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in London.  Gilt Yield  The yield on 10-year gilts rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.85 percent as of 3:59 p.m. in London.  The impact on the currency and bond markets may not be
clear until Carney’s approval hearings,  Steven Barrow , head of
Group-of-10 research at Standard Bank Plc in London said.  “I wouldn’t have thought as far as sterling is concerned
that we’ll see a significant directional move before we hear
what he has to say,” Barrow said. “He may be very cautious and
hold his cards close to his chest.”  Carney’s appointment doesn’t mean the Bank of England will
abandon its asset purchases, Pimco’s Amey said. He favors U.S.
Treasuries over gilts due to the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to buy
mortgage-backed securities.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  unveiled a program in
September to buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month in a third
round of quantitative easing.  “We’re not enormously keen on gilts,” Amey said. “The
Fed is still in the game so to speak on QE, the Bank is pausing,
so we would prefer that market. I still think we’ll see more QE
but I also think we’ll see more forward guidance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 