-- Carney at BOE Reveals Canadian Needed to Rescue U.K.
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-11-27T10:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/carney-at-boe-reveals-canadian-needed-to-rescue-u-k-.html
The world’s finance chiefs headed to
the northern Canadian outpost of Iqaluit, just 195 miles south
of the Arctic Circle, in February 2010.  Wearing duck-down parka coats to insulate themselves from
temperatures far below zero Celsius, the guardians of the global
economy went dog-sledding on the town’s frozen bay. While Bank
of England Governor Mervyn King perched awkwardly on the back of
a sledge, his Canadian counterpart drove a pack of huskies
across the ice himself.  Mark Carney will take another set of reins from King, 64,
in July when he succeeds him as head of the U.K.’s central bank.
A former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive and current chairman
of an international panel of bank regulators, Carney will need
similar levels of control and daring as he inherits oversight of
an economy close to recession and a banking industry in crisis.  “Carney is a fantastic central banker,”  Edmund Clark ,
chief executive officer of  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s
second-biggest by assets, said in an interview yesterday. “He’s
clearly been recognized around the world for that, and so
Britain, from its point of view, did a smart thing.”  Youngest Boss  A day after watching one of his four school-age daughters
play ice hockey in downtown Ottawa, Carney, 47, was named
yesterday by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne as
the first ever foreigner to run the 318-year-old Bank of England
and its youngest boss in more than half a century.  “We needed the best, and in Mark Carney we’ve got it,”
Osborne said at the end of a 10-week official search after the
Canadian’s virtually unique blend of experience in banking,
policy making and regulation beat out other contenders.  Having appeared as recently as August to rule out any
interest in the job, Carney was wooed by Osborne to take a
position he never applied for and offered the post last week. He
negotiated an annual salary of 624,000 pounds ($1 million),
including a pension contribution. His five-year term will be
shorter than the eight years that were offered because of a
desire not to remain in central banking for longer than a decade
and because his term at the Financial Stability Board also ends
in 2018.  Transatlantic Switch  Carney will make the transatlantic switch having spent five
years overseeing a Canadian economy that bounced back from the
2009 global slump faster than the U.K., largely because its
banks didn’t require bailouts. By contrast, the U.K. still is
flirting with recession, facing the biggest fiscal squeeze since
World War II and trying to plot a future for its rescued
financial sector.  Unlike other British contenders, such as King’s deputy Paul Tucker, Carney will oversee an overhaul of the central bank free
of the taint of banking scandal and of having been inside the
country’s policy making when it failed to spot the looming
financial stress and then proved sluggish to respond.  Three reports commissioned by the Bank of  England ’s
governing body and published this month criticized its
hierarchical culture and said staff must be allowed to be more
assertive. Tucker, the bookmakers’ favorite, has worked at the
central bank for three decades and was recently embroiled in the
 London  Interbank Offered Rate rigging scandal.  Carney “is head and shoulders above the other
candidates,” David Blanchflower, who helped set U.K. interest
rates until May 2009 and now teaches at Dartmouth College in
Hanover, New Hampshire, said yesterday on Bloomberg Radio’s
“The Hays Advantage” with Kathleen Hays and Vonnie Quinn.
“He’s going to come in with a big broom and sweep clean at the
Bank of England, which is what is needed.”  ‘Very Focused’  Carney previously said he wasn’t a candidate. When asked on
the  BBC ’s “Hardtalk” program in August whether he would be
interested in becoming governor, he said he was “very focused”
on his current posts and “interested in who they pick.”
Questioned about whether that meant “a no or a never consider
the job?” he said: “It’s both. How’s that?”  Bookmakers cited Tucker as the frontrunner.  William Hill
Plc (WMH)  didn’t mention Carney as a contender when it provided odds
on Nov. 24 of 1-4 for Tucker, meaning a successful 4-pound bet
on him would have yielded a 1-pound profit. Ladbrokes gave odds
of 2-9 for Tucker and 12-1 for Carney.  In looking abroad, Osborne embraced an era in which finance
is global and the best talent should be sought out regardless of
passport, said Paul Donovan, an economist at  UBS (UBSN)  AG. The Bank of
England’s policy-setting Monetary Policy Committee already has a
track record of foreign participation, with American Adam Posen
recently departing.  Nationality Incidental  “In an environment of international financial regulation,
having somebody who has a strong track record in that is clearly
important,” Donovan said. “The nationality is entirely
incidental.”  Carney, the son of teachers born in Fort Smith, Northwest
Territories, a town of 2,500 located about 3,900 miles from
London, is no stranger to the U.K. Married to a Briton, he
followed a degree from Harvard University in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , with a doctorate in economics from Oxford
University and spent time in the U.K. capital during his 13
years at Goldman Sachs. He will seek British citizenship.  “It was two decades ago that I started my first proper job
here as a credit analyst,” Carney told the Canada-U.K. Chamber
of Commerce in a November 2008 speech. “I came to London at the
time because it really did appear poised to reassume its role as
a center of global finance.”  Half a decade since the outbreak of the global turmoil,
that status is still under threat after a series of trading
scandals, most recently over Libor.  ‘Light Touch’  London, home to the $2 trillion-a-day currency market, was
also the site of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s trading loss of at least
$5.8 billion and $2.3 billion fraud at UBS. Its onetime “light
touch” regulatory approach has been blamed for failing to
prevent the near-collapse of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
and the run on Northern Rock Plc.  As the government seeks to avoid a repeat of such strife,
Carney will run a Bank of England with increased responsibility
for U.K. financial control as home to regulators overseeing all
deposit-taking institutions, insurers, investment banks and
clearing houses. He also will lead the Financial Policy
Committee, charged with addressing risks to the broader
financial system.  Calling Shots  “The new system puts the BOE at the center and has the BOE
calling the shots, so next time there’s a financial crisis, the
finger will be pointed at the BOE,” said Richard Barwell, a
former Bank of England official who is now an economist at the
Royal Bank of  Scotland .  Carney already has experience rewriting the rules of
finance at a global level as chairman of the FSB for a year, a
position he will retain after he leaves Canada. He has pushed
for tougher regulations for global lenders and clashed with
banking executives, such as JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer
Jamie Dimon, over requirements to hold more capital, saying
earlier this month the case for tougher rules is “as clear
today” as it was when the crisis began.  “Measures to strengthen financial stability support
economic growth and create jobs rather than hold them back, even
in the short term,” Carney said in a Nov. 8 speech in  Montreal .  Rule Making  On his watch, the FSB is extending its rule-making into the
shadow-banking system and has begun to tackle the question of
how it should enforce implementation of its agreements.  Carney, one of Time magazine’s most influential people of
2010 and Euromoney’s central banker of 2012, also will take the
helm of the MPC. It has left the benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent for three years and is mulling whether to bolster a 375
billion-pound asset-buying program.  While the U.K. economy just emerged from its first double-
dip recession since the 1970s and the government is enforcing
austerity,  inflation  has run above the bank’s 2 percent target
since 2009.  Carney, who raised borrowing costs three times in 2010 and
has held the  policy rate  at 1 percent since then, is alone among
Group of Seven central bankers in still suggesting an
inclination to raise borrowing costs and has refrained from
asset purchases as Canadian banks continued to expand lending.
Instead of quantitative easing, Carney introduced a
“conditional commitment” in 2009, when he said the benchmark
rate would remain at its lowest possible level for 15 months.  As of Aug. 31, the Bank of Canada’s balance sheet was 72.7
billion Canadian dollars ($73 billion). The Bank of England’s
was 414 billion pounds on Nov. 21.  ‘Less Dovish’  That suggests the Bank of England may boast a “slightly
less dovish culture” in the future, said Philip Rush, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in London, adding that
Carney’s appointment makes him less confident the Bank of
England will extend quantitative easing beyond the 50 billion
pounds he expects in February.  Still, weak demand for Canada’s exports has handcuffed
Carney’s ability to raise borrowing costs, and the Bank of
Canada’s interest rate pause, the longest since the 1950s, has
helped fuel record levels of household debt that Carney now
calls the country’s the biggest domestic economic risk.  In his current job, Carney has been “somewhat hawkish in
words, but dovish in action,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist
at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a note to
investors yesterday.  Robert Wood, a former Bank of England official until he
recently moved to Berenberg Bank, said Carney also may be “more
creative than King,” given the Bank of Canada’s past
willingness to give time frames for low rates and more specific
economic forecasts.  Stimulus Playbook  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke last year took a
page from Carney’s stimulus playbook when he chose to specify a
date for his pledge to keep borrowing costs low. Under Carney’s
watch, Canada’s central bank also adopted a “flexible inflation
targeting” system that allows it more leeway to lean against
asset bubbles.  “In addition to being very smart, he was tough and
creative,” said Ralph Goodale, a former Canadian finance
minister who said he hired Carney away from the Bank of Canada
in 2004 over its objections. Carney joined the central bank in
2003 before moving to the government’s finance department for a
three-year stint and had “an amazing ability to grasp issues,”
Goodale said.  Complete Change  Carney oversaw a complete change in the membership of the
central bank’s interest-rate-setting panel since he was named
governor at the end of 2007, under the Canadian system that
gives him total legal authority for monetary policy. The views
of individual governing-council members are difficult to judge
because the group sets rates by consensus rather than by voting.  He may have more difficulty wresting control of policy
makers in England. He recently criticized  Andrew Haldane , the
Bank of England’s executive director for financial stability,
for saying new bank regulations are too complex, according to a
Euromoney interview.  “Carney has headed an institution where the governor
effectively makes policy decisions on his own, and it remains to
be seen whether he can effectively govern the more diffuse power
structure” at the Bank of England, BNP Paribas SA economists
Bricklin Dwyer and David Tinsley said in a report. Carney also
“will have a steep learning curve mastering the intricacies of
the U.K. economy.”  Goldman Sachs  Carney, who played ice hockey as a student and has run
marathons, is one of several Goldman Sachs alumni to shape
international economic policy. European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley and current Bank of England policy maker Ben Broadbent
were there, too.  Carney worked for the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets in
 Tokyo  and New York, as well as London. He became co-head of
sovereign risk and executive director of debt capital markets,
advising governments in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa .  In 1998, he moved to New York as vice president of
corporate finance, before returning to Canada to help Goldman
Sachs build its investment-banking relationships in Toronto. He
left the New York-based bank to become deputy governor of the
Bank of Canada in 2003, responding to an advertisement in the
Economist magazine, which Osborne also used to promote the Bank
of England vacancy.  “I’m going to where the challenges are greatest,” Carney
said in Ottawa yesterday. “This is a major challenge, a major
opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  