-- Carney Brings New Thinking to Bank of England, OECD’s White Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-11-27T14:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/carney-brings-new-thinking-to-bank-of-england-oecd-s-white-says.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
may bring new thinking to the U.K. central bank and refresh its
ability to tackle recessions and potential financial crises,
said  William White  of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.  “He has a different background” to that of current Bank
of England chief  Mervyn King , White, a former Bank of Canada
deputy governor, said in an interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.” He has a “less
academic background, to be able to throw away some of the old
models and get into what some would consider to be newer
thinking.”  Carney will become the first foreigner to run the 318-year-
old Bank of England when he succeeds King on July 1 next year.
The Canadian will take over a revamped institution that’s adding
financial regulation to its powers along with monetary policy as
the government seeks to strengthen the banking system against
future crises.  There are a “lot of difficulties in the City, issues with
good governance of banks, to say nothing of issues of financial
stability,” said White, who is chairman of the OECD’s Economic
and Development Review Committee. “They wanted someone with a
wide range of experience who was completely clean and outside
the system. That’s the kind of guy they got.”  Carney will lead both the Monetary Policy Committee at the
central bank and the Financial Policy Committee, charged with
using macro-prudential tools to address risks to the broader
financial system.  ‘Very Focused’  Speaking on the same show,  Stephen Roach , a professor at
Yale University, said Carney is “very focused on the whole
macro construct of financial stability, and the interplay
between the financial stability and monetary policy.”  “This is a very important step up in the analytical
firepower of central banking,” Roach said.  Carney’s surprise appointment, which won cross-party
support in the U.K. Parliament yesterday after it was announced
by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , was also praised
by former MPC member  David Blanchflower , who said he was against
an insider being appointed.  “It’s a change of the guard, it’s a huge job, but I think
this guy’s going to shake it up with a new broom,” Blanchflower
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  