-- McCain to Meet With Rice After Denouncing Her Over Libya
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-27T16:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/mccain-to-meet-with-rice-after-denouncing-her-over-libya.html
(Corrects identity of senator cited in fifth, 18th and
19th paragraphs.)  Three Republican senators including
 John McCain  of  Arizona  said they will meet today with  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , to hear her
explanation for a flawed account of the attack on the U.S.
consulate in Benghazi, Libya.  “She asked to see me, and I agreed to see her,” McCain,
the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said
yesterday in an interview. Asked what he would ask Rice, McCain
said, “The same questions I’ve been talking about on every talk
show in America.”  Republican lawmakers led by McCain have said Rice misled
the public by saying on five Sunday television talk shows on
Sept. 16 that the attack in Benghazi five days earlier that
killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans
unfolded from a demonstration against an anti-Islamic video that
was “hijacked” by militants.  Two other Republican senators who also have criticized Rice
--  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and  Kelly Ayotte  of  New
Hampshire  -- said they will join McCain for the meeting.  McCain has eased off his criticism of Rice in recent days,
as have other Republicans such as Senator  James Inhofe . That may
bolster the ambassador’s prospects to win confirmation if
President  Barack Obama  nominates her to succeed the departing
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  McCain had previously called Rice’s comments “not very
bright” and vowed to oppose her for secretary of state.  Obama Defense  Obama came out out strongly in defense of Rice, a close
confidante since his first run for president in 2008 when she
was his foreign policy adviser. At a Nov. 14 news conference,
Obama said his UN envoy had done “exemplary work” and for
senators including McCain “to besmirch her reputation is
outrageous.”  Rice told reporters in  New York  on Nov. 21 that she had
“relied solely and squarely on the information provided to me
by the intelligence community. I made clear that the information
was preliminary and that our investigations would give us the
definitive answers.”  She said some of McCain’s statements “have been unfounded,
but I look forward to having the opportunity at the appropriate
time to discuss all of this with him. I have great respect for
Senator McCain and his service to our country.”  Erin Pelton, a spokeswoman for Rice, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the meeting plans, which
McCain disclosed earlier yesterday in an interview with the
Daily Beast website.  ‘Smell Test’  McCain tempered his criticism of Rice over the weekend,
saying on “Fox News Sunday” on Nov. 25 that Rice is “not the
problem. The problem is the president of the United States,”
who McCain said misled the public about terrorist involvement in
the  Libya  attack.  Graham, who has said he would oppose Rice if she’s
nominated, yesterday didn’t back down from his earlier
contention that she intentionally misled the public with her
remarks about the attacks.  “I am more concerned than ever that the version given by
her and the president about this being a spontaneous event with
no clear al-Qaeda connections doesn’t pass the smell test,”
Graham said.  Ayotte, who is threatening to place a “hold” on any Rice
nomination until further questions are answered, said it’s
unlikely the matter will be entirely resolved in one meeting.  “I assume we’ll hopefully get answers to some of the
questions we have,” she said.  ‘Under the Bus’  Intelligence officials, speaking on condition of anonymity,
have said they dropped references to possible al-Qaeda
connections to the attack from initial accounts to protect
intelligence sources, not the president’s re-election campaign.  Rice and acting Central Intelligence Agency Director Mike Morell are to meet this week with U.S. lawmakers to discuss the
Benghazi attack, according to an Obama administration official
who asked to not be named because the meetings hadn’t been
publicly announced.  Inhofe of  Oklahoma , who will take over from McCain in
January as the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, told reporters yesterday that he may support Rice for
secretary of state after initially believing she misled the
public.  “I believe she very well could have been thrown under the
bus” by being given inaccurate information, Inhofe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  