-- CDB Offers Dollar Debt as Costs Fall to Least Since January 2011
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-11-27T03:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/cdb-offers-dollar-debt-as-costs-fall-to-least-since-january-2011.html
China Development Bank Corp. is
marketing a sale of dollar-denominated bonds as the cost of
borrowing in the U.S. currency falls to the lowest in almost two
years for Chinese companies.  CDB, the nation’s largest policy lender, plans to sell
five-year notes at about 175 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries and 10-year securities at about a 200 basis-
point spread, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The  extra yield  Chinese companies offer investors to buy their
dollar bonds rather than government debt fell to 374 basis
points yesterday, the least since January 2011, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes show.  “China risk appetite is returning to the market as recent
data is pointing to a more benign outlook for growth” in the
country, said Krishna Hegde, the Singapore-based head of Asia
credit research at Barclays Plc. “For credit markets in
general, all-in yields are close to multiyear lows, making it
attractive for borrowers.”  Chinese industrial companies’ profit gains surged in
October and turned positive for the year as factory output
accelerated and export growth picked up following a seven-
quarter economic slowdown, according to National Bureau of
Statistics figures today in Beijing. Industrial production and
overseas shipments both rose last month by the most since May.
China Cosco Holdings Co. raised $1 billion this week, boosting
dollar sales by Chinese corporates to $4.5 billion in November,
the most for any month since April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Cosco, Longyuan  China Cosco sold 4 percent bonds due December 2022 at a
spread of 250 basis points over Treasuries, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Companies in the world’s second-largest economy
have sold 35 percent of all dollar notes in the Asia-Pacific
region this month, up from 18 percent in October, the data show.  CDB will sell its notes via Amber Circle Funding Ltd., a
person familiar with the matter said today, asking not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used
by the offshore business of CDB Leasing, a subsidiary of the
company, another person said on Nov. 20.  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916)  hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG to help arrange meetings with
bond investors, another person said today.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was little changed at 113 basis points
as of 8:57 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The gauge has ranged from 112.6 basis points to
175.3 basis points this half, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 1 basis point to 176 as
of 9:04 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The index,
which has ranged from 168.5 to 229.5 since June 30, is headed
for its first decline since Nov. 22, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 1 basis point
to 133 basis points as of 10:52 a.m. in Sydney, according to
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  The measure, which has ranged from 132.4
to 186 this half, is headed for a 21 basis-point decline from
this month’s high of 154 on Nov. 16, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  