-- Chelsea Says It Regrets Handling of Clattenburg Racial Complaint
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-27T18:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/chelsea-says-it-regrets-handling-of-clattenburg-racial-complaint.html
English Premier League soccer club
Chelsea said it regrets the way it handled allegations that
referee Mark Clattenburg made a racist remark toward one of its
players in a match last month.  The  London  club issued a joint statement today with
referees group Professional Game Match Officials Ltd. and the
Premier League in which it acknowledged “more consideration”
should have been given before going public with the allegation.  England’s Football Association last week cleared
Clattenburg, 37, of allegedly making the remark toward Chelsea
midfielder John Obi Mikel in an Oct. 28 league match against
 Manchester United .  Chelsea made a formal complaint the following day after
Brazilian midfielder Ramires alleged he heard the referee say
“Shut up, you monkey” to Mikel, of  Nigeria . Clattenburg hasn’t
refereed a match since and denied Chelsea’s allegation he used
“inappropriate language.” Mikel didn’t hear the alleged words.  Chelsea said it also regretted the “subsequent impact the
intense media scrutiny had on Mark Clattenburg and his family.”  The F.A.’s decision to clear Clattenburg came after the
Metropolitan Police dropped a probe into the allegation. It
started its investigation after a complaint by the Society of
Black Lawyers, which called for an inquiry into whether a
criminal offense had been committed.  Chelsea Chairman Bruce Buck, Premier League Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Scudamore , Clattenburg and the remaining 15
Select Group referees and referee general manager Mike Riley met
yesterday to discuss the issue, calling the session a
“constructive and open discussion.”  Club Obligation  “The referees accept that, given Chelsea F.C. had received
a good-faith claim from one of their employees, the club had an
obligation under F.A. rules to report the allegation,” the
statement read.  Chelsea said that Clattenburg is welcome to work at
 Stamford  Bridge and that the officials’ group said it would have
no issue in assigning him to a match there.  “All parties now believe it is time to draw a line under
this incident, learn from it and move on for the good of all
Premier League clubs, players and match officials,” the groups
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 