-- Chemring Promises the Overhaul That Carlyle Passed On
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-11-27T09:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/chemring-chief-pledges-to-do-the-overhaul-that-carlyle-passed-on.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG) ’s Mark Papworth,
three weeks into the role of chief executive, pledged to
undertake the overhaul of the British defense-equipment maker
that one-time suitor  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  balked at.  Results in 2012 were “extremely disappointing” and
Chemring needs to adapt and better equip itself to meet market
challenges, it said today. The revamp follows a 13 percent drop
in orders to 760 million pounds ($1.2 billion) in the year
through October, with sales in line with analysts’ estimates at
740 million pounds. Chemring rose 4.8 percent to 241 pence as of
9:22 a.m.  “Admission of weak operational performance and poor
expectation management is the first step to recovery,” Ben
Bourne, London-based analyst at  Liberum Capital  said. “The
investment case now hinges on what can be done by the new CEO to
limit the effects of cyclical decline and improve cash
generation.”  U.S. private equity firm Carlyle on Nov. 7 ended protracted
takeover talks that first became public on Aug. 17 after
Chemring revised its earnings outlook twice and ousted CEO David
Price last month. Chemring earnings have fallen short as delays
on programs and export licenses damped sales.  The company blamed its poor performance on “a failure to
anticipate the likely impact of the changing market dynamics”
and “failures in performance at several of our businesses.”  Cash Conversion  “There is much we have to do to improve things,” Chairman
Peter Hickson said on a call with analysts. “We need to take a
critical look at our operations and seek to run them more
efficiently and cost effectively.”  One of the challenges facing Papworth, who took over on
Nov. 5, will be improving cash conversion that lags behind
peers, Edward Stacey, London-based analyst for Espirito Santo,
said in advance of the company report. Details of the overhaul
plan are due on Jan. 24.  “Fundamentally this is a good business but with
significant challenges, internally, in the market place and in
terms of its reputation,” Papworth said on the call. After a
cycle of acquisition-driven growth, he said there are
opportunities to simplify the operation and gain efficiencies.  Net debt at the end of the financial year was 250 million
pounds. To reduce that level the company in 2013 will have a
“tighter rein” on fixed asset expenditure, Chief Financial
Officer Nigel Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  