-- China Industrial-Company Profit Gains Accelerated in October
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-27T06:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/china-industrial-company-profit-gains-accelerated-in-october.html
Chinese industrial companies’ profit
gains surged in October and turned positive for the year as
factory output accelerated and  export  growth picked up following
a seven-quarter economic slowdown.  Net income gained 20.5 percent from a year earlier to 500.1
billion yuan ($80.4 billion), the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said today in Beijing. Profits in September rose 7.8 percent,
the first gain in six months.  The data build on signs of a growth recovery in the world’s
second-biggest economy, with industrial  production  and overseas
shipments both rising last month by the most since May. The
gains reduce the impetus for the new Communist Party leadership
headed by  Xi Jinping  and  Li Keqiang  to build on policy stimulus
including interest-rate cuts in June and July.  “The improved industrial profitability further confirms
that the Chinese economy is stabilizing and gaining growth
momentum,” said Ding Shuang, senior economist for  China  at
Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong , who previously worked at the
country’s central bank. “The profit number, together with other
economic indicators, shows there is no need for the government
to launch new easing policies.”  Citigroup raised its 2013 GDP growth forecast for China to
7.8 percent from a previous estimate of 7.6 percent, according
to a research report yesterday.  Railway Spending  China’s National Development and Reform Commission, the top
economic-planning agency, yesterday posted approvals on its
website for three projects with a total value of 75.2 billion
 yuan : subway lines in the cities of Fuzhou and Urumqi and a
railway linking Fuzhou with the Pingtan experimental zone in
 Fujian province .  Most large- and medium-sized Chinese steel mills reversed
losses in October, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on
Nov. 25, citing Liu Zhenjiang, vice president of the China Iron
& Steel Association.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , the nation’s
biggest publicly traded mill, said on Nov. 12 that it would
raise prices for most cold-rolled products for December delivery,
the first increase for three months.  Industrial companies’ profits  in the first 10 months of the
year rose 0.5 percent to 4 trillion yuan, according to today’s
statement. That compares with a 1.8 percent drop in the first
nine months of 2012 and a 25.3 percent gain in the January-
October period in 2011. The government began reporting monthly
year-over-year profit changes in October 2011.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.8 percent as of 2:04
p.m. local time. It’s down about 16 percent in the past year.  Revenue Gains  Revenue for industrial companies in the first 10 months
increased 10.3 percent from a year earlier to 73.7 trillion yuan,
today’s statistics bureau report showed. Sales  rose  29.1 percent
in the January-October period of 2011.  A manufacturing gauge last week showed the first expansion
in 13 months for November, according to a preliminary reading
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  Li, named the No. 2 party official this month and set to
succeed  Wen Jiabao  as premier in March, said last week that the
nation must boost  consumer spending  to sustain expansion and
cope with a slowdown in the global economy.  China’s economy  expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years. Analysts
forecast a rebound in the October-December period to 7.7 percent,
based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
conducted Nov. 14-19.  Among 41 industries covered by the statistics bureau data,
27 reported profits rose in the January-October period from a
year earlier, including 9 percent growth in the  auto industry 
and gains of 57.5 percent in power-company earnings.  Thirteen industries reported a drop in profits, including
oil and gas exploration, whose earnings fell 3.2 percent. The
only industry to show losses in the first 10 months was
petrochemicals, coking and nuclear-fuel processing, the bureau
said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from  John Liu  and Penny Peng in
Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at   slanman@bloomberg.net  