-- China’s U.S. Debt Buying Seen Limited, Former Adviser Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-28T04:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/china-s-u-s-debt-purchases-seen-limited-former-adviser-says.html
China may limit its  purchases  of U.S.
Treasuries because the central bank has reduced its buying of
dollars at home, according to a Chinese academic who has served
as a government adviser.  The People’s Bank of China has “noticeably” reduced its
purchases of dollars from local banks to allow commercial banks
to trade among themselves, Ding Zhijie, dean of finance at
Beijing’s University of International Business and Economics,
said in a Nov. 23 interview. That may cap the nation’s foreign-
exchange reserves and consequently its demand for  U.S.
government debt , he said.  The scaled-back intervention is part of a shift toward
managing the currency through the daily price  fixing , Ding said.
A reduction in China’s U.S. debt holdings may help defuse
criticism by some American politicians that their country is
becoming too dependent on the world’s second-largest economy.  “We are now witnessing a big change -- China’s official
foreign-exchange reserves will be stable or even fall slightly
in the coming years,” said Ding, who advised the government on
creating the nation’s sovereign wealth  fund . “That means
China’s new purchases of Treasuries will be limited and as you
can already see, purchases have already started ebbing in the
last couple of months.”  Treasury Holdings  China  cut its U.S. government debt holdings by $123 billion
in September to $1.156 trillion, according to U.S. Treasury
Department data released Nov. 16. China’s State Administration
of Foreign Exchange, which manages the country’s $3.3 trillion
foreign exchange reserves, doesn’t publish data on its holdings.  Other countries’ buying of Treasuries has more than made up
for the drop from China. Japan, which raised its stake by 6.9
percent this year to $1.13 trillion, is on a pace to surpass
China and top the list of foreign creditors by January.  Brazil,  Belgium ,  Luxembourg , Russia, Switzerland,  Taiwan 
and  Hong Kong  boosted their holdings of U.S. government
securities by a collective $264.8 billion since the last debate
over the U.S. debt ceiling ended in August 2011, U.S. data show.  The PBOC has barely intervened in the foreign-exchange
market for four quarters,  Yi Gang , a deputy governor and head of
the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, said at an
International Monetary Fund meeting in Tokyo last month.  Dollar Buying  Liu Dongliang , a senior currency analyst with China
Merchants Bank in Shenzhen, said the PBOC’s willingness to buy
dollars in the  interbank market  has weakened significantly in
recent weeks. “This in turn means the central bank will have
fewer dollars for its overseas allocation,” Liu said.  China’s foreign-currency  holdings  have tripled over the
past six years, a result of a surging  trade surplus , rising
foreign investment and its policy of controlling the value of
the yuan. That’s coincided with a surge in U.S. government debt
holdings, which peaked at $1.31 trillion in July 2011.  China’s foreign exchange reserves climbed to a record $3.31
trillion in February 2012. Since then, holdings have fluctuated
and were $3.29 trillion at the end of September, PBOC data show.  “When you have accumulated a third of the world’s total
foreign-exchange reserves, you really don’t want to increase it
anymore,” Ding said. “Boiled pork and chestnut is a very
delicious dish, but you’ll be sick if you eat too much of it.”  The  yuan  today retreated from a 19-year high as the
lowering of the central bank’s  reference rate  meant the currency
had to weaken to remain within its permitted trading range. The
currency fell 0.1 percent to 6.2273 as of 11:26 a.m. in  Shanghai .  Trading Band  The central bank in April doubled the yuan’s daily trading
band against the dollar to 1 percent on either side of its
reference rate. The PBOC is trying to keep the rate “basically
stable” through the daily price fixing, Ding said.  “The yuan rises against the dollar every trading day, but
accumulated appreciation in a month will be less than 1 percent
because of the price setting of the central bank,” he said.  Chinese ownership of Treasuries was an issue during this
year’s U.S. election, which was won this month by President
 Barack Obama , a Democrat, over Republican  Mitt Romney . “Does
the America we want borrow a trillion dollars from China? No,”
Romney said Aug. 30 in accepting the party’s nomination.  A super-political action committee, the Americans for
Prosperity Foundation, joined with the advocacy group Citizens
Against Government Waste to air television advertisements that
showed China’s ownership of Treasuries as a threat to U.S.
independence.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  