-- CME Group Must Defend Price-Settlement Suit, Judge Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-11-27T00:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/cme-group-must-defend-price-settlement-suit-judge-rules.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , operator of the
world’s largest futures market, must defend a lawsuit brought by
Chicago Board of Trade brokers and traders challenging a change
in how final-trade settlement prices are determined.  Cook County Circuit Judge Lee Preston in Chicago today
denied in part a defense request that he throw out the lawsuit
filed against CME in June. The suit seeks to prevent a shift
from computing agricultural trade prices solely by open outcry
from the trading pits to a system relying on an algorithmic
blend of open outcry and electronic-trade information.  Announced in May, the change went into effect on June 25,
before the more than 20 suing traders and brokers, who claim
their membership rights were violated, could obtain a court
order to block it.  Preston today said the plaintiffs could proceed on their
claims for injunctive relief and for breach of contract against
CME and the Board of Trade.  “It’s our position that CME did an end run around their
own certificate of incorporation to implement this rule,”
George Sang, the lawyer for the floor traders and brokers, said
in a telephone interview.  The change in price settlement methodology “had the effect
of destroying their businesses and livelihoods,” Sang said.  While Preston dismissed the breach of contract claim
against CME Group Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive
Officer Phupinder Gill, he said the plaintiffs could pursue
breach of fiduciary duty claims against them. The judge rejected
a breach of fiduciary duty claim asserted against the company.  Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based CME Group,
said the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  While his clients still seek a court order blocking the new
measure, Sang said no hearing date has been set. The parties are
due in court on Dec. 4 for a hearing on the next steps in the
case.  The case is McKerr v. The Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago, 12CH23185, Cook County,  Illinois , Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  