-- McMoRan’s Stumble at Davy Jones in Gulf Sends Stock Plunging
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-11-27T19:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/mcmoran-s-stumble-at-davy-jones-in-gulf-sends-stock-plunging.html
McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  has lost
almost a third of its value in the last two days on investors’
concerns that its Davy Jones well in the Gulf of Mexico is a
dud.  McMoRan said yesterday a production flow test this month on
the well was inconclusive, another setback in a year-long series
of delays in its effort to prove the well’s worth. The stock
 dropped  11 percent to $8.57 at 2:45 p.m. in New York today,
compounding a 22 percent drop yesterday. The shares earlier
today touched the lowest price since 2009.  McMoRan’s announcement of the test failure “may have
raised more questions regarding the well’s ability to produce
commercial amounts of gas,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led
by Joseph Allman said in a note dated yesterday.  Davy Jones No. 1 is the latest big bet by McMoRan Chief
Executive Officer Jim Bob Moffett, an oilman ranked by
billionaire T. Boone Pickens as among the top five U.S.
wildcatters. McMoRan is seeking to pioneer ultra-deep production
from a well drilled in shallow water off the Gulf Coast,
tunneling 29,000 feet amid high temperatures and pressures. The
company said it will try the flow test again, without specifying
when or how long it might be before results are available.  Failure Risk  With the Davy Jones well, which Moffett believes has tapped
into a formation containing trillions of cubic feet of gas,
McMoRan has “really put all their eggs in this one basket,”
 Leo Mariani , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said in an
interview before the latest test. The well underpins McMoRan’s
aspirations for ultra-deep exploration, and Mariani predicted in
that interview that if it doesn’t work, “the stock’s getting
whacked.”  Yesterday, Mariani’s firm cut its rating on McMoRan to
sector perform from outperform.  McMoRan said it is struggling with a component known as
barite that adds weight to the drilling mud used to hold back
flow after a well is drilled and before flow tests begin. The
barite concoction has clogged the well, and McMoRan has been
unable to clear it after months of effort. The company said it
will try using a solvent to remove the mud before retrying the
flow test.  If McMoRan cannot unclog the site, it “potentially might
have to abandon the well,” JPMorgan said. The company may try
repeated treatments if the solvent doesn’t do the job the first
time, Moffett said on a conference call with analysts and
investors today.  Overvalued Shares  McMoRan shares remained overvalued after yesterday’s
plunge, JPMorgan said in its note. The market had already given
the company “significant credit for success at Davy Jones” and
other ultra-deep fields, the firm said.  McMoRan will continue to seek “home runs” for
shareholders and will build value through its complete portfolio
of prospects, Moffett said during the conference call today. The
company yesterday cited positive data from exploratory wells
onshore in  Louisiana  and in the Gulf.  The company’s $300 million of 11.875 percent bonds maturing
in November 2014 dropped 4 cents on the dollar to 100.938 cents
as of 12:44 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That’s the lowest price since June 2010, the data show.  Drawing Credit  McMoRan may begin to draw on a credit facility starting
late in the first quarter, RBC said in its note yesterday. The
company may need to bring in a joint-venture partner or seek
other financing in the near term, according to RBC.  “However, we think that capital is unlikely to be as
available without an ultra-deep production test,” RBC said in
the note.  McMoRan operates and has a 63.4 percent working interest in
Davy Jones, according to yesterday’s statement. Other partners
include Energy XXI Bermuda Ltd., JX Nippon Oil Exploration
(Gulf) Ltd. and Moncrief Offshore LLC, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  