-- Cnooc-Nexen Deal ‘Moving Along’ as Canada Develops Policy
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-28T13:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/cnooc-nexen-deal-moving-along-as-canada-develops-policy.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion bid for
Canada’s Nexen Inc. is “moving along” as the federal
government develops new foreign-investment guidelines while it
reviews the bid from the Chinese oil producer, Alberta Premier
Alison Redford said yesterday.  “I haven’t heard anything,” Redford said. “This is a
decision the federal government will make. We understand that
it’s moving along and everything is being considered.”  Redford, whose province includes Nexen’s Calgary
headquarters, spoke to reporters in Toronto yesterday after a
speech at an infrastructure investment conference.  The Cnooc-Nexen deal is “an important investment for
Alberta and for Canada,” she said. “We respect the fact that
the federal government is thinking through what that long-term
approach should be with respect to policy which I think is good
for Canadians.”  The Canadian government is reviewing the sale of Nexen
under its foreign-takeover law, which specifies transactions
need to have a “net benefit” to the country in order to win
approval.  Canada  extended its review of the deal for a second
time on Nov. 2, setting the deadline to Dec. 10.  Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis said his
government is working on a legal framework, including “new
provisions,” for foreign investments, declining to speculate on
decisions regarding deals under review.  “There is a current legal framework in place and we are
reviewing with this legal framework and as I said when we are
ready to announce a policy framework that we’ve been working on,
we’ll do it appropriately,” Paradis told reporters in Ottawa
yesterday.  U.S. Review   Zhang Junsai,  China ’s ambassador to Canada, said yesterday
the debate over the takeover bid is “understandable” and shows
the relationship between the two countries is maturing. The
debate over investment and trade between the two countries is
coming at the right time and is helping to build trust, he said
in a Montreal speech.  “Recently there is a heated debate on trade and economic
cooperation between our two countries especially on the issue of
two-way investment and more specifically the Nexen issue,”
Zhang said. “To me it’s totally understandable. That shows our
trade and economic relations are maturing.”  Nexen fell 2 percent to close at C$24.10 ($24.24) in
Toronto, while Cnooc’s American depository receipts dropped 1
percent to $209.67.  Cnooc and Nexen withdrew and resubmitted a notice on the
deal for review by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the
United States, Nexen said in a statement on its website after
the close of North American markets without providing a reason.
Nexen spokesman Pierre Alvarez didn’t immediately return a phone
message seeking comment.  The committee, known as CFIUS, assesses foreign takeovers
of U.S. companies on national security grounds. Nexen’s U.S.
unit operates in the U.S. portion of the Gulf of Mexico.  Market sensitivity to the deal is driving speculation about
the U.S. review, Sachin Shah, a special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. in Jersey
City, said in a note earlier in the day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  