-- Congolese Rebels Issue Conditions for Withdrawal From Goma
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-11-27T12:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/congo-rebels-want-kabila-to-meet-conditions-before-goma-pull-out.html
Rebels in eastern Congo ignored a
deadline set by regional leaders for them to withdraw from the
city of Goma and set a series of conditions for President Joseph Kabila to meet before they pull out.  The demands include providing a schedule for negotiations
with opposition parties, civil-society groups and the Congolese
diaspora, Bishop Jean-Marie Runiga, head of M23’s political
wing, told reporters today in Goma. Other conditions include the
release of political prisoners and the dissolution of Congo’s
electoral commission, he said.  “If he meets these demands, M23 will leave,” Runiga said.
Leaders from Central Africa’s Great Lakes region on Nov. 24 gave
the rebels two days to move at least 20 kilometers (12 miles)
away from Goma, stop all “war activities” and allow the
Congolese army and police to re-enter the city.  M23 captured Goma, the capital of North Kivu province, on
Nov. 20 after ending an unofficial three-month cease-fire with
the Congolese army, which has fled the city close to the border
with  Rwanda . The renegade group is made up of soldiers who
mutinied in April and headed by General Bosco Ntaganda, who is
wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes. A
United Nations group of experts monitoring Congo’s arms embargo
has accused Rwanda and Uganda of backing the insurgents,
allegations both governments deny.  Gold, Coltan  Congo’s North and South Kivu provinces are one of the
world’s largest sources of columbite-tantalite, the mineral
known as coltan that’s used in mobile phones and computers. The
central African nation is also the continent’s biggest producer
of tin ore, most of which is mined in the Kivus.  Banro Corp. (BAA) ,
based in Toronto, operates the Twangiza gold mine about 200
kilometers (124 miles) south of Goma in South Kivu.  Congo’s government rejected M23’s call for broad-based
negotiations and said any talks would focus solely on the
implementation of a March 23, 2009 peace deal. The rebel group,
which takes its name from the date of that agreement, mutinied
after saying the government failed to respect the accord.  “We will negotiate with M23 when they have withdrawn from
Goma,” Communications Minister  Lambert Mende  said in a phone
interview today from Kinshasa, Congo’s capital, which is about
1,660 kilometers (1,032 miles) west of Goma.  ‘Economic Activity’  M23 will meet with business leaders in Goma soon to discuss
resuming “economic activity” in the lake-side city that is a
key transit point for trade in the region, Runiga said. The
group rejected an ultimatum from the interim head of Congo’s
ground forces, Lieutenant-General Francois Olenga, to quit Goma
within 48 hours.  “If he attacks we reserve the right to defend ourselves,”
Runiga said.  Congo and Rwanda have fought directly or by proxy since the
late 1990s. The 2009 peace deal improved relations between the
two countries until the M23 insurgency began seven months ago.  Earlier today, Rwanda’s military said a rival rebel group
based in eastern Congo attacked three villages inside its
territory. Two companies of soldiers from the Democratic Forces
for the Liberation of Rwanda, known by the French acronym FDLR,
carried out the assault at 5 a.m. today, Brigadier-General
Joseph Nzabamwinta said in a mobile-phone text message.  Two attackers were killed and six were captured in what
Nzabamwinta said was an attempt to derail the peace process in
eastern Congo. Rwanda will continue defending its territory and
“doesn’t want anything to escalate the situation,” he said.  Rwanda accuses the FDLR, an ethnic-Hutu-led group, of
participating in the 1994 Rwandan genocide in which at least
800,000 people were killed  Army Denial  Congo’s army denied there had been any attack by the FDLR.  “It’s a rumour created by Rwanda to justify the non-
withdrawal of M23 from Goma,” army spokesman Colonel Olivier
Hamuli said in a phone interview from Minova, near the border of
North Kivu and South Kivu. “How could the FDLR attack Rwanda,
from where? The M23 controls the length of the border.”  The UN experts’ report identified Rwandan Defense Minister
General James Kabarebe as the ultimate commander of M23, a
charge Runiga denied.  “I was never recruited by James Kabarebe,” he said. “I
am at the head of a movement of Congolese,” he said. M23
opposes any “balkanization” or splitting up of Congo, Runiga
said, calling on Congolese throughout the country to join the
movement.  Kabarebe hung up the phone when Bloomberg called him today.
He didn’t immediately respond to a text message requesting
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Goma at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 