-- Consumer Bureau to Revise Money-Transfer Rules Faulted by Banks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-11-27T18:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/consumer-bureau-to-revise-money-transfer-rules-faulted-by-banks.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau said it will revise rules for international
money transfers after banks complained that the agency’s current
plan could push some of them out of the business.  The bureau, which had said final regulations governing so-
called remittances would take effect on Feb. 7, now plans to
issue a revision in December for a comment period, according to
a statement released today. The changes will address what should
happen if a consumer provides an incorrect account number for a
transfer and how remittance providers must disclose third-party
fees and foreign taxes, the bureau said.  “We think these changes will make the rule workable, and
make it possible for them to keep offering the product,” said
Janis Bowdler of the National Council of La Raza, who was
briefed on the changes by bureau Director  Richard Cordray . “We
don’t want to see a mass exodus from the product, but we do want
to see industry be responsible,” said Bowdler, who is director
of La Raza’s wealth-building project.  Cordray had rebuffed bank lobbyists’ request for a delay in
the effective date during an Aug. 10 meeting to discuss the
rule. Industry groups then outlined what they saw as problems
with the rule in an Oct. 17 letter.  The change announced today may have been prompted by the
Federal Home Loan Bank of  New York  saying it would stop
processing international wire transfers for members as a result
of the rule, according to Robert Rowe, vice president and chief
counsel of the Washington-based  American Bankers Association .  The question is whether the changes come in time to keep
other banks from exiting the business, Rowe said.  “The sooner they get something out the better,” he said.
“We are starting to get to the point where banks have to fish
or cut bait.”  ‘Positive Solution’  Cordray’s reversal “is a prime example of industry,
consumer groups and government coming together to find a
positive solution,”  Richard Hunt , president of the Consumer
Bankers Association, said in an interview.  The remittance rule, required under the Dodd-Frank Act, is
designed to improve consumer understanding of costs. It affects
banks that make international transfers, as well as non-bank
firms such as  Western Union Co. (WU)  and  MoneyGram International Inc. (MGI)   Since the final rule was issued early this year, banks have
complained that it requires them to inform customers of costs
that they can’t know, such as local taxes imposed where the
money is picked up.  The CFPB issued a revision on Aug. 7, to exempt companies
that handle 100 or fewer remittances per year.  The new effective date will be some time in the spring of
2013, according to the bureau’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  