-- Copper Mountain Tempts With Canadian Stability: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-11-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/copper-mountain-tempts-with-canadian-stability-real-m-a.html
Copper Mountain Mining Corp. (CUM)  is
offering buyers a potentially irresistible combination: the
cheapest valuation in three years and the ability to extract
metal without the threat of civil unrest in such places as
 Indonesia  and  Peru .  Lower-than-estimated copper production drove the company’s
price-earnings ratio down to 16.7 in October, the cheapest since
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Copper Mountain
has tumbled 43 percent since this year’s peak, giving the
business the lowest price-sales multiple using  estimated  2012
revenue among Canadian base metals stocks with a market value
exceeding C$250 million ($252 million), the data show.  The location of Copper Mountain’s main mining project in
British Columbia may prove alluring to acquirers seeking assets
where there’s low risk of social disorder,  Laurentian Bank of
Canada  said. While initial copper production levels were
disappointing after extraction began in 2011, the Vancouver-
based company seems to have turned the situation around and a
buyer should strike now before Copper Mountain’s  shares  rebound,
according to Haywood Securities Inc. Jennings Capital Inc. said
companies such as  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  could offer C$8 a share in
a deal, more than double yesterday’s close.  “There’s a lot of reasons why it would be attractive to
potential acquirers,” Adam Low, a Toronto-based analyst at
Raymond James Financial Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“The valuation is attractive at current prices,” and “it’s in
 Canada , so it’s got low political risk, which in the mining
world is an important attribute,” he said.  Restarting Production  Jim O’Rourke, the chief executive officer of Copper
Mountain, declined to comment on whether the company has been
approached by suitors.  Copper Mountain owns 75 percent of the namesake mine in
British Columbia, while Mitsubishi Materials Corp.,  Japan ’s
third-largest copper producer, controls the rest. In June 2011,
production resumed at the site, which was closed in 1996. Copper
Mountain says the mine should produce 100 million pounds (45.4
million kilograms) of copper annually during its first 12 years.  Mining in Canada presents fewer challenges than those seen
in other nations, where protests and rioting are more common and
there’s greater risk that governments will nationalize assets or
impose hefty taxes, said Christopher Chang, a Toronto-based
analyst at  Laurentian Bank .  ‘Extensive Repairs’  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in
Indonesia was halted for more than two weeks in the first
quarter and required what the company called “extensive
repairs” after violence flared among employees in the aftermath
of a three-month strike last year. Workers at First Quantum
Minerals Ltd.’s Kansanshi copper project, located in  Zambia ,
went on strike in January, barricading the entrance, halting
production and demanding that their pay be doubled.  Peru’s mining industry, the world’s third-largest copper
producer, will cut investment by 33 percent next year as social
unrest delays projects, according to the National Society of
Mining, Petroleum & Energy. Barrick Gold Corp. suspended
operations in September at one of its Peruvian projects after
villagers blocked a road and clashed with police.  The Fraser Institute Policy Potential Index shows British
Columbia is more attractive to mining companies in terms of
taxation, regulation and other public-policy factors than places
elsewhere in the world. Its 2011 rating of 62.5 on a 100-point
scale topped Indonesia at 13.5, Zambia at 46.1 and Peru at 43.4.  No Unrest  Copper Mountain’s “production is in a low-risk
jurisdiction in Canada,” Laurentian Bank’s Chang said in a
phone interview. “There’s tax risk and you also run into areas
where there’s a lot of civil unrest and a lot of rioting,” he
said. British Columbia “has none of that.”  Shares of Copper Mountain declined 35 percent this year
through yesterday as the company struggled to ramp up
production. Its price-earnings ratio fell to 16.7 on Oct. 2, the
lowest since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
C$358.7 million company traded yesterday for 1.4 times analysts’
revenue  estimates  for this year, the lowest multiple for
similar-sized Canadian base metal producers, the data show.  “The stock has gotten beaten down given the operational
issues” that are being resolved, Garnet Salmon, a Toronto-based
analyst with Jennings Capital, said in a phone interview. “It’s
definitely a likely takeout target because of the scarcity value
of copper assets,” he said. “It would appear that the company
has turned the corner.”  Potential Bids  Salmon projects Copper Mountain would be worth C$8 a share
in a takeover. It closed at C$3.64 yesterday, down from this
year’s peak of C$6.36 in January. Bids are likely at about C$7 a
share, based on  cash flow  multiples paid in comparable mining
deals such as KGHM Polska Miedz SA’s takeover of Quadra FNX
Mining Ltd. this year, according to Laurentian Bank’s Chang.  Teck, the Vancouver-based owner of Canada’s largest copper
mine, may be a likely suitor for Copper Mountain, Salmon said.
Teck’s Highland Valley mine has only about 10 years of
production life remaining and an acquisition of Copper Mountain
could help ensure output continuity, he said.  “Copper Mountain would provide an attractive asset to
replace Highland Valley down the road,” Salmon said.  Chris Stannell, a spokesman for Teck, said the company
doesn’t comment on acquisition speculation, when asked whether
it’s interested in Copper Mountain. His company’s market value
of C$19 billion is 53 times bigger than Copper Mountain’s.  Taseko, Capstone  Taseko Mines Ltd. (TKO) , which withdrew its C$2.20-a-share offer
for Copper Mountain in 2009, may be interested in bidding again
for the company, Chang said.  Capstone Mining Corp. (CS)  and  Lundin
Mining Corp. (LUN)  could also be drawn to Copper Mountain, he said.  Capstone, which has $509 million in cash and no debt, said
last year that it wanted to boost production by purchasing a
copper producer in the Americas.  Cindy Burnett, a spokeswoman for Vancouver-based Capstone,
and Sophia Shane of Toronto-based Lundin declined to comment on
whether their companies are interested in Copper Mountain. Brian Bergot, a spokesman for Vancouver-based Taseko, didn’t return a
phone message or e-mail seeking comment. The three companies’
market values range between Taseko’s C$541 million and Lundin’s
C$2.9 billion.  While production has shown signs of improvement, potential
acquirers may wait to bid for Copper Mountain until the company
has at least a “solid quarter or two of production growth and
cash flow,” said Low, the Raymond James analyst.  Earnings Uncertainty  “There is still some uncertainty about the earnings and
cash flow potential of Copper Mountain,” he said. “They
haven’t had a solid quarter that really reflected the business
operating at full capacity.”  Copper Mountain is nearing its goal of milling 35,000 tons
per day of copper, which will become even more apparent once
results for this quarter or the first quarter of 2013 are
released, said Stefan Ioannou, an analyst with Haywood
Securities in Toronto.  “It looks cheap,” he said in a phone interview. “It’s a
large enough mine to attract attention, and it’s in a pretty
safe mining jurisdiction. You can check off a lot of the boxes
on it from a risk point of view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  