-- Credit Rating Firms in EU to Face Sovereign-Debt Limits
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-11-28T13:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/credit-rating-companies-to-face-sovereign-debt-curbs-in-eu-plan.html
Credit rating companies face curbs
on when they can assess government debt and restrictions on
their ownership under draft plans agreed upon by the European
Union to limit the industry’s influence and tackle conflicts of
interest.  Investors will also get the right to sue ratings companies
if they lose money because of malpractice or gross negligence in
the plans agreed upon yesterday by lawmakers from the  European
Parliament  and Cyprus, which holds the rotating presidency of
the EU.  “We have reached a good result,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, said in an e-mailed statement. “With
this agreement, we are taking another important step towards
financial stability.”  French bonds and U.S. Treasuries have both made gains since
the countries were stripped of their AAA credit ratings, in a
signal that downgrades may have little bearing on a nation’s
borrowing costs. The return on  France ’s sovereign debt has been
8.9 percent since  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the country of its
AAA status in January, more than double the rest of the global
government bond market, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  Barnier proposed the stricter ratings rules last year after
warnings from nations including France, where he formerly served
as foreign minister, and  Germany  that downgrades of sovereign
debt had deepened the bloc’s fiscal crisis. Barnier said last
year that ratings companies were guilty of “serious mistakes”
and shouldn’t be allowed to “increase market volatility”
through ill-timed or unjustified downgrades.  More Competition  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
has said that tougher regulation is needed to boost competition
for the so-called big three ratings companies,  Fitch Ratings 
Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and S&P. Negotiators at
yesterday’s meeting brokered a draft deal on the rules, which
must be formally approved by governments and the full parliament
before they can be implemented.  Lawmakers and officials also agreed to largely scrap
proposals from Barnier to force businesses to rotate the ratings
company they use to assess their debt. As part of the draft
deal, the rotation rule will be limited to re-securitizations,
such as collateralized debt obligations, that are repackaged and
used to back another round of securitized debt.  Unsolicited Assessments  On sovereign debt ratings, lawmakers and officials agreed
that each credit rating firm must pick three days a year when
they would be allowed to give so-called unsolicited assessments
of governments’ creditworthiness, according to Jean-Paul Gauzes,
a lawmaker involved in the talks. Ratings firms may get a chance
to issue unsolicited ratings -- those that haven’t been
requested and paid for by a client -- outside those dates if
they can justify it to regulators.  “Credit rating agencies will have to be more transparent
when rating sovereign states, respect timing rules on sovereign
ratings and justify the timing of publication of unsolicited
ratings,” Barnier said. “They will have to follow stricter
rules which will make them more accountable for mistakes.”  Lawmakers had to overcome “perverse” resistance from
national governments to the curbs, Gauzes said.  Moody’s this month joined S&P in removing France’s top
credit rating, cutting the debt one level to Aa1 and maintaining
its negative outlook. S&P lowered the rating by one level to AA+
from AAA on Jan. 13.  Downgrade Upside  The U.S. has been deemed more creditworthy by investors
since S&P removed the nation’s AAA grade in 2011, with 10-year
note yields dropping to a record this year. For France,  Europe ’s
second-biggest economy, further declines in borrowing costs
would provide a spur to French President  Francois Hollande ’s
socialist government as it struggles with a record trade deficit
and an  unemployment rate  at the highest in 13 years.  Predicting the consequences of a rating change by S&P or
Moody’s may be little better than flipping a coin, with yields
moving in the opposite direction than suggested 47 percent of
the time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314
upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going back to 1974.
Yields were measured after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  Negotiators at yesterday’s EU meeting also agreed that
sovereign debt ratings “will only be published after the close
of business and at least one hour before the opening of trading
venues in the EU,” the EU commission said in a  statement .  Curbing Ownership  The EU also plans to block any investor from owning stakes
of more than 5 percent in more than one rating company, Gauzes
said in an interview after the meeting.  Moody’s may be banned from rating products issued by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  under the plan, which would
stop companies from giving rankings for debt issued by
shareholders that hold a more than a 10 percent stake. Berkshire
Hathaway holds a  12.75 percent  stake in Moody’s.  The commission said it will weigh further steps to regulate
the credit ratings market, including the creation of a
“European credit rating agency.” Officials will report on the
possible step by 2016, it said.  “We look forward to seeing the final text of the latest EU
regulation and will work closely with our regulators to
implement the rules when they are introduced, as we have done
with the existing” regulations,  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for
S&P, said in an e-mail.  Mark Morley, a spokesman for Fitch Ratings, also said his
company looks forward to seeing the final text of the deal.  “Moody’s has not yet seen the final text of the
agreement,”  Michael Adler , a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “While we fully support the G20 agenda on credit ratings,
we had expressed significant concerns about the potential market
ramifications of some of the proposed policy measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  