-- Crisis Could Be Causing the Balkanization of Europe
-- B y   T i m   J u d a h
-- 2012-11-27T00:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/crisis-could-be-causing-the-balkanization-of-europe-tim-judah.html
Instead of the Europeanization of
the Balkans, are we now witnessing the start of the
Balkanization of  Europe ?  On Sunday, Catalans voted for a new regional parliament,
and regardless of how the vote split among parties, one thing is
immediately clear from the result: A majority of the electorate
wants a referendum on whether to declare independence from
 Spain . Whether and how Catalonia secedes will now unfold.  But
it is no longer in the realm of fiction that we may in a few
years find ourselves talking about “rump-Spain,” “the former
 Belgium ” and “the former U.K.”  All this should sound familiar to anyone who followed the
breakup of Yugoslavia. The similarities, with the collapse of
Josip Broz Tito’s multinational state and the current stirrings
of separatism around Europe, are evident on two levels.  First, there is the north-south split of the European
Union; and second, there is the north-south split within
countries -- think of  Scotland  versus Wallonia in Belgium. At
both the European level and in the three country cases, the
northerners are fed up with subsidizing, as they see it, the
lazy and spendthrift southerners. That animus is all too clear
when Germans talk about Greeks, Catalans about the rest of the
Spain, the Flemish about the Walloons and, in the case of the
U.K., the Scots about  London  taking Scotland’s oil.  Balkan Parallel  Olaf Tempelman, the former Eastern Europe correspondent of
the Dutch newspaper  De Volkskrant , recently summed up the
parallel between the Balkans of the 1990s and the current rift
between southern and northern Europe. He argued that Croatia and
Slovenia put up with contributing toward the development of the
poorer parts of  Yugoslavia , such as Kosovo and Bosnia,  “as long
as prosperity continued, and as long as the inhabitants failed
to notice much of their further entwinement with the other
regions.”  When the money ran out, however, heavily indebted
Yugoslavia began to lurch from one economic crisis to another
and things began to change. “The current northern European
slogan  ‘Not one more cent to the garlic nations’  is eerily
similar to the Slovenian one of that time: ‘No more funds for
the biftek (beefsteak) zone,”’ Tempelman wrote.  The Dutchman went further, pointing to similarities between
the nationalist and far-right leaders who are making headlines
in the economically stricken Europe of today, and the men who
came to power in Yugoslavia in the late 1980s, such  Slobodan Milosevic  in  Serbia  and Franjo Tudjman in Croatia.  Such comparisons have seemed evident to people in the
Balkans for some time. In Serbia, they are even discussed with a
touch of schadenfreude. As Yugoslavia broke up, many Serbs said
the drive for secession that began as a cancer in their country
would spread elsewhere in Europe, if not checked. Now some Serbs
feel vindicated, even if this particular argument is false --
Milosevic aimed to carve out a Greater Serbia and Tudjman wanted
a Greater Croatia, but Catalonia and Flanders have no such
ambitions.  Almost a year ago, the Serbian journalist Momcilo Pantelic
described these similarities in  Politika , the leading Belgrade-
based daily. Talking about the travails of the EU, he noted that
ongoing discussions of a multispeed Europe resembled doomed
proposals from the late 1980s and early ’90s to turn Yugoslavia
into an “asymmetric confederation.” In the same way, he said,
“the slogan ‘Brotherhood and unity of Yugoslav peoples’ is
similar to the position currently defended by Brussels: namely,
that common interests should prevail over national enmity and
differences.”  Rotating Presidency  Pantelic also drew a comparison between Yugoslavia’s
unelected communist bureaucratic leadership and those at the top
of the EU today. And it’s hard not to compare the EU’s system of
rotating the presidency between the current 27 members, and
Yugoslavia’s rotating federal presidency, which moved between
its six republics and two autonomous provinces. “In both cases,
the fear that the more populous states would have too much
influence has prevented the introduction of the principle of one
citizen, one vote,” Pantelic said. Europeans vote for
representatives to the European Parliament, but its powers are
heavily circumscribed.  One argument often raised against some, if not all, of
these comparisons is that modern European countries are
democracies and Yugoslavia wasn’t. But, as much as some people
might like it to have been otherwise, Serbs elected Milosevic
freely, and the Croats chose Tudjman.  Since the Balkan wars ended in 1999, the Europeanization of
ex-Yugoslavia has been taken almost for granted. The idea is
that peace, stability and security will come to the successor
states as they move toward joining the EU. The ex-Yugoslav
Republic of Slovenia joined the EU in 2004,  Croatia  will enter
next year and the others are following at different speeds. The
Balkanization of Europe, by contrast, would probably lead to a
group of relatively small countries that struggle to make it in
the world, along with a fragmented Europe lacking the clout to
defend their interests.  None of this is to predict that Spain, the U.K. and Belgium
are going to turn violent. Nor is dissolution -- in the sense of
new states being born or the EU falling apart -- inevitable.
Still, it would be foolish to dismiss these possibilities
entirely. In the late 1980s, physical conflict seemed
unthinkable in Yugoslavia, too.  Ethnic and nationalist populism
is attractive to politicians struggling to retain support. How
else but through an appeal to Serbian nationalism would
Milosevic, a communist-era leader, have bucked the trend in
Eastern Europe and clung to power for more than a decade after
the fall of the  Berlin Wall ? This kind of populism can give
people a brief sense of respite from their very real economic
problems, including by promising the chance to shrug off the
expensive “others.”  Unlikely Outcome  If we bring the Yugoslav parallel up to date, Europe’s
separatist movements are unlikely to deliver what people expect.  In its time, Yugoslavia was a significant European country,
just as Spain and the U.K. are today, and the EU is a global
force (never mind that its current problems are restricting its
influence in the region). Yugoslavia’s seven small successor
states are now social and cultural backwaters with falling
populations. They have little say in the world and must
therefore fall into line with rules and norms that are set by
others, in particular the EU.  The EU and the states within it that are now threatened by
secession need to find new and workable models of cooperation.
If wise heads prevail, these can be found. If not, the
alternative is the Balkanization of Europe. That would be a true
tragedy.  (Tim Judah is an author and journalist. He writes about
foreign affairs and covers the Balkans for the Economist
magazine. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
 timjudah@btinternet.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  