-- Dali’s Sexual Fantasies, Melting Watches Puzzle in Paris
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-11-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/dali-s-sexual-fantasies-melting-watches-puzzle-in-paris.html
The great provocateur was not
amused.  In 1979, the gala opening of Salvador Dali’s show at the
 Pompidou Center  had to be canceled because the staff had gone on
strike.  After that inauspicious start, the retrospective turned out
to be the biggest triumph in the museum’s history, attracting
840,000 visitors.  With its new show, which opened on Nov. 21, the Pompidou
hopes to repeat that lucrative feat.  Since his death in 1989, Dali’s reputation has declined.
His relentless self-promotion, his outrageous statements and his
greed -- Andre Breton twisted his name into the anagram “Avida
Dollars” -- have led many to dismiss him as a charlatan.  It’s true that Dali rarely missed an opportunity to shock
or to startle. His enthusiasm for Hitler’s “limp flesh squeezed
into his military uniform” or for Ernest Meissonier, a second-
rate painter of battle scenes, served the same purpose as his
waxed moustache -- to attract attention.  In his final years, he signed prints made by others or
blank sheets of paper and later complained about the many fakes
that flooded the market.  This latest exhibition offers a welcome opportunity to go
beyond the clowning and tomfoolery and to examine the work
itself.  Hitchcock Dream  More than 200 paintings, drawings, collages, sculptures,
illustrated books and films, including the design for the dream
sequence in Hitchcock’s “Spellbound,” leave no doubt that Dali
was one of the most original and versatile artists of the 20th
century.  To get you in the right mood, the exhibition organizers
have created an oval entrance meant to represent a mother’s
womb. The exit is a dark grotto symbolizing the artist’s brain.  Dali, the surrealist, probably would have approved.  In surrealism, a movement he discovered in 1927, he had
found the ideal way to combine his old master technique with his
anxieties and phobias.  His earlier works are elegant but derivative. His late
output, including forays into action painting and  pop art , often
borders on the ridiculous. His late religious paintings are pure
kitsch.  Dali never subscribed to the surrealist dogma of
automatism, and it was foreseeable that Andre Breton, the Pope
of the movement, eventually would excommunicate him in 1934.  Fantasy Images  Dali’s paintings are meticulously calculated images of his
fantasies, not snapshots of his subconscious.  His “paranoid-critical method,” as he called it, allowed
him to freely flaunt his addiction to masturbation, his
impotence and other obsessions.  At the Pompidou, you find all the ingredients he used again
and again in his works -- the melting watches, the crutches, the
half-open drawers, the eggs, the quotations from the history of
art.  Many of his most famous masterpieces are here: “The Great
Masturbator” from  the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofia
in Madrid , “Soft Construction with Boiled Beans” from the
 Philadelphia Museum of Art  and “The Persistence of Memory”
from  New York ’s  Museum of Modern Art .  Dali later renamed the Philadelphia canvas “Premonition of
Civil War.” It’s doubtful, though, that he had the Spanish
Civil War in mind, because he finished the painting six months
before its outbreak.  At the bottom of his heart, Dali was apolitical. “I have
always been an anarchist and a monarchist at the same time,” he
said in his book “Dali by Dali.” That probably comes closer to
the truth than most of his calculated provocations.  One of the weirdest items in the show is “Chaos and
Creation,” the 1960 video of a happening that Dali staged with
photographer Philippe Halsman. It’s a send-up of his colleague
Piet Mondrian, whom he hated, with pigs, naked women and a
motorbike, all ending up in a mountain of popcorn.  The show runs through March 25, 2013. From April 23 to
Sept. 2, 2013, it will be at the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte
Reina Sofia in  Madrid .  Information:  http://www.centrepompidou.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food and  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 