-- David Rubenstein, Michael J. Fox Give Tips to New Donors
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-11-27T11:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/david-rubenstein-michael-j-fox-give-tips-to-new-donors.html
Paul Tudor Jones  was about 32 years
old when he saw businessman Eugene Lang on “60 Minutes”
talking about “adopting” inner city children and offering to
pay their college tuition.  “I realized that life was more than just worrying about
myself, my needs, who I was. There was something definitely
missing,” Jones, founder of Tudor Investment Corp., says. “The
next day I picked up the phone and called him. That began
whatever career in philanthropy I’ve have.”  Today Jones joins  Michael Steinhardt ,  Julian Robertson ,
 David Rubenstein , and Michael J. Fox in a free video archive at
 GiveSmart.org . The website features more than 1,000 files of 64
philanthropists revealing everything from their personal stories
to nuts-and-bolts advice, in clips no more than five minutes
long.  Boston-based  Bridgespan Group , a consulting firm for
donors, nonprofits and foundations that operates as a nonprofit,
created the website as part of its mission to advance
philanthropy. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation gave $5
million to the project.  Increasing Reach  “We can only work on 65 to 70 projects a year,” Thomas Tierney, chairman and cofounder of Bridgespan, said in an
interview. Determined to increase the company’s reach without
expanding its size, Tierney thought, “We can do that with
knowledge and information.”  The project comes at a historic time, he added. Donors are
engaging at a younger age while committing longer and more
rigorously to their philanthropic choices -- a shift from
leaving such decisions to the end of life.  “There’s an absolutely unprecedented opportunity for
social change because of the resources, the time, money and
influence that wealthy people and others are devoting,” Tierney
said.  At the same time, high-net-worth individuals in  emerging
markets  are looking to the U.S. as a model of philanthropy
established by people like  Andrew Carnegie  and  John D. Rockefeller .  “Philanthropy has the potential to be an American
export,” Tierney said. “Philanthropy in the  Middle East  or in
Brazil or  India  is going to take on a different form. But the
fundamental human motivation to wrestle with the question, What
can I do to help make my society better? that’s asked at all
income levels and cultures.”  Success Stories  The GiveSmart.org philanthropists, all U.S.-based, answered
40 to 60 questions in their interviews.  Some share success stories:  Michael Milken  discusses
speeding up the pace of prostate cancer research by getting
academic and pharmaceutical cancer researchers to talk at a
retreat.  Jones advises on the different types of people to assemble
for the board of a “not-for-profit for widgets.” His formula,
including celebrities, money people and opinion makers, sounds
similar to the makeup of the  Robin Hood Foundation , which he
cofounded.  Rubenstein’s secret for serving on many boards: “I’m
blessed by the fact I only need five hours of sleep on a daily
basis. I do tend to regard Saturday and Sunday as work days.”  There is some contrarian-sounding advice on how to approach
philanthropy.  Complicating Factors  “‘You’re doing yourself a disservice as a donor and you’re
making life harder on the organization if you think about it as,
they are asking you for money,” Josh Bekenstein, managing
director of  Bain Capital , says. “If you are a philanthropist
and you want to give back, you need to find organizations that
can help you accomplish your goal.”  The advice to start young is common.  “You’re going to make mistakes, and you might as well make
them when you don’t have a lot of money to make them with,”
Robertson, founder of Tiger Management LLC, says.  Others stress taking chances.  “It’s the portfolio approach,” says  John Arnold , founder
of Centaurus Advisors LLC and cofounder of the  Laura and John
Arnold Foundation . “We’ll fund organizations that are doing
great work. The risk is that we’ll only fund those
organizations. So we tilt as much as we can to being more
aggressive than the market.”  Jones describes his “abject failure” achieving results
for the children he adopted from Bedford Stuyvesant.  “I built a home for them at my place in  Virginia . We’d got
down there two weeks every winter. We did every kind of field
trip you can imagine. I was involved with them in their homes
and I was going over report cards with them,” Jones says. “But
I wasn’t providing the intellectual capital to help them
actually prepare for college.”  That experience shaped his future endeavors. “You can
throw all the energy, all the love, all the money at it you
want,” he says, “but you’re not going to achieve your goal if
you don’t have a great way to get there.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and Katya Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 