-- Dealers Build Bond Inventories Fastest Since ‘07: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-11-27T09:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/dealers-build-bond-inventories-fastest-since-07-credit-markets.html
The biggest banks are boosting their
corporate-bond stockpiles at the fastest pace since 2007,
supporting a market that’s generating losses for the first time
since March and keeping a record volume of debt sales on track.  The 21 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve
increased  holdings of the debt  by $13 billion to $57.8 billion
in the five weeks ended Nov. 14, according to Fed data compiled
by Bloomberg. Borrowers from Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings
Inc. to  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  have sold $119.3 billion of the debt
this month, the second-most for the period ever, even as the
bonds lose 0.45 percent.  After paring their debt holdings by 75 percent since
inventories peaked at $235 billion in 2007, Wall Street banks
are reprising their role as market makers heading into the end
of an unprecedented year for bond sales. Dealers have increased
their holdings to the most since September 2011 as funds that
buy the notes report withdrawals.  “When the market has a really good tone and it’s feeling
more liquid, the Street is probably more inclined to take down
inventory with the expectation that they’ll be able to mark it
up and sell it,” Thomas Murphy, who oversees about $26 billion
of investment-grade credit at Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC in  Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview.
“That can unfortunately backfire for them if the music stops
and you get some spread volatility, like we’ve gotten.”  Spreads Widen  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to own
corporate bonds rather than government debentures increased to
242 basis points at the end of last week from this year’s low of
222 basis points on Oct. 18, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index.  Dealers from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are holding the  highest level  of corporate bonds since
Sept. 28, 2011, when holdings reached $60.4 billion, Bloomberg-
compiled data show. They have increased their inventories by 29
percent since Oct. 10, the biggest increase since a 31 percent
rise in the similar period ended March 14, 2007.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Amazon.com Inc. sold $3
billion of debt as the world’s largest online retailer tapped
the bond market for the first time in more than a decade. Wells
Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are marketing
about $1.2 billion of bonds linked to commercial-property loans.
Tribune Co. is said to be seeking $1.4 billion of loans backing
its exit from bankruptcy.  Credit Benchmarks  The Markit CDX North American Investment-Grade index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on corporate creditworthiness, climbed 1.7 basis
points to 100.8 basis points. The index reached 111.4 on Nov.
15, the highest level since July 25.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings dropped 3.6 to 121.4 at 9:53 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Australia
index fell 2.3 to 131.3 while the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan declined 3.4 to 112
basis points..  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Amazon Bonds  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, rose 0.25 basis point to 13.25 basis
points. The measure rises when investors seek the perceived
safety of government securities and falls when they favor assets
such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Amazon were the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers yesterday, with 106
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Amazon, which had no bonds outstanding, issued $750 million
of three-year notes to yield 38 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, $1 billion of five-year debt with a 63
basis-point spread and $1.25 billion of securities maturing in
10 years that pay 93 basis points more, Bloomberg data show.  Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes,
including the $1.16 billion purchase of its Seattle
headquarters, according to Moody’s Investors Service, which
rated the bonds Baa1, three levels above speculative grade.  The retailer last sold dollar debt in 1999, raising $1.25
billion of 4.75 percent, 10-year convertible notes, Bloomberg
data show.  CMBS Offering  The securities being offered by Wells Fargo and RBS, tied
to shopping malls, hotels and office buildings, will be sold
this week, according to a person familiar with the transaction
who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t public. The
offering is linked to 122 properties across the U.S., the person
said. The largest loan is $125 million in debt on an office
building in Denver,  Colorado .  Wall Street has arranged $35.1 billion in commercial-
mortgage backed securities offerings this year, compared with
about $28 billion in all of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tribune’s loans are being arranged by JPMorgan, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and
Deutsche Bank AG, and include a $1.1 billion, seven-year term
loan B and a $300 million, five-year asset-based revolving line
of credit, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  Bankruptcy Plan  The owner of the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago Tribune
filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, one year after real
estate billionaire Sam Zell used borrowed money to buy out
shareholders for more than $8 billion. In July, Tribune won
approval for a bankruptcy plan that would give control of the
company to its senior lenders, including JPMorgan and hedge
funds Oaktree Capital Management LP and Angelo, Gordon & Co.  In  emerging markets , spreads widened 1 basis point to 295
basis points, or 2.95 percentage points, JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
index shows. The measure has climbed from 269.7 basis points on
Oct. 18, the least since February 2011.  Dealers have bought a net $3.8 billion of corporate bonds
from their customers in November, up from $1.1 billion last
month and $1.7 billion in September, Trace data show. That
compares with net sales of $5.4 billion during the three months
ended Aug. 31, according to Trace.  Discouraging Inventory  While banks have been net buyers in the past five weeks,
they have reduced their holdings to just 25 percent of the
$235.3 billion accumulated in October 2007 as the Dodd-Frank
Act’s Volcker Rule in the U.S. seeks to limit risk-taking. They
are curtailing the amount of their own money they use to
facilitate bond trading after the 27-country Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision raised minimum capital requirements in 2010.  “There’s still been a very big decline and it’s permanent
because of the regulatory environment that discourages dealers
from keeping inventory,” Hans Mikkelsen, a Bank of America
credit strategist in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“I don’t think that’s changing at all.”  The new rules are being crafted and implemented as the
global economy struggles to gain momentum following the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, which caused $2
trillion of losses and write-downs.  Yield Plunge  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has been trying to
galvanize U.S. economic growth by saying the Fed anticipates
keeping interest rates at around zero until at least mid-2015
and by buying bonds.  The stimulus plans pushed investors into riskier assets,
spurring $1.33 trillion of high-yield and investment-grade  bond
sales  this year, already exceeding the record reached in 2009.
Since Sept. 19, speculative-grade borrowers have sold $90.2
billion of notes, even as funds that buy the notes reported $3.1
billion of withdrawals, RBS data show.  JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup are leading
underwriters of the debt as borrowers seek to lock in yields
that plummeted to an unprecedented 2.73 percent for investment-
grade notes on Nov. 8 and 6.84 percent for speculative-grade
debt on Oct. 18, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
The top-tier of corporate bonds gained 9.9 percent this year,
while junk debt has returned 12.8 percent, according to the
data.  Junk Bonds Decline  “We have had a very sharp upturn of high-yield issuance,
with back-to-back record-breaking months in September and
October,” said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody’s Capital
Markets Group in New York. “That’s perhaps a little bit of a
backlog in the ability to distribute.”  As dealer inventories increased, investors yanked $1.3
billion from high-yield bond funds in the week ended Nov. 14,
the most since June, as concern mounted that U.S. lawmakers
would be unable to avoid $600 billion in scheduled spending cuts
and tax increases by resolving discord over how to manage the
nation’s deficit.  Speculative-grade bonds are losing 0.1 percent this month,
the first decline since May, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. High Yield Master II Index shows.  Banks are “supposed to be in the moving business and not
the storage business,” Columbia’s Murphy said. “Whenever
volatility picks up, they end up sometimes being stuck in the
storage business and that probably makes them uncomfortable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  