-- Egypt Protesters Clash With Police in Opposition Test
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-11-28T17:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/egypt-anti-mursi-protesters-test-president-and-opposition-unity.html
Egypt ’s opposition resolved to stand
firm against President Mohamed Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood,
in a showdown over his self-decreed powers that dragged the
nation’s top court into the political struggle.  Amid renewed clashes between protesters and police in
central Cairo, the Supreme  Constitutional Court  said it was
“saddened” when Mursi joined in attacks on its justices. Maher
Sami, the court’s deputy chief, denied allegations that it had
been politically motivated when it ruled in June to invalidate
the Islamist-dominated parliament’s lower house.  “The court will not be intimidated by threats, warnings or
blackmail and will not succumb to any pressures against it,”
Sami said in a statement read out on television. “It’s ready to
face all of this, however high the price may be, even if it
costs the lives of its judges.”  The comments by the court, which is due on Dec. 2 to hear a
case testing the legitimacy of the panel drafting Egypt’s
constitution, followed a night of mass demonstrations in the
capital. In scenes reminiscent of the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , tens of thousands of secularists and young activists
chanted against Mursi in  Tahrir Square , demanding he rescind a
decree shielding his decisions from the judiciary. The country’s
top appeals court said it was suspending work until the decree
was repealed.  The Brotherhood, which called off a counter-rally by its
supporters planned for yesterday, will hold demonstrations in
support of Mursi on Dec. 1, said Ahmed Sobea, media adviser to
the group’s political arm.  Diverse Opposition  Yesterday’s rally, billed by the participants as protecting
the aims of last year’s uprising, tests the ability of
opposition groups to sustain unity. Their diverging interests
and failure to mobilize supporters had threatened to render them
irrelevant amid the political ascent of Mursi and the
Brotherhood, which fielded him for the presidency earlier this
year.  “The best thing Mursi has done to revive the revolution
was the decree,” Tarek Youssef, an accountant, said in an
interview in the square yesterday. “Some people had been misled
to believe he can be a democratic president and steer the
country toward a better future. His decree uncovered his
dictatorial ways.”  Growing Suspicion  Months of growing suspicion among secularists and other
Mursi critics, fed by disputes over the Islamists’ role in
drafting the new constitution, boiled over after the
presidential decree was announced Nov. 22. The decision was seen
by the opposition and many judges as effectively sidelining the
judiciary. Opposition figures including Nobel Laureate Mohamed
ElBaradei said Mursi had become a “pharaoh.” Others in Tahrir
said Mursi was now a dictator like Mubarak.  Fliers issued by several groups and distributed at the
rally said the protests would continue. The banner headline in
today’s Al-Akhbar newspaper read: “The Revolution Returns to
the Square.”  While Mursi has argued the decree was necessary to
safeguard the revolution, many activists maintain the Islamists
were late-comers to last year’s uprising and used it to gain
power.  A Brotherhood headquarters in Alexandria was stormed
yesterday, according to the group. Clashes between its members
and other protesters flared in other cities, including the Nile
Delta town of Mahala where almost 130 people were injured. The
government said it will react “firmly” with “rioters” and
anyone who attacks buildings, the Cabinet said in a statement on
its official website.  Countrywide Violence  At least 260 people were injured and one died in the
overnight protests across the country, the Health Ministry said
in a statement published by the state-run Middle East  News
Agency .  Mursi tried to calm tensions, with his spokesman stressing
the decree was only temporary only until a new constitution was
finished and parliamentary elections held. In addition, it only
applied to “sovereign” matters, presidential spokesman Yasser
Ali said without clarifying what that covered.  Members of the assembly writing the constitution will start
voting on a draft of the new charter tomorrow, MENA reported.
The head of the committee, Hossam el-Gheriany, reiterated a call
for the return of members who have withdrawn from the body in
protest, it said.  The protesters included members of a broad spectrum of
political parties and groups, including the Free Egyptians that
was founded by billionaire Naguib Sawiris, as well as the April
6 youth group movement, the  Social Democrats , the Popular
Alliance and the Egyptian Press Syndicate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  