-- Egypt’s Mursi Poses Dilemma as U.S. Assesses Power Grab
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/egypt-s-mursi-poses-dilemma-as-u-s-assesses-power-grab.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
poses a quandary for the Obama administration as it struggles to
respond to the democratically elected Islamist leader’s power
grab -- which he made without any advance notice to  Washington .  While Mursi yesterday softened his rhetoric about the
decrees that exempted him from all judicial oversight, he
retained the provision freeing the council writing the country’s
new constitution from legal challenge. That group is
disproportionately Islamist, a fact that troubles  Egypt ’s
secularists and minorities.  The situation is forcing the U.S. to weigh its stated
support for new Arab democracies -- and for Mursi’s pragmatic
role in brokering the recent Gaza Strip cease-fire -- against
U.S. uneasiness about his Islamist agenda for Egypt.  The U.S. has “some concerns about the decisions and
declarations” announced by Mursi on Nov. 22, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday at a briefing. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  spoke by phone yesterday with Egyptian
Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr about Mursi’s actions as well
as Gaza developments, according to State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland .  The danger is that the contract that once served the U.S.
and its autocratic Mideast allies -- sacrificing democracy for
stability and a cold peace between the Arab states and  Israel  --
no longer works, according to Tamara Wittes of the  Brookings
Institution ’s Saban Center for Middle East Policy in Washington.  ‘Huge Test’  “The Gaza crisis was a huge test for Mursi,” Wittes said
in an interview. “In terms of U.S. interests, Mursi passed, but
the lesson of the Arab Spring is that that alone is not enough
anymore -- they can’t take heart from the security issues and
set the rest aside.”  In the wake of the Arab Spring uprisings, Wittes said,
Egypt won’t be stable unless it has a representative and
accountable government. The calculation that President  Barack Obama ’s administration makes about its relationship with Middle
East autocrats “has to be different today,” she said.  Mursi’s decrees came without notice to Clinton, who had met
with him the previous day to negotiate the Gaza cease-fire
between Israel and Hamas, Nuland said.  Though Mursi adjusted his decree yesterday, he left intact
an order to re-investigate top former officials over the killing
of protesters last year and an order to fire the Mubarak-era
public prosecutor.  Mursi’s move to control the constitutional process is most
significant, said Shibley Telhami, the Anwar Sadat Professor for
Peace and Development at the  University of Maryland .  Shaping Constitution  U.S. officials have repeatedly said they want to see a
constitution that is inclusive. Telhami said his concerns
include the role of religion, Islamic law and the rights of
women and minorities.  “Those are issues that are critical and, in the end,
that’s where the battle should be,” Telhami said in an
interview. “If you have a constitution that limits the freedom
of large number of Egyptians, that’s when the U.S. will be
forced to act, because that’s a position it can’t afford to be
associated with.”  Underlying the political upheaval is a daunting economic
reality as last year’s uprisings left the country with depleted
foreign reserves, a devastated  tourism industry  and rising youth
unemployment. Egypt’s pound weakened yesterday the most in a
year and the government canceled a treasury-bond auction amid
concern about violent protests.  International Monetary Fund officials hinted that violence
stirred by Mursi’s decree could imperil a $4.8 billion loan that
had won preliminary approval, state-run Ahram Online reported.  ‘Democratic Resolution’  The Obama administration supports the IMF deal as well as
continued U.S. aid for Egypt “but obviously, I think,
everybody’s watching now that this current set of issues has a
democratic resolution,” Nuland said yesterday.  Egypt’s precarious economic situation could give Western
powers some leverage on Mursi’s direction, said Alex Vatanka, a
scholar at the Middle East Institute, a Washington policy group.  “They have one problem that plays to the West,” Vatanka
said in an interview. “Cash money.” While the withdrawal of
U.S. aid alone probably wouldn’t be enough to sway Mursi, the
White House could work with other allies, including the European
Union, Persian Gulf countries and  Turkey , Vatanka said.  Withdrawing U.S. aid, as Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona 
Republican, has suggested, would be a “huge confrontational
act,” in a complex situation, said Geneive Abdo, a fellow at
the Stimson Center, a Washington policy group. The U.S. is
dealing with many related issues, including  Iran  and Hamas,
which is considered a terrorist group by the U.S., the EU and
Israel.  ‘Question Mark’  Shiite Muslim Iran has hailed the Gaza cease-fire between
Israel and Hamas, which it arms and supports, as a victory, Abdo
said. The Obama administration might see Mursi and Sunni Muslim
Egypt as a potential counterbalance to Iran, she said.  The problem is that “there’s a big question mark hanging
over Mursi,” whether he’s a pragmatic partner or someone given
to bold power grabs, Abdo said in an interview.  Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood party he once headed have
previously seized greater power after publicly popular steps.
The Brotherhood initially said it wouldn’t field a presidential
candidate, then changed its mind after sweeping the first
election. After getting a domestic boost for his handling of an
attack in the Sinai, Mursi dismissed rivals in the Egyptian
security apparatus.  ‘Geopolitical Partnership’  It’s been hard for the U.S., which hasn’t had formal ties
with the Brotherhood, to get a grip on Mursi, Abdo said.  Following the Gaza accord, the  New York  Times reported that
an “unlikely new geopolitical partnership” was developing
between Obama and Mursi. Mursi’s subsequent power grab casts
doubt on the durability of that relationship, U.S. officials
said in interviews Nov. 25 and yesterday.  The Gaza cease-fire is better described as a time-out
unless talks that began yesterday in Cairo yield an unexpected
breakthrough, said one official, who spoke anonymously to
discuss classified reporting on arms supplies to Hamas. It will
last, the official said, until the militant Islamist group that
rules Gaza can restock its arsenal of rockets.  The official and a second one, who also spoke on the
condition of anonymity to discuss internal U.S. assessments of
Mursi’s likely course, said any serious Egyptian effort to cut
Hamas’s supply lines from Iran through Egypt’s Sinai could erode
Mursi’s Islamist and Arab credentials and test the capabilities
and allegiance of Egypt’s still-powerful military.  Mursi, both officials said, appears to be betting the
administration won’t back away from him the way it abandoned his
predecessor, former President  Hosni Mubarak , so long as he
maintains what they called a cold peace with Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  