-- Emerging Stocks at 3-Week High as Greek Aid Buoys Risk
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-11-27T22:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/emerging-market-stocks-rise-on-greek-aid-china-profit-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to a three-week high, as an agreement on
emergency aid for Greece and better-than-forecast U.S. economic
data boosted appetite for riskier assets.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , which got 20 percent of its 2011 sales
from Europe, gained the most in three weeks in Seoul. Power
utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  rallied as Brazil
considered raising the amount of compensation offered to
companies that accept lower electricity rates.  Unitech Ltd. (UT) , a
New Delhi-based real estate developer, led the gains on the
developing-nations equities gauge, rallying 11 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent to
996.44, the highest since Nov. 7. European finance ministers
agreed to cut rates on Greece’s bailout loans, suspend interest
payments for a decade and gave the nation more time for
repayments. The gauge pared gains after Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said Democrats and Republicans have made little
headway in negotiations over how to avoid $607 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts set to take effect in 2013.  “Better news on the economic front in the U.S. is
certainly helping and you also have the Greece deal,” Aryam Vazquez, an economist at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said by phone from
 New York . “But anytime you get negative comments from political
leaders that speak to the possibility that we may be pushed over
the fiscal cliff, this carries adverse repercussions for
international financial markets.”  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  retreated 0.9 percent as billionaire
 Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA slumped 3.7
percent to a four-year low on concern its $270 million purchase
of an oil field stake will cut into cash holdings.  Stable Rating  The BSE India Sensitive Index jumped 1.6 percent, the most
in two months, as Moody’s Investors Service reiterated its
stable outlook on the nation’s Baa3 debt rating, the lowest
investment grade.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.3 percent, closing
below 2,000 for the first time since 2009, while Russia’s Micex
Index fell 0.7 percent. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index slid
0.6 percent to its lowest close since June 28.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.8
percent in New York. The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging
Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, gained 1.4 percent.  South Korea  South Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.9 percent as Morgan
Stanley said the gauge may rise 21 percent by the end of next
year. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.3 percent, with average
trading volume 42 percent above the average after Economic Daily
News reported the nation’s regulators plan to ease rules on
intraday trading.  China’s  yuan  strengthened 0.05 percent to 6.2223 per
dollar, a 1 percent premium to the central bank’s daily fixing,
the maximum it’s allowed to fluctuate, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Demand for goods such as machinery and electronics in the
U.S. climbed in October by the most in five months, the Commerce
Department reported today in Washington. Orders for all durable
goods were little changed, beating the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg that projected a 0.7 percent
drop.  Consumer confidence  in the world’s biggest economy climbed
to a four-year high and home prices increased by the most since
2010.  Consumer-goods  producers and industrial stocks rose  the
most  among the 10 industry groups in the emerging-markets gauge.  Better Sentiment  “The agreement over Greece lifts away some of the concern
that Europe’s crisis will worsen and it’s helping boost
sentiment across regions,” Allan Yu, who helps manage about
$10.26 billion at  Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co. in Makati City,
Philippines, said in a phone interview today.  The 21 countries in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 26 percent of their exports to the European Union on
average, data from the World Trade Organization show.  India’s rupee rebounded from a 2 1/2-month low against the
dollar as Moody’s said the country’s rating is supported by
economic growth. The Philippine peso appreciated for a seventh
day, its longest winning streak since January, on speculation
Filipinos working overseas will send more money home as the
year-end holidays approach.  Eletrobras Gains  The emerging markets stock index has risen 8.7 percent this
year, trailing a 9.9 percent gain by the MSCI World Index of
developed-country shares. The gauge of developing-nation stocks
trades for 11.5 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13.4, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas is known, jumped 3.4
percent in Sao Paulo. The government may reconsider the 19
billion reais ($9.1 billion) it proposed to compensate utilities
for next year’s renewal of generation and transmission
contracts, according to an official who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s largest automaker, advanced
3.7 percent, the most since Nov. 6.  Daelim Industrial Co. (000210)  surged
7.8 percent, the biggest advance in 13 months.  Eurocash SA (EUR) , Poland’s biggest distributor of non-durable
consumer goods, dropped 7.4 percent, the worst performer in the
emerging-markets benchmark. Volumes were 13 percent of the 3-
month average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Best Performer  Unitech rose to the highest level since April 17. Foreign
investors have been buyers of local shares in India for all but
one day this month, bringing net purchases in 2012 to $19.2
billion. That’s the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by
Bloomberg, excluding China.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the best-performing stock in Poland’s
WIG20 Index this year, slumped 3.6 percent, snapping a three-day
advance. Citigroup cut the stock to sell from neutral, saying
the shares are overvalued. KGHM has rallied 60 percent in 2012,
compared with a 12 percent increase for the benchmark index.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  sank
6.7 percent in  Hong Kong  to the lowest since Oct. 19, while
 Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. (845)  fell 3.2 percent, its steepest
loss in a month. Zhang Zhirong quit as chairman of both
companies after an investment firm he controlled agreed to pay
$14 million to resolve U.S. insider-trading claims.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 292 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  