-- Lenders Said to Allow Suzlon to Revamp $2 Billion of Debt
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-11-27T10:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/lenders-said-to-allow-suzlon-energy-to-revamp-2-billion-of-debt.html
Lenders voted to allow  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL) , the Indian wind-turbine maker that defaulted on
convertible bonds, to revamp about 110 billion rupees ($2
billion) of domestic debt, two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Suzlon will seek to restructure about 80 percent of its 140
billion rupees of debt, said the people who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Suzlon is
seeking a two-year moratorium on all repayments and interest
costs followed by an eight-year payback period, one of the
people said.  Suzlon  surged  11 percent, the most in almost four months,
to 17.10 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The company declined to
comment, saying negotiations with lenders were confidential.  India ’s corporate debt restructuring rules, set by the
central bank, allow viable companies additional time to meet
debt obligations. Suzlon’s lenders have 90 days to approve or
make changes to the proposal with the possibility of a 180-day
extension, according to the program’s rules on its website.  About 20 banks are involved in the process led by the  State
Bank of India , one of the people said. Lenders had the option to
reject Suzlon’s proposal as unfeasible and liquidate the
company, according to program rules.  The proposal doesn’t cover Suzlon’s bonds and international
borrowings. Suzlon failed to pay $209 million, the biggest
convertible-note default by an Indian company, on Oct. 11.
Negotiations with bondholders continue, one of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  