-- Energy Drinks’ Health Danger Being Probed by U.S.
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-27T16:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/energy-drinks-health-dangers-being-probed-by-u-s-regulators.html
Energy drinks, such as those made by
 Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  and Living Essentials LLC, are being
investigated by U.S. regulators who will determine if the
products are dangerous and may need to be regulated.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is employing the help of
outside advisers in a review of the highly caffeinated drinks.
The agency wants to determine whether the beverages, which have
been linked to deaths, may cause harm when consumed in excess or
by young people or those with pre-existing cardiac conditions,
the FDA wrote in a letter to Democratic Senator  Dick Durbin , of
 Illinois , released today.  Based on the review, the agency may move to regulate the
product’s use or labeling. The FDA said it will also look into
whether the drinks’ ingredients in addition to caffeine are
safe. The agency said it hadn’t seen problems with two main
additives, taurine and guarana.  “I am glad to see that the FDA is undertaking a review but
more needs to be done and quickly,” Durbin and Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, said in a statement. “For
instance, FDA can and should take action now to regulate energy
drinks that are marketed as beverages.”  Energy drinks aren’t bound by the FDA guidelines for
caffeine in sodas because they are often sold as dietary
supplements. Soda typically can have as many as 71 milligrams of
caffeine per 12 ounces and be considered safe by the FDA.  Caffeine in energy drinks often ranges from 160 milligrams
to 500 milligrams a serving, the FDA said in an August letter
responding to Durbin’s call for greater regulation.  Adverse Reports   Monster drinks have been linked to five deaths, while 5-
Hour Energy products have each been associated with 13 in
adverse event reports submitted to the FDA, while Rockstar Inc.
and Red Bull energy drinks haven’t been connected to any deaths.
All four brands were cited in relation to side effects such as
increased  heart rate  and abdominal pain. The  data  posted on
FDA’s website cover Jan. 1, 2004 to Oct. 23, 2012.  The FDA hasn’t released data for other competitors such as
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s AMP Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  