-- Theravance’s Vibativ May Have Risk for Pneumonia Patients
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-11-27T21:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/theravance-s-vibativ-may-have-risk-for-pneumonia-patients.html
Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s Vibativ, approved
to combat complex skin infections, may carry a higher risk for
patients with kidney problems or diabetes if it’s given added
clearance for hospital-acquired pneumonia, U.S. regulators said.  One study of the antibiotic showed a “substantially higher
risk for death” for those patients compared with an older
antibiotic vancomycin, while another trial showed no difference,
Food and Drug Administration staff said in a  report  today. An
advisory panel will meet on the drug in two days. Vibativ is
South  San Francisco , California-based Theravance’s only marketed
product in the U.S.  There are 300,000 cases of hospital-acquired pneumonia
annually and the illness can lengthen hospital stays by as many
as nine days, according to the  Cleveland Clinic . Hospitalized
patients are exposed to organisms that non-hospitalized patients
aren’t and often are less able to fight infection.  Theravance rose 1.7 percent to $21.64 at the close in  New
York . The company has gained 8.1 percent in the past 12 months.  Theravance hasn’t released the date by which the FDA may
decide whether to clear a wider use of Vibativ, first approved
for infections including MRSA in September 2009. The company
would like to reach a resolution in the first half of next year,
Chief Executive Officer Rick Winningham said in a telephone
interview.  2009 Rejection  The FDA rejected Vibativ, also known as telavancin, to
treat hospital-acquired pneumonia in November 2009. The company
won’t likely pursue the wider use again if it isn’t approved
this time, Winningham said.  “We probably would not make a new investment,” he said.  The FDA released draft guidelines in 2010 that changed the
criteria for clinical trials for antibiotic development for
 hospital-acquired pneumonia  to measuring deaths instead of
whether the drug cured patients. While Theravance didn’t redo
its studies on Vibativ, the company reviewed the trials and
collected mortality data to supplement their 2009 submission,
Winningham said.  The FDA wouldn’t pool the mortality data because patients
in one study had more risk factors for mortality, including
kidney problems and diabetes, than patients in the other, the
agency staff said. In one study, 26 percent of patients on
Vibativ died compared to 20 percent on vancomycin, while 22
percent of patients on Vibativ died in the other study compared
to 24 percent on vancomycin.  Existing Treatments  Vancomycin was approved in the 1960s, he said, and  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s Zyvox to treat hospital-acquired pneumonia was cleared in
2000, according to the FDA’s website. Vancomycin has been used
for so long, people are becoming immune, Winningham said.  While the company awaits the Vibativ decision, the
respiratory projects being pursued with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
“really comprise all the value in the market with Theravance,”
Winningham said.  He expects an advisory panel to meet in the first half of
next year on one of the products, proposed to be called Breo, to
treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder. The FDA is set to
decide whether to approve the drug by May 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  