-- Ericsson Sues Samsung After Patent Licensing Talks Fail
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-11-27T11:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ericsson-sues-samsung-after-patent-licensing-talks-fail.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of wireless networking equipment, sued Samsung Electronics
Co. for patent infringement, saying the South Korean phone maker
failed to extend a licensing deal after years of negotiations.  Ericsson said in the lawsuit filed in  U.S. federal court  in
 Texas  that Samsung is improperly using its technology for mobile
phones after a previous agreement expired. The Stockholm-based
company said it offered to extend the deal on fair and
reasonable terms, known as FRAND.  “These negotiations have been unsuccessful for the simple
reason that Samsung refuses to pay the FRAND rate paid by its
competitors for Ericsson’s standard-essential patents,”
Ericsson said in the suit filed today in the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas.  Samsung is engaged in separate patent battles around the
globe with Apple Inc. as the two companies fight for dominance
in the smartphone and tablet computer markets. Ericsson spent $5
billion on research and development in 2011 and made a net gain
of 6.2 billion kronor ($937 million) from licensing the
technology to other companies last year, Kasim Alfalahi,
Ericsson’s head of intellectual property, said today in a phone
interview.  Ericsson has “demanded prohibitively higher royalty rates
to renew the same patent portfolio,” Samsung said in a separate
statement today. “As we cannot accept such extreme demands, we
will take all necessary legal measures to protect against
Ericsson’s excessive claims.”  Ericsson shares rose 0.1 percent to 59.9 kronor at 12:02
p.m. in Stockholm trading, underperforming  Sweden ’s benchmark
OMX Stockholm 30, which was up 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  