-- Met Museum’s ‘Recommended’ $25 Entry Fee Faces Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/met-museum-s-recommended-25-entry-fee-faces-lawsuit.html
The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New
York faces the possibility of tens of millions of dollars in
lost revenue if a lawsuit over its allegedly misleading
admissions policy succeeds.  The museum’s “recommended” admission charges violate the
terms of its lease with the city, according to a complaint filed
on Nov. 14 in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  “The Met is as much the property of citizens as the
trustees who manage the art inside,” Theodore Grunewald, a
trained architect and one of the suit’s plaintiffs, said in an
interview. “The Met has engaged in deceptive practices.”  Harold Holzer , a Met spokesman, called the suit frivolous
because the city approved the Met’s policy. “I don’t know what
this brouhaha is all about,” Holzer said.  Admission and membership fees totaled $64.8 million in the
year ending in June 2012 -- more than a quarter of operating
revenue -- according to the Met’s annual report.  The museum recommends on signs above admissions desks that
visitors pay $25 to enter, or $17 for those 65 or older and $12
for students. The Met sells advanced tickets on its  website  for
the full “recommended” charge. It still accepts as little as a
penny at museum ticket booths.  In an 1878 lease with the Department of Public Parks of the
City, the museum agreed to admit everyone free four days each
week in exchange for use of its land. The lease, which is
attached to the complaint, was modified in 1892 and 1893,
requiring free admission two evenings and five days a week,
according to the complaint. Rent today would cost the museum
about $368 million per year, according to the complaint.  ‘Pay Something’  Admission was free until the early 1970s, when the museum
instituted a “voluntary ‘pay what you wish -- but you must pay
something’ admission policy,” a 1993 museum bond offering
prospectus said.  Recommended admission was introduced “during an era of
sharply reduced municipal operating support,” the Met said in a
Nov. 21 statement.  Danai Pointer, a spokesman for  New York  City’s  Department
of Cultural Affairs , declined to comment. The $25
“recommended” fee covers about half of the approximately $45
“it actually costs the museum to welcome each and every
visitor,” according to the Met statement. Visitors -- excluding
members and employees of corporate members -- pay an average of
less than half of the $25 recommended admission, Holzer said.  Full Price  A survey of more than 360 Met visitors by the plaintiffs
found that 65 percent became members because they believed
joining enabled them or a guest to enter free, according to the
complaint. Three-quarters of those surveyed who weren’t members
said they believed that they paid an “admission fee,”
according to court papers.  “They’re making them think they need to pay the full price
when they don’t need to pay any price,” said Grunewald, who
filed the suit with Patricia Nicholson.  Grunewald said he works as an archivist for a media company
he declined to name. Nicholson lives across Fifth Avenue from
the Met and co-founded the nonprofit  Metropolitan Museum 
Historic District Coalition. The coalition a decade ago battled
the museum and city over an expansion it said would increase
congestion and pollution.  Although State Supreme Court Justice Marcy Friedman ruled
in 2004 that the statute of limitations expired before the
coalition’s challenge, Nicholson said in an interview that it
had successfully pressured the Met to limit its work.  Sign Changes  In the Nov. 14 complaint, the plaintiffs asked the court to
order the museum to stop charging admission on free days, to
inform the public that free days are available, and to make
changes to signs and promotional materials to prevent visitors
from being misled about the policy.  They also seek to have a museum entrance fronting Central
park. There had been a park entrance until 1902.  “Any impact on the people across the street would probably
be reduced,” Arnold Weiss, a lawyer for Nicholson and
Grunewald, said of the effect of new crowds at the museum.  As for the shortfall from eliminating recommended
admissions, Grunewald called on wealthy trustees to increase
donations and the Met to rethink its priorities, including a $65
million reconstruction of its outdoor plaza.  “At a time when working people are hurting, $25 is a
hardship for anyone but the upper middle class,” he said.  “It’s like a fine piece of music that you want to hear
again,” Grunewald said of the Met. “It requires repeated
visits.”  The case is Grunewald and Nicholson v. the  Metropolitan
Museum of Art , 158002/2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture,
Katya Kazakina on  auctions .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 