-- EU Lawmakers Seek One-Time Move to Reduce Carbon Market Glut
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-11-27T15:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/eu-lawmakers-seek-to-ensure-co2-auction-delay-is-one-time-option.html
The European Parliament proposed
that the bloc’s regulator delay carbon-permit sales just once as
a stopgap measure to tackle a glut that sent prices to a record
low, according to a draft report.  The European Commission may adapt the timing of carbon-
permit sales to improve the functioning of the market “in
exceptional circumstances,” according to the report by Matthias
Groote, chairman of the parliament’s environment committee,
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Groote is overseeing the
commission’s proposal to change the EU emissions law to curb
oversupply.  “This proposed short-term measure should not be seen as a
solution to the current imbalances but rather as an option that
ensures the stability of the EU Emissions Trading System until
the necessary long-term structural measures are adopted,”
Groote said in the report.  At stake is the price of emission permits in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade system after they plunged to a record 5.99
euros ($7.76) a metric ton in April as the economic crisis hurt
industrial output, boosting the surplus of allowances to almost
half of the average annual pollution limit in the 27-nation EU.
The bloc’s program doesn’t allow any price floors or ceilings.
The pollution limits it imposes on about 12,000 emitters were
set before the debt crisis and economic slump.  Six Options  The short-term strategy proposed by the commission in July
consisted of an  amendment  to the emissions law confirming the
regulator’s authority to set the timing of auctions and a
separate measure to delay sales. The EU has proposed to postpone
900 million allowances, or about 45 percent of the total annual
supply in permits, starting in January 2013.  Separately, the commission also set out on Nov. 14 six
options for a long-term overhaul of the EU emissions trading
system, also known as the ETS, ranging from adopting a stricter
pollution-reduction target to price-support mechanisms.  The delay in auctions “should be limited only to
exceptional circumstances, such as the EU ETS is now facing,”
Groote said in the report. To ensure that stability and
predictability of the cap-and-trade system is not undermined,
the decision to change the timing of auctions should be executed
only once in the third phase of the ETS, which runs from 2013 to
2020, according to the draft document.  The amendment to the emissions law will need to be
reconciled between the parliament and member states and backed
by those two before it enters into force. The parliament’s
environment committee is due to vote on it in February and the
whole assembly is scheduled to vote two months later.  Carbon permits for 2012 fell 1.6 percent to 6.73 euros a
ton at 2:52 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .
The allowances have lost 20 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  