-- Euro-Area Bailout Fund Wins Blessing of Highest EU Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-11-27T09:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/euro-area-bailout-fund-is-legal-eu-top-court-says-in-esm-ruling.html
The euro area’s 500 billion-euro
($648.7 billion) firewall won approval from the European Union’s
highest court, which swept away a challenge that threatened to
derail efforts to keep the currency bloc intact.  Examination of a treaty change in 2011 to allow for the
creation of the European Stability Mechanism, or ESM,
“disclosed nothing capable of affecting the validity” of the
mechanism, the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today.
The euro area’s 17 members acted in line with EU rules by
ratifying the ESM treaty, the court ruled.  Today’s ruling lifted a potential shadow hanging over
attempts to save the euro, just hours after ministers struck a
deal to ease the terms on emergency aid for  Greece .  The EU’s top court worked on  the case  under a fast-track
procedure for almost 4 months, using for the first time in such
a case its full force of 27 judges to consider the challenge.  Irish politician Thomas Pringle had argued that the ESM,
which was declared operational on Oct. 8, violates the  no-
bailout provision  under EU law and encroaches on the bloc’s role
in economic and monetary policy. He challenged a  March 2011
decision  by EU governments to change a legal provision in a
treaty to allow for the ESM’s creation, saying this was done
incorrectly.  Fiscal Meltdown  The ESM replaces the 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility. The two funds will run in parallel until the
EFSF is phased out in mid-2013. The ESM in September survived a
legal challenge in  Germany , handing a victory to  Chancellor
Angela Merkel , who championed the facility as vital to save the
euro area from a fiscal meltdown.  “The volume of money it is to gather from the public in
euro-zone countries is enormous,” Pringle’s lawyer Joe Noonan
said in an e-mailed statement. The ESM was set up in the
“absence of accountability and of proper democratic control.”  With rulings often taking between one to two years, the EU
court  decided  on Oct. 4 to treat Pringle’s case under the
accelerated procedure due to the “uncertainty as to the
validity of that treaty” and “to remove as soon as possible
that uncertainty, which adversely affects the objective of the
ESM treaty, namely to maintain the financial stability of the
euro area.”  The court’s ruling can’t be appealed. Ireland’s  Supreme
Court , which sought the EU court’s guidance in July, will have
to give a final decision on Pringle’s challenge in line with
today’s ruling.  The case is:  C-370/12 , Thomas Pringle v. Government of
Ireland, Ireland and the Attorney General.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  