-- Europe’s Plan C for Greece Is No Better Than Plans A or B
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-27T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/europe-s-plan-c-for-greece-is-no-better-than-plans-a-or-b.html
Europe ’s leaders have  reached  Plan C
in their efforts to rescue Greece. Unfortunately, it lacks a
crucial element also absent in Plans A and B: adequate debt
relief.  The  agreement  between euro-area finance ministers and the
 International Monetary Fund  is welcome and overdue. It provides
much-needed support for a Greek government that has taken
enormous political risks to meet the conditions for aid. It also
puts an end to weeks of bickering between Europe and the IMF
over how to cover Greece’s funding shortfall -- a delay that had
threatened to undermine faith in the bailout program, even among
Greeks who believe in making the changes and sacrifices
demanded.  The deal, however, doesn’t do enough to address the biggest
issue: a Greek government debt burden that, at about 170 percent
of gross domestic product, remains unbearable under any
reasonable scenario. The agreement assumes that Greece will
largely grow its way out of the problem, reducing its debt to
less than 110 percent of GDP by 2022 even as it endures the
crushing austerity required to sustain a  budget surplus  of 4
percent of GDP. In other words, this is just the latest in a
long line of stopgap measures to fend off the kind of disorderly
default and euro exit that could trigger contagion in the much
larger economies of  Spain  and  Italy .  Effective Solution  Germany  and other creditor nations refused to consider the
simpler and more effective solution of writing off some of
Greece’s debt to official lenders, a move that would amount to
an explicit fiscal transfer. Instead, they agreed to reduce
Greece’s debt-service costs, extend its repayment period and
lend it money to buy back bonds held by private investors. Taken
together, these measures are supposed to amount to debt relief
equivalent to about 20 percent of GDP by 2020. The IMF, for its
part, relaxed its previous requirement that  Greece  get its debt
down to 120 percent of GDP by 2020.  The contortions might be necessary to help the deal get
through the various national parliaments that must ratify it,
but they could extract a higher price down the road. Some euro-
area countries, for example, will now be paying more to borrow
money than they receive in interest from Greece. That’s a fiscal
transfer by sleight of hand, as is the 10-year extension of some
debt maturities and a repayment holiday on loans that the
European Union and the IMF pledged earlier this year.
Perversely, much of the burden will fall on countries that are
also in economic trouble. Italy and Spain, for example, will
have to pay Greece for the privilege of lending to it, because
their financing costs are higher than the reduced  interest rate 
at which Greece will borrow.  The debt buyback from private investors, too, promises to
be problematic. The idea is that the low market price of
Greece’s debt creates an opportunity to retire it on the cheap,
by borrowing new money to buy old bonds. If, for example, Greece
can buy back its bonds at 33 cents per euro of face value, it
can get rid of about three euros in debt for each new euro it
borrows. Problem is, the price of the bonds tends to rise as
markets come to expect the buyback, eroding the benefits to
Greece. The country’s 10-year bonds currently trade at almost 36
cents on the euro, up from about 31 cents in early October.  In a ham-handed attempt to ensure the buyback’s benefits,
the bailout agreement stipulates that Greece can’t pay more than
the closing price of its bonds on Nov. 23. As a result, the
government might not be able to find investors willing to sell
their bonds at its offer price -- an outcome that could
jeopardize the release of the IMF’s 43.7 billion euro share of
the bailout money, which is  contingent  on the completion of the
debt buyback. The euro’s initial bounce from the deal
announcement has  faded  as this reality has sunk in among
investors.  Biggest Difference  Perhaps the biggest difference between Plan C and its
predecessors is that responsibility for failure has shifted.
Previously, Greece shouldered the blame for its inability to
come to grips with the task at hand. Now, the creditors’ plan
itself is more likely to be the sole culprit. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  seemed to acknowledge its flaws in a
news conference Nov. 27, saying that if the buyback fails, the
troika -- the IMF, the European Commission and the  European
Central Bank  -- will have to take “other measures.”  When the time comes to craft Plan D, Europe’s leaders would
do well to move ahead with the Greek debt writedown they have
tried so hard to avoid. If, for example, they cut the
government’s debt in half, and if its market borrowing cost
could be brought down to about 5 percent, Greece could hold its
debt burden steady by running a primary budget surplus
(excluding interest payments) of roughly 1.5 percent of GDP --
well within the range of what it has been able to achieve in the
past. The upfront costs would be greater, but so would the
chances of success.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Mohamed Mursi’s flirtation
with tyranny in Egypt ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Hillary Clinton’s
next move ; Clive Crook on why the  U.K. must remember it needs
the EU ;  Peter Orszag  on why  vague proposals to limit tax
deductions won’t work ; Cass R. Sunstein on the  behavioral
economics of Christmas consumption ; Richard Vedder on the
 evolving private-state-federal university.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 