-- Europe Stocks Gain as Finance Ministers Agree Greek Deal
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-11-27T17:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/european-stock-index-futures-gain-as-greece-gets-aid-help.html
European (SXXP)  stocks advanced after euro-
region finance ministers eased the terms of aid for Greece and
cleared the way for a loan instalment in December.  Remy Cointreau SA, France’s second-largest distiller,
surged 6.4 percent after posting first-half operating profit
that beat estimates.  SBM Offshore (SBMO)  NV added 2.9 percent after
Barclays Plc raised its recommendation on the stock. Galp
Energia SGPS SA slid 5.9 percent after Eni SpA said it is
selling shares in Portugal’s biggest oil company.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.3 percent to 272.86 at
the close of trading, paring earlier gains of as much as 0.7
percent. The gauge rallied 4 percent last week as optimism grew
that the  U.S. Congress  will agree on a budget that avoids
automatic tax increases and spending cuts, and data showed
China’s manufacturing expanded.  “This was the last chance after the finance ministers kept
delaying a decision,” Guillaume Chaloin, a  fund manager  at
Meeschaert Asset Management in Paris, which oversees $3.2
billion, said, referring to the decision on Greek aid. “We’ve
evacuated one of the big worries and this has reassured the
market.”  European finance ministers eased the terms on emergency aid
for the Mediterranean nation. In the latest bid to keep the 17-
nation euro-area intact, the ministers cut the rates on bailout
loans, suspended interest payments for a decade on money from
the temporary rescue fund, gave the country more time to repay,
and engineered a Greek bond buyback. Greece was also cleared to
get a 34.4 billion-euro ($44.7 billion) loan instalment in
December.  ‘Difficult Deal’  “This has been a very difficult deal,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters in Brussels after
chairing a 13-hour meeting that ended early today. “All
initiatives decided upon today will bring Greece’s public debt
clearly back on a sustainable path.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index was little changed,
while Germany’s DAX Index rose 0.6 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index gained 0.2 percent.  In the U.K., consumer spending and exports propelled the
 economy  to its fastest growth since 2007 in the third quarter.
Gross domestic product rose 1 percent from the second quarter,
the same as reported on Oct. 25, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London.  No revision was forecast, according to the median of 33
estimates in a  Bloomberg News  survey. It means Britain exited a
double-dip recession in the last quarter.  Durable Goods  In the U.S., demand for goods such as machinery and
electronics climbed in October by the most in five months.
Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment, rose 1.7 percent last
month, the most since May, the Commerce Department reported
today in Washington.  Orders for all durable goods were little changed, beating
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg that
projected a 0.7 percent drop.  Home prices  rose in the year ended in September by the most
since July 2010, showing the recovery in the U.S. real estate
market is a source of strength for the economy.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
climbed 3 percent from September 2011, after advancing 2 percent
in the year to August, the group said today in New York. The
median  forecast  of 29 economists in a Bloomberg survey projected
a 3 percent gain.  Consumer Confidence  U.S.  consumer confidence  rose in November to the highest
level in more than four years. The Conference Board’s confidence
 index  climbed to 73.7, the highest since February 2008, from a
revised 73.1 reading the prior month, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed today. The  median  forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a reading of 73.  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
said he advocates limits on U.S. quantitative easing.  The Fed could “pursue a different course” and announce
“a limit as to how much we are going to acquire of treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities, say up to a limit of X, up to a
point where our balance sheet reaches that,” Fisher said in a
speech today in Berlin. That could be done “perhaps at this
next meeting, which would be my preference, but it is a group
decision,” he said.  Fed officials plan to meet Dec. 11-12. Fisher, who doesn’t
vote on policy this year, has been among the most vocal Fed
officials against more easing.  Remy Cointreau  Remy Cointreau (RCO)  surged 6.4 percent to 88.51 euros for the
biggest gain in the Stoxx 600. The company said first-half
adjusted operating profit from current operations rose to 141.5
million euros, beating analyst estimates for 137.3 million
euros. Remy Cointreau said second-half growth will be more
moderate than in the first half. Still, it confirmed its target
to “substantially” lift annual earnings.  SBM Offshore gained 2.9 percent to 8.46 euros. Barclays
raised its recommendation on shares of the oil-services company
to overweight, the equivalent of a buy rating, from underweight.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the Spanish lender whose nationalization pushed
the country towards a bailout for its banks, rallied 5 percent
to 1.06 euros.  Carrefour SA (CA)  rose 1.3 percent to 18.83 euros after Le
Figaro said the world’s second-biggest retailer plans to open 24
hypermarkets in China next year and that the revenue decline in
Chinese stores ended two months ago. The newspaper cited Chief
Executive Officer Georges Plassat.  Oerlikon (OERL)  jumped 4.3 percent to 9.47 Swiss francs. Chief
Executive Michael Buscher said the sale of a solar business for
250 million Swiss francs ($269 million) may be followed by other
“strategic decisions” that draw on the company’s enhanced
 financial  strength.  Deutsche Wohnen  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) , Germany’s largest residential landlord
by market value, added 2.3 percent to 14.45 euros, and  GSW
Immobilien AG (GIB) , the country’s third-largest, gained 3.6 percent
to 32.13 euros, its highest since at least April 2011. Morgan
Stanley lifted its recommendation on the companies’ shares to
overweight, the equivalent of a buy rating.  Voestalpine AG (VOE) , a steelmaker, climbed 1.4 percent to 24.29
euros after UBS AG added the shares to its most preferred list.
 Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-largest steelmaker, added 2
percent to 34.82 euros.  Galp (GALP)  lost 5.9 percent to 11.50 euros. Eni said late
yesterday that it’s selling 49.8 million Galp shares. They are
being offered at 11.48 euros to 11.73 euros apiece, according to
the terms obtained by Bloomberg News.  TDC A/S (TDC)  slid 4.2 percent to 37.33 Danish kroner. NTC
investors raised about 2.97 billion kroner ($517 million) by
selling 80 million shares in the Danish telecommunications
company, a person familiar with the sale said.  Telecoms Decline  A gauge of European telecommunications stocks fell 1
percent on the Stoxx 600, for the biggest drop among the gauge’s
19 industry groups.  Moody’s Investors Service said European operators with the
lowest financial flexibility are running out of options to
bolster balance sheets and may have to raise equity.  The ratings company also forecast a drop in telecom sales
next year of as much as 2 percent due to global economic
weakness.  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , a Dutch phone company, slid 5.7 percent to
4.22 euros.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  lost 3.9 percent to 5.07 euros.
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  retreated 3.2 percent to 67 euro cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 