-- Ex-Level Global Analyst Says He Passed Tips to Chiasson
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-11-28T01:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ex-level-global-analyst-says-he-passed-dell-tips-to-chiasson-1-.html
A former Level Global Investors LP
analyst testified that he repeatedly relayed nonpublic
information about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  to co-founder Anthony Chiasson,
allowing the fund to make $63 million.  Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, 41, a former analyst who worked
for Chiasson at the New York-based fund, told a jury today in
Manhattan federal court that he obtained nonpublic information
on earnings, gross margins and revenue from a Dell insider that
was passed through a friend, Jesse Tortora, an ex-analyst at
Diamondback Capital Management LLC.  Based on the illicit tips, Chiasson earned $10 million in
mid-2008, Adondakis testified. The U.S. alleges that a second
trade on Dell in August 2008 gave the fund $53 million in
illegal profit.  Chiasson and  Todd Newman , a former portfolio manager for
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Diamondback, are on trial for
allegedly trading on inside information in Dell and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) 
Both men have pleaded not guilty. The U.S. alleges that the men
earned more than $67 million on those trades.  ‘Best Idea’  Adondakis, who told the jury he has a master’s degree from
the Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania , said he
told Chiasson and Greg Brenner, another supervisor at the fund,
in early August of 2008 that his contact at Dell informed him
that, while the firm’s revenue would be in line, gross margins
would be lower than expected. The news could be used to bet
against the stock by holding a large short position, he said.  “Brenner mentioned that if this information was right, it
would be the best idea of the fund and it would be a very
profitable position for the firm,” Adondakis testified.  Adondakis said Brenner and Chiasson took the analysis he
had written based on the Dell information to the office of David Ganek, the fund’s co-founder. There’s no indication that Ganek
knew the information was nonpublic and Adondakis testified he
couldn’t hear the conversation.  “Mr. Chiasson and Brenner had the analysis I provided to
them in their hands and went into Mr. Ganek’s office,”
Adondakis said, referring to a glass-walled office located in a
corner of the building.  Chiasson later led a meeting of the fund’s technology group
telling them they would increase a short position in Dell stock.  Large Position  “He informed members of the funds tech group that we had a
large position in Dell, a short position, and it was based on a
contact and that we were not to discuss the position outside of
the fund,” said Adondakis, who has pleaded guilty to insider-
trading charges.  Brenner and Ganek haven’t been accused of wrongdoing by the
U.S. Reached for comment about Adondakis’s testimony, Ganek’s
lawyer,  John Carroll , said in a statement, “With the trial
under way it speaks for itself that my client hasn’t been
charged with any wrongdoing. My client is outraged that Sam Adondakis was passing off as his own work what he now reveals
was inside information. So to be clear, my client was never
aware that this admitted liar and criminal was trafficking in
inside information.”  Adondakis said he met Tortora while doing equity research
of technology companies while working at  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU)  in  San Francisco . After joining Level Global, he said
Tortora kept in touch with contacts both men had at Dell.  Adondakis said his arrangement with Tortora began in 2007
when he joined Level Global, saying he told to Chiasson how he
had a “contact” at Diamondback who was obtaining nonpublic
information on Dell from an insider at the company. Adondakis
told jurors Chiasson knew that Tortora was sharing his insider
tips with Newman.  ‘Full Chain’  “I explained to him the full chain of command,” Adondakis
said.  “How did Mr. Chiasson react?” Assistant U.S. Attorney
John Zach asked.  “He seemed interested, he wanted to see if we could use
this information to make forecasts and to use it to make
money,” Adondakis said.  Today, jurors were shown dozens of instant messages and e-
mails that Chiasson sent Adondakis, including an Aug. 20, 2007,
exchange between the two men in which Chiasson asked, “Any luck
with DELL?”  “Didn’t hear back,” Adondakis replied.  “Cool,” Chiasson answered, “Where did Jesse land?”  “Diamondback,” Adondakis answered.  “Is he working with Newman?”  “Yep, that’s the guy,” Adondakis answered.  Color Mosaic  Adondakis said he also accessed expert-networking
consultants including employees at Dell and Nvidia who provided
him with nonpublic information. He used the information to
double-check the accuracy of his insider, Adondakis said.  “I was utilizing them for finding company insiders willing
to talk about their companies,” he said. “So we could make
money on their stocks by trading on them.”  Zach showed jurors Level Global’s compliance manual and the
firm’s rules against  insider trading . It warned employees to
avoid asking for nonpublic information when speaking to expert-
networking consultants and use calls “to deepen our
understanding or better color our mosaic.”  The manual concluded by telling employee that if they had
any questions about compliance, their queries “should be
directed to the chief compliance officer, the director of
compliance and Anthony Chiasson.”  Of the eight people charged in this case, six have pleaded
guilty to insider trading and are cooperating with the U.S.,
including Tortora and Adondakis.  Tortora testified as a prosecution witness last week.
Adondakis will resume his direct testimony tomorrow when the
trial resumes before U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-CR-00124, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  