-- Ex-Macquarie Banker Looks Abroad to Staff Green Fund
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-11-27T08:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ex-macquarie-banker-leading-a-10-billion-green-fund-looks-abroad.html
Oliver Yates, the former  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG)  banker who started this week as head of  Australia ’s
A$10 billion ($10.5 billion) Clean Energy Finance Corp., plans
to tap overseas expertise to strengthen his investment team.  Yates, 47, said he plans to ask the U.K.’s 3 billion-pound
($4.8 billion) Green Investment Bank and  Germany ’s KfW
development bank to consider temporarily assigning a few staff
members to Australia to assist with the start-up.  “We have a large pot of money here, and this can be a real
demonstration for the globe,” said Yates, previously a director
at Sydney-based Driftwood Capital. “I’d love to have that
international experience down here in our market, people who
have seen the good sides and the bad sides.”  Australia’s clean-energy bank, formed as part of Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s legislation last year to reduce  carbon
emissions , plans to hire 20 to 30 people before investing its
first A$2 billion starting in July, Yates said in a telephone
interview today from Sydney. The bank will take a conservative
approach and initially focus on providing loans.  “This is a massive challenge for us all, and it’s also
going to create an enormous amount of opportunities,” said
Yates, who spent more than two decades at Macquarie before
leaving in 2010. “Australia has had a pretty volatile policy
outlook, and a lot of people have been burned trying to
participate in the sector. The market hasn’t been stable, and
what we need to do is encourage investors to try again.”  Taxpayer Money  Yates’s new organization will work with other banks to
maximize its scope, he said. While the focus will be company
loans, it will also be able to take equity stakes.  “We are here not to cost taxpayers money,” said Yates,
named chief executive officer on Nov. 25. “We are not going to
be stretching too far into equity land because that’s a higher
risk profile than what we’re comfortable with.”  The organization will invest at least half its funds in
renewable-energy suppliers such as wind, solar and geothermal
projects. The rest will go to low-emissions and energy-
efficiency technologies, the government said earlier this year.  The market value of the 71 stocks in the  ACT Australian
CleanTech Index , which tracks the country’s listed renewable
energy companies, plunged to A$6.6 billion in October from a
peak of A$16.3 billion in 2007.  The outlook for investment in clean-energy technologies
will improve with growing acceptance that the government should
address climate changes, Yates said.  Fixed Price  Australia started charging about 300 of its largest
polluters a fixed price of A$23 a ton in July for their carbon
emissions. It plans to move to a market-based, emissions trading
system in 2015 and aims to get 20 percent of its power from
renewable energy by the end of the decade.  Greg Hunt , the opposition climate and environment spokesman
with the Liberal-National coalition, has said the Gillard-led
government is putting A$10 billion of taxpayer money at risk.
Hunt cited the example earlier this year of Solyndra LLC, the
failed solar-panel maker that received a $535 million U.S.
Energy Department loan guarantee before going bankrupt.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  has pledged to overturn
Gillard’s price on carbon emissions if his coalition wins
elections due by November 2013.  The Clean Energy Finance Corp. will aim for a rate of
return comparable to the government’s bond rate, the government
said. Finance will go to projects at later stages of development,
it said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  