-- Ex-Stockbroker Jo Nesbo Probes Murder, Mystery as Author
-- B y   A l e c   D . B .   M c C a b e
-- 2012-11-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ex-stockbroker-jo-nesbo-probes-murder-mystery-as-author.html
Jo Nesbo worked days as a
stockbroker and nights and weekends singing in one of Norway’s
top rock ’n’ roll  band s, Di Derre, before writing the first of
nine best-selling novels featuring iconoclastic Oslo detective
 Harry Hole .  He’s also a rock climber who has mountain-biked with the
Norwegian prime minister.  His latest book, “Phantom,” takes Harry back to Oslo from
 Hong Kong  -- and this time, the mission is personal.  Nesbo, 52, spoke by telephone from Los Angeles while on a
book tour around the U.S.  McCabe: You worked in the finance industry, including a
stint at  DNB Markets (DNB) , part of the largest bank in Norway. How
long were you in the industry?  Nesbo: I was there for nine years.  McCabe: Could you imagine staying?  Nesbo: I was probably one of the worst sales persons at the
brokerage firm. I hated chit-chatting and small talk. I had a
few big clients who were the same. They didn’t want the small
talk.  I was totally overpaid. But I have to admit that I’d
probably never felt the right passion for the job. The stock
market to me was like a video game. When it went off, it was
like turning the game off. It wasn’t something I’d think about
until I’d turn the machine on again.  ‘The Bat’  McCabe: How did your first Harry Hole novel, “The Bat,”
come about?  Nesbo: There was a girl that I had studied with who worked
for a publishing company. She contacted me and asked if I could
write a book. What they wanted was a book about the band. They
had this idea that I could write because I wrote the  lyrics . And
ever since I was in my teens I had plans at one point in my life
to write a novel.  My plan for the future at that time was to be a  struggling
writer  for 10 years. But what happened was that three weeks
later, they called and said they wanted to publish “The Bat.”  McCabe: I finished “Phantom” recently. You leave Harry in
a rather precarious position at the end. Is he going to make
another appearance?  Nesbo: When I wrote this, I was planning a second book. It
is sort of a sequel, because this one ends in sort of a
cliffhanger.  Harry feels like he’s coming back to Oslo for one last
mission. He was always driven as a police officer, as a
detective, but this time it’s something else completely. It’s
more character-driven, in a way, than any of the other books.  Illegal Drugs  McCabe: Harry battles alcohol. He’s got a fondness for
tobacco. He has frequent interactions with drug users and
dealers. How much of your personal experience is reflected in
what you write?  Nesbo: Heavy drugs are illegal in  Norway , so I can’t tell
you all the details of the research I’ve done. But I do draw on
personal experience. I take my research very seriously. Meaning
that I’m not living Harry’s life. But to some extent I have to
go down the roads that he does.  McCabe: “The Redbreast” tells of Norwegian men who  served 
with the German army during World War II. Your father, whose
family had returned to Norway from the U.S., was one of them.
How does that background color your writing? After all, your
mother sided with the Norwegian  resistance , so they were on
different sides.  Hitler, Stalin  Nesbo: For many people, it looked like you had the choice
between two strong persons, Hitler or Stalin. Old democracies
like England and  France  were more or less broke at the time.  And the  United States  -- which was of course up and
running, and a success -- that was on the other side of the
globe. In 1940, that was really far, far away and had nothing to
do with  Europe .  My father, coming from the United States with my
grandparents -- they were anti-Communist, so he made his choice.
He said, “OK, if we are going to fight Stalin, I have to go
with the Germans. So I have to side with the Germans and fight
the Communists.”  McCabe: Rock ’n’ roll makes an appearance across all your
books.  The Violent Femmes .  Jason & the Scorchers . For me, the
 late 1980s  was a golden age of rock. Was it the same for you?  Nesbo: Yeah, there were a couple of rock journalists in
Oslo who introduced not only me but my friends to the American
rock wave at that time with the bands you mention. And  Green on
Red , Rank and File,  R.E.M ., Dream Syndicate, the  Rainmakers , who
I actually saw playing at a small club in Oslo just weeks ago.  Son of Sam  McCabe: You seem to have mixed feelings about psychiatry.
I’m curious because my own Norwegian  grandfather  was the court-
appointed psychiatrist during the trial of Son of Sam, the
serial killer.  He was the only psychiatrist to declare this man David Berkowitz sane, and so he was sent to prison instead of a mental
hospital. My grandfather actually got letters from him in jail,
thanking him for showing him his demons were real ...  Nesbo: ... For sending him to jail instead of the madhouse!
This is at the core of my writing.  What do we mean by “crazy”? What do we mean by “mad”?
At what point is a person just different and at what point can
we call it a disease and say that they are not responsible for
their actions? Or are we all slaves to the chemical processes
that go on in our brains?  And in that way whether a person is “insane” or not
doesn’t really matter.  “Phantom” is published by Knopf in the U.S. and Harvill
Secker in the U.K. (400 pages, $25.95, 16.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Alec D.B. McCabe is an editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from
a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Katya Kazakina  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alec McCabe in  New York  at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 