-- Texas A&M’s Manziel Says Heisman Trophy Would Be Dream Come True
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-27T06:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/texas-a-m-s-manziel-says-heisman-trophy-would-be-dream-come-true.html
Texas A&M  quarterback Johnny Manziel
said he’s had a “surreal” season and that becoming the first
freshman to win the Heisman Trophy as college football’s best
player would be a dream come true.  Manziel yesterday spoke with the media for the first time
this season, with a  conference call  that came three days after
the Aggies completed the regular season with a 10-2 in their
debut in the  Southeastern Conference . Texas A&M coach Kevin Sumlin’s policy that freshmen can’t speak with the media ended
following the team’s regular-season finale.  Manziel, 19, has emerged as a Heisman Trophy frontrunner
after a season in which he’s totaled 4,600 yards of offense to
break the SEC record of 4,327 set by former Auburn University
quarterback Cam Newton during his Heisman-winning 2010 campaign.
Manziel has passed for 3,419 yards and 24 touchdowns while
rushing for 1,181 yards and 19 scores.  “This season has been incredibly surreal,” Manziel said.
“It’s beyond my wildest imagination. It’s a true testament to
how this team has grown each and every week, because without
these guys none of my individual success would be anything.”  Manziel, a 6-foot-1 redshirt freshman from Kerrville,  Texas ,
said he used to fantasize about winning the Heisman while
playing college football video games as a youth.  “When you’re sitting there playing all these NCAA games as
a kid and you create a player and you win the Heisman as a
freshman because you just put up crazy numbers, it’s something
you can only sit back and dream about,” Manziel said. “It’s
the biggest, most prestigious award in college football, so it
would definitely be a dream come true.”  ‘Johnny Football’  Nicknamed “Johnny Football,” Manziel is the 2-5 favorite
to become the first freshman to win the Heisman, according to
online sportsbook Bovada.lv. Kansas State quarterback Collin
Klein is the second favorite at 5-2 to receive the trophy on Dec.
8, followed by Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te’o at 4-1.  He threw for 253 yards and two touchdowns in an upset
victory over defending national champion and then top-ranked
 Alabama  this month. In last week’s season-ending 59-29 win
against  Missouri , Manziel threw three touchdown passes and ran
for two more to lead the Aggies to their first 10-win season
since 1998.  The only Texas A&M player to win the award was halfback
John David Crow in 1957 and Manziel said the attention he’s
received this season has been “extremely different.”  ‘Extremely Fortunate’  “I’m a small-town kid and I still see myself that way,”
Manziel said. “I don’t see myself as Johnny Football. I’m just
extremely fortunate and extremely blessed to be playing football
at A&M. Whenever I go out to dinner and people come up to me and
want to take pictures, I guess I’m kind of still shocked even
though it’s kind of becoming a daily thing.”  Manziel said for now he’s focused on preparing for the
team’s postseason bowl game and not on the Heisman Trophy even
though his offensive numbers are better than the past two SEC
quarterbacks to win the award: Newton and Tim Tebow.  “Whatever is meant to be will happen,” Manziel said.
“I’m just doing whatever Coach Sumlin and them ask me to do
right now as far as resting and getting ready for bowl practices
and making sure our team stays focused to come out and take care
of business in a bowl game. The Heisman and all the other awards
like that, they’ll play themselves out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  