-- Texas Oils Weaken Most in a Week on Longer Refinery Maintenance
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-11-27T21:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/texas-oils-weaken-most-in-a-week-on-longer-refinery-maintenance.html
West  Texas  oil fell the most in a
week as maintenance at  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s refinery in Borger, Texas,
refinery lasted longer than expected, reducing demand for crude
produced in the Permian Basin.  The Phillips 66 refinery took down production units for
maintenance on Sept. 22 and was scheduled to restart them last
week, a person familiar with the situation said. The company
said in an e-mail yesterday that the 146,000-barrel-a-day
refinery was still undergoing planned maintenance. A company
spokesman didn’t immediately respond today to a request for an
update on the plant’s status.  WTI delivered in Midland, Texas, declined $5 a barrel to a
discount of $12 to the same grade of oil delivered in Cushing,
 Oklahoma , at 2:18 p.m.  New York  time, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It was the biggest drop since Nov. 20, when the
grade reached a record discount of $20 a barrel.  West Texas Sour, another crude grade produced in West
Texas, also dropped $5 to a discount of $11.75 a barrel.  The Texas grades fell to a record low last week as the
extended maintenance at Borger contributed to a growing glut of
oil and limited pipeline capacity out of the region.  Texas oil  production  increased 35 percent to an average of
2 million barrels a day in August from a year earlier, Energy
Department data show. New drilling techniques have unlocked oil
in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s output to the
highest level since 1988.  WTI oil delivered at Midland has historically traded less
than $1 below the Cushing price, reflecting the transportation
costs between the two delivery points. This year, the oil has
traded at an average discount of $3.29.  Pipeline projects are under way to provide more capacity to
the region, including  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s plan to
reverse the flow of the Longhorn pipeline to take crude from
West Texas to Houston, expected early next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  