-- Facebook Asked by Privacy Groups to Stop Proposed Policy Changes
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-11-27T02:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/facebook-asked-by-privacy-groups-to-stop-proposed-policy-changes.html
Facebook (FB)  Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  was asked by two privacy groups to
withdraw proposed changes to the company’s governing documents,
saying they raise risks to members’ data.  Facebook shouldn’t roll back voting options for users,
shift controls on messaging or combine data from affiliates,
including newly acquired mobile photo-sharing service Instagram,
said Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy
Information Center, and  Jeffrey Chester , president of the Center
for Digital Democracy, in a letter to Zuckerberg. Facebook
proposed modifications to its Statement of Rights and
Responsibilities and its data-use policy last week.  “These proposed changes raise privacy risks for users,”
the letter said. “We urge you to withdraw the proposed
changes.”  The company, owner of the world’s largest social-networking
website, has come under scrutiny around the world since
announcing the policy revisions. Irish regulators who oversee
Facebook in the European Union sought “urgent” clarifications
from Facebook last week, according to  Gary Davis , Ireland’s
deputy data-protection commissioner.  Among other things, the changes would give users more
detailed information about shared data, including reminders
about what’s visible to other people on Facebook.  Member Information  Until now, Facebook has allowed members to vote on changes
in cases where users show enough interest. Now it’s looking to
end potential votes while introducing new ways to inform members
on changes and continuing to seek their feedback.  “We found that the voting mechanism, which is triggered by
a specific number of comments, actually resulted in a system
that incentivized the quantity of comments over their quality,”
 Elliot Schrage , vice president of communications, public policy
and marketing, wrote in a blog post when the proposed changes
were announced.  Andrew Noyes, spokesman for the Menlo Park, California-
based company, declined to comment on the letter.  Facebook rose 8.1 percent to $25.94 at the New York close.
The stock has fallen 32 percent since the company’s initial
public offering in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  