-- Fed Says Household Debt Declined 0.7% in Third Quarter
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-11-27T22:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/fed-says-household-debt-declined-0-7-in-third-quarter.html
Household debt  in the U.S. fell 0.7
percent during the third quarter as a decline in real-estate
borrowing outpaced rising student and auto loans, according to a
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York   survey .  Consumer indebtedness shrank by $74 billion to $11.31
trillion, according to a quarterly report on household debt and
credit released today by the Fed district bank. Mortgage debt
declined by $120 billion to $8.03 trillion, the lowest since
2006. Home-equity lines of credit fell by $16 billion, even as
mortgage originations increased for the fourth straight quarter.  “Consumers seeing their balance sheets recovering are
getting more confident,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, U.S.
economist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “Deleveraging is still
a headwind because people want to lower their debt, instead of
putting it into consumption.”  A housing-market recovery is bolstering household finances,
supporting the spending that accounts for 70 percent of the  U.S.
economy .  Home prices  rose 3 percent in the year ended in
September, the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities showed today, and the Conference Board’s index of
consumer sentiment climbed to a four-year high this month.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  retreated a second day,
losing 0.5 percent to 1,398.94 and paring its advance for this
year to 11 percent, after U.S. lawmakers indicated that they’re
not making progress in talks to avert the so-called fiscal cliff
of spending cuts and tax increases. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury slumped 0.03 percentage point to 1.64 percent.  Cutting Debt  Americans have cut debt by $1.37 trillion from the peak in
the third quarter of 2008, according to the New York Fed’s data.  Borrowing outside of home financings climbed by 2.3 percent
in the third quarter to $2.7 trillion as auto debt increased by
$18 billion,  student loans  rose by $42 billion and credit-card
balances grew by $2 billion, the survey showed.  “The increase in mortgage originations, auto loans and
credit-card balances suggests that consumers are slowly gaining
confidence in their financial position,” Donghoon Lee, a senior
economist at the New York Fed, said in a statement. “As
consumers feel more comfortable, they may start to make
purchases that were previously delayed.”  Student-loan borrowing rose to $956 billion as of the end
of September, today’s report showed. New debt accounted for $23
billion of the increase, and the remaining $19 billion was
attributed to previously defaulted loans that were updated on
credit reports during the quarter, the district bank said.  The New York Fed said the report is based on data compiled
by the bank’s Consumer Credit Panel, a nationally representative
random sample from  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  credit-report data.  The Conference Board’s  confidence index  climbed to 73.7,
the highest since February 2008, from a revised 73.1 reading the
prior month, figures from the New York-based private research
group showed today. The share of Americans planning to buy a
house rose to a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  