-- Fisher Says Fed Could Set Limits on Quantitative Easing
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-11-27T10:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/fisher-says-fed-could-set-limits-on-quantitative-easing-2-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said he advocates putting limits on
U.S. quantitative easing.  The Fed could announce “a limit as to how much we are
going to acquire of treasuries and mortgage-backed securities,
say up to a limit of X, up to a point where our balance sheet
reaches that,” Fisher said today in Berlin. “It is my personal
preference to do it sooner than later, perhaps at the next
meeting.”  Fed officials plan to meet Dec. 11-12 to assess whether
record accommodation is fueling economic growth and reducing 7.9
percent unemployment, and to debate whether to extend the
Operation Twist stimulus plan, which expires next month. Fisher,
who doesn’t vote on policy this year, has been among the most
vocal Fed officials against more easing.  Fisher said there are lessons to be drawn from  Germany ’s
experience of hyperinflation during the 1920s. While today’s
situation is different and he wasn’t suggesting accommodative
monetary policies would lead to inflation, Fisher said they
can’t be left in place forever.  “There is no such thing as QE infinity,” he said. “QE
infinity gets you into trouble.”  The U.S. central bank has held its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero since December 2008, and has turned to unconventional
measures to spur the recovery, including the purchase of
Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.  Stimulus Programs  A number of policy makers said the Fed may need to expand
its monthly bond purchases after the expiration of Operation
Twist, in which the Fed swaps $45 billion of short-term
Treasuries each month for longer-term debt, according to minutes
of their October meeting. The Fed on Oct. 24 affirmed a stimulus
plan to keep buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds a month.  “I was not in favor of operation twist from the
beginning,” Fisher said. “I was in favor of the first tranche
of mortgage-backed securities. But now it is enough.”  Fisher said unemployment is the biggest problem that the
U.S. is facing and there may be a need to “announce an
employment target, just as we have announced a long-term
inflation target.”  Still, “this may be more difficult than it sounds because
monetary policy is not as much of a controlling variable for
employment as it is for  price stability ,” he said.  Fiscal Policy  Fisher has previously said there’s little more monetary
policy can do to spur job growth, arguing that businesses won’t
step up hiring until the government clarifies fiscal policy
issues such as taxes. Some $607 billion in spending cuts and tax
increases are scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1 unless Congress
acts.  Fisher said today the Fed has done its job and now there’s
a need for “the fiscal side to kick in and do its job.”  Referring to the re-elected administration of President
 Barack Obama , Fisher said: “I would put a U.S./ Europe  free-
trade agreement on the top of the to-do list.”  The Fed is concerned about the economic slowdown in China
and Europe, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Berlin at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  