-- Fisker Adds Ex-GM Marketer Ewanick as Interim Sales Chief
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-27T19:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/fisker-adds-ex-gm-marketing-head-ewanick-as-interim-sales-chief.html
Fisker Automotive Inc. said  Joel Ewanick , the maverick marketer ousted by  General Motors Co. (GM)  in
July, is joining the maker of luxury plug-in hybrid cars as
interim chief commercial officer.  Ewanick, 52, replaces Richard Beattie, 57, who is 
retiring, Anaheim, California-based Fisker said in an e-mailed 
statement today.  Ewanick was pushed out as GM marketing chief after the
carmaker determined he had failed to properly disclose about a
third of the cost of a $559 million sponsorship arrangement with
English soccer team Manchester United, according to people
familiar with the matter. He’s since been working as a
consultant for Fisker, where Chief Executive Officer  Tony Posawatz , himself a former GM executive, took over in August.  “As we seek to appoint a long-term successor, there is no
one better than Joel, with his wealth of motor industry
experience and knowledge to guide us through this interim
period,” Posawatz said in the statement. The company didn’t
provide further details on Beattie’s departure.  Closely held Fisker is trying to boost sales of its
$103,000 Karma and work out a plan to produce a second model,
the lower-priced Atlantic, at a Wilmington, Delaware, factory
the company acquired in 2010. In February, it suspended work on
the Wilmington factory, which GM shed in its 2009 bankruptcy.  Fisker’s access to a portion of federal loans received for
the project was cut off last year after the company failed to
meet production and sales goals for the Karma.  Posawatz was vehicle line director for GM’s Volt from 2006
until July before joining Fisker.  Fisker’s hiring of Ewanick, who also previously led
marketing efforts for  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s U.S. unit, was
reported earlier by Automotive News and the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  