-- For $60,000 Rental, Penthouse Comes With Gehry Cachet
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/for-60-000-rental-penthouse-comes-with-gehry-cacchet.html
Look through the monumental bay
windows (there are three) and you can see most of Manhattan from
high up on the 76th floor.  It’s not one of those sky-high condos billionaires have
been snapping up, but a rental penthouse at the building known
as  New York by Gehry . You can live there for $60,000 a month.  Why would someone who could plunk down millions on Central
Park West rent at the unglamorous foot of the Brooklyn Bridge?  Nancy Packes has the answer. Packes, a specialist in
marketing high-end residential properties, is a consultant for
developer Forest City Ratner and architect  Frank Gehry .  “People fell in love with the building,” she said when we
met at the top of the high-rise. “That’s why we changed the
name to  New York  by Gehry. It drew traffic purely by the
reputation it developed.”  The 903-unit building, formerly named 8 Spruce Street, was
renting at the rate of 70 apartments a month when it opened in
the spring of 2011, double the typical absorption.  Though the more expensive apartments at the top rent more
slowly, “we expect the building to be fully rented by
January,” Packes said.  Celebrity architecture “is the last frontier” for what
she called the lifestyle renter. “The high-end renter wants to
move beyond the commodity approach.” She means developments
that promote granite countertops, high-end appliances and party
rooms.  Design Value  We may celebrate gadgets like mobile phones when they break
with traditional form. But high end apartments in  Manhattan  come
stamped out of the same ill-proportioned glass-and-metal
ingredients.  A focus group during the Gehry building’s design suggested
why builders repeat the same tired formula.  “We got vociferous pushback from brokers,” Packes said.
They worried about the undulating walls and bay windows in the
units, visible as ripples in the stainless-steel exterior.
“They feared that renters wouldn’t know how to place furniture
in nonrectangular rooms.”  At that point, most developers would have squared-off the
building. But Forest City Ratner wanted to fully capture the
value of the tower’s great height, and that meant figuring out a
new way to get top dollar.  Many high-earners want to rent because they don’t want the
hassles of owning. And “they are willing to pay for beauty,”
Packes said.  The idea of actually building something extraordinary seems
to have paid off for the builder, who markets the tower with
exterior views.  “No kitchens, baths or living rooms. And we put nothing in
the marketing about the location,” Packes said. “Lifestyle
buildings become destinations.”  Other rental developers are seeking distinction through
design. Durst Fetner, a developer whose products usually look
like everybody else’s, is betting on 38-year-old  Bjarke Ingels ,
of the Copenhagen-based Bjarke Ingels Group.  At 625 W. 57th St., next to the  Hudson River , Ingels and
his firm started by wrapping some of the 750 units around a lush
courtyard. Then, as if the building was made of molten latex, he
stretched the northeastern corner upward to a 40-story peak. The
metal-clad roof looks like a double-curving ski slope.  Surfer Boy  When I met Ingels in his Chelsea office, he was wearing
jeans and a T-shirt. His wavy-haired, surfer-boy good looks and
a gift for publicity have aided his rapid rise to celebrity.  He’s also a pupil of the Rem Koolhaas school of perverse
pragmatism, and his swoopy design creates a destination out of a
terrible site overlooking the noisy  West Side Highway  which
stretches along the Hudson River.  A raised, landscaped courtyard supplies a view for lower-
floor apartments. They won’t have to look at the sanitation
garage to the south or the 1904 steam plant to the north (though
it’s a dignified design by McKim, Mead and White).  The advantage of the neighboring hulks is that they are low
and unlikely to be replaced by view-blocking towers. As the roof
twists gently upward to the corner of the site farthest from the
highway, Ingels angles the apartments to point them at stunning
vistas of the river.  Tax Break  The apartment-specialist firm  SLCE Architects  drew
conventional layouts, 20 percent of which will be rented below
market in return for a tax break.  Ingels’s warping geometry makes them usefully
idiosyncratic. Rectangular slashes in the roof form balconies
that he calls cockpits. Windows angle out of the north-facing
street wall to grab river views.  Like Gehry, Ingels relies on the expertise of Packes, SLCE
and Durst in his quest to rethink a played-out product. Design,
Ingels said, is more than “coming up with stuff. We translate
specific expert knowledge into a response that addresses given
conditions in a new way.”  That ought to be an obvious approach. I hope other
developers take notice.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .;
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 