-- French Gas Firms Ask Court to Block Government Price Cap
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-11-27T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/french-gas-firms-ask-court-to-block-government-price-cap.html
Direct Energie SA and other natural-
gas suppliers asked  France ’s highest court to block a government
cap on prices for consumers, saying they can’t afford to do
business at those rates.  The companies, which compete with former natural-gas
monopoly GDF Suez SA and are represented by an association known
as Anode, argue the capped prices don’t cover their supply
costs. French energy regulator CRE agreed the price cap set by
the Energy Ministry that took effect Oct. 1 was too low. The
Conseil d’Etat is scheduled to rule on Nov. 29.  “The government underestimates the formula” used to set
prices, Anode lawyer Frederic Thiriez said today. “Tariffs must
reflect the reality of the cost of gas in France.”  The court’s decision could pave the way for utilities to
raise prices during the cold winter months. French President
Francois Hollande said in September he would uphold a ban on
hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, because the drilling
technique may be hazardous.  Energy ministry representatives, who asked not to be named,
defended the formula, saying the government balanced consumers’
and suppliers’ needs to arrive at the ceiling. The energy
ministry sets the rates paid by households and business clients.
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  makes recommendations, though the state doesn’t always
follow them.  GDF Suez, France’s biggest natural-gas distributor, made a
separate legal challenge this month to the government’s decision
to cap a fourth-quarter increase in regulated fuel rates.  Imported Supplies  During the past year, the gas companies have challenged
successive French government decisions to limit increases in gas
prices, saying the rates don’t allow them to cover the cost of
imported supplies. Anode, the association appealing the rate
today, and GDF Suez filed similar cases a year ago to overturn a
price ceiling. The court ruled in their favor.  GDF Suez, which is 35 percent owned by the government, was
allowed to raise gas prices for households by 2 percent from
October, less than half of the increase it had requested. CRE
said it should have been 6.1 percent for households in order for
distributors to cover their costs of supply.     The government said
at the time its decision was based on the need to safeguard the
interests of consumers.  The government is considering modifying how the rates are
calculated to allow GDF Suez to rely more heavily on spot market
prices, which are lower, than long-term contracts with suppliers
like Russia, Algeria and  Norway .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  