-- Gazprom Revives German Power Plan for Nord Stream Gas
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-11-27T16:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/gazprom-revives-german-power-plan-for-nord-stream-gas.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, is reviving plans to build a power plant
in Germany to boost sales to its biggest export market via the
Nord Stream pipeline and develop European generation.  The northeastern German state where the pipeline comes
ashore from the  Baltic Sea  is lobbying to build gas-fired power
generators and has asked Gazprom to participate, Gunnar Bauer,
the spokesman for the Economy Ministry of the state of
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, said by e-mail yesterday. A Gazprom
Export official, who declined to be identified in line with
company policy, confirmed its interest in the power project.  “ Europe  needs investments, particularly Germany with its
nuclear closure,” Sergey Beiden, a power analyst at Otkritie
Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail on Nov. 26. “Any project that
secures stable gas supplies is interesting for Gazprom.”  Gazprom, which supplies about a quarter of Europe’s gas, is
seeking to maintain its market share and boost German sales by
gaining access to end-customers. With partners EON SE,  GDF Suez
SA (GSZ) , Wintershall AG and Nederlandse Gasunie NV, the Moscow-based
company last month doubled the pipeline’s capacity to 55 billion
cubic meters a year.  While Nord Stream’s current flows are less than a quarter
of capacity, Gazprom is considering adding two more lines to the
project, with one potentially ending in the U.K.  BP Plc (BP/)  is
interested in the Nord Stream expansion,  Toby Odone , a spokesman
for the London-based company, said by phone.  EON, Gazprom  EON plans to build and operate a combined heat and power
generation plant in the town of Lubmin, near Nord Stream’s entry
point, through a joint project company with Gazprom’s Wingas
GmbH venture, said Alexander Ihl, a spokesman for the German
utility. Gazprom is taking over Wingas, acquiring Wintershall’s
half of the venture as part of an asset swap.  Gazprom had sought to build a gas-fired power plant with
EON under a February 2008 memorandum, which was put on hold the
next year because of the global economic slump.  Harry Glawe, the German region’s economy minister, will
talk about the plan with  Nord Stream  representatives in
 Switzerland  on Nov. 29 and Nov. 30, after meeting with Gazprom
Export officials in  Russia  last month, Bauer said.  Power-generating operations may start by December 2015, the
approval authority said in a statement on Nov. 19. The region
plans to build three generating units with a maximum total
capacity of 3,450 megawatts, according to the statement.  Well Advanced  The approval processes for gas-powered plants are “well
advanced,” Glawe said in Moscow, according to an e-mailed
statement dated Oct. 19. Mecklenburg-Vorpommern needs “the
construction of additional highly flexible gas-fired power
plants,” he said.  Gazprom wants to gain a foothold in European power
generation to secure customers for its gas at a time when its
clients are seeking discounts and revisions to its oil-linked
pricing, and demand for Russian gas is squeezed by competition
with liquefied natural gas, supplies from  Norway  and cheaper
U.S. coal exports.  Gazprom and EON are banking on saving supply costs from
Nord Stream to boost power-plant margins.  “It makes sense in terms of delivered cost of that gas,”
said Massimo Di Odoardo, principal analyst for European gas and
power research at Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in  London . “But in
 Germany , no one is building gas power plants just because of the
combination of the power prices on the one side, and the cost of
gas versus coal makes these investments not suitable at this
time.”  Clean-Spark Spreads  Germany generators make a loss of 12.43 euros ($16.15) a
megawatt-hour from burning gas, according to Bloomberg
calculations of the so-called clean-spark spread, which takes
into account electricity, fuel and carbon prices for next month.
Clean-spark spreads to at least 2015 are negative. The
equivalent measure when burning coal shows a profit of 11.23
euros a megawatt-hour.  “At the moment, given where the carbon price is, it makes
sense to burn coal, not gas,” Di Odoardo said by phone.  Long-term goals to curb use of dirtier-burning coal and
increase the share of cleaner gas and renewables remain intact
because of European Union environmental rules and  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s order to close all German nuclear power plants
by 2022.  “New clean coal technology is very expensive and I think
gas power plants are quite attractive,” Otkritie’s Beiden said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  