-- GE Health Chief Sees Fiscal Cliff Clouding Medical-Device Market
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-11-27T12:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ge-health-chief-sees-fiscal-cliff-clouding-medical-device-market.html
Uncertainty that U.S. lawmakers will
reach a deal to prevent automatic budget cuts is crimping the
country’s medical-devices market just weeks after President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election safeguarded his 2010 health law, the
head of  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s health-care unit said.  “We’ve gotten through the election and removed the
ambiguity of the debate around the Affordable Care Act, but we
still have to plow through the fiscal cliff,” GE Healthcare
Chief Executive Officer John Dineen said. “It’s impossible to
make an investment if you’re a hospital or hospital system if
you don’t know what the financial rules are going to be.”  Doctors and hospitals are watching as Obama and Congress
work to avoid $607 billion in spending reductions and tax
increases due to take place on Jan. 1, Dineen said yesterday in
an interview at the Radiological Society of  North America ’s
 annual meeting  in Chicago.  GE Healthcare, the world’s largest maker of medical-imaging
devices, posted a 2 percent drop in third-quarter U.S. sales
after a 1 percent gain in the three months ended June 30. The
market for the equipment is “stalled” because of the policy
doubts, Dineen told analysts in September.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  has said a
failure to avoid the fiscal cliff could trigger a recession and
push the  unemployment rate  to about 9 percent, compared with
October’s 7.9 percent. Lawmakers return to Washington this week
after the Thanksgiving holiday.  Dineen said Obama’s health-care overhaul will lead to a
greater focus on consumer choice, patient comfort and physician
productivity. GE Healthcare introduced a quieter magnetic-
resonance imaging scanner, enhanced software for three-
dimensional image viewing and an ultrasound device tailored for
breast-cancer detection.  The unit’s $18.1 billion in 2011 revenue was 12 percent of
the Fairfield, Connecticut-based parent’s total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  Chicago  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  