-- German Stocks Rise as Finance Ministers Agree Greece Aid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-11-27T16:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/german-stocks-rise-as-finance-ministers-agree-greece-aid.html
German stocks  advanced to their
highest level in three weeks after euro-area finance ministers
eased the terms of their loans to Greece and approved the next
disbursement of financial aid to the country.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rose 2.3 percent and
1.7 percent, respectively. A gauge of banking stocks contributed
the most to the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s advance. Fresenius
Medical Care AG increased 2.8 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 0.6 percent to 7,332.33 at the close
of trade in Frankfurt, their highest level since Nov. 6. The
equity benchmark has  rallied 23 percent  from this year’s low on
June 5 as the  European Central Bank  approved an unlimited bond-
buying program and the U.S. Federal Reserve started a third
round of asset purchases. The broader HDAX Index also advanced
0.6 percent today.  “This is a short-term relief because Greece needed some
cash,” said Guillermo Hernandez Sampere, head of trading at Fpm
 Frankfurt  Performance Mgmt AG in Frankfurt, who helps manage
about 500 million euros ($647 million), in a telephone
interview. “The gainers today are the banks. They always win
when someone in Europe opens the cash box.”  Euro-area finance ministers cut the rates on loans made
under the first bailout of Greece in May 2010. They also
suspended interest payments for a decade on lending agreed under
the second bailout in October 2011. The ministers outlined a
plan for the Mediterranean nation to buy back its debt at
distressed rates. They authorized Greece to receive a 34.4
billion-euro loan installment in December.  ‘Difficult Deal’  “This has been a very difficult deal,” Luxembourg’s Prime
Minister,  Jean-Claude Juncker , told reporters in Brussels after
chairing a 13-hour meeting that ended early today. “All
initiatives decided upon today will bring Greece’s public debt
clearly back on a sustainable path.”  In the U.S., a report showed that  house prices  climbed at a
faster pace in September than they did in August. The S&P/Case-
Shiller measure of property prices in 20 cities increased 3
percent, compared with 2 percent the previous month. That
matched the  median economist estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey
for prices to rise 3 percent.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s two largest
lenders, added 2.3 percent to 33.92 euros and 1.7 percent to
1.37 euros, respectively.  Fresenius Medical Care, the world’s biggest provider of
 kidney dialysis , advanced 2.8 percent to 52.74 euros.  Fresenius SE,  Germany’s biggest operator of private
hospitals , climbed 2.9 percent to 88.26 euros.  Listed Landlords  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) , the real estate company formerly owned
by Cerberus Capital Management LP, advanced 3.6 percent to 32.13
euros as Morgan Stanley raised the stock to overweight, meaning
that investors should buy the shares.  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) , Germany’s largest residential landlord
by market value, added 2.3 percent to 14.45 euros after Morgan
Stanley also upgraded the the stock to overweight. Both
companies have made acquisitions since the summer that have
increased their earnings-per-share yields, the Morgan Stanley
analysts wrote in a note.  The brokerage forecast that rental growth in key German
cities will continue as new households form -- bolstered by new
jobs and growing salaries -- at a faster pace than residential
building permits are issued.  Nordex SE (NDX1)  rose 3.4 percent to 3.08 euros, paring an earlier
rally of as much as 6.5 percent, as the wind-turbine maker
obtained a second large contract to build a wind farm in South
Africa, near  Port Elizabeth . Nordex declined to say how much the
project was worth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  