-- German Coalition to Lower Damages for Offshore Wind Delays
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-27T19:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/german-coalition-agrees-to-lower-cap-on-damages-over-grid-delays.html
Germany ’s ruling coalition agreed to
lower a cap on damages that grid operators must pay for delays
linking offshore wind farms to the network after the companies
said they were unable to get insurance coverage for such risks.  The parties agreed in Berlin today to lower the ceiling on
damages when grid companies are found negligent to 17.5 million
euros ($23 million) from 100 million euros in an earlier draft
energy bill, Joachim Pfeiffer, a lawmaker with the  Christian
Democratic Union , said today in an interview. Damages may be as
high as 110 million euros if operators act with “gross
negligence,” he said.  Developers have suffered delays in connecting farms to the
grid as they seek to meet Germany’s target of 25 gigawatts of
sea-based turbines by 2030 to help the country shift away from
nuclear generation. Utilities including EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  have
threatened to halt investments unless the issues are resolved.  The lower cap comes after grid operator TenneT TSO GmbH
said it was concerned “that a 100 million-euro cap greatly
exceeds their yearly grid-connection profits and would dampen
investment security,” Sophia von Waldow, an analyst with
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today by e-mail.  EnbW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , the country’s third-
biggest utility, this month postponed a decision to invest more
than 1.5 billion euros in a North Sea wind farm because it
wasn’t clear when the project could be connected to the grid.  Paying Damages  The original draft bill endorsed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet in August would have required power customers
to pay as much as 0.25 euro cents a kilowatt-hour to cover costs
for paying damages linked to grid delays, which would have
generated about 600 million euros a year, von Waldow said.
Consumers may have to shoulder a higher share of the burden now
as costs are estimated at 1 billion euros and “this leaves a
significant amount uncovered,” she said.  The bill will be presented to Germany’s parliament on Nov.
30, Pfeiffer said. Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said on
Nov. 23 that he wanted to pass the energy bill before the end of
the year to send a “signal of optimism” to the offshore wind
industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  