-- Giants Place Andre Brown on Injured Reserve With Broken Left Leg
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/giants-place-andre-brown-on-injured-reserve-with-broken-left-leg.html
Andre Brown, who leads the  New York 
Giants with eight rushing touchdowns, may miss the rest of the
National Football League season after being placed on injured
reserve with a broken left fibula.  Brown, 25, was injured during the Giants’ 38-10 win over
the Green Bay Packers two days ago, when he ran for 64 yards on
13 carries and scored a touchdown for the fifth straight game.  Brown, whose 385 rushing yards are second on the team to
Ahmad Bradshaw, isn’t eligible to practice for six weeks and
can’t play in an NFL game for eight, meaning he won’t return
this season unless the Giants get back to the Super Bowl.  David Wilson, the Giants’ 2012 first-round draft pick, will
see more playing time in Brown’s absence. While Wilson, 21, has
returned kicks this season, he’s had a limited role in the
backfield, rushing for 102 yards on 24 carries.  “Andre played a big role in our offense, so with his
absence somebody is going to have to definitely step up on the
offensive side of the ball and the coaches told me that I’m the
next guy,” Wilson told reporters. “I’ve been preparing and
hopefully I’ll be ready when they call my number.”  The Giants in 2007 lost second-leading rusher Derrick Ward
to a fractured fibula in their 12th regular-season game and
Bradshaw, then a rookie, emerged as the primary backup to
Brandon Jacobs. Bradshaw had a team-leading 208 yards during the
postseason as the Giants went on to win the Super Bowl.  Giants coach Tom Coughlin said Wilson, the third running
back drafted this year after  Cleveland ’s Trent Richardson and
Tampa Bay’s Doug Martin, has a chance to have a similar impact.  “It’s his time,” Coughlin said at a news conference. “It
is a great opportunity for him and I think for our team as well,
in terms of what could develop here.”  The Giants, who at 7-4 have a two-game lead in the National
Football Conference’s East Division, next visit the Washington
Redskins (5-6) on Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  