-- Google Chief Page Said to Meet FTC Over Antitrust Probe
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n ,   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-11-28T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/google-chief-page-said-to-meet-ftc-over-antitrust-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  met with U.S. Federal Trade Commission officials
today in Washington as the agency moves to wrap up its 19-month
investigation of the company’s business practices, according to
a person familiar with the discussions.  Google is seeking to persuade the FTC it hasn’t broken
antitrust laws and that any final agreement with the agency
shouldn’t be bound by a consent decree, according to the person
and two others, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations aren’t public.  Google has been engaged in settlement talks with the FTC
for about a week, including an effort to define whether there’s
a market where Google has a monopoly, one of the people said.
The Mountain View, California-based company, operator of the
world’s most popular search engine, is concerned that entering a
formal settlement agreement with the agency may hurt its
business prospects, the people said.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the Federal Trade
Commission and are happy to answer any questions they may
have,” Adam Kovacevich, a Google spokesman, said in an e-mail.
He declined to comment on whether Page met with the FTC or the
existence of any settlement talks. Peter Kaplan, a spokesman for
the FTC, declined to comment.  Capitol Hill  Also today, Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  was spotted on
Capitol Hill with the head of the company’s Washington office,
the former  New York  Republican Congresswoman Susan Molinari.
Kovacevich declined to comment on Schmidt’s schedule or
whereabouts.  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz is pressing Google to resolve
the agency’s concerns about its dominance of Internet search or
be prepared to face a lawsuit, two people familiar with the
matter said Nov. 13.  The agency has told Google it won’t accept a resolution
short of a consent decree, one of those people said at the time.  The talks since Nov. 13 aren’t focused on the most serious
antitrust allegations made by the company’s rivals -- that
Google is skewing search results to favor its own services, two
of the people said.  Issues that have been under discussion include Google’s
exclusive agreements to provide search services to online
publishers and alleged misuse of patents to try to block rivals’
smartphones from coming to market. The FTC also is treating
seriously complaints that Google used customer reviews from
other websites without permission.  European Union  Google also is in discussions with European Union officials
to resolve their antitrust concerns. Those include Google
ranking its services higher than rivals’ offerings in search
results; copying competitors’ Web content and making agreements
with websites and developers that stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said yesterday
that he will meet with Leibowitz next week, without elaborating
further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net  