-- Gramercy Starts $200 Million Emerging Market Credit Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-11-27T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/gramercy-starts-200-million-emerging-market-credit-fund.html
Gramercy Advisors LLC, the $3.2
billion  emerging-markets  hedge fund, started a distressed credit
fund with $200 million in commitments, according to a letter to
investors, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The Gramercy Distressed Opportunity Fund II invests in
stressed performing, distressed and defaulted emerging market
corporate and sovereign debt, Robert Koenigsberger, managing
partner and chief investment officer at Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Gramercy, said in the letter, dated yesterday.  The firm sees opportunity in the $1.8 trillion of emerging-
market bonds and loans coming due by 2016, a quarter of which
are non-investment grade, or junk, Koenigsberger wrote.
Investors fleeing from risky global assets in light of the
European sovereign-debt crisis are likely to avoid the debt,
according to the firm.  “High-yield issuers in emerging markets will experience
severe liquidity challenges over the next several years as the
 capital markets  continue to eschew riskier corporate credit and
banks in the developed markets continue to reduce their lending
appetite,” Koenigsberger said in the letter. “Investors who
want to profit from the problems in  Europe  should look at those
risk assets that have re-priced but have nothing to do with
Europe.”  Steve Bruce  of ASC Advisors LLC, a spokesman for Gramercy,
declined to comment on the letter.  Predecessor Fund  After “being approached by investors seeking uncorrelated
investment returns from emerging markets,” Gramercy started
taking money for the new fund on June 17, Koenigsberger said in
the letter. The Gramercy Distressed Opportunity Fund II started
investing in June and produced an 11 percent gain on drawn
capital as of Oct. 31.  The fund will remain open to investments through next June,
Koenigsberger wrote. No fundraising target or limit was
specified.  Robert Rauch, a partner at Gramercy and co-portfolio
manager of the firm’s predecessor fund, Gramercy Distressed
Opportunity Fund, is managing the new fund with Koenigsberger,
according to the letter.  Gramercy started the first fund in 2009. It produced a 14
percent annualized return with 7.3 percent volatility and a 1.82
Sharpe ratio during its three-year investment period that ended
on March 31, Koenigsberger said in the letter. The fund is
returning capital to investors.  Gramercy was founded in 1998 by Koenigsberger. In addition
to Greenwich, Gramercy has offices in  London , Singapore,  Hong
Kong  and Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  