-- Green Mountain Shares Rise as K-Cup Sales Boost Profit
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-11-28T21:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/green-mountain-profit-gains-22-as-k-cup-sales-rise.html
Green Mountain  Coffee Roasters Inc.
surged the most in more than 20 months after the maker of Keurig
brewers and single-serve pods said fiscal fourth-quarter profit
rose because of higher K-Cup sales.  The  shares  rose 27 percent to $36.86 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest gain since March 10, 2011. Green Mountain
has fallen 18 percent this year.  Net income  in the three months ended Sept. 29 increased 22
percent to $91.9 million, or 58 cents a share, from $75.4
million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, the Waterbury, Vermont-
based company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding certain
items, profit was 64 cents a share. Analysts projected 48 cents,
the average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Blanford has sought to
boost sales with a new Keurig machine that makes milk-based
drinks. Blanford also developed an espresso maker with Luigi
Lavazza SpA that went on sale in time for the holidays. Earlier
this month, the company said  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  executive Brian Kelley will take over for Blanford as CEO on Dec. 3.  “Their momentum is still there with the business model,”
Matthew DiFrisco, a New York-based analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets, said in a telephone interview. It’s a good time for
Kelley to take over, and his experience with bottling and food
and drug retailers will be an asset for Green Mountain, he said.  Revenue advanced 33 percent to $946.7 million in the
quarter. Analysts projected $904.7 million, on average.  The company raised its forecast for fiscal 2013 profit,
excluding some items, to as much as $2.74 a share from as much
as $2.65. Analysts estimate $2.49, on average.  K-Cup Partners  The company is continuing to add more K-Cup licensees, and
no single partner or non-owned brand makes up more than 6
percent of Green Mountain’s net sales, Blanford said yesterday
on a conference call.  “Our business is not dependent on any one partner brand,”
he said.  Sales of K-Cups rose 47 percent to $700.2 million in the
quarter. Brewer and accessory sales increased 30 percent to
$150.1 million.  Green Mountain this year introduced the Vue machine, which
makes lattes and cappuccinos, and also the Rivo brewer to help
it compete with  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nespresso makers and increase
capsule sales. Earlier this month, Green Mountain said that it
will make single-serve cups for club retailer  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST)  in varieties including Breakfast Blend and Pacific Bold.  Capsule Competition  The company has been facing competition from grocery stores
making private-label capsules that fit into Keurig machines and
also from  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which recently began selling its own
single-serve coffee maker, the Verismo. A 12-pack of Verismo
Christmas Blend pods are $12.95, compared with $19.95 for a 24-
pack of Starbucks House Blend K-Cups.  Hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  said in March that the
Starbucks Verismo brewer “is part of the competitive onslaught
hitting Green Mountain.” Green Mountain’s main patents for its
K-Cups were set to expire in September, paving the way for
private labels and other rivals to enter the single-serve
beverage market. Einhorn also has criticized Green Mountain for
its accounting practices and lack of transparency.  The company is the subject of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission investigation about how it recognizes
revenue, disclosed in September 2010. Two months later, the
company restated earnings for fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009
and some of 2010 after finding accounting errors including an
overstatement of pretax income, according to a statement.  “We are cooperating fully with the SEC staff’s inquiry,”
Green Mountain said in a filing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  