-- IAG’s Iberia Faces Pre-Christmas Strike as Unions Fight Job Cuts
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-11-27T13:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/iag-s-iberia-faces-pre-christmas-strike-as-unions-fight-job-cuts.html
Spanish airline Iberia faces a six-
day strike in the run up to Christmas as part of a protest
against job cuts ordered by parent  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the country’s two largest unions said today.  The walkout by cabin crew and ground staff who are members
of the Comisiones Obreras and Union General de Trabajadores
labor groups could ground flights on Dec. 14 and then from Dec.
17 through Dec. 21, an official from the UGT said. The strike is
likely to be formally declared on Nov. 29 in Madrid.  IAG plans to shrink Iberia’s fleet and scrap 4,500 jobs,
more than one-fifth of the total, as  Europe ’s third-biggest
airline seeks to stem losses that have wiped out earnings from
its British Airways brand. Unions say the plan amounts to the
dismantling of the unit, which is struggling to compete with
low-cost airlines amid Spain’s five-year  economic  slump.  Spanish unions are stepping up pressure on companies and
the government and staged a second general strike in less than a
year this month. The campaigners reject changes to labor rules
that make it easier and cheaper to fire workers at struggling
companies, combined with the deepest spending cuts on record.  IAG traded 0.4 percent lower at 169.70 pence as of 1:14
p.m. in  London , where it’s based. The stock has added 15 percent
this year as Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  follows  Air
France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  in cutting jobs.  Turnaround Plan  Walsh, who has led IAG since its formation from an Anglo-
Spanish merger in 2011, is seeking a 600 million-euro ($778
million) turnaround in earnings by 2015 at Iberia, which lost
262 million euros in the first  nine  months. He is cutting posts
two years after riding out a strike by cabin-crew at British
Airways to push through lower pay for new recruits.  IAG has also made a bid for shares it doesn’t yet own of
Spanish discount carrier  Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) , following the
creation of its own lower-cost unit, Iberia Express.  Iberia pilots, represented by the Sepla union, aren’t
supporting the December strike since they’re bound by terms of
an arbitration ruling on a dispute over Iberia Express,
according to a spokeswoman for the labor group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  