-- Libya PM Asks Deputy Ministers to Stay as Nation Struggles
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-11-27T15:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/libya-pm-asks-deputy-ministers-to-stay-during-ministerial-void.html
Libya ’s new prime minister asked
deputy ministers serving under his predecessor to remain in
their jobs, reversing an earlier decision to fire them as the
oil-rich nation struggles to rebound from last year’s uprising.  Ali Zaidan, who was sworn in Nov. 14, earlier faced
objections by lawmakers and an integrity commission over some of
his appointments to his Cabinet. The premier had yesterday been
quoted by his spokesman as asking the deputy ministers to
finalize their handover to their successors.  “There was some confusion -- the deputies are out, but in
practice they will continue until a new deputy is appointed,”
Mohammed Al-Sbahee, media coordinator for Zaidan’s office, said
by phone today in Tripoli.  The integrity commission has so far approved 24 ministerial
appointments while others remain under study, Abdu Addayem
Grabli, a member of the group, said today by phone. Zaidan’s
government has yet to outline its policy platform, including
social, economic and political priorities. Officials had said
during the swearing-in ceremony that restoring security was key
to helping stabilize the nation that sits atop  Africa ’s largest
proven reserves of crude.  While oil revenues netted $44.1 billion in the first 10
months of the year, according to government figures, the rest of
the economy is essentially in stasis, complain businessmen like
Mohamed Buyukhadra, branch manager of Turkish industrial plants
manufacturing company Gama.  “Everything is very slow and unclear, at the moment, and I
have the feeling that nobody knows where to start,” Buyukhadra,
said in an interview in Tripoli on Nov. 25.  The  Interior Ministry ’s lack of new leadership until now
has amplified the security vacuum in the country that has
mushroomed since Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster last year.  “Frustration is boiling over. There has been an increase
in unrest, opportunistic crime, smaller clashes throughout the
country,” said Alan Fraser, risk analyst for London-based  AKE 
consultancy, in a phone interview from  London . “We are
witnessing a feeling of impunity among criminals and the longer
the country is without a robust ministry of interior, the worse
this will get.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Brigitte Scheffer in
Tripoli via Cairo at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ; 