-- Icelandic Mortgage Bank HFF Needs Government Bailout
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-11-28T09:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/icelandic-mortgage-bank-hff-needs-government-bailout.html
Four years after letting its
commercial banks default on $85 billion, Iceland is preparing to
bail out the nation’s biggest mortgage lender and dodge a junk
rating from Moody’s Investors Service.  The bill for the capital injection is unlikely to exceed 13
billion kronur ($103 million), the government said in a
statement to the stock exchange yesterday, confirming comments
by  Sigridur Ingibjorg Ingadottir , who heads the parliament’s
welfare committee. Iceland’s Housing Finance Fund also “needs
to renegotiate the terms of its debt,” Ingadottir said in an
interview yesterday.  The lender, which had 516 billion kronur outstanding in
bonds at the end of October, is the biggest issuer of debt in
Iceland after the government. Foreign investors locked into
kronur positions by  capital controls  in place since 2008 have
bought HFF bonds for lack of alternatives. That’s driven asset
prices higher and  fueled inflation , spurring a vicious circle
for the lender, which only issues mortgage debt linked to the
 consumer price index .  “There shouldn’t be any doubt about the government’s
intentions to back the fund and I expect Moody’s will see it in
the same way,” Styrmir Gudmundsson, a  fund manager  at
Reykjavik-based Jupiter Capital Management hf, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The proposed steps are positive
and are likely to reduce the uncertainty clouding HFF’s
operations.”  Under Review  While Moody’s on Oct. 5 affirmed HFF at Baa3, the rating
carries a negative outlook and the lender’s standalone credit
strength is under review for a downgrade. The affirmation of the
rating, which is one step above junk, is based on an assumption
that the government will refinance the fund by the end of the
year, Moody’s credit analyst Oscar Heemskerk said in October.  The “risk is that there may potentially be a default at
the HFF level, which is not paid for in time by the
government,” Heemskerk said last month. “The government has
strong reasons to fulfill their implicit guarantee. So we expect
that investors get their money back,” he said.  The lender, which has fallen short of a 5 percent minimum
capital requirement set by its regulator, is struggling to make
debt payments as it loses market share to Iceland’s commercial
banks. HFF, unlike the banks it’s competing with, can only issue
mortgages indexed to inflation. Price growth exceeding 4 percent
has put the fund at a disadvantage to rivals such as
 Islandsbanki hf  and Arion Bank hf, which both provide standard
mortgages. Consumer prices, which include changes in property
values, rose an annual 4.5 percent this month after growing 4.2
percent in October, Statistics Iceland said today.  Callable Debt  Aside from changing the terms of its debt, HFF also needs
to “get the owners of its bonds to agree to the debt being
callable,” Ingadottir said. “That way the fund can pay up some
of its outstanding debt using the available funds it has.” The
fund subsequently said in a statement to the stock exchange that
any change in repayment terms will be “in full cooperation with
HFF’s bond owners.”  HFF securities were placed on a trading halt yesterday
following Ingadottir’s comments. Market making in the lender’s
bonds was subsequently suspended for the day. The fund then said
that trade in HFF bonds would be adjusted “to temporarily
increase the maximum market making bid-ask spread,” according
to a statement to the stock exchange after markets closed
yesterday.  ‘Main Problems’  Ingadottir’s comments reveal “one of the HFF’s main
problems in a nutshell: That the fund’s debts are not callable,
whereas a substantial part of its lending, on the other hand, is
callable,” Ingolfur Bender, an economist at Islandsbanki hf,
said in a note. “The changed interest rate environment has
brought this problem to light and it is unlikely to disappear
any time soon, regardless of the capital contribution to the
fund.”  Iceland’s central bank has responded to accelerating
inflation by raising rates. Policy makers increased the
benchmark lending rate a quarter of a percentage point to 6
percent on Nov. 14, as price growth remains well above the
bank’s 2.5 percent target.  The government will now seek lawmaker backing to help HFF
raise its capital to reach a minimum ratio of 3 percent, with as
much as 13 billion kronur needed to reach that goal, according
to a statement sent to the stock exchange following Ingadottir’s
comments. The proposal will be put to parliament for inclusion
in the 2013 budget.  Open Wound  If Ingadottir’s “remarks are correct, about the need for
renegotiations with the creditors of HFF, it’s clear that HFF is
facing a serious problem,”  Bjarni Benediktsson , the leader of
the opposition Independence Party, said in comments published on
his Facebook page yesterday. “It’s obvious that the measures
the government is introducing now are like a plaster on an open
wound.”  HFF received 33 billion kronur in new funds from the
government in 2010, after its capital adequacy ratio fell as low
as 2.3 percent following the island’s 2008 economic collapse.
The lender’s capital ratio was 1.4 percent last quarter.  Iceland has spent the last four years resurrecting itself
after its biggest banks failed, an event that plunged the nation
into its worst recession in six decades. The island emerged from
a 33-month International Monetary Fund-led bailout in August
last year.  The plan to save HFF is “just a first step toward placing
the management of the Housing Finance Fund on a firmer footing
in the long term,” Bender at Islandsbanki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 