-- Microsoft Says It Has Sold 40 Million Windows 8 Licenses
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-11-27T22:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/microsoft-says-it-has-sold-40-million-windows-8-licenses-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, has sold 40 million licenses for Windows 8, an
updated version of its flagship operating system that can work
with touch-screen technology.  The newest Windows software has outpaced the previous
version in terms of upgrades, Microsoft said today on a  blog
post  and a speech by Windows Chief Financial Officer Tami Reller. The executive, who oversees the marketing and financial
part of the Windows unit, didn’t comment on sales of the Surface
tablet, Microsoft’s first-ever computer.  Microsoft hasn’t disclosed Windows 8 sales since Oct. 30,
when Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said the company had
sold 4 million upgrades in the first four days. License sales
include upgrades, copies shipped on new computers and those
given to corporations with multiyear licenses. While it’s
difficult to gauge demand with the number by itself, the pace of
growth should please shareholders, said Bob O’Donnell, an
analyst at market research firm IDC.  “It sounds pretty high, especially since Ballmer initially
said 4 million for first few days,” O’Donnell said. “Four
million to 40 million sounds pretty good.”  Microsoft is overhauling its product line to remain
relevant in the post-PC era. The Redmond, Washington-based
company dominated the technology landscape during the heyday of
the personal computer in the 1990s and much of the last decade,
yet has been eclipsed in influence by a resurgent  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
the rise of mobile devices taking the place of PCs that run
Microsoft’s flagship Windows operating system.  Windows 8 represents Microsoft’s biggest change to its
flagship product in nearly two decades -- designed around a
revamped home screen featuring colorful tiles that launch
programs and update users with current information from the
Internet. On Oct. 26, the same day Windows 8 went on sale,
Microsoft started selling Surface, a tablet computer designed
and built by the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Rapaport at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net  