-- Midwest Fuel Slips as Suppliers Send Less to East Coast
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-11-27T20:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/midwest-fuel-slips-as-suppliers-send-less-to-east-coast.html
Gasoline and diesel in the U.S.
Midwest slipped for a second day on speculation that as  supply 
constraints ease on the East Coast less product will be diverted
from the  Chicago  region and as a refinery in the region started.  Stockpiles of gasoline on the East Coast, known as PADD 1,
gained 1 million barrels to 46.1 million last week, Energy
Department data showed. That’s the first inventory build since
 Hurricane Sandy  made landfall on the East Coast, shutting oil
refineries, terminals and gas stations.  Conventional  gasoline  for ethanol blending in Chicago, or
CBOB, retreated 1 cent to a 4.50-cent discount to gasoline
futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:34 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Supply concerns about the East Coast have been moderated
so there’s less supply being sucked out of Chicago,” Lewis Adam, president of ADMO Energy LLC, a supply consultant in
 Kansas City , Missouri, said in a phone interview today. “It’s
about a lessening of pressure coming out of  New York  and the
East Coast.”  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) ’s Wynnewood refinery in  Oklahoma  began
starting units today after completing planned maintenance that
began in September. That may also be contributing to the
downward pressure the Midwest, known as PADD 2, Adam said.  Group 3  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the Group 3, or
Midcontinent, market, which stretches from Oklahoma to
Minnesota, declined 5.5 cents to trade at a discount of 18 cents
a gallon. Ultra-low-sulfur diesel slid 0.88 cent to 3.25 cents
over heating oil futures.  Processing is “starting up with all sweet crude” and the
Wynnewood refinery has “a reduced production rate,” according
to a filing with the National Response Center yesterday. The
 refinery  has a capacity of 70,000 barrels a day.  Gasoline in New York Harbor retreated as  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s
Bayway refinery returned to normal operations for the first time
since Hurricane Sandy shut down the plant Oct. 29.  The  238,000-barrel-a-day plant , which is the largest single
refinery in the New York region, spilled about 185 barrels of
oil as a result of the storm, Phillips 66 said today in a
 statement  on its website.  CBOB in New York slipped 0.25 cent to a premium of 3.5
cents versus futures at 2:19 p.m. Ultra-low-sulfur diesel
dropped 0.5 cent to 20 cents over futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  