-- Hillary Clinton’s Latest Farewell Tour
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-11-27T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/hillary-clinton-s-latest-farewell-tour.html
(Corrects reference in ninth paragraph to flight between
Myanmar and Cambodia.)  As if a peaceful Thanksgiving dinner
wasn’t enough of a challenge, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton had to spend her holiday chasing an even more
unattainable ideal: peace in the Middle East.  So Clinton left her and President  Barack Obama ’s trip to
Asia to broker a deal between  Israel  and Hamas. She met with
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel (who was slightly
more accommodating after his romance with failed presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  did not prove fruitful). She met with
President Mohamed Mursi of  Egypt . She met with leaders of the
Palestinian Authority. The end result was a cease-fire that got
photos of teddy bears amid rubble off the front page.  Like too many of her achievements, however, this one was
soon spoiled -- or at least overshadowed -- by a man: Mursi,
feeling empowered after delivering a Hamas cease-fire to the
U.S., issued a decree essentially declaring himself above the
law. Clinton is used to men complicating her life, notably her
husband, Bill, and then-senator Barack Obama. The latter
destroyed her presidential campaign, the former her marriage
(almost).  In the annals of those who pick themselves up and dust
themselves off, Hillary has no peer -- unless it is Bill. They
now rest at (she) and near (he) the top of lists of the  Most
Admired Man and Woman in the World .  World Traveler  Hillary got there in part by merely showing up, which is a
lot of what being secretary of state is about. When she touched
down in  Latvia  in June, she became the first secretary of state
to visit more than 100 countries. She gets credit for handling
the crisis in Libya and took responsibility when the U.S.
Consulate there was attacked.  In all, according to the State Department, she has logged
 948,094 miles . Wherever she goes, she spends a few hours off-
camera, visiting with staff and hosting events for her signature
mission to improve the lot of women and girls around the world -
- a mission she will probably continue once she leaves office
next year.  Clinton has been such a presence in Asia these past four
years, Asians might be forgiven for thinking the president was
accompanying her on this latest trip, not the other way around.
Clinton was the first of the pair to visit Myanmar, formerly
 Burma , a year ago, when she met with Aung San Suu Kyi, the
opposition leader and Nobel laureate.  “This is her last foreign trip that we’re going to take
together,” Obama  said last week . “And it is fitting that we
have come here to a country that she has done so much to
support.” As they got off Air Force One, Clinton hung back to
let the president be the first to greet Suu Kyi.  As a former first lady and then as the junior senator from
New York, Clinton is used to standing one step behind. There has
to be lingering tension between Clinton and Obama, but it is
hard to find. Their troubled history unites them. The flight
between Myanmar and Cambodia was spent, Deputy National Security
Adviser Ben Rhodes said, “reminiscing” in Obama’s personal
office on Air Force One.  It’s easier now to picture Clinton kicking back. We have
seen her doing so in dark glasses, dancing the night away in
Cartagena, Colombia, and drinking Bellinis with journalists --
her one-time enemy! -- in  Rome . Rather than protest or try to
shut down the popular website  Texts from Hillary , which showed
her sending text messages to celebrities and concerned citizens
alike, she invited its creators to the State Department for a
visit. As one of the few people to know what the White House
fishbowl is like for a family, Clinton has helped the president
and his wife with their daughters, who attend the same school
Chelsea did.  Before Clinton was the most admired woman in the world, she
was the most fascinating. If being the first failed former-
first-lady presidential candidate was hard, it was no worse than
living through the impeachment of her husband for taking up with
an intern not much older than her daughter.  World Weary  I covered the White House in the 1990s, when klieg lights
in the driveway turned night into day, and I had to constantly
remind myself that “a human being lives here,” as Philip Roth
wrote in his  fictionalized version  of Clinton’s trials. Was
there anyone back then who thought the Clintons would emerge
from all of it whole, much less thriving?  In  an interview  with  CNN  in May, Clinton talked about her
post-public career, catching up on sleep and taking walks
without an entourage. “If I want to wear my glasses, I’m
wearing my glasses,” she said. “If I want to wear my hair
back, I’m pulling my hair back. You know, at some point it’s
just not something that deserves a lot of time and attention,
and if others want to worry about it, I’ll let them do the
worrying for a change.”  Spoken like a woman who has found peace in her life, if not
the world. If she decides to run for president, of course,
she’ll have to deal with all the political (and apolitical)
trivia: whether she’s too old or too liberal or should wear a
ponytail. Until then, I prefer to think of her as the woman who
brought peace, or at least a week of it, to the Middle East.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Mohamed Mursi’s flirtation
with tyranny in Egypt  and on the  EU’s Plan C for Greece ; Clive
Crook on why the  U.K. must remember it needs the EU ; Peter
Orszag on why  vague proposals to limit tax deductions won’t
work ; Cass R. Sunstein on the  behavioral economics of Christmas
consumption ; Richard Vedder on the  evolving private-state-
federal university.   To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 