-- Indian Stocks Advance Most in Three Weeks on Greek Aid Agreement
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-11-27T04:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/indian-stocks-advance-most-in-three-weeks-on-greek-aid-agreement.html
Indian stock advanced the most in
three weeks after an official from the European Union,  India ’s
largest trading partner, said an agreement had been reached on
Greece’s debt burden.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, gained 1 percent
to 18,6726.52 at 9:41 a.m. in Mumbai All 10 industry groups
climbed on the MSCI India index.  Sterlite Industries (India)
Ltd. (STLT) , the biggest copper producer, and drugmaker  Dr Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  climbed 1 percent each. The markets are closed
tomorrow for a public holiday.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  told reporters her aim to get Greece’s debt on a
“sustainable path” was achieved today after more than 12 hours
of talks. The European Union accounted for 17.2 percent of
India’s exports in the six months ended September 2011,
according to the commerce ministry.  “The European deal will spur risk-on trade and Indian
markets will open higher,”  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services Pvt., said by telephone today.
“However, the parliament session will be keenly watched.”  Stocks gained even as the Indian government struggled to
reach an agreement with opposition parties on plans to woo
foreign retailers, part of a package of reforms to spur growth
in an economy that probably expanded at the weakest pace since
2009 in the quarter ended September.  Gross domestic product  increased 5.2 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, the median of 26
estimates in a Bloomberg survey shows, before a report due Nov.
30, as elevated inflation and subdued investment add pressure on
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to push through the biggest
opening of the economy to foreign investment in a decade.  The Sensex has rallied 20 percent this year, driven by
foreign inflows and government policy reforms. The gauge is the
best performer this year among benchmark measures in nations
with at least $1 trillion in market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  