-- Iran Tanker Cargo Investigated Off Greek Coast Amid EU Ban
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-11-27T17:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/iran-tanker-cargo-investigated-off-greek-coast-amid-eu-embargo.html
Sekavin SA, a Greek fuel supplier,
said it’s investigating the origin of a cargo aboard an Iranian
tanker off the Mediterranean island of Syros amid a European
Union ban on purchases from the Middle East nation.  The Baikal arrived at the Greek island yesterday and has
the capacity to carry about 1 million barrels of oil or refined
products, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
cargo of ship fuel hasn’t been unloaded, Sekavin Operation
Manager Yannis Spyridakis said by phone today. The vessel is
flying the Tanzanian flag, he said.  NITC, a Tehran-based tanker operator, controls the ship and
says the company is owned by Iranian pension funds, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The 27-nation EU barred imports of
 Iran ’s oil and refined products in July. The EU and U.S. have
intensified sanctions, saying the country’s nuclear program is
aimed at producing weapons, a charge Iran has denied.  “It’s clear that sanctions are getting tighter and tighter
against Iran,”  Samuel Ciszuk , an oil consultant at KBC Energy
Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England , said by phone today.
“There is great uncertainty for all parties involved as soon as
Iran appears in the supply chain because of the embargo and
financial sanctions.”  Habib-ullah Seyedan, NITC’s commercial director, declined
to comment by phone today and said the company’s operations
manager was not available for comment.  The Baikal arrived in  Greece  having been off the coast of
 Morocco  as recently as Nov. 11, the ship-tracking data show.  Mistaken Registrations  Tanzania-Zanzibar said last month 14 Iranian tankers that
were previously registered in Tuvalu were mistakenly signaling
the east African territory as their flag state. NITC renamed
part of its fleet and changed the ship registrations amid
sanctions on  Iran’s nuclear program , which the government in
Tehran maintains is for civilian purposes.  The EU banned imports of the Middle East nation’s oil in
July under legislation that also prohibited any vessel insured
in the 27-country bloc from carrying the crude. The U.S.
Treasury Department said July 12 it would block transactions
through the country’s financial system involving NITC and 27
affiliated entities.  The EU sanctions on Iranian oil affected about 95 percent
of the global tanker fleet because the ships are insured under
rules governed by European law. Carrying Iranian oil would
invalidate ships’ insurance against risks including spills and
collisions, according to the  International Group  of P&I Clubs.  The sanctions are costing Iran about $98.9 million a day
based on the average price of the country’s cheapest crude in
 Asia , its largest market, and October’s export estimates from
the  International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net  