-- Iran May Slash Oil Sales Outlook, Store More as Sanctions Bite
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-11-27T14:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/iran-may-slash-oil-sales-outlook-store-more-as-sanctions-bite.html
Iran may base its budget for the next
fiscal year on anticipated exports of 1 million barrels a day of
oil, half that shipped in 2011,  Fars  news agency reported,
citing the head of the parliament’s economic committee.  The country exported an average of more than 2 million
barrels a day in 2011, according to Iranian government data
provided to the Joint Organisations Data Initiative, which is
supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum.
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has until early December to submit
a budget for the Iranian year that starts March 21, Gholamreza
Mesbahi-Moghadam, the committee member, told state-run Fars.  The  International Energy Agency  said Iranian oil exports
dipped below 1 million barrels a day in July after the European
Union banned purchases of the country’s crude. The IEA, an
adviser to industrialized nations, estimates that Iranian
exports rebounded to 1.3 million barrels in October.  Iran ’s oil output, formerly the second-largest in OPEC, has
dropped to fifth among the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries as a result of economic sanctions
imposed by the U.S. and its allies. The U.S. seeks to deter Iran
from a nuclear program it says may be aimed at developing
weapons. The Islamic republic rejects the charge and says it
seeks nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.  Iran plans to build oil tanks and increase its crude-
storage capacity in the Persian Gulf by 8.1 million barrels,
state-run  Press TV  reported on Nov. 25. The government said in
June that it set up a storage facility for 1 million barrels in
southwestern Bushehr province.  Iran is disclosing storage plans as it finds fewer oil
tankers available to store its unsold crude. The concentration
of the maritime insurance industry in  Europe  means the EU
sanctions imposed July 1 extend to about 95 percent of the
global tanker fleet. That has left Iran more reliant on its own
vessels to export crude.  The Gulf nation pumped 2.65 million barrels a day of crude
in October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  