-- Irving Fisher, the First Celebrity Finance Professor
-- B y   C o l i n   R e a d
-- 2012-11-27T15:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/irving-fisher-the-first-celebrity-finance-professor.html
When speculative bubbles form, as
they did in the 1920s and the late 1990s, the financial
community invariably listens to academic entrepreneurs peddling
their pet philosophies about the financial boom.  There have been many such financial celebrities, though
Irving Fisher, the son of an itinerant minister from  New York 
and  Connecticut , may have been the first.  Fisher was born Feb. 27, 1867, in Saugerties, New York.
Throughout his footloose youth, he thrived at public and private
schools that demanded mathematical rigor. Eventually, he entered
 Yale University  as a science major. He ended up in a new area of
study called economics. He received his doctorate with one of
Yale’s first economics dissertations, and remained associated
with the university for the rest of his life.  Fisher was obviously brilliant, though health problems
stemming from a bout of tuberculosis early in his career forced
him to postpone his plans. This mishap also gave him a taste of
his own vulnerability and a lifelong concern for health and
eugenics, the now-discredited study of methods designed to
improve the genetics of the population.  Consumption Decisions  Once returned to health, Fisher developed revolutionary
insights into financial theory that are still invoked today. He
explained that the market interest rate coincides with the human
tendency to discount an uncertain future when compared with the
more pressing present. He argued that we distribute our present
and expected future wealth over the consumption decisions we
make now and in the future. In doing so, he anticipated the
life-cycle hypothesis that would demonstrate, half a century
later, why we save and how we consume.  And, he showed that we make our financial decisions based
on real wealth and real  interest rates . Consequently, he devoted
his career to designing financial instruments that are immune to
inflation. Indeed, he proposed the first inflation-protected
Treasuries that offer a fixed real interest rate by allowing the
coupon payments to rise along with prices.  Fisher was zealously entrepreneurial for his new financial
instruments and his economic theories. He lobbied presidential
candidates to promote his inflation-protected bonds, but he
showed a remarkable tendency to back the wrong horse.  He also put his money where his mouth is. First, he
accumulated data on inflation so that he would be prepared to
help calculate the necessary coupon on inflation-protected
bonds. To keep track of the data he maintained on index cards,
Fisher designed a large revolving-file system to allow for their
quick retrieval. When he felt he perfected his system, he sold a
version of the idea that allowed the New York City telephone
company to organize and quickly retrieve telephone numbers.  His concept eventually became the Rolodex system. When
another business company merged with him to form Remington Rand,
Fisher became a multimillionaire. His self-made fortune and his
financial theories became the stuff of legend on  Wall Street 
during the Roaring Twenties and made Irving Fisher as close to a
household name as any academic financial economist.  Fisher absolutely believed in the manifest destiny of the
U.S. as it became the world’s economic superpower. The media
sought him out to provide regular doses of financial-market
optimism. Even when trouble loomed, and the stock market crashed
in October 1929, Fisher offered reassurance that the market was
just taking a breather before it expanded again.  Momentary Irrationality  Fisher succumbed to his own optimism, as had millions of
others. By the late 1920s, he had lost most of his considerable
fortune. In the early 1930s, he devoted his remaining assets to
one long-shot investment after another, always in the belief
that the market would soon overcome its momentary irrationality.  He would have lost everything had it not been for the
generous decision by Yale University to accept the donation of
his home under the provision that he and his wife could remain
there until they died.  Fisher tried to resurrect his reputation by offering his
advice to presidents and even to John  Maynard Keynes , whose star
ascended during the Great Depression. Still, Fisher’s prophecy
on the eve of the 1929 crash that “stock prices have reached
what looks like a permanently high plateau” haunted him to his
death.  (Colin Read is chairman of the finance department at the
 State University of New York , Plattsburgh. He is the author of
the “Great Minds in Finance” series and other finance titles
published by  Palgrave Macmillan . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Colin Read at  readcl@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  