-- Israel Corp. Gains as Shipping Unit Posts Profit: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-27T14:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/israel-corp-gains-as-shipping-unit-posts-profit-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Corp.  shares  had their
biggest gain in almost a month as the company reported a rise in
third-quarter profit amid efforts by  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  to buy its key chemicals unit.  The  shares  of the holding company with a controlling
interest in  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  added 4 percent, the most
since Oct. 31, at the market close in Tel Aviv, to 2,600
shekels. The two companies together make up 13 percent of the
 weighting  of the benchmark TA-25 index which  gained 0.5 percent .  The Tel Aviv-based Israel Corp., controlled by billionaire
Idan Ofer, today reported a 5 percent rise in  third quarter
profit  to $159 million. Revenue advanced to $3.09 billion from
$3.08 billion a year earlier amid an improvement in the results
of its Zim Integrated Shipping Services Ltd. unit.  “The results show stability boosted by an improved
performance of its shipping unit,” Eran Yunger, an analyst at
Migdal Capital Markets, said today by phone.  Zim posted a profit of $16 million in the quarter compared
with a $66 million loss in the same quarter a year earlier as
revenues from container shipments advanced and operating and
management costs declined. Revenues rose 9 percent to $1.06
billion, and operating costs dropped 6 percent to $928 million.
Management costs retreated 10 percent, according to the filing
with the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange.  Israel Corp. (ILCO)  shares have advanced 4 percent since Oct. 31,
when the company confirmed that  Canada ’s Potash Corp. is in
talks with the Israeli government to merge with its Israel
Chemicals unit. This compares with a 2.2 percent rise in the
benchmark index in the same period. A takeover of Israel
Chemicals would be at least three times bigger than the largest
deal completed in the country and give Potash control of one of
the few natural resources held by the Middle Eastern nation.  Israel Chemicals, which extracts minerals from the  Dead Sea 
to make fertilizer and potash, rose 1.5 percent. The company
reported a 9 percent drop in third-quarter profit on Nov. 21. to
$395 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  