-- Israel’s Dankner Adds Securities Fraud Probe to Cash Squeeze
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-11-28T15:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/israel-s-dankner-adds-securities-fraud-probe-to-cash-squeeze.html
As  Israel ’s largest holding
companies struggled to refinance debt during the global
financial crisis in 2009, Nochi Dankner was expanding, buying
stakes in French retailer Carrefour SA, HSBC Holdings Plc’s
 Manhattan  building and  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Now, as his IDB Holding Corp. struggles under about 2
billion shekels ($514 million) of debt, he’s selling, not
buying. He arranged an equity investment of as much as $100
million from Argentine businessman Eduardo Elsztain and sold an
insurance company to a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  for $221 million. His list of challenges grew
yesterday when Danker said the Israel Securities Authority is
investigating him for involvement in  securities fraud .  Ranked by the Israeli daily TheMarker as the third most
influential person in the economy in 2009, behind Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and central bank Governor  Stanley Fischer ,
the 58-year-old Dankner has seen his shares plunge 61 percent
this year, hitting a record low on June 14. The combination of
unprofitable investments and regulations to boost competition
prompted IDB to disclose on Aug. 31 that it may not remain a
“going concern.”  “When the 2009 crisis hit, he looked untouchable because
his companies were cash cows in industries with little
competition,” said Gilad Altshuler, co-chief executive officer
of Altshuler-Shaham Group, a Tel Aviv-based investment firm
managing about  30 billion shekels . “When regulation was
introduced, it began to hit him hard and his companies were left
unprotected.”  Shares Drop  IDB  shares  declined 10 percent, the biggest drop since Feb.
26, to 13.65 shekels at the market close today in  Tel Aviv .
IDB’s 5.1 percent bond due in December 2020 lost 4.85 shekels to
21.38 shekels, down from a high of 133.40 shekels on Oct. 21,
2010 and up from a low of 16.98 on Sept. 4. The company’s
bondholders announced today they will meet next week to
authorize trustees to start an insolvency process if a debt
settlement is not reached. The benchmark TA-25 stock index
slipped 0.8 percent today.  The investigation relates to the issuance of shares and
options, according to an e-mailed statement by the ISA. Dankner
said the inquiry was initiated by the regulator and that he was
confident his actions had been legal, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Even before the probe, Tel Aviv-based IDB Holdings’ market
capitalization had dropped to 586.7 million shekels at the end
of the second quarter from 5.06 billion shekels at the end of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While about 60 Israeli companies are listed on the Nasdaq
Stock Market and the country is home to more startup companies
per capita than the U.S., the concentration of wealth has
created growing discontent as 20 families control about 50
percent of the stock market’s value.  Varied Holdings  Dankner, the scion of an Israeli family that made its
fortune in table salt and real estate, has been among the
hardest hit. Under his management, IDB accumulated holdings from
 telecommunications  to cement.  He purchased Netanya, Israel-based  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) ,
Israel’s largest mobile service provider in 2005. The company is
the worst-performer on the TA-25 Index this year as the
government introduced more regulation aimed at boosting
competition in the industry.  Dankner joined fellow tycoon Isaac Tshuva in a  Las Vegas 
hotel development of as much as $8 billion in 2007. The
following year, Dankner’s Koor Industries Ltd., based in Tel
Aviv, bought $1.1 billion worth of shares in Credit Suisse AG.  Netanyahu’s government is demanding that holding companies
simplify corporate structures after a government committee
called for cutting debt risk and boosting transparency as well
as competition. Conglomerates will need to reduce cross-holdings
in financial and industrial businesses.  Rating Cut  IDB owes about 2 billion shekels to banks and bondholders
and has 200 million shekels in cash, the company said in an Aug.
31 earnings statement, which included the “going concern.”
Standard & Poor’s Maalot responded by cutting the company’s bond
rating to CCC from BBB-.  IDB reported its second-quarter loss widened 44 percent to
1.27 billion shekels. In a letter to employees and made public
by e-mail, Dankner said Sept. 1 that IDB had enough money to
survive “close to a year.”  IDB is seeking a “significant” loan from a foreign
financial institution and may merge with its  Koor Industries
Ltd. (KOR)  unit, the company said in an Oct. 24 filing with the Israel
Stock Exchange.  Las Vegas  At the peak of the U.S. housing bubble in 2007, IDB
Holdings posted what was then  record revenue  of 34.8 billion
shekels with 1.2 billion shekels in profit. In an interview with
Bloomberg in November of that year, Dankner said that while he
was a great believer in the Israeli economy, “our expansion
must be overseas.”  IDB Development partnered with Tshuva to build a hotel-
casino in Las Vegas inspired by Tshuva’s Plaza Hotel in
Manhattan. Hampered by the global economic collapse which froze
construction in the strip, today the site is an empty lot. The
developer has written down the value by more than 40 percent,
according to IDB, which has since been in talks with creditors
to settle the debt.  Dankner’s bet on Zurich-based Credit Suisse has also
soured. IDB’s Koor Industries bought a 3 percent stake in the
Swiss bank in 2008, profiting as Credit Suisse’s shares rallied
the next year.  Credit Suisse  The European sovereign debt crisis wiped out 59 percent of
the bank’s market value after 2009, creating an investment loss
that prevented the unit from paying dividends, Dorin Zelnir- Palas, a corporate bond analyst at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage &
Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said Oct. 23 in a telephone
interview.  IDB Holdings controls IDB Development Corp., which has
stakes in three major holding companies. For the past decade,
each unit sent dividends up the corporate chain, helping the
parent company expand. As subsidiaries including  Discount
Investment Corp. (DISI)  cut dividends, IDB lost a source of funds and
its ability to pay back debt. Discount reduced its payouts to
180 million shekels in 2011 from 2.08 billion shekels in 2007.  In April, the Israeli Cabinet unanimously approved
recommendations to increase competition and reduce Israel’s high
cost of living. The Committee on Increasing Competition in the
Economy called for ceilings on how many subsidiary companies an
ownership group can maintain in a pyramid structure. Existing
conglomerates will be limited to three levels of listed
subsidiaries and their units, while new groups will be limited
to two tiers.  Pyramid Structure  IDB said in an e-mail response to Bloomberg questions on
Nov. 14 that Dankner has tried to collapse the pyramid structure
and he plans to continue with that policy going forward.  One of Dankner’s most profitable companies, Cellcom, lost
5.12 billion shekels in value in 2011 as lower-cost operators
 Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  and Golan Telecom Ltd. moved
into the market after Communications Minister Moshe Kahlon
spearheaded regulations to enhance competition in the industry.  “A new wave of regulations started to hit almost every IDB
holding,” said Zelnir-Palas.  Cellcom’s stock has since  climbed 82 percent  from its July
23 record low of 20.16 shekels as investors bet the drop was
overdone.  Dankner began his career as a commercial lawyer. After
returning from a trip to  Tibet , he started Ganden Tourism in
1995, named after a Tibetan monastery. In 1997, he helped
organize a group including Ted Arison, founder of Carnival
Corp., and New York-investor Michael Steinhardt, to buy a $1.4
billion controlling stake in Bank Hapoalim Ltd., Israel’s
second-largest lender by assets, from the government.  Two years later, after a dispute with his family, he sold
the stake he inherited in Dankner Investments Ltd. and invested
in real estate. In 2003, at the height of the intifada Arab
uprising against Israel, Dankner led a group that bought IDB.  ‘New Idea’  In 2009 he sold his closely-held Ganden Tourism to his
publicly-traded IDB. Shareholders filed a lawsuit against IDB’s
management seeking 480 million shekels in damages for “breach
of trust, lack of common sense” in approving the deal. IDB says
shareholders approved it and the claims were baseless.  Dankner is now reducing his holdings. He sold a unit of
Clal Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd., based in Tel Aviv, to
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway on Aug. 19 and gave up
control of newspaper operator Maariv Holdings Ltd. and  Clal
Industries and Investments Ltd. (CII)  He’s in talks to sell Yokneam,
Israel-based  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the maker of a pill-sized
diagnostic camera.  “He’s working around the clock every day of the week
trying to think out of the box,” Nir Hefez, an adviser and
former director of media and communication to Netanyahu, said in
an interview Oct. 31. “He went to  Argentina , to  New York . Every
few weeks he has a new idea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  