-- Italian Soccer Players Net 26% Gain as Bonds Surge
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-11-27T09:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/italian-soccer-players-net-26-gain-as-bonds-surge.html
Italian soccer players brave enough
to tackle the nation’s bond market have scored a 26 percent
return since they were urged to prove their patriotism by buying
government securities last year.  Since BTP Day on Nov. 28, 2011, when the Italian Banking
Association got lenders to offer perks to buy government bonds
known as BTPs, the yield on the nation’s 10-year debt fell more
than 2.5 percentage points. Damiano Tommasi, head of the Italian
Footballers Association, said there was a “very positive
response” from players, including Udinese striker Antonio Di Natale, who led Serie A league in scoring during 2010 and 2011.  “We wanted to do our part and help  Italy  to stay afloat at
a very difficult time, but it wasn’t just solidarity that
prompted us to step in,” said Tommasi, a former Roma
midfielder. “These bonds have turned out to be a great
investment. Our association bought government bonds, and we sent
a letter to the captains of all the professional teams inviting
them to do the same. I bought myself.”  BTP Day was held two weeks after Mario Monti was appointed
prime minister, bringing political stability and action on the
economy that was lacking under his predecessor, Silvio Berlusconi. Italian bonds also got support from 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) of extraordinary lending from the European
Central Bank. The almost 30 percent gain in Italian bonds since
BTP Day compares with 13 percent for Spanish debt and 6.7
percent for German bunds.  Spain Versus Italy  Italian  10-year bond yields  were little changed at 4.75
percent at 9:19 a.m. London time, down from a euro-era record
7.48 percent reached Nov. 9, 2011. The decline reduced the yield
premium investors demand to hold 10-year Italian bonds instead
of German bunds to 3.31 percentage points from a euro-era high
of 5.75 points. The Spanish 10-year yield was at 5.60 percent,
compared with 5.82 percent on the day Italy’s yield reached a
record.  BTP Day, was proposed by 51-year-old Tuscan financial
consultant Giuliano Melani, and saw lenders waive fees for
clients purchasing bonds and bills. Melani paid for a full-page
advertisement in Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, urging
fellow citizens to acquire bonds to show that Italians “are one
people, a great people.”  Trading Surge  On BTP Day,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, saw its
trading in Italian bonds surge to double the average of previous
weeks. The size of the contracts “showed they were probably
bought by Italian families and small investors,” said Monica
Cellerino, head of UniCredit’s consumer unit in the Lombardy
region.  Italians are among  Europe ’s biggest savers and have the
third-lowest household debt in terms of gross domestic product
in the 17-nation euro area, according to ECB data. Spain has the
fourth highest.  Italy benefits from “higher private savings rates than
Spain,” said Michael Riddell, a London-based fund manager at
M&G Group Plc, which oversees about $324 billion. “The
government has had some success in tapping into these savings.”  In a separate effort to attract Italian savers, the
Treasury offered special bonds to retail investors. The Treasury
sold 18 billion euros of the securities, inflation-linked four-
year notes with a coupon premium when held to maturity, at the
last sale in October, about twice the combined 9 billion euros
placed in the first two auctions in March and June. The October
sale also took in more than three times as much as the
Treasury’s regular monthly bond auction on Oct. 11.  Monti’s Overhaul  When Monti took over from Berlusconi 12 months ago, 10-year
Italian bond rates exceeded 7 percent. Monti adopted additional
austerity measures to contain the euro region’s second-biggest
debt, overhauled the pension system and revamped labor laws.
Monti’s efforts along with the ECB action helped boost
confidence in Italian bonds and helped them decouple from Spain,
where both the debt and deficit have surged.  Italy’s deficit will be less than the EU limit of 3 percent
of GDP this year and below 2 percent in 2013, even though the
economy contracted for a fifth quarter in the three months ended
Sept. 30. The country also is running a surplus after interest
payments. Debt will begin to decline beginning next year, the
government forecasts. By contrast, Spain’s deficit will be more
than twice the EU limit in 2012.  “Italy had been a victim of speculation,” said Mario Spreafico, who manages 1.5 billion euros as chief investment
officer at Schroders Private Banking in Milan. “Markets are
finally paying attention to the numbers now and we clearly are
in a much better position than Spain. The BTP Day has proven to
be an incredible opportunity, especially for those who bought
long-term bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  