-- Lithuanian Companies Not Transparent Enough, Central Bank Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-11-27T11:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/lithuanian-companies-not-transparent-enough-central-bank-says.html
Lithuanian companies aren’t open
enough about directors’ pay, strategy and governance policies to
win investors’ trust, the central bank said.  None of the companies with securities listed on the Nasdaq
OMX Vilnius stock exchange complies fully with the bourse’s
 governance code  and most fail to explain deviations, Lietuvos
Bankas in Vilnius, the capital, said today on its website.  “Adherence to the fundamental principle of ‘comply or
explain,’ while improving every year, is still not sufficient,”
Lietuvos Bankas said in its report. It said compliance was
weakest on revealing directors’ compensation and strategic
plans, including independent members on boards and supervisory
councils, and ensuring small shareholder rights.  Shares of 33 companies trade on the Vilnius exchange, the
most active of which in October were clothing retailer  Apranga
AB (APG1L) , investment company  Invalda AB (IVL1L)  and communications firm  TEO LT
AB. (TEO1L)  The combined value of all listed shares has fallen 5.3
percent this year to 2.98 billion euros ($3.9 billion) even as
the economy expanded 3.5 percent in January to September.  The exchange also lists 20 million euros of bonds issued by
local units of Nordic banks SEB and DNB, and 1.6 billion euros
of Lithuanian government debt securities.  “Suitable corporate governance is an important factor for
attracting both local and foreign investments,” the central
bank said.  It said Lithuanian companies sometimes falsely say they
have published information on wages, strategy and other key
issues on their website when in fact the documents were not
published or were only placed on the website very briefly. Other
times they publish information that is too “abstract” to be
meaningful for stakeholders, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  