-- Jain Criticized in Absentia as Germany Holds Hearing
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t ,   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-11-28T14:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/jain-criticized-in-absentia-as-germany-holds-libor-hearing.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain is facing criticism from politicians and his
own predecessor for a decision not to attend a German hearing on
rate rigging today.  Jain stayed away from the discussions about banks’ alleged
manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate at
parliament’s Finance Committee in Berlin. Stephan Leithner, the
bank’s head of compliance, went in his place.  “Jain just didn’t want to be associated with the
proceedings,”  Konrad Becker , an analyst with Merck Fink & Co.
in Munich, said by telephone yesterday. “He isn’t the
investment bank chief anymore, he’s the CEO. He’s trying to
distance himself.”  Regulators from Canada to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks including Deutsche Bank,
Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  were colluding
to rig Libor, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities, or hiding their true cost of borrowing. Like former
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO  Bob Diamond , who resigned after his bank
admitted to manipulating the rate, Jain led his firm’s
investment bank during the period in question. Deutsche Bank
denies any wrongdoing by leading executives.  Fixing Likely  Banks probably fixed Libor, though regulatory
investigations are ongoing, Raimund Roeseler, chief of banking
supervision at Germany’s financial regulator BaFin, told
lawmakers at the hearing.  Leithner said Deutsche Bank has set aside reserves for
possible financial damages related to Libor. “We found
misconduct by individual employees but no wrongdoing by any
current or former member of the board,” he said, repeating a
statement the bank made in July.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is conducting a criminal probe
running in parallel with civil investigations by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.K. Financial
Services Authority.  Diamond resigned on July 3 after a record 290 million-pound
($460 million) fine by U.S. and U.K. regulators against
Barclays. Former Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann , criticized
Jain’s decision not to attend two days ago.  ‘Anorexic Answers’  “We’ve never had a hearing where the answers were as
anorexic as they were today,” Lothar Binding, lawmaker for the
opposition social democrats, said after the hearing. “Banks
don’t answer more openly because they’re afraid of damage to
their reputation.”  Klaus-Peter Flosbach, legislator for German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s ruling party, said the committee had “never
seen so many questions answered in such a short time,”
referring to bankers’ refusal to answer certain questions,
citing legal reasons.  Dietrich Voigtlaender, CEO of Portigon Financial Services,
a portfolio management firm that emerged from WestLB AG when the
lender was wound down, also testified along with Hugo Baenziger,
former chief risk officer at Deutsche Bank, and Douglas J.
Keenan, a mathematician and former Morgan Stanley trader. The
session lasted about 90 minutes.  Jain, 49, ran Deutsche Bank’s combined debt and equity
sales and trading department from 2004. He was appointed the
sole head of the investment bank in 2010 and became co-CEO in
June this year.  Jain has sought to promote and defend Deutsche Bank’s role
in the finance industry since his appointment, appearing at
debates and forums in Berlin with Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  and lawmaker  Peer Steinbrueck , the social democrat’s candidate to challenge Merkel
at next year’s parliamentary elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  