-- Japan Stock Futures, Australian Equities Drop on Growth Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-27T23:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/japan-stock-futures-australian-equities-drop-on-growth-concern.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian equities fell as the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development warned of the risk of a “major”
global recession and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said U.S.
budget talks have made little progress.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, sank
1 percent in Sydney, leading losses among companies with
earnings closely tied to economic growth. American Depositary
Receipts of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , which gets about a quarter of its
sales in the U.S., fell 1.5 percent as Reid said he is
“disappointed” in the lack of progress to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff. Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. surged 3.3 percent as the
Australian maker of slot machines said full-year profit topped
its forecast.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,365 in Chicago yesterday, down from 9,430 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,370 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined
0.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slipped 0.1 percent.  “Most investors are still cautious to bearish in terms of
their outlook, and certainly in terms of their positioning,”
said  Markus Rosgen , chief Asian strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Hong Kong . “As far as the markets are concerned here in Asia,
increasingly people feel less about Greece and more about the
fiscal cliff.”  Budget Talks  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The  S&P 500  sank 0.5 percent yesterday, a second
day of declines, as concern about progress in Washington budget
negotiations overshadowed a European agreement on aid to
indebted Greece and a better-than-forecast report on U.S.
durable goods.  The OECD cut its growth forecast for the U.S., warned of
the risk of a “major” global recession and urged the  European
Central Bank  and the People’s Bank of China to ease monetary
policy.  “After five years of crisis, the global economy is
weakening again,” OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said
yesterday in the organization’s semi-annual economic outlook.
“The risk of a major contraction cannot be ruled out.”  Senator Reid said that following a Nov. 16 White House
meeting, Republicans backed away from earlier openness to
considering new tax revenue as part of a year-end deal to avert
the fiscal cliff, $607 billion in tax increases and spending
reductions set to begin in January.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rose 13 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through yesterday as central banks added
stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a slowdown in
China may be ending. The gauge traded at 13.9 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.5 times for the S&P 500 Index and
12.4 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. retreated 1.1 percent yesterday in
New York.  Carson Block , founder of research firm Muddy Waters
LLC, said he’s lost interest in betting against Chinese stocks
and speculates the government is protecting fraudulent
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  