-- Japan Opposition’s Hosoda Calls for Restarting Nuclear Reactors
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-11-27T04:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/japan-opposition-s-hosoda-calls-for-restarting-nuclear-reactors.html
Japan  must restart its nuclear power
plants quickly after confirming they’re safe, a senior
opposition official said, three weeks ahead of an election that
polls indicate will return his party to power.  “Looking at energy prices, we are clearly in a situation
where we need to restart the nuclear reactors,” Hiroyuki Hosoda, the chairman of the Liberal Democratic Party’s general
council said yesterday in an interview in Tokyo.  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors remain shut after last
year’s Fukushima nuclear disaster that forced the evacuation of
160,000 people. Eight power utilities reported combined first-
half losses of more than $8 billion, signaling rates will
increase to keep the world’s third-biggest economy running.  The future of nuclear power is an issue in next month’s
election. The ruling Democratic Party of Japan has pledged to
wean the country from atomic power by 2030, while the LDP calls
for a decision on whether to restart all reactors within the
next three years. Polls show two-thirds of voters support
neither major party, indicating the LDP may have to form a
coalition with lawmakers who favor abolishing nuclear energy.  “It’s difficult to make the argument that we should
restart the reactors because of economic problems, given the
disaster at Fukushima,” Hosoda said. “But we believe we should
restart them quickly when their safety has been confirmed.”  The DPJ is set to renew its pledge to reduce Japan’s
reliance on nuclear power to zero by the 2030s in an election
platform to be revealed later today. Before the meltdown at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, almost 30 percent of the country’s
electricity came from atomic energy.  Weekly Protests  Thousands of nuclear power opponents held weekly protests
outside Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s office earlier this
year. A government-backed public forum found in August that 47
percent of participants favored cutting nuclear power to zero.  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  and seven other power utilities
posted a combined loss of 674 billion yen ($8.2 billion) in the
six months ended Sept. 30, due to rising costs for running gas,
oil and coal plants to make up for lost nuclear power
generation. The companies face a bill of about 6.8 trillion yen
for fuel this fiscal year, almost double that in the 12 months
before the Fukushima meltdown.  Hosoda also echoed LDP leader Shinzo Abe’s criticism of the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s efforts to end more than a decade of deflation.
The party has called for unlimited monetary easing to meet an
inflation target of 2 percent and advocates more political
influence over the central bank, drawing objections from Noda.  ‘Slow One’  “The whole world is carrying out extremely large-scale
monetary easing,” Hosoda said. “Japan is the only slow one.
The DPJ continues with its criticism based on the illusion that
large-scale easing, or providing funds to the market will lead
to 1940s-style inflation.”  He added that the LDP might not insist on changing the law
governing the BOJ if the central bank takes more easing measures
of its own accord.  A poll published by Kyodo news on Nov. 25 showed 18.7
percent of respondents plan to vote for the LDP in the
proportional representation section of the election, compared
with 8.4 percent for the DPJ and 10.3 percent for the Japan
Restoration Party. The survey was carried out by phone on Nov.
24-25 and provided no margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  