-- Knight Analysts See Up to $1.4 Billion for Biggest Divisions
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-27T14:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/knight-analysts-see-up-to-1-4-billion-for-biggest-divisions-2-.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , awaiting
acquisition proposals as early as this week, may command as much
as $1.4 billion based on the value of its biggest businesses,
according to Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.  Knight’s market-making and institutional sales units are
worth $1.71 to $2.49 a share, and its electronic execution
operations 89 cents to $1.25 a share, based on a sum-of-the-
parts valuation by KBW analyst  Niamh Alexander . That’s equal to
$950 million to $1.37 billion for a buyer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg that assumes 365.6 million Knight shares
outstanding after the conversion of preferred stock.  Getco LLC in  Chicago  and New York-based Virtu Financial LLC
are likely bidders for Knight, which dodged bankruptcy in August
after losing $457 million in a trading error, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said Nov. 25. The company,
founded in 1995, was bailed out by six financial firms including
Getco, which bought a combined $400 million in convertible
securities and owned more than 70 percent of the company.  A sale of the market-making division “could make sense
strategically if the unit is for sale,” Alexander wrote in a
report dated Nov. 25. The analyst upgraded the  stock  to market
perform, the equivalent of a hold, from underperform with a
price estimate of $2.60. “We think it’s possible that various
suitors are still bargain hunting or looking to do a deal with
KCG,” she wrote, referring to the company by its ticker symbol.  Stock Gains  Knight spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons and Sophie Sohn, a
spokeswoman for Getco, declined to comment. Douglas Cifu,
president and chief operating officer of Virtu, didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  Knight shares gained 4.6 percent to $2.95 at 9:52 a.m. in
New York today, adding to a 13 percent advance yesterday. It
closed at $10.33 the day before the trading error. While the
value of Knight’s shares trading publicly is about $500 million,
its equity is worth roughly twice that when convertible
securities granted to its rescuers in August are included.  The company is probably worth $3.09 a share, or about $1.1
billion, based on $750 million for the market-making business
and $350 million for the electronic execution unit, Christopher Allen, an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York, wrote
in a Nov. 25 note. He raised his price forecast for the stock to
$3.  Weekend Negotiations  Jersey City, New Jersey-based Knight expects offers this
week with negotiations for an acquisition occurring as early as
next weekend, according to the person with knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private. The Wall Street Journal reported Nov. 23 that Knight
expected offers for its market-making unit.  It will be up to Knight’s board to decide how to structure
a deal and transactions could be anything from separate sales,
an acquisition or a merger in which an acquirer gains a public
listing, Allen said in a phone interview.  “If those players wanted to go public, that would be an
interesting way to go about it,” he said about Getco or Virtu.
Neither company is likely to be interested in Knight’s
institutional equities and fixed-income trading businesses
handled by humans, he said.  Getco, Virtu and Knight are designated market makers on the
New York Stock Exchange or NYSE MKT. After Barclays Plc, Getco
is the largest by the number of companies it represents on the
Big Board, according to NYSE Euronext. Knight is the fourth
biggest. Virtu has the most companies on NYSE MKT, formerly
known as the American Stock Exchange, and a few NYSE
corporations. Knight is the second-largest designated market
maker on the MKT exchange.  Market Making  In the first half of this year, Knight’s market-making unit
posted pretax  earnings  of $51.1 million, or 86 percent of the
company’s total, according to a statement. Institutional sales
and trading generated $7.2 million in the first six months of
this year. Electronic execution services had pretax earnings of
$23.6 million while the company’s corporate division had a loss
of $22.5 million before taxes.  Knight spent the last decade expanding from a market maker
that mainly handled orders from individuals sent by brokers to a
financial services company with institutional clients,
electronic trading services, and businesses in fixed income and
currencies. The company provides research and asset management
and got into the reverse mortgage business in 2010.  It acquired Hotspot FX, the foreign-exchange trading
platform, in 2006, and could sell it to an exchange, Allen said.
It also owns 19.9 percent of Direct Edge Holdings LLC, which
operates two U.S. equities exchanges.  Knight’s future value “would depend on what the private
businesses look like, what actions they’d take to improve
profitability in the other Knight businesses and what would be
their capital-return plans going forward,” Allen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  