-- Knight Cancels Appearance at KBW Conference as Stock Rallies 19%
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-11-27T23:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/knight-cancels-appearance-at-kbw-conference-as-stock-rallies-19-.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  canceled
an appearance at a brokerage conference this week as shares of
the market-making firm surged for a second day on speculation it
will be acquired.  The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company is no longer
scheduled to take part in a panel sponsored by  Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Inc.  on Nov. 29 in New York, according to Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman. She declined to comment further. A
person with direct knowledge of the matter said Nov. 25 that
Knight expects to receive proposals to buy the company from at
least two competitors.  Speculation Knight will be bought has sent its  stock  to the
biggest two-day rally in more than four years, rising 19 percent
to $2.97. Knight hasn’t traded above $3 since Aug. 9, the week
six financial firms rescued it from the brink of bankruptcy by
providing cash to restore its  capital  after the company lost
$457 million in a trading malfunction.  Getco LLC in  Chicago  and New York-based Virtu Financial LLC
are likely bidders for Knight, according to the person, who
spoke on condition of anonymity since the negotiations are
private. Knight could be worth as much as $1.37 billion, or
$3.74 a share, based on a sum-of-parts valuation, KBW analyst
 Niamh Alexander  wrote in a Nov. 25 note to clients.  The  company  is probably worth $3.09 a share, or about $1.1
billion, based on $750 million for the market-making business
and $350 million for the electronic execution unit,  Christopher Allen , an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York, wrote
in a Nov. 25 note. He raised his forecast for the stock to $3.  Next Weekend  Knight expects offers this week with negotiations for an
acquisition occurring as early as next weekend, according to the
person with knowledge of the matter.  While the value of Knight’s shares trading publicly is
about $500 million, its equity is worth roughly twice that when
convertible securities granted to its rescuers in August are
included.  Getco, Virtu and Knight are designated market makers on the
New York Stock Exchange or NYSE MKT. After Barclays Plc, Getco
is the largest by the number of companies it represents on the
Big Board, according to NYSE Euronext. Knight is the fourth
biggest. Virtu has the most companies on NYSE MKT, formerly
known as the  American Stock Exchange , and a few NYSE
corporations. Knight is the second-largest designated market
maker on the MKT exchange.  Market Making  In the first half of this year, Knight’s market-making unit
posted pretax  earnings  of $51.1 million, or 86 percent of the
company’s total, according to a statement. Institutional sales
and trading generated $7.2 million in the first six months of
this year. Electronic execution services had pretax earnings of
$23.6 million while the company’s corporate division had a loss
of $22.5 million before taxes.  Knight spent the last decade expanding from a market maker
that mainly handled orders from individuals sent by brokers to a
financial services company with institutional clients,
electronic trading services, and businesses in fixed income and
currencies. The company provides research and asset management
and got into the reverse mortgage business in 2010.  It acquired Hotspot FX, the foreign-exchange trading
platform, in 2006, and could sell it to an exchange, Allen of
Evercore Partners said. It also owns 19.9 percent of Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, which operates two U.S. equities exchanges.  Knight’s future value “would depend on what the private
businesses look like, what actions they’d take to improve
profitability in the other Knight businesses and what would be
their capital-return plans going forward,” Allen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  