-- Korea Limits Bank Currency Forwards More Amid Won Gains
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-11-27T06:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/korea-limits-bank-currency-forwards-more-amid-won-gains.html
South Korea  tightened limits on the
amount of currency forward positions banks are allowed to hold
as won gains threaten exports.  Authorities will cap transactions at branches of overseas
lenders at 150 percent of equity, compared with 200 percent
currently, according to a statement today from the  Finance
Ministry ,  Bank of Korea  and the Financial Services Commission.
The ceiling for domestic banks will be cut to 30 percent from 40
percent. The changes will take effect on Dec. 1, with a one-
month grace period to Jan. 1.  The won has strengthened 5.7 percent against the dollar
since the end of June, the best performance among the 11 most-
traded Asian currencies. It retreated from a 14-month high last
week after Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku signaled on Nov.
22 that the government may announce such measures. Exports have
contracted this year in seven of the 10 months through October.  “The relevant ministries agree that volatility is
increasing in the financial markets,” according to the
statement. “We will act pre-emptively to prepare measures
against increased volatility.” Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date.  South Korean officials are reviewing further foreign-
exchange regulations including tighter rules on currency
forwards, Kim Seok Dong, chairman of the Financial Services
Commission, told reporters in Seoul today.  Exports Rise  A government report on Dec. 1 will show overseas shipments
increased 1.6 percent this month from a year earlier, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Exports from  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy expanded 1.1 percent
in October.  The won strengthened 0.1 percent to 1,084.08 per dollar at
the close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
reached 1,080.05 on Nov. 22, the highest level since Sept. 9,
2011. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of stocks climbed 0.9 percent.  “The announcement on forward limits was already
expected,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a Seoul-based currency analyst
at Samsung Futures Inc. “With dollar liquidity stable in South
 Korea , the policy will do little to curb won appreciation.”  South Korea first announced measures to curb trading in
foreign-exchange derivatives in 2010. Branches of overseas banks
were required to cut holdings to 250 percent of equity and local
banks to 50 percent. The limits were slashed last year to 200
percent and 40 percent, respectively.  The won weakened 0.1 percent in the three months following
last year’s announcement on May 19, 2011, after having gained
3.7 percent that year.  “The outlook remains quite bullish for the won for next
year,” said Jeong Young Sik, a Seoul-based economist at Samsung
Economic Research Institute. “There’s liquidity flooding in
from advanced countries and more investors are getting confident
about the country’s fundamentals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  