-- Nigerian Naira Depreciates as Oil Industry Withholds Dollars
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-11-27T15:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/naira-weakens-most-in-a-week-as-oil-industry-withholds-dollars.html
Nigeria ’s naira weakened against the
dollar after expected sales of the U.S. currency by oil-
producing companies failed to materialize.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer weakened 0.1
percent to 157.50 a dollar as of 4 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial
capital, after gaining 0.2 percent yesterday on bets of oil
industry month-end supply. The naira has appreciated 3 percent
this year, the second-best performing currency tracked by
Bloomberg in Africa.  Oil-producing companies, which sell dollars to meet
domestic expenses around the month-end, are the second-biggest
source of foreign currency after the  Central Bank of Nigeria ,
which sells dollars to lenders at auctions on Mondays and
Wednesdays to help manage the  exchange rate .  “The market expected month-end supply from  oil companies 
yesterday but that didn’t happen,” Abubakar Mohammed, chief
executive of Lagos-based Forward Marketing Bureau de Change
Ltd., said by phone today. “The sales are still expected.”  The naira’s appreciation can be traced to tight monetary
conditions, improved supply of foreign exchange to the market by
oil companies and increased inflows from portfolio investors,
central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Nov. 20, after the
regulator held its benchmark rate at a record-high 12 percent.  Inflation, which accelerated for the first time in four
months to 11.7 percent in October on widespread flooding of
farms, is still above the bank’s target of less than 10 percent.  Yields on 10-year naira debt rose three basis points to
12.38 percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021 fell
seven basis points to 4.284 percent.  Ghana ’s cedi weakened for a sixth day, slipping less than
0.1 percent to 1.9015 a dollar in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  