-- Naspers Doubles Profit on Internet Sales, Pay Television
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-11-27T15:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/naspers-doubles-profit-on-internet-sales-pay-television.html
Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ,  Africa ’s biggest media
group, said first-half earnings rose as pay-television
subscriber numbers and sales generated from Internet businesses
both advanced.  Net income more than doubled to 4.15 billion rand ($469
million) in the six months through September from a year
earlier, the Cape Town-based company said today in a statement.
Sales rose 22 percent to 22.6 billion rand, beating the  median
estimate  of 21.6 billion rand of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Subscribers to the group’s pay-television service in Africa
increased by about 6.5 percent to more than 6 million homes, the
company said. “South Africa is pretty mature,” Chief Executive
Officer Koos Bekker said in a phone interview from  Cape Town .
Elsewhere in Africa, that’s not so, including in  Nigeria  where
there is “a lot of growth left.”  Naspers targets consumers who will pay $30 to $40 a month
for a premium rate service as well as those who prefer to pay a
cheaper rate of $6 or $9, Bekker said.  There is potential for growth in pay-television
subscriptions in  South Africa  and the rest of Africa as more
people move into the middle class, Rudi van der Merwe, Standard
Bank Group Ltd.’s head of stockbroking in Johannesburg, said by
phone before the results were released. Subscriber numbers from
countries other than South Africa gained about 12 percent to 1.8
million.  Profit Margins  Naspers has supported profit margins in the past by raising
pay-television prices, Van der Merwe said. It may start to see
lower margins in that unit due to a weaker rand as much of the
content is sourced in foreign currencies, he said.  The rand has slumped 8.5 percent against the dollar this
year, the worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after  Brazil ’s real. It strengthened 0.4 percent to
8.8285 per dollar at 5:22 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Revenue from Naspers’s stakes in Internet companies
including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and Mail.ru Group Ltd., rose 70
percent to 14.1 billion rand compared with a year earlier. The
firm owns 34 percent of Hong Kong-listed Tencent and 30 percent
of Moscow-based Mail.ru.  The company plans to make as many as 20 acquisitions in the
year through March 2013, Bekker said in June.  “We will probably end up in that ballpark,” he said
today. Naspers bought a minority share in Dubai-based online
retailer Souq.com and a 70 percent stake in Romanian Internet
business eMAG for undisclosed amounts during its first half.  Naspers’s earnings per share, adjusted for non-recurring
and non-operational costs, increased 15 percent to 10.62 rand.
Revenue from E-commerce, or Internet trading, gained 61 percent,
the company said.  The stock declined 0.5 percent to 537.25 rand by the  close 
in Johannesburg, the lowest level since Oct. 15. About 1.3
million shares, or 25 percent more than the daily average over
the last three months, changed hands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  