-- Syria Renews Border Attacks as NATO Seeks Missile Sites
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-11-27T15:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/nato-team-seeks-patriot-missile-sites-on-syrian-border.html
Syrian warplanes attacked targets
close to the Turkish border for the second consecutive day as
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization  officers arrived to select
missile sites to counter President Bashar al-Assad’s forces.  U.S., Dutch and German officers representing the three NATO
countries with  Patriot  surface-to-air missile batteries visited
Turkish provinces near the Syrian border today, authorities
said. As work began, Assad’s jets struck the town of Harim, the
state-run Anatolia news agency said. That followed yesterday’s
bombing of a Turkish-sponsored refugee camp near the Syrian town
of Atma that sent thousands of people streaming toward the
frontier.  Russia renewed its opposition to NATO’s involvement today,
with Deputy Foreign Minister Andrey Denisov telling a Berlin
press conference “we don’t like this plan.” The alliance’s
aims were unclear: “Who’s threatened? Where’s the threat coming
from?” he said.  Iran  has also opposed the move.  Turkey’s military said yesterday that the Patriots were a
purely defensive measure and won’t be used to enforce a “no-fly
zone” or to launch attacks.  Before the start of Syria’s civil conflict 20 months ago,
Turkey and Syria’s bilateral relationship was so close that in
2008 Assad and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan vacationed
together with their families. Since the destruction of a Turkish
jet in June, the deaths of five Turks killed by a mortar round
from Syria last month and the use by rebels of Turkish bases,
military tension has sharply increased.  ‘Increasing Scale’  The Syrian crisis “has not shown any sign of resolution
and the regime’s attacks on the civilian population, as well as
the clashes have continued on an increasing scale,” Turkish
Foreign Ministry spokesman Selcuk Unal said on Twitter today.  A Syrian air attack on an olive press killed at least 20
people and wounded “dozens” in the northern city of Idlib, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees said today. Rebels
meanwhile said they shot down a Syrian helicopter near the city
of Aleppo, according to Al Jazeera television today.  United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon will visit
 Turkey  from Dec. 7 to 8, Unal said in his Twitter posting. Ban
may visit a refugee camp on the Syrian border, he said.  Putin Visit  Any Patriot deployment would aim to augment Turkey’s air-
defense capabilities, NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said on Nov. 21. The alliance will make a final
decision based on the expert report. Russian President Vladimir Putin will visit Turkey on Dec. 3 and the issue may be discussed
in talks with Erdogan.  Turkey yesterday scrambled warplanes after the Atma attack,
which destroyed more than 200 empty tents at a refugee camp
being set up by the pro-Islamic Turkish aid group, Humanitarian
Relief Foundation or IHH, the state-run Anatolia said today. It
was not clear if Syrian jets were targeting the Turkish-
sponsored camp.  Thousands of Syrians who fled after the attacks were today
huddled on the Turkish border and waiting to cross to safety,
the Foreign Ministry said today. Turkey accepts refugees once a
place has been found for them at refugee camps, a process which
can take days or weeks. About 180,000 Syrians have fled to
Turkey so far, Erdogan said on Nov. 25.  Turkey’s exports to  Syria  have dropped by some 70 percent
over the past year, Mehmet Buyukeksi, head of the Turkish
Exporters’ Assembly told a news conference in Istanbul today.  The Turkish government has called on Assad to step down and
has allowed Syrian officers to command the rebel Free Syrian
Army from a refugee camp inside Turkey, and opposition fighters
frequently cross into Turkey to obtain food, medicine and
clothes. Turkey denies arming the rebels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  