-- Nets Top Knicks in Overtime in Teams’ First Brooklyn NBA Meeting
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/nets-beat-knicks-in-overtime-in-rivals-first-brooklyn-meeting.html
The Nets won their sixth straight
game in their new $1 billion arena in  Brooklyn , New York, a 96-
89 overtime victory over the rival New York Knicks in a game
that players and coaches said had a playoff atmosphere.  The teams had waited almost a month for their first meeting
in the New York City borough of Brooklyn, as the game was
originally scheduled to be their National Basketball Association
season-opener on Nov. 1 before being pushed back in the wake of
superstorm Sandy.  “It was a lot of fun,” Nets point guard Deron Williams,
who had 16 points and 14 assists, said in a televised interview.
“The crowd was amazing. We had a lot of energy for this game,
we were ready and we gave the fans a show.”  Brooklyn outscored New York 12-5 in the five-minute
overtime period to improve its record to 9-4, tying the Knicks
for first place in the Eastern Conference’s Atlantic Division.  The Nets’ second win over the Knicks in their past eight
meetings drew echoing chants of “Brook-lyn” from many of those
who remained from the crowd of 17,732.  “Every time we play these guys it’s going to feel like
that,” Williams said. “They’re right across the bridge and
this has been anticipated for like 10 years now. Hopefully it’s
a great rivalry for years to come.”  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and New York Giants
defensive end Justin Tuck were among those who sat courtside at
the Barclays Center, where tickets for the game were re-sold on
the secondary market for an average of almost $400.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Home Success  Music mogul and Brooklyn native Jay-Z, an investor in the
Nets, was also on hand with his wife -- singer Beyonce Knowles -
- as the Nets improved to 7-1 in their new arena after recording
a 9-24 home record last season in their final campaign in New
Jersey.  Brook Lopez had 22 points and 11 rebounds for the Nets,
while Gerald Wallace scored 16 points and Jerry Stackhouse added
14 off the bench and hit 4-of-5 three-point attempts.  Carmelo Anthony, who grew up in Brooklyn, scored 35 points
to lead the Knicks, though he was scoreless over the final seven
minutes. Raymond Felton missed 16 of his 19 shot attempts for
New York, which has lost three of its past four games and fell
to 4-4 on the road.  More Energy  “Fatigue set in,” Knicks coach Mike Woodson told
reporters. “Our starting unit went a lot of minutes. They had a
little more energy than we did at the end. They made the plays
and we didn’t.”  Tyson Chandler finished with 28 points for the Knicks and
made 12-of-13 shots while his teammates combined to shoot 21-of-
72 from the field. The Nets, who have allowed a league-low 91.3
points a game this season, are now 8-1 when giving up fewer than
100 points.  “Their defense held tight,” Woodson said. “It was a back
and forth fight and they were able to pull it out.”  The Nets and Knicks will play three more times this season,
with their next meeting on Dec. 11 in Brooklyn. The Knicks will
host the Nets at Madison Square Garden on Dec. 19 and Jan. 21.  “I guess they wanted it just a little bit more than we
did,” Knicks forward Rasheed Wallace told reporters after
missing nine of his 11 shots. “It was a good game for the
fans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  