-- New York Nanny Murder Suspect Ortega to Be Arraigned
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-28T16:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/new-york-nanny-murder-suspect-ortega-to-be-arraigned.html
(Corrects to change YMCA to Jewish Community Center in
police briefing in seventh paragraph.)  A  New York  City woman who worked as
a nanny for a Manhattan couple is set to be arraigned today at
her hospital bed on charges that she murdered two children in
her care, court officials said.  Yoselyn Ortega, 50, was indicted this month on two counts
of first-degree murder and two counts of second-degree murder in
connection with the Oct. 25 deaths of Lucia and Leo Krim,
according to court records.  Ortega is scheduled to be arraigned from her bedside at  New
York Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center  in Manhattan,
where she has been held since the killings while recovering from
what police say are self-inflicted wounds.  Hospital bedside arraignments aren’t uncommon, and can be
conducted through a video link to the courthouse, said David Bookstaver, a spokesman for the New York State Unified Court
System, in a phone interview yesterday. The hospital isn’t
equipped for such a procedure because of  Hurricane Sandy , so the
judge will conduct the proceedings in Ortega’s room, Bookstaver
said.  Ortega faces life in prison if she is convicted of killing
the Krim children, who were found in the bathroom of their
family’s apartment on West 75th Street on the night of Oct. 25,
according to the  New York City Police Department .  Naturalized Citizen  Ortega, a naturalized U.S. citizen from the  Dominican
Republic , had been in the U.S. for 10 years and worked for the
Krims for two years, according to New York Police Commissioner
Raymond Kelly. She lived in Upper Manhattan with her son, her
sister and her sister’s daughter.  On the day of the killings, the children’s mother, Marina
Krim, had gone to a neighborhood Jewish Community Center for
swimming lessons with her 3-year-old daughter, police said. She
was supposed to meet the nanny and the two other children at a
dance studio later in the evening, according to Kelly.  When the nanny didn’t appear, the mother went to the
apartment and found her son, Leo, and daughter, Lucia, in the
bathroom with stab wounds to their bodies, said Browne. When the
mother entered the bathroom, the nanny started to stab herself,
Browne said. Police said they found Ortega on the bathroom floor
with a knife next to her.  Murder Charges  The two children were taken to St. Luke’s Hospital, where
they were pronounced dead. The nanny was taken to New York
Presbyterian, where she had been intubated and unable to speak
until Nov. 3, when she agreed to discuss the matter with
detectives and was subsequently charged with murder, police
said.  The children’s father, Kevin Krim, worked at Bloomberg LP
until last year until he joined CNBC as general manager for
digital. Detectives met Krim, who was on his way back to the
city from a business trip, at  John F. Kennedy International
Airport . Bloomberg LP is the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  Ortega was struggling with financial issues and told police
the family had recently given her an extra five hours a week of
housekeeping work to help her make more money, although she
complained that the new schedule interfered with doctors’
appointments, the New York Post reported on Nov. 2, citing
unidentified people in  law enforcement .  Ortega told police that she was paid to watch the children,
not to clean up and do housework, and had been threatened with
termination if she didn’t improve her work, the Post reported,
citing the unidentified people.  The case is New York v. Ortega, 05112/2012, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  