-- New York Fed’s Potter Says QE3 Has Lowered Mortgage Rates
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-11-27T23:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/new-york-fed-s-potter-says-qe3-has-pushed-down-mortgage-rates.html
Simon Potter , the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York’s markets group chief, said the central bank’s
third round of bond buying has had a “large effect” on
mortgage bonds and has pushed down interest rates on home loans.  Fed officials calculated that buying mortgage-backed
securities would trigger the “most efficient reaction” as they
were already swapping short-term Treasuries for longer-term debt,
Potter said today while answering audience questions after a
speech at New York University’s Stern School of Business.  The central bank is buying $40 billion in housing debt each
month and has pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near
zero through mid-2015 as it seeks to boost growth and reduce a
7.9 percent jobless rate. A “number” of Fed officials said at
their last policy meeting that they may need to expand their
monthly purchases of bonds next year, according to the minutes
of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 23-24 meeting.  The latest steps have succeeded in making home mortgages
less expensive, with the average fixed rate offered on new 30-
year loans at 3.44 percent yesterday, down from 3.57 percent on
Sept. 12, the day before the FOMC announced its third round of
quantitative easing, according to Bankrate.com data.  The central bank’s large-scale asset purchases have swelled
its balance sheet to $2.87 trillion, close to a record, as
 policy makers  have sought to reduce borrowing costs.  “The Federal Reserve is obviously carrying a lot of
interest-rate risk,” Potter said. Asset-purchases work by
transferring that risk from market participants onto the central
bank’s balance sheet, and the Fed is frequently analyzing the
impact rising interest rates will have on its portfolio, he said.  The Fed has the tools to tighten policy when needed to ward
off inflation, Potter said.  “The hard part will be the willingness” to use them,
though the financial markets are fairly confident the Fed will
raise interest rates when appropriate, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  