-- Nordic Power Price Gains for Fifth Day on Cold-Weather Outlook
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-11-27T15:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/nordic-power-price-gains-for-fifth-day-on-cold-weather-outlook.html
Nordic electricity for delivery next
week advanced for a fifth day to close at a record as forecasts
for cold weather and little rain indicated rising power use and
diminishing supplies.  The contract for delivery from Dec. 3 through Dec. 9 gained
as much as 2.2 percent to 46.75 euros ($60.50) a megawatt-hour
and closed at 46 euros on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy
exchange in Oslo. The contract for January through March rose 1
percent to 41.65 euros, while the December contract climbed 0.6
percent to 41.75 euros.  Minimum temperatures in  Stockholm  may drop to minus 5
degrees Celsius (23 degrees Fahrenheit) on Dec. 3 from 6 degrees
today, according to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg. The
five-year mean for today is 1 degree.  The drop in temperatures prompted hydroplant operators on
the Skellefte river in northern Sweden to restrict output by 30
percent to 700 megawatts from Nov. 29 through Dec. 6 to prepare
for winter by letting a layer of ice form on the river to
prevent the formation of ice plugs that may limit output later.  “We sacrifice some production short-term to avoid
potential greater losses later on,” Peter Stedt, spokesman for
Vattenfall AB, one of the operators on the river, said today by
phone from Lulea in northern  Sweden .  The risk of ice plugs affects the majority of Vattenfall’s
92  hydropower stations  in Sweden, including plants on the Lule,
Ume, Angerman and Indalaelven rivers, he said. The company
produces 35 terawatt-hours annually in Sweden from running water
through turbines, more than Denmark’s annual power use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  