-- Nordgold Expects to Get 100% of High River Gold in First Quarter
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-11-27T15:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/nordgold-expects-to-get-100-of-high-river-gold-in-first-quarter.html
Nordgold (NORD)  NV, Russian billionaire
Alexey Mordashov’s gold producer, expects to consolidate 100
percent of its  High River Gold Mines Ltd. (HRG)  unit as early as the
first quarter, Chief Executive Office Nikolai Zelenski said.  “Based on the number of High River shares taken up under
the offer to date, Nordgold believes it will have sufficient
votes to approve a subsequent acquisition transaction,”
Zelenski said today in a phone interview. Nordgold is seeking
the 25 percent it doesn’t already control.  The majority of High River investors “effectively already
approved” the consolidation plan when they accepted Nordgold’s
offer for shares, according to Zelenski.  A total of 51.6 percent of the minority shareholders opted
for an Oct. 19 offer for either 0.285 of a Nordgold global
depositary receipt or C$1.40 ($1.42) in cash for each High River
share, Nordgold said today in a statement. Nordgold’s free float
will rise to 14.2 percent from 11 percent as a result, data from
the company’s press service show.  An extension of the offer to Dec. 8 gives the remaining
High River minorities “an opportunity to participate in the
transaction, and to quickly receive their consideration in
either cash or GDRs,” Zelenski said. It will take more time for
investors that hold onto their shares after Dec. 8 to receive
payment, he said.  Nordgold has to pay about $60 million to High River
investors that have chosen the cash offer. Should all the
remaining shareholders prefer cash, Nordgold will spend about
$200 million on the whole transaction, according to Zelenski.  Nordgold GDRs rose 1 percent to $4.90 by the close in
 London , the highest since Oct. 22. The 5,000 shares that traded
were 23 percent of the three-month daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  