-- Norges Bank Backs Push for More Capital, Higher Risk Weights
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-11-27T13:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/norges-bank-backs-push-for-more-capital-higher-risk-weights.html
Norway’s central bank backed a push
for higher risk weights on mortgages and said the biggest
lenders such as DNB ASA should be required to hold more in
capital to guard against losses amid a potential property
bubble.  While the bank hasn’t proposed specific numbers, risk
weights on mortgages of 35 percent to 40 percent “are closer to
our thinking” than the 15 percent that was proposed by  Sweden 
yesterday, Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad said in Oslo.  At the same time, the bank backed adding additional  capital
requirements , mapping out a scenario of a 5 percent buffer and a
capital adequacy requirement of 15.5 percent. The country, which
isn’t a European Union member, requires banks to hold common
equity Tier 1 capital of at least 9 percent of their risk-
weighted assets.  “Banks should make use of the opportunity available to
them now to strengthen their capital positions and improve
liquidity,” the central bank said in a financial stability
report today. The corporate sector could face “substantial
losses” if heavily indebted households have to make abrupt cuts
in consumption, according to the report.  Below target inflation and falling rates abroad prompted
Norway’s central bank to leave its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 1.5 percent last month, the lowest in more than two
years, even as an economic recovery gains momentum, pushing
 household debt  and housing prices to records. DNB had an average
risk weight of 12.8 percent at the end of last year, according
to the central bank.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said last month that
while Norwegian banks are “solid and profitable” rising  house
prices  and household debt are a concern. The regulator also said
that banks should further strengthen their finances to build
protection against global turmoil and meet tougher capital
requirements.  A boom in Norway’s petroleum industry has helped to shield
 Europe ’s second-largest oil and gas exporter from the fallout of
the euro region’s debt crisis.  Mainland output , which excludes
oil and gas output, may grow 3.75 percent this year and
registered unemployment will hold below 3 percent through 2015,
the central bank forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  