-- Oil Falls on Supply Forecast Amid Budget Talks
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-27T22:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/oil-fluctuates-as-greece-gets-rescue-storage-may-grow.html
Oil fell for a second day as U.S.
crude inventories were forecast to increase and as Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said budget talks in  Washington  have
made little progress.  Prices dropped 0.6 percent as oil supplies probably grew by
350,000 barrels last week, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg before an Energy Department report tomorrow. The
budget outlook overshadowed data showing more demand for U.S.
capital goods and a four-year high in consumer confidence.  “There was a risk-off trade flow today in anticipation
that we’ll see a drop in inventories tomorrow,” said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Crude oil for January delivery fell 56 cents to settle at
$87.18 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 12 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported U.S. oil inventories rose 1.96 million
barrels to 373.1 million last week. The January oil contract
traded at $87.36 a barrel at 4:59 p.m. versus $87.38 before the
report’s release.  Brent oil for January settlement declined $1.05, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $109.87 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Crude inventories probably increased 0.1 percent last week
to 374.8 million, according to the median estimate of 11
analysts in the Bloomberg survey. Stockpiles of gasoline and
distillate fuels were also expected to rise.  Oil Output  Oil production gained for an 11th week to 6.71 million
barrels a day in the seven days ended Nov 16, an 18-year high,
last week’s Energy Department report showed. Production has
increased for 11 weeks, the longest stretch of gains since at
least 1990.  A combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale
formations in states including  North Dakota ,  Texas  and  Oklahoma .
North Dakota’s output rose 31 percent this year through August,
according to the department.  Oil also fell amid the ongoing budget debate in Washington
and concern about the so-called fiscal cliff. Congress returns
from the Thanksgiving recess this week, seeking a budget deal to
avoid $607 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from kicking in next year.  Democrats and Republicans have made little headway in
negotiations, Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told reporters today in
Washington.  Tax Disagreement  While Republicans favor raising federal  tax revenue  by
limiting deductions, Democrats have pushed for higher rates on
upper-income earners. The  Congressional Budget Office  has said a
failure to avoid the fiscal cliff could lead to a recession and
a jobless rate of about 9 percent, compared with the October
rate of 7.9 percent.  Crude rose earlier as  consumer confidence  rose to the
highest level in more than four years in November and demand for
goods such as machinery and electronics rose last month.  The consumer confidence  index  climbed to 73.7, the highest
level since February 2008, figures from the New York-based
Conference Board showed today. Bookings for non-defense capital
goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for future business
investment, rose 1.7 percent in October, the most since May, the
Commerce Department reported today.  “The recent data paints a picture of modest growth,” said
Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin,
Texas-based energy consultant.  Earlier, European finance ministers eased the terms on
emergency aid for  Greece  in the latest bid to keep the 17-nation
euro intact.  Greek Aid  The finance chiefs cut the rates on bailout loans,
suspended interest payments for a decade, gave Greece more time
to repay and engineered a bond buyback. The country was also
cleared to receive a 34.4 billion-euro ($44.7 billion) loan
installment in December.  “There’s some optimism about the Greek bailout but that’s
based on the most bullish possible outcome,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based analyst at Summit Energy
Inc., which manages more than $20 billion in companies’ annual
energy spending.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 326,743
contracts as of 4:44 p.m. Volume totaled 287,893 contracts
yesterday, 45 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.51 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  