-- Oil Falls to Lowest Level in Almost Two Weeks on Budget
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-11-28T20:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-increase.html
Oil dropped to the lowest level in
almost two weeks as concern mounted that negotiations to address
the  U.S. budget deficit  will fail.  Futures decreased 0.8 percent after U.S. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday he was disappointed with
progress made during talks over $607 billion in tax gains and
spending cuts, the so-called fiscal cliff, set to begin in
January. Crude rebounded from the day’s lows after an Energy
Department report showed supplies unexpectedly fell last week.  “Economic and political concerns are dominating  market
sentiment  right now,” said Adam Wise, who helps manage a $9
billion natural-resource bond portfolio as senior managing
director at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “The failure
to reach an efficient resolution to the fiscal-cliff issue is
raising concern about the economy.”  Crude for January delivery declined 69 cents to $86.49 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Nov. 15. Prices are down 12 percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement declined 36 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $109.51 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Republicans and Democrats disagree about how to reduce
future deficits and how quickly to do so, and those divides have
stalled negotiations.  Budget Positions  President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, wants to lean more
heavily on tax increases for top earners and less on structural
changes to Medicare and Medicaid benefits. House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, has expressed openness to higher revenue
if accompanied by an overhaul of the  tax code  and significant
reductions in future spending on entitlement programs.  Erskine Bowles, the co-chairman of the president’s 2010
fiscal commission, said it’s unlikely Obama and Congress will
reach a deal by the end of this year to avert the fiscal cliff.
He said there is a one-third probability the sides will strike a
deal by the end of 2012. He spoke today at a breakfast in
Washington sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor.  “Worries about the fiscal cliff are at the forefront of
everyone’s mind at the moment,” said Julius Walker, global
energy markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New York.
“There have been a number of statements by some high-profile
people that have raised concerns that we’ll go over the cliff,
which would reduce oil demand.”  Boehner Statement  Futures eased declines after Boehner told reporters in
Washington that he is optimistic lawmakers engaged in budget
talks can “avert this crisis sooner rather than later.” Obama
said at the White House today that an agreement on the deficit
can be reached “before Christmas.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “measured pace” in recent
weeks, the  Federal Reserve  said today in its Beige Book business
survey, which is based on reports from the Fed’s 12 district
banks. The release provides anecdotal evidence on the health of
the economy before the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets Dec.
11-12 in Washington.  Prices also pared losses after the Energy Department said
crude  supplies  declined 347,000 barrels to 374.1 million in the
seven days ended Nov. 23. They were forecast to rise 350,000
barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Output climbed by 108,000 barrels a day to 6.82 million
last week, the highest level since February 1994, the report
showed. Production has climbed 12 weeks, the longest stretch of
gains since at least 1990. The gain has come as new technology
unlocked supply in fields such as the Bakken shale in  North
Dakota  and the Eagle Ford in  Texas .  ‘Great Strides’  “The U.S. is making great strides in increasing oil
output,” said David McAlvany, chief executive officer of
McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,  Colorado , which manages
$530 million. “Going forward, this is going to pay significant
economic dividends for the country.”  Gasoline inventories  surged 3.87 million barrels to 204.3
million, the biggest increase since July and more than four
times a projected gain of 900,000. Supplies of  distillate fuel ,
a category that includes heating oil and diesel, fell 800,000
barrels to 112 million, versus an expected increase of 500,000.  Total  fuel demand  dropped 2.4 percent to 19 million barrels
a day last week, the report showed. Gasoline consumption
decreased 5.3 percent to 8.43 million.  “The fundamental picture is pretty bearish in the U.S.,”
Wise said. “There’s increasing access to domestic supply while
demand remains sluggish.”  Middle East  Oil in New York has dropped 1 percent since Nov. 21, when
Israel and Hamas, which controls the  Gaza Strip , agreed on a
cease-fire after eight days of air and missile strikes. Egyptian
security officials clashed with protesters in Cairo today as
activists denounced a decree by President Mohamed Mursi
affording himself new powers.  “The  Middle East  is unsettled and at any point could
erupt, sending prices higher,” McAlvany said. “After decades
of rule by very predictable dictators, the region has entered a
period of unpredictability.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 409,222
contracts as of 3:55 p.m. Volume totaled 358,626 contracts
yesterday, 31 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.52 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in  New York  at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 