-- Otis Wins Schindler Fight Over World Trade Center Elevator
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-11-27T23:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/otis-wins-schindler-fight-over-world-trade-center-elevator-2-.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis
Elevator unit won a U.S. appeals-court ruling that invalidates a
patent owned by  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP) , in a dispute over
technology used in elevators at  New York ’s 7 World Trade Center.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit today
said the patent owned by Schindler’s Inventio unit is invalid as
an obvious variation of earlier know-how. A July 2011 jury
verdict that upheld the patent “lacks substantial evidentiary
support,” the court said today in a  decision  posted on its
website.  The patent covers the use of magnetic cards or similar
identifying transmitters to direct a person to a specific
elevator that will go to a pre-designated floor without having
to use buttons. Inventio filed suit Nov. 6 against Thyssenkrupp
Elevator Corp., claiming elevators at 1 World Trade Center and
11 Times Square infringe the same patent.  Otis’s system is installed at  7 World Trade Center , built
by New York developer  Larry Silverstein  to replace a tower
destroyed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The Otis elevator
system, called Compass, uses pre-programmed radio frequency
identification chips and was the first of its kind installed in
the U.S.  “Otis is pleased that the Federal Circuit’s ruling
confirms Otis’s long-held position that it is entitled to sell
elevators that include Compass destination dispatch with
seamless entry,” Thomas Downie, an Otis spokesman, said.  Officials with Hergiswil, Switzerland-based Schindler
couldn’t be reached for comment after the close of regular
business hours in  Switzerland .  Invalid Patent  The trial judge threw out most of Inventio’s case on
damages and refused to order a broad ban on the use of the
Inventio patent. The Federal Circuit declined to address
Inventio’s appeal of those issues because it found the patent
invalid.  Inventio sued Otis in 2006, part of a broader dispute over
elevators used in high-rise buildings. Schindler is challenging
an Otis elevator patent in a case pending in federal court in
Newark, New Jersey.  The case is Schindler Elevator Corp. v. Otis Elevator Co.,
2011-1615 and 2012-1108,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Schindler Elevator
Corp. v. Otis Elevator Co., 06cv5377, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  