-- How Egypt’s Mursi Can Find the Path Back Toward Democracy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-27T23:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/how-egypt-s-mursi-can-find-the-path-back-toward-democracy-view.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
appears to be struggling with the concept of separation of power
in a democratic system. Whether he masters it will determine
 Egypt ’s chances of becoming a genuine democracy.  Mursi’s latest effort to  grab authority  to which he is not
entitled is worrisome because it’s his second such offense. In
July he tried unsuccessfully to defy a court order nullifying
parliamentary elections dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood, an
organization with which he is aligned. This time he went after
the judiciary because he suspected it was about to dissolve the
assembly writing Egypt’s new constitution. He issued  a decree 
that stripped the courts of that power, granted him wider
authority and immunized all presidential orders from challenges
until a new constitution is passed.  The reaction within (and without) Egypt was furious. Street
protests have been rife, Muslim Brotherhood offices have been
trashed, and courts have gone on strike. In the past couple of
days, the president has tried to soften his approach; aides have
said he will only apply his order to suspend judicial review
over acts that protect major institutions of the state. They say
his motives are good -- that he wants to protect the revolution
from remnants of former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime in the
courts.  Motives are irrelevant. The revolution created a
rudimentary balance of power that didn’t exist under Mubarak. To
disrupt this positive balance marks a  retreat from democracy .
Once powers are arrogated, there’s little record of leaders
returning them.  Leaders who’ve recently crushed rights temporarily -- they
said -- in order to let them flower later include Russia’s
Vladimir Putin,  Georgia ’s Mikheil Saakashvili and  Turkey ’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan. They may have had good intentions; many in the
West thought they did. Yet none has proved in a hurry to hand
back powers once acquired.  It is true that Mursi had reason to worry about the
constitutional assembly being disbanded. The assembly was on the
clock: It had until Dec. 12 to complete its work. If it failed,
the courts had the right to step in.  But it is also true that Mursi had alternatives. To win the
body more time, he could have suggested that the assembly itself
declare that it couldn’t be dissolved by the judiciary, a  more
legitimate  legal maneuver.  Mursi can still correct his course. He can officially
revoke his decree and have the constitutional assembly put
itself above the courts, though not above the Parliament that
appointed it. With no Parliament currently in place, Mursi, by
law, holds its powers.  Paradoxically, that means Mursi’s authority is the key to
solving the larger problem posed by the assembly. To protect
against the tyranny of the majority, Egypt’s minority
Christians, liberals and secularists must play powerful roles in
the drafting. This hasn’t been happening. These groups have been
 leaving the committee  in droves, complaining that Islamists are
railroading the process.  For this reason, Mursi needs to  find a way  to ensure non-
Islamists are satisfactorily represented on the committee.
Otherwise, the constitutional draft will become a new source of
conflict. To stand the test of time, such a foundational
document has to encompass the aspirations of the widest circle
of people. In guaranteeing that happens, Mursi could make the
best possible use of the powers he already has.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors the  EU’s Plan C for  Greece ;
Margaret Carlson on  Hillary Clinton’s next move ; Clive Crook on
why the  U.K. must remember it needs the EU ; Peter Orszag on why
 vague proposals to limit tax deductions won’t work ; Cass R.
Sunstein on the  behavioral economics of Christmas consumption ;
Richard Vedder on the  evolving private-state-federal university.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 