-- Pactera Tops Drop as Block Shuns Shorts: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-11-27T17:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/pactera-tops-drop-as-block-shuns-shorts-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  dropped the most in
two weeks in  New York  after the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  closed
below 2,000 for the first time in three years.  Pactera (PACT) 
Technology International Ltd. and  Youku Tudou (YOKU)  Inc. led declines
in the U.S.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. lost 1.1 percent to 91.67 by 12:31
p.m. Pactera, a Chinese software-outsourcing provider, slipped
after saying sales growth will cool, while online video company
Youku Tudou tumbled for the first time in six days. Muddy Waters
LLC, the research firm that has made allegations of fraud
against Chinese companies, isn’t focused on China anymore as the
government is working to help companies conceal their records,
founder  Carson Block  said on Bloomberg Television.  The China-US gauge is poised for its first decline in four
months in November as the Asian nation’s seven-quarter slowdown
impacts company profits. The value of shares on the Shanghai
Composite slumped to a four-year low on Nov. 26 and the gauge
trades for 9.5 times estimated earnings, almost half the average
valuation for Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  and the BSE India Sensitive
Index.  “Company profits in China will be under a great deal of
pressure as there’s overcapacity and falling rates of
productivity growth,” John-Paul Smith, a London-based emerging
market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a phone
interview. “The external environment hasn’t improved, it’s not
positive for any sector.”  Trina Volatility  American depositary receipts of Pactera dropped 3.5 percent
to $6.90 in New York after Chief Executive Officer Tiak Koon Loh
said the Dalian, China-based company is anticipating a slowdown
in 2013 sales growth as the economies of China and Europe
falter.  Youku Tudou, China’s biggest online video company, declined
2.8 percent to $17.42, poised for its biggest one-day drop since
Nov. 16.  ADRs of  Trina Solar , China’s third-largest maker of solar
panels, sank 6.8 percent to $2.34, after rising over the past
three trading days. The stock’s  30-day volatility  surged to
95.98, the highest since March.  Muddy Waters has lost interest in shorting Chinese stocks,
a way of betting on their decline, as “the government has
really taken the side of the fraud,” Block said in the
interview from  Los Angeles  yesterday.  “The government is working with a number of these
companies to try to conceal records that are public,” he said.
“When you are up against that sort of strength of the ability
to revise history, it becomes difficult. That is one of the
reasons we’re not that interested in China anymore.”  Focus Pares Drop  Block has gained notoriety by short selling Chinese stocks
listed in  North America , including Sino-Forest Corp. which
tumbled 74 percent before eventually filing for  bankruptcy
protection  in March after  Muddy Waters  questioned their
accounting. The firm has also targeted New Oriental Education &
Technology Group Inc. and  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)   Focus Media, a Shanghai-based advertising company that
Block claimed overstated its network, traded 0.2 percent lower
at $23.92 yesterday, paring an earlier slump of as much as 2.7
percent. It is up 23 percent his year. Education provider  New
Oriental (EDU)  sank 1.5 percent to $18.76.  An official at China’s consulate in New York, who asked not
to be identified because it’s against their policy, said that
she’s not in a position to respond to Block’s comments.  China ETF Sinks  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.3 percent to
1,991.17 by the close in China, the lowest level since Jan. 23,
2009. Shares  worth  33.1 billion  yuan  ($5.3 billion) changed
hands on Nov. 26, the least since Nov. 7, 2008, while  data 
showed that the number of A-share trading accounts that made
transactions last week fell to 5.6 million, the lowest for a
five-day week since at least January 2008.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.8 percent to $37.05
in New York, as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. equities
rose 0.1 percent to 1,408.08.  China’s seven-quarter  slowdown , stoked by faltering demands
for exports out of the U.S. and debt-plagued Europe, has spurred
a 9.5 percent drop in the Shanghai Composite this year, the
third straight  annual loss . Investor interest in mainland China-
traded shares has waned even as data showed signs of a growth
recovery in the world’s second-largest economy. Industrial
companies’ profit accelerated 20.5 percent in October, the
statistics bureau said yesterday, while factory output and
 exports  both rose last month by the most since May.  More Policies  The Shanghai gauge has dropped 42 percent through yesterday
from Aug. 4, 2009, when the gauge reached its highest level
since the global financial crisis. The  MSCI All-Country World
Index (MXWD)  rallied 21 percent in the same time. Thirty-day  volatility 
in the Shanghai gauge was at 13.6 yesterday, compared with this
year’s average of 17. The China-US index has a volatility
reading of 19.7.  “Investors are voting with their feet,”  Zhang Ling ,
general manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co., said by
phone  yesterday. “Regulators need to roll out policies such as
encouraging more investments in the biggest stocks to restore
investors’ confidence.”  Policy makers have taken steps to revive confidence in the
$2.6 trillion domestic stock market and boost economic growth.
China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing  has
reduced transaction fees on equity trades, urged listed
companies to pay more cash dividends and changed how initial
public offerings are priced. The government also more than
doubled allotments under the expanded qualified foreign
institutional investor program in April to $80 billion.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong dropped 0.4 percent to 10,527.84 yesterday,
paring its advance this year to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  