-- Paradis Says Canada Working on Foreign Investment Framework
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-11-27T21:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/paradis-says-canada-working-on-foreign-investment-framework.html
Canadian Industry Minister Christian
Paradis said his government is working on a legal framework to
govern foreign investments.  The following are selected comments from Paradis to
reporters today in Ottawa.  On the timing of new guidelines:  “There is two things here. There are reviews ongoing that
I cannot comment on but we are working on a policy framework to
make sure that in the future foreign investment continue to
provide net benefit for  Canada  so this is something our
government is working on and when we are ready to make an
announcement, we’ll do so.  ‘‘There is a legal framework here we are working on. We
have guidelines, we put new provisions. I cannot comment on the
reviews and as I said when we are ready to go out with the
policy framework we’ll do so but I don’t want to speculate at
this point. I cannot speculate.  ‘‘As I said, guidelines is something and reviews are
another thing. I said that I won’t speculate on this since the
reviews are very sensitive, these are high commercial sensitive
information that I cannot share. But as I said we’ll go out with
the reviews, with the guidelines when we are ready to do so we
will clarify what we need to clarify.”  On whether current reviews of transactions will be subject to
the new guidelines:  “We have a legal framework in place that we are working
with and you know when I talk about the review I don’t want to
speculate more than this. We are looking with the legal
framework.  ‘‘There is a current legal framework in place and we are
reviewing with this legal framework and as I said when we are
ready to announce a policy framework that we’ve been working on
we’ll do it appropriately. We’ll announce it when we’re ready to
do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  