-- Pearson Says Financial Times Chief Fairhead to Step Down
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-11-27T16:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/pearson-says-financial-times-unit-chief-fairhead-to-step-down.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  said Rona Fairhead, the
head of its Financial Times unit, will leave and step down from
the company’s board in April next year.  The London-based company didn’t give a reason for
Fairhead’s departure in an e-mailed statement, apart from saying
that the executive is “ready to tackle a new set of
challenges.” Investec Securities analyst Steve Liechti said
last month that Fairhead may leave the company because she
didn’t get the top job when Chief Executive Officer Marjorie Scardino announced her departure the same month.  Pearson is emphasizing its education business as new CEO
John Fallon prepares to take the reins from Scardino, who
retires in January. The company wouldn’t rule out a sale of the
Financial Times as Chief Financial Officer Robin Freestone this
month told investors that the company may eventually re- examine
its ownership of the newspaper.  A Pearson spokesman said Fairhead’s decision to leave was
“completely unrelated” to the ownership of the Financial
Times. Fallon, who takes over from Scardino Jan. 1, visited the
Financial Times’ offices last week and said the newspaper was
not for sale, according to the spokesman.  The newspaper that was first printed on pink paper in 1893
and was bought by Pearson in 1957 employs more than 600
journalists and has combined paid print and digital circulation
of about 600,000.  The company has been working to increase digital
subscriptions to compensate for a decline in print sales. The FT
Group reported  sales  that rose 6.4 percent to 216 million pounds
($347 million) in the first half. Adjusted operating profit grew
4.8 percent to 22 million pounds. It accounts for about 8
percent of revenue and 12 percent of profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  