-- Pena Nieto to Urge Obama on Immigration as Mexicans Lack Status
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/pena-nieto-to-urge-obama-on-immigration-as-mexicans-lack-status.html
Mexico  President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto probably will urge President  Barack Obama  to overhaul
an immigration system that has trapped more than 6 million
Mexicans without legal status when the two men meet for the
first time at the White House today.  The odds for breaking a decade-long U.S. legislative
impasse improved when Obama won a second term Nov. 6 with 71
percent support from Hispanic voters, according to exit polls,
pressuring Republicans to either work with him or risk further
alienating a growing political force.  About 12 million Mexicans live in the U.S. and more than
half lack legal status, according to an April study by the Pew
Research Center. While Pena Nieto, 46, has emphasized the need
for greater economic growth to make emigration a choice rather
than a necessity, he has criticized attempts by states such as
Arizona to clamp down on undocumented immigrants, saying the
moves are discriminatory and fail to recognize Mexican
contributions to the  U.S. economy .  Immigration “will undoubtedly be part of the
conversation,” said  Eric Farnsworth , vice president of the
Council of the Americas, a New York-based business organization,
said in a phone interview from Washington. For Pena Nieto,
raising the issue would be “pushing on an open door, because
he’ll find a very receptive President Obama. There’s going to be
very vigorous agreement on this issue.”  ‘Very Soon’  The two leaders are also likely to discuss Mexico’s drug
war, which has cost more than 57,000 lives since President
 Felipe Calderon  sent the army to take on the cartels after
taking office in December 2006, according to a count kept by
Mexico City newspaper Milenio.  They may find more in common over immigration. Obama told a
news conference last week he’s “very confident” accords can be
achieved and that action may begin “very soon” after his
inauguration in January.  An immigration law should be similar to “previous
efforts” and provide a pathway to legal status for law-abiding
undocumented immigrants, Obama said at a Nov. 14 news
conference. Pena Nieto, who takes office Dec. 1, has made it
clear that his nation would support such a move.  “Some analysts detect new momentum for comprehensive
immigration reform since the  U.S. presidential election ,” Pena
Nieto wrote in a column published by the Washington Post on Nov.
23. “All Mexicans would welcome such a development.”  American Economy  Pena Nieto called Obama on Nov. 14 to congratulate him on
his re-election, and they pledged to work together on an agenda
that they will develop during today’s meeting, according to an
e-mailed statement from Pena Nieto’s transition team.  Obama thinks immigration reform is “important not just for
specific communities that would be affected by it, but for the
American economy,” White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters yesterday. “We’ll be pressing for action on
immigration reform. And to the extent that might come up in the
president’s meeting with the president-elect, that would be his
message.”  Pena Nieto will also meet with leaders from the U.S. House
of Representatives and Senate on  Capitol Hill  before moving on
to Ottawa, where he’ll meet with Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
and Canadian lawmakers.  Mexicans are the largest immigrant group in the U.S., while
the money they send home is Mexico’s largest source of foreign
income after automobile and oil exports, the nation’s mining
chamber said in a March report. Remittances to the $1.16
trillion economy totaled $22.8 billion last year.  Nafta  The two leaders also probably will discuss economic
cooperation. Mexico is the biggest buyer of U.S. goods sold
abroad after Canada, and the U.S. in turn buys 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports. Mexico is joining negotiations for a Trans-
Pacific Partnership that would include its partners in the  North
American Free Trade Agreement , which took effect in 1994, as
well as eight nations in  Latin America  and Asia.  On the domestic front, Pena Nieto has pledged to boost tax
collection and open the  energy industry  to more private
investment to help spur an economy that has grown 1.9 percent
annually since Calderon took office in 2006, about half the pace
of Brazil. He also plans to put the  Interior Ministry  in charge
of security and fold the Public Security Ministry into it to
streamline the nation’s fight against crime.  Undocumented Immigrants  While increased U.S. border patrols and deportations, as
well as a weakened U.S. job and housing construction market,
helped cut net migration to zero in recent years, it could pick
up again should the U.S. recovery gather momentum, according to
the Washington-based Pew’s Hispanic Center, a research
organization that seeks to improve public understanding of the
Hispanic population in the U.S.  In June, the Obama administration announced plans to stop
deporting some undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as
children and make them eligible for work permits. The action
bypassed Congress, where legislation known as the Dream Act
designed to give a path to legal status for younger undocumented
immigrants has been stalled.  Previous attempts by Mexico to pressure the U.S. on
immigration have met with little success. On Sept. 6, 2001, then
Mexican President Vicente Fox went to Washington and addressed a
joint meeting of Congress. He urged U.S. lawmakers to trust
Mexico more and allow easier border crossings.  Five days later, hijackers crashed planes into the World
Trade Center and Pentagon, spurring concern about weakness in
the nation’s borders and immigration policy that led to a
decade-long tightening.  Softer Approach  Pena Nieto may take a softer approach than Fox, whose show
of force failed to win over Congress and highlighted that many
Americans see immigration policy as a domestic issue, said
Shannon O’Neil, a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in New York.  Moreover, the border clampdown may have had unintended
consequences in the case of Mexico, said Duncan Wood, director
of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars in Washington. More Mexicans who come to the
U.S. to work on farms in the summer now stay on rather than head
south when colder weather arrives, he said. The tighter
regulations have also spurred more immigrants to bring the rest
of the family across the border rather than endure years of
separation.  “Families have been broken apart,” Wood said in a
telephone interview. “You see single-parent families here in
Mexico where the contact with the father is a remittance check
and a Skype call. It can be a perverse incentive, because in
fact you cause the migration of entire families.”  Partnership  More than anything the meeting may serve as an opportunity
for aides on each side to get to know their counterparts as Pena
Nieto’s inauguration returns his  Institutional Revolutionary
Party  to power after 12 years out of office, O’Neil said. While
Pena Nieto and Obama will meet one on one, there will also be a
session that includes advisers such as Luis Videgaray and Miguel
Osorio Chong, the heads of the Mexican transition team, and U.S.
Vice President  Joe Biden .  “This is hopefully the start of a partnership between the
two to push forward on a bilateral agenda,” O’Neil said in a
telephone interview. “It’s really kicking off ‘We’re going to
be working together for the next four years.’”  ----With assistance from  Julianna Goldman  and  Margaret Talev  in
Washington. Editors: Philip Sanders, Ken Fireman  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 