-- Petronas Plans Property Trust for Malaysian 88-Floor Twin Towers
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-11-27T11:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/petronas-plans-property-trust-for-malaysian-88-floor-twin-towers.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state oil and gas company, said it plans to combine all its
stakes in  Kuala Lumpur ’s 88-floor Petronas Twin Towers into a
real estate investment trust to be formed by  KLCC Property
Holdings Bhd. (KLCC)   KLCC Property will buy the remaining 49.5 percent stake in
the towers it doesn’t already own from Petroliam Nasional, also
known as Petronas, for 2.86 billion ringgit ($938 million),
according to a Kuala Lumpur stock exchange filing today. The
developer then plans to fold the office and shopping complex and
two other Kuala Lumpur  buildings  into a trust called KLCC REIT,
it said.  This would be the country’s first so-called stapled trust.
Units in the REIT would be distributed to KLCC Property’s
shareholders on a one-for-one basis. The shares and units would
then trade as a single listed entity on Kuala Lumpur’s main
stock market as KLCCP Stapled Securities, holding combined
assets of more than 15 billion ringgit, the filing showed.  The restructuring will “maximize  shareholder value ,”
Hashim Wahir, KLCC Property’s chief executive officer, said in
the statement. “The structure will also allow our investors to
continue to benefit from the upside from our future
developments,” he said.  KLCC Property, which owns more than 7 million square feet
of office, shopping malls and hotels in Malaysia’s capital, is
52.6 percent owned by Petronas, according to data compiled
Bloomberg. It will issue new shares to its parent to pay for the
remaining twin towers stake, today’s filing showed.  Principal Advisors  The other two buildings that will be included in KLCC REIT
are Menara 3 Petronas and Menara ExxonMobil, it said.  CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. and CitiGroup Global Markets Ltd.
were the principal advisors on the restructuring, according to
the statement.  KLCC Property, which has  surged 77 percent  this year in
Kuala Lumpur, will resume trading tomorrow after suspending its
shares this afternoon for the announcement.  The developer today reported  net income  of 1.17 billion
ringgit for the three months ended Sept. 30, up from 71 million
ringgit a year earlier, according to a separate exchange filing
today. The company proposed a dividend of 4 sen per share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  