-- Petrobras Ethanol Pipeline Pullback Raising Fuel Price
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-11-27T02:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/petrobras-ethanol-pipeline-pullback-raising-fuel-price.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s decision to
suspend investment in a $3.1 billion ethanol pipeline, the
world’s largest, is spurring speculation the project will be
scaled back and fail to lower fuel prices at the pump.  Petrobras, as the state-run  oil company  is known, won’t
make payments next year for the 1,300-kilometer (808-mile)
pipeline, according to sugar cooperative Copersucar SA, one of
the six companies that co-own the project. An official at
Petrobras in Rio de Janeiro declined to comment on the planned
pipeline.  Investment in Brazilian ethanol capacity has plunged and
production has stagnated since the pipeline proposal was
conceived in 2007. The Petrobras move suggests the pipeline may
be shortened or delayed, according to analysts including Sao
Paulo-based Archer Consulting’s Arnaldo Correa and Bloomberg New
Energy Finance’s Salim Morsy.  “The government, in a way, abandoned the ethanol sector
after” oil discoveries in the so-called pre-salt region, said
 Adriano Pires , the head of the Brazilian Center for
Infrastructure, a consulting firm in Rio de Janeiro. “Sugar
mills are looking to the government and no one in the government
will say what will happen.”  Petrobras is prioritizing investment in oil exploration and
production as crude output will probably decline this year for
the first time since 2004. Earnings dropped in the past seven
quarters and its refining unit lost $8.4 billion in the first
nine months of 2012, mainly from importing gasoline and selling
it below cost to meet surging demand in  Brazil .  Ethanol Policy  Brazil plans to revise its ethanol policies to spur
investment in the industry, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel
said Oct. 18 on the country’s public radio network. The Mining
and Energy Ministry declined to comment on Petrobras’s decision
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions.  The mix of sugarcane-based ethanol in Brazilian gasoline is
20 percent. Petrobras is seeking to increase that to 25 percent.  Copersucar Chairman Luis Roberto Pogetti said on a Nov. 5
conference call with reporters that Petrobras’s decision won’t
affect the development of the project. Copersucar remains
committed to the plan, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday. An official in  Rio de Janeiro  at Logum Logistica SA,
the company developing the pipeline, declined to comment.  Petrobras Chief Downstream Officer Paulo Roberto Costa
spoke about the pipeline at an ethanol summit last July in  Sao
Paulo , saying it would cost 6.5 billion reais ($3.1 billion),
according to the company’s website.  The first section of the pipeline, 208 kilometers
stretching across Sao Paulo state, is due to go into operation
in March.  Cheapest Transportation  About 90 percent of the ethanol produced in Brazil is moved
by long-haul trucks, often from mills in the interior to coastal
cities, where it’s consumed or loaded onto ships for export.
Another 6 percent goes by rail, while 3 percent uses existing
pipelines and 1 percent is sent by rivers.  Pipelines are the cheapest form of transport in Brazil
after waterways and the pipeline project may reduce transport
costs by 7 centavos, said Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in Sao Paulo, in a telephone interview.  Brazilian gasoline  sold  at an average of 2.75 reais a liter
at the pump for the week ended Nov. 17, according to the
Brazilian fuel regulator’s website. Ethanol sold for 1.88 reais.
Ethanol results in 30 percent less mileage than gasoline.  Petrobras, Raizen Energia SA, Copersucar and Odebrecht
Transport Participacoes SA each own 20 percent of Logum. Uniduto
Logistica SA and Camargo Correa SA each hold 10 percent.  Marcelo Martins, the chief financial officer at Raizen
controlling shareholder  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio (CSAN3) , said in
an interview yesterday the pipeline partners are committed to
the project and will make the necessary investments.  Central Brazil Mills  A pipeline may cut the cost of transporting ethanol by 50
percent from Goias, the center-west state where the project is
expected to terminate, said Andre Rocha, president of the
state’s ethanol industry association, or Sifaeg. About 60
percent of the region’s ethanol is shipped out of the state.  A shorter pipeline “would not just be bad for the state of
Goias and mills here but for the whole sector,” Rocha said.  BNDES, Brazil’s national development bank,  approved  a 1.7
billion-real loan in September 2011 to fund the project’s first
 phase , comprising four terminals and a network of 476 kilometers
of pipes linking the states of Sao Paulo and  Minas Gerais ,
including the section that will be complete in March. A BNDES
official in Rio de Janeiro declined to say whether the money has
been disbursed to Logum.  Missed Expectations  Petrobras started studying the pipeline in 2007, when the
ethanol industry was booming. Brazil produced 22 billion liters
(5.8 billion gallons) that year and projections at the time
anticipated annual production of 36 billion liters by 2016, when
the pipeline would reach the center-west, Morsy said.  The original plan called for a pipeline capable of carrying
21 billion liters of ethanol a year and Brazil’s government
expected to be exporting at least 9 billion liters by 2016.  The ethanol business hasn’t met those expectations, in part
because the financial crisis of 2008 dried up investment in cane
production, said Morsy. Production this year will be about 21
billion liters, and exports will total 2.5 billion liters, down
from a peak of 5.1 billion liters in 2008, he said.  Investments in new capacity in Goias fell by more than half
to about 750 million reais last year from an average of 2
billion reais a year between 2005 and 2010, Rocha said.  Less Necessary  At the same time, internal demand for the renewable fuel
has increased, driving down exports and making a pipeline to
coastal ports less necessary, said Archer Consulting’s Correa.  The project’s western-most segment, scheduled to pass close
to mills run by Raizen, Petrobras and Odebrecht’s ethanol-
producing unit ETH Bioenergia SA, may not be necessary, Pires
said. Officials for Odebrecht, Raizen and a spokesman for
Camargo Correa declined to comment when contacted by  Bloomberg
News . An Uniduto official didn’t respond to an e-mail.  If Petrobras also suspends investments in 2014, some of its
partners may follow suit, Pires said, which may strand mills
along its planned route.  “Many of these mills in the center west were built
assuming the pipeline would be ready when they came online,”
said Correa. “If that’s not the case, it’ll be a real
problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  