-- Petronas Chemicals Profit Slides on Lower Product Prices, Sales
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-11-27T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/petronas-chemicals-profit-slides-on-lower-product-prices-sales.html
Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM) ,
Malaysia’s fifth-biggest company by market value, reported a 38
percent fall in third-quarter profit on lower petrochemical
sales and prices.  Net income  dropped to 742 million ringgit ($244 million),
or 9 sen per share, in the three months ended Sept. 30, from 1.2
billion ringgit, or 15 sen a year earlier, the Kuala Lumpur-
based petrochemicals group said in an exchange filing yesterday.
Revenue dropped 15 percent to 3.9 billion ringgit, it said.  “The lower revenue comes on the back of both lower prices
and lower volumes,” Petronas Chemicals said in the statement.
“Feedstock prices did not move in tandem with lower product
prices.”  Petronas Chemicals, an arm of  Malaysia ’s state oil and gas
group Petroliam Nasional Bhd., said last month it will book a
charge of about 560 million ringgit in the fourth quarter after
deciding to discontinue its vinyl business at the end of this
year. The resulting drop in production capacity should reduce
earnings over the next two years, Teh Kian Yeong, an analyst at
K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd., said in a report Oct. 30.  Teh cut the bank’s  target price  for the stock to 6.99
ringgit from 7.46 ringgit.  Production was constrained in the third quarter by
feedstock limitations in its olefins and derivatives division,
Petronas Chemicals said. Plant maintenance disrupted its
fertilizers and methanol operations, it said.  Petronas Chemicals  shares  have underperformed this year,
falling 1.8 percent compared with a 4.4 rally in the benchmark
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. The stock fell 0.2 percent to
6.09 ringgit yesterday ahead of the earnings announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  