-- Phillies Catcher Ruiz Suspended 25 Games by MLB for Amphetamines
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/phillies-catcher-ruiz-suspended-25-games-by-mlb-for-amphetamines.html
Philadelphia Phillies catcher Carlos Ruiz will be suspended for the first 25 games of the 2013 Major
League Baseball season because of amphetamine use.  The office of MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, which announced
the suspension yesterday, said Ruiz will be allowed to
participate in spring training drills and exhibition games
before the season.  “I am sincerely regretful for my mistake in taking a
prohibited stimulant,” Ruiz said in a statement released by the
Major League Baseball Players Association. “I apologize to my
teammates, the Phillies organization and the Philadelphia fans.
I will serve the imposed 25-game suspension to begin the
season.”  The Philadelphia Inquirer reported, based on two people
within MLB who were not identified, that Ruiz tested positive
for Adderall and that the suspension was triggered by his second
positive test for that stimulant.  The newspaper also said the Phillies exercised a $5 million
option for the 2013 season on the catcher last month, and that
the suspension will cost Ruiz about $750,000 in lost salary.  “We are disappointed by the news of this violation of the
program,” Phillies General Manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said in a
statement released by the team. “We will support Carlos in an
appropriate manner.”  Adderall, a stimulant used to treat attention-deficit
hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, is used by athletes as an
energy booster. Its use has led to several recent suspensions in
the National Football League, including  New York  Giants safeties
Will Hill and Tyler Sash.  Drug-Test Program  Under MLB’s drug-testing program, Ruiz was subject to six
unannounced follow-up tests over the 12 months after his
original violation, in addition to standard random testing. Ruiz
would be suspended 80 games for a third positive test.  Ruiz, 33, has been the Phillies’ starting catcher since
2007 and made the All-Star team for the first time in 2012. He
hit .325 with 16 home runs and 68 runs batted in last season,
all career highs.  In 2010, he caught a perfect game by Roy Halladay in May
and a no-hitter by Halladay in the playoffs against the
Cincinnati Reds, becoming the first major leaguer in 59 years to
catch two no-hitters by the same pitcher during one season. The
previous player to do that was Yogi Berra of the New York
Yankees, who caught two no-hitters by Allie Reynolds in 1951.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  