-- Poland Seeks to Limit Zloty Impact on Public Debt Calculations
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-11-27T16:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/poland-seeks-to-limit-zloty-impact-on-public-debt-calculations.html
Poland  plans to limit the impact of
currency swings on the value of its debt to avoid breaching
limits that would trigger compulsory austerity measures.  The government approved changes in public finance law that
will allow it to use average annual exchange rates to calculate
the portion of public debt in foreign currencies at the end of
the year, according to an e-mailed statement today. It will also
be able to subtract funds raised to finance next year’s
borrowing needs from its debt stock to work out the ratio, the
government said after a cabinet meeting.  Poland stepped into the market to stem the zloty weakening
at the end of last year as that would have increased the value
of its obligations in foreign currencies. Public debt topping 55
percent of economic output would force the government to raise
some taxes.  “We’ve been thinking for quite some time on how to avoid
the impact of the zloty on the level of public debt,” Prime
Minister Donald Tusk said at a news conference following the
government meeting. “I believe we’ve reached our goal.”  The ministry is using the so-called fixing rate from the
last working day of the year to determine the public debt level
in zloty. Thirty one percent of Poland’s obligations are in
foreign currencies, data compiled by Bloomberg  show . The debt
stood at 53.5 percent of economic output at the end of last
year, according to the  Finance Ministry .  The planned changes will be debated in parliament. The
government wants the amended rules to apply to this year’s debt
calculations, Deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk said on
Sept. 18.  The zloty appreciated as much as 0.2 percent to 4.0907 per
euro, the strongest level since Oct. 18, and traded at 4.0965 as
of 5:04 p.m. in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  