-- Pop-Up Revolution Gets U.K. Shoppers in Holiday Spirit
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-11-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/pop-up-revolution-gets-u-k-shoppers-in-holiday-spirit.html
With a seventh of storefronts in
Britain’s malls and town centers standing empty, U.K. merchants
are filling the spaces with temporary outlets to help salvage a
difficult year.  The highest level of vacancies in more than 12 months means
there’s ample room for so-called pop-up stores, which usually
stay in business for just a few weeks or months.  “The opportunity is there because there is so much space
available,” said Maureen Hinton, retail director at  Verdict
Research  in London. The number of pop-ups is “definitely
increasing,” she said, without providing an estimate.  After a year of deteriorating  consumer confidence  and lower
incomes, stores more than ever need a boost for the holidays,
when retailers in some sectors can make more than a third of
their annual sales.  No longer just a publicity stunt, pop-ups are providing
retailers with a way to get their toes wet in a market without
committing to a longer lease. While some decide to stay on
beyond the pop-up term, others will pack up their wares and
enjoy the short-term sales increase.  Fashion chain Hobbs is among those that have opened
makeshift stores for the first time this year, while CD and DVD
retailer  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  is adding more than usual for the holiday
in an effort to win business. The phenomenon is spreading, with
such outlets also popping up at  Heathrow airport  and inside the
Selfridges department store.  Low Rent  Pop-ups “are becoming more prevalent around seasonal
events, and Christmas is the biggest,” said Neil Mason, head of
retail research at Mintel International in London.  Average  U.K. retail sales  this year have risen less than
inflation, meaning shoppers are buying less, according to the
 British Retail Consortium . December spending will rise by 3
percent, Mintel forecasts, providing an extra boost to
shopkeepers with temporary outlets.  Pop-up stores typically pay landlords little or no rent
outside of services such as electricity and construction costs.
For property owners, the aim is to add retailers that can bring
in more customers and improve the shopping experience.  HMV says it plans to open about 15 pop-ups for the holiday,
versus 8-10 in recent years. Closely-held  Hobbs  is seeking to
add as many as four of them in the run-up to Christmas after
turning its first pop-up, in  London ’s Spitalfields market, into
a permanent location.  The additional space “allows us to increase the profile of
the brand at an important time of year,” said Hobbs Chief
Executive Officer Nicky Dulieu.  Empty Space  About 14 percent of U.K. retail outlets are empty, up
slightly from last year, according to researcher Local Data
Company, which says an average of 20 stores closed daily in the
country’s top 500 town centers during the first half of 2012.  That means landlords are more willing to offer shorter
leases, according to Rosie Cann, director of  Popupspace Ltd , a
consulting firm that has brokered deals for as little as one day
and as long as a year.  “I’ve seen the effect of empty space on landlords,” Cann
said. “They are much more amenable and flexible now.”  Harvey Nichols , the luxury London department store, opened
three pop-up food outlets in northern and central  England  for
the Christmas rush. The upscale retailer sees the temporary
units as a way of introducing its hampers and gift sets to a
wider audience, said Iain Mackenzie, the retailer’s acting
director for pop-ups.  Brandy Butter  In the stores, 9.50-pound tea and biscuit gift packs sit
alongside 500-pound Let it Snow Christmas hampers packed with
brandy butter, Christmas pudding, marzipan fruits and Champagne.  Selfridges  offers pop-up space to fashion brands inside its
London flagship for six to eight weeks so the store regularly
has new products, said Creative Director Linda Hewson. It
currently has six, including a Hermes scarf range designed by
digital artist Miguel Chevalier.  Hewson said she expects pop-ups to become a growing
phenomenon in U.K. town centers, a sentiment shared by Johnnie
Boden, founder of the online and mail-order fashion retailer
that bears his name.  A pop-up “definitely drives sales,” Boden said. His
company has a six-month lease on a former Karen Millen store at
the Bullring shopping center in Birmingham where it’s showcasing
clothes that most customers only see on the Web or in catalogs.  James Bond  Once mostly the domain of charity shops and inventory
clearances, pop-ups aren’t just about boosting revenue. John
Lewis Partnership Plc’s first such store in Exeter was about
marketing a new outlet in the city, Managing Director Andy Street said.  Makeshift shops are also springing up at U.K. airports as
retailers seek short-term leases to reach wealthy, gift-buying
travelers. At Heathrow’s Terminal Five, an Omega  James Bond 
theme store showcases products worn in the Skyfall movie.
Crystal-ornament maker Swarovski also has pop-up space there,
while fashion brand  Ted Baker  and fragrance maker Chanel are
taking up temporary space at Terminal One.  Brands such as Jack Wills Ltd. that wouldn’t previously
have been offered stores at Heathrow have opened pop-ups there
to prove they have sufficient appeal, according to Muriel Zingraff, the airport’s retail concessions director.  “We wouldn’t have been comfortable giving them space
without giving them a pop-up space before,” Zingraff said. Now,
she said, Wills will “definitely be considered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  