-- Portugal, Ireland to Benefit From Greek Deal, Gaspar Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-11-27T17:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/portugal-ireland-to-benefit-from-greek-deal-gaspar-says.html
Portugal and Ireland will benefit
after European finance ministers eased the terms on emergency
aid for  Greece , Portuguese Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said.  “This agreement limits the risks for Greece and for the
euro area,” Gaspar said in parliament in Lisbon today.
“Portugal and Ireland, which are program countries, will
benefit through the conditions opened in the framework of the
European Financial Stability Mechanism, according to the
principle of equal treatment adopted in the euro-area summit in
July 2011.”  Gaspar was referring to the European Financial Stability
Facility, said an official at the Finance Ministry.  European finance ministers cut the rates on Greece’s
bailout loans, suspended interest payments for a decade, gave
that country more time to repay and engineered a Greek bond
buyback at a meeting in Brussels that ended early today.  Portugal , which in April 2011 followed Greece and Ireland
in requesting a European Union-led bailout, has already been
given more time to narrow its budget shortfall after tax revenue
missed forecasts and as the economy heads for a third year of
contraction in 2013. Revenue this year from tax and social-
security contributions will be about 3.3 billion euros ($4.3
billion) less than planned in the budget, Gaspar said Oct. 3.  Portugal’s two-year note yield dropped 28 basis points to
3.945 percent as of 4:59 p.m. in  London  today. Ten-year bond
yields slipped 27 basis points to 7.749 percent. The difference
in yield that investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds
instead of German bunds has narrowed to 6.31 percentage points
from 16 percentage points on Jan. 31.  ‘Positive Effect’  “The decisions aimed at contributing to the sustainability
of Greek debt should also have a positive effect on the
Portuguese case, namely those allowing the extension of debt
maturities and the deferral of interest payments,” Tiago Veiga Anjos, an analyst at Oporto, northern Portugal-based  Banco BPI
SA (BPI) , said today in a research note.  The interest rate on the financial-aid loans Portugal is
receiving is 3.6 percent, Gaspar said on Nov. 6.  The government forecasts  debt  will rise to 120 percent of
gross domestic product this year. Debt will peak at 122.3
percent of GDP in 2014 after reaching 122.2 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  