-- Pound Rises Against Euro on Greece Concern; U.K. Gilts Decline
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-11-27T16:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/pound-rises-against-euro-on-greek-concern-gilts-erase-decline.html
The pound rose for the first time in
four days against the euro amid speculation an agreement among
European finance ministers to ease the terms of emergency aid
for  Greece  will fail to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Sterling strengthened versus most of its 16 major
counterparts after a report confirmed Britain’s  economy  exited a
double-dip recession in the third quarter, underpinning demand
for the U.K. currency. European finance ministers meeting in
Brussels cut the rates on bailout loans for Greece, suspended
interest payments for a decade, gave the country more time to
repay and engineered a bond buyback. U.K. gilts declined.  “None of it speaks to it being a smooth process,” said
 Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK)  in  London . “The euro-zone crisis is not going to
go away smoothly, it’s just one fraught step after another. The
U.K. currency represents a credible safe haven for people
looking to diversify away” from the euro.  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to 80.75 pence per euro
at 4:40 p.m. London time after strengthening through its 200-day
moving average for the first time since Nov. 22. It earlier
depreciated to 81.14 pence, the weakest since Oct. 24. The U.K.
currency was little changed at $1.6024 after rising to $1.6056,
the highest since Nov. 2.  Sterling was supported as investors questioned whether
Greece can stomach further economic discipline and whether the
bond buyback will generate enough savings. A shortfall would put
outright debt relief back on the agenda.  Details of the bond purchases are still to be worked out,
an European Union spokesman said today in Brussels.  ‘Very Difficult’  U.K.  gross domestic product  rose 1 percent from the second
quarter, the same as reported on Oct. 25, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in London. No revision was forecast,
according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King sees U.K. inflation
above target for some time, slowing in medium term, he told
lawmakers in London today. The chances of a rapid recovery in
the U.K. are not very great, he said.  Sterling has been boosted this year by investors seeking an
alternative to euro-area assets. The U.K. currency has
appreciated 1.4 percent in 2012, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market
currencies. The euro has weakened 2.2 percent.  ‘Grand Statements’  The yield on the  10-year gilt  climbed two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.85 percent after rising to 1.88
percent, the highest level since Nov. 2. The 1.75 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 dropped 0.13, or 1.30 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 99.08.  “The market moves remain Greece-related,” said  Brian Barry , a London-based analyst at Investec Bank Plc. For “all
the grand statements of unity, you could argue that some of the
forecasts are based upon relatively optimistic scenarios.
Investors are likely to remain reluctant to draw a line under
the Greek crisis just yet.”  Gilts returned 2.8 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
3.6 percent and U.S. Treasuries rose 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  