-- Prysmian Loses Bid to Halt Australian Antitrust Suit
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-11-27T05:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/prysmian-loses-bid-to-halt-australian-antitrust-suit.html
Prysmian SpA, (PRY)   Nexans SA (NEX)  and Japanese
cable suppliers lost a bid in Australia to stop a regulator
lawsuit claiming they conspired to fix prices.  Prysmian, Nexans, Viscas Corp., Exsym Corp. and J-Power
Systems Corp. formed a cartel and agreed not to compete against
each other on price in bids for projects for the supply of land
and submarine-based cables, the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission said in a 2009 lawsuit.  Australia Federal Court Justice Bruce Lander yesterday
 dismissed  Nexans’ claim that it didn’t operate in the country
and Prysmian’s objection that the ACCC’s lawsuit relies on
inadmissible hearsay evidence. Lander also allowed the ACCC to
file additional evidence, in his judgment released in Adelaide.  Prysmian has also been named in a similar case before the
European Commission.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., (GS)  which formerly
owned the cable systems company through its private equity units,
said the European Commission told the firm it may have to pay
fines related to the case.  Goldman’s private-equity funds bought the power-cable unit
and telecommunications cable business from Milan-based Pirelli &
C. SpA in 2005 and renamed it Prysmian Cables & Systems, which
became Prysmian SpA in 2007. The Goldman funds sold the Prysmian
shares in 2009.  The European Commission sent complaints to 12 companies
“that may have colluded to allocate markets and customers for
underground and submarine power cable projects and fix prices,”
according to a July 6 statement from the commission. Prysmian
said on July 5 that it had received an antitrust complaint and
that it would defend itself.  Snowy Hydro  In  Australia  the ACCC persuaded the judge that evidence
presented is sufficient to warrant a trial on the charges,
citing a tender issued by Snowy Hydro Ltd. in 2003 as an example,
for which the cartel agreed Prysmian would bid, according to
Lander’s judgment. Prysmian didn’t win the tender.  “Although neither Prysmian nor Nexans were ultimately
successful in winning the tender, that is not to the point if
they were engaged in cartel conduct,” Lander wrote.  The case is Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
v. Prysmian Cavi E Systemi Energia SRI (Formerly Pirelli Cavi E
Systemi Energia Spa. File No. SAD145/2009. Federal Court of
Australia (Adelaide).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  