-- Python Presses Illinois for Worst-State Pension Fix: Muni Credit
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/python-presses-illinois-for-worst-state-pension-fix-muni-credit.html
Three months after the Illinois
legislature failed to solve its pension crisis and prompted a
credit-rating cut, Governor  Pat Quinn  is turning to an orange
cartoon snake for help.  A video featuring “ Squeezy the Pension Python ,” which
threatens to strangle the capitol building in Springfield, is
the backdrop to today’s return of both chambers. Lawmakers will
make another attempt to restructure the nation’s worst-funded
state retirement system, which is saddled with $97 billion in
unpaid obligations and faces financial collapse if costs aren’t
brought under control.  While Quinn’s animated campaign is the latest effort to
right the state’s finances, the figure that looms largest in the
search for a solution is 35: That’s the number of lawmakers
ending legislative stints in January, putting them in position
to cast unpopular votes without concern for voter retribution.  “It certainly gives the lame ducks some latitude they
didn’t have when they were seeking re-election,” said James
Nowlan, a former legislator and now a member of the Illinois
Executive Ethics Commission.  Growing Challenge  The retirement hole has deepened, according to the Civic
Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit research group. The
combined funded ratio of the state’s five pensions fell to 39
percent as of June 30, from 43.3 percent at the end of fiscal
2011. No other state’s ratio was below 50 percent in that year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Illinois also has about $8
billion in unpaid bills.  A group headed by  Paul Volcker , the former Federal Reserve
chairman, and  Richard Ravitch , the former New York lieutenant
governor, said in October that Illinois’s pensions are
“destined for insolvency” and may absorb a quarter of the
state’s budget in 2015.  Three months ago,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the state’s credit
one level to A, sixth-highest, citing retiree costs, and gave it
a negative outlook. Only  California , ranked A-, has a weaker
rating among U.S. states.  Yet investors searching for extra income with yields at
four-decade lows have made Illinois bonds the most expensive
relative to top-rated debt since 2011. Ten-year benchmark muni
yields fell to  1.43 percent  yesterday, the lowest since a
Bloomberg Valuation index began in January 2009.  August Failure  The yield penalty on  Illinois  pension debt maturing in 2023
over Treasuries has fallen about 15 percent since Aug. 17, when
lawmakers failed to take action on a cost-cutting overhaul.  The taxable general obligations traded at an average yield
of about 4.2 percent in the past week, reaching the lowest in
more than a month. It’s still more than double the  interest rate 
on 10-year Treasuries.  The  spread  on an index of Illinois state and local tax-
exempts relative to AAA bonds narrowed last month to 1.43
percentage points, the smallest since February 2011, Bloomberg
data show.  “It is just so hard to get at the root of what the
motivations are and what it will require to get to a solution,”
said Chris Mier, chief muni strategist at Loop Capital Markets
in  Chicago . Still, when investors consider a purchase, “all
risks can be compensated through reward.”  Quinn, a 63-year-old Democrat, will meet individually with
legislative leaders to “try to reach common ground” on the
issue, said Brooke Anderson, his press secretary.  Squeezy Talk  “Some people think it’s very creative, and some people
think it’s silly,” she said of the python. “But the bottom
line is that people are talking about the pension squeeze;
Squeezy is the talk of Illinois.”  There’s precedent for legislators advancing controversial
laws in lame-duck sessions. The session two years ago concluded
with lawmakers approving a 67 percent increase in the personal-
income tax, a death penalty ban and legalization of civil
unions.  While history has shown the number of exiting lawmakers --
about a fifth of the legislature this year -- improves the
prospects of passing controversial legislation, pension changes
that affect hundreds of thousands of government workers and
retirees have proved to be politically explosive.  “We all know the ingredients that are needed,” said
Senator Jeff Schoenberg, a suburban Chicago Democrat who is
leaving the statehouse after a 22-year career. “It’s primarily
a question of getting it done politically,”  Burdening Children  As state pension liabilities mounted after the 18-month
recession that started in December 2007, business executives
have bankrolled television ads warning that children will pay
for retirement liabilities.  In the face of opposition from public-employee unions and
school districts and threats of lawsuits, lawmakers have balked
at resolving the crisis.  “What will happen is you get to a meltdown -- you’ll have
fewer services and less and less ability to address it,” said
 James Spiotto , a partner and bankruptcy specialist at the
Chicago law firm of Chapman & Cutler LLP. “This is the death
spiral,” he said in an interview.  A pension restructuring vote -- if one occurs -- may come
in January, said Senate President John Cullerton. The session
must end by Jan. 9, when the new legislature is sworn in.  “Everybody assumes it’s easier to pass bills in a lame-
duck session and the track record seems to show that,” Nowlan
said. “But these folks have to go home and live in their
communities and deal with state employees and teachers affected
by pensions.  “Don’t automatically assume this is an easy vote,” Nowlan
said.  Following are pending municipal-bond sales:  COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, plans to issue $330 million of
general-obligation debt as soon as this week to refinance debt,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. (Added Nov. 26)  NORTH CAROLINA MUNICIPAL POWER AGENCY NUMBER 1 is set to
sell about $616 million of debt as soon as this week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will refund debt and
finance improvements to a nuclear power plant, according to bond
documents. (Updated Nov. 27)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  