-- Ralcorp Said to Have Taken Only a Month on ConAgra Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ralcorp-said-to-have-taken-only-a-month-on-conagra-deal.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) , the food
maker that spent much of last year rebuffing  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ,
took only about a month to forge terms with its suitor this time
around, said people familiar with the matter.  Typically a deal would take at least five or six months,
said one of these people, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations were private. ConAgra approached Ralcorp in late
October, said the people, and announced the $5 billion takeover
yesterday.  The new discussions began more than a year after Omaha,
Nebraska-based ConAgra scrapped a previous offer for Ralcorp,
when the latter’s  board  refused to negotiate following a six-
month pursuit. The previous talks with St. Louis-based Ralcorp
made it easier for ConAgra to move quickly on a transaction
since it had already conducted some of its own due diligence,
said the people.  Ralcorp also wanted to cement the deal ahead of releasing
mixed fourth-quarter results, the people said. The company said
yesterday that sales amounted to $1.07 billion, short of the
$1.1 billion average estimate of analysts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Matt Pudlowski, a spokesman for Ralcorp, said that while
the company has stated that 2012 was a difficult year, he didn’t
think the company rushed to complete a deal to distract from its
latest results. He didn’t respond to a follow-up call seeking
comment.  Corvex’s Influence  Ralcorp agreed to a deal partly because of increased
pressure from top Ralcorp shareholder Corvex Management LP, the
activist investing group run by Keith Meister, which had pushed
the private-label food maker to pursue a combination, said two
of the people. Meister bought into the company on Aug. 23 and
first began talks with Ralcorp in mid-September, said a person
familiar with the matter.  ConAgra and its advisers decided to restart talks after
Ralcorp added Meister to the board in October without a fight,
said one of these people. ConAgra, led by Chief Executive
Officer Gary Rodkin, saw that as a sign Ralcorp would be more
open to a deal, said this person.  Corvex partner Nicholas Graziano declined to comment.
Teresa Paulsen, a spokeswoman for ConAgra, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  Price Talk  ConAgra told Ralcorp days ago it wouldn’t go above $90 per
share and was happy to see the  price  tick down from $74 a share
in early November to about $70 on Nov. 26, this person said. The
deal values Corvex’s Ralcorp stake at about $262.3 million, or
almost $60 million more than the day before the transaction
announcement, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last year, the maker of store-brand sauces, pastas and
other foods snubbed an offer of $94 a share from ConAgra,
deciding instead to pursue a spinoff of the  Post Holdings Inc. (POST) 
business, whose brands include the eponymous cereals. The
division began trading on its own in February and closed at
$34.72 yesterday in  New York .  Since shareholders got one share in Post for every two
Ralcorp shares they held, anyone still holding both would get a
total value of $107.50 a share, said Sarah Donnelly, a portfolio
manager with Gabelli & Co., whose funds and affiliates
collectively own 2.3 percent of Ralcorp.  The deal also gives ConAgra a much larger presence in the
private-label food business, which the company has been trying
to grow, Donnelly said in a phone interview.  “It’s a good price for Ralcorp shareholders and a good
deal for ConAgra,” Donnelly said.  Legal Advice  Centerview Partners LLC and Bank of America Corp. provided
financial advice to ConAgra, while Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
offered legal counsel. Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
served as advisers to Ralcorp, with Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz
giving legal advice.  Yesterday, Ralcorp reported fourth-quarter  earnings ,
excluding some costs and gains, of 71 cents a share. Excluding
acquisition-related amortization, adjusted earnings were 92
cents. Analysts on average projected profit of 87 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gross margin, or the
percentage of sales left after the cost of goods sold, shrank to
19.2 percent on an adjusted basis, compared with 20.9 percent a
year earlier.  ConAgra advanced 4.7 percent to $29.63 yesterday in New
York. Ralcorp surged 26 percent to $88.80.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  