-- Ramaphosa’s Shanduka Buys $335 Million Stake in MTN Nigeria Unit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-11-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ramaphosa-s-shanduka-buys-335-million-stake-in-mtn-nigeria-unit.html
Shanduka Group Ltd., the South
African  investment company  led by businessman  Cyril Ramaphosa ,
bought a minority stake in  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ’s Nigerian unit in a
strategy to tap into faster-growing African markets.  Shanduka acquired a $335 million stake in Nigeria’s largest
mobile operator with more than 45.6 million subscribers, it said
in a statement. Shanduka said it bought the stake through its
Mauritian unit from three private investors including private-
equity company African Capital Alliance. MTN, Africa’s biggest
mobile-phone operator, has an effective 78.8 percent of MTN
Nigeria Communications Ltd., according to the statement.  The deal is part of a plan to expand on the continent
outside  South Africa , where growth rates are expected to exceed
those in its home market, Shanduka Chief Executive Officer Phuti
Mahanyele said yesterday. Nigeria’s economy is expected to grow
by 6.5 percent this year and in 2013, President  Goodluck
Jonathan  said on Oct. 10. The  International Monetary Fund 
expects growth in sub-Saharan Africa to reach 5.7 percent in
2013, while South Africa will probably expand 3 percent, it said
on Oct. 9.  “It’s a compelling story for us,” Mahanyele said by phone
from Johannesburg. “Nigeria is the biggest telecoms market in
Africa, surpassing South Africa. It’s an attractive destination
and the density is at such a level that there is the opportunity
for growth.”  Shanduka may consider an initial public offering of its
stock at an appropriate time, Mahanyele said. The group “is
still at the early stages of deciding what portion of the
business we would list” and whether it would list the entire
company or industry groups, such as its diversified resources
investments, she said.  The company’s investments include coal, platinum, property,
energy, telecommunications, fast foods and financial services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  