-- RBS Asks U.K. Court to Block Highland’s Texas Fraud Claim
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-11-27T16:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/rbs-asks-u-k-court-to-block-highland-s-texas-fraud-claim-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
asked a London appeal court to block Highland Capital Management
LP from suing it in  Texas  over a collapsed debt deal even though
one of the lender’s witnesses lied at a previous hearing.  RBS failed in May to win a U.K. court order stopping
Highland’s $100 million U.S. lawsuit accusing the British lender
of fraudulently terminating a collateralized-debt obligation at
the height of the 2008 financial crisis. Judge  Michael Burton 
criticized RBS at the time after finding one of its witnesses
lied in evidence given to the court.  Appealing that decision today, RBS lawyer John Nicholls
said while the bank accepted its evidence had been dishonest,
that wasn’t “an independent and strong reason” for not
granting the injunction.  Highland also appealed against part of the May ruling,
which said the Dallas-based firm was liable to pay RBS about 19
million pounds ($30.5 million) for the failed CDO deal.  Highland claims Edinburgh-based RBS used an accounting
provision in 2008 to terminate the Highland CDO and seize the
underlying loans at a profit. The firm, founded by James Dondero
and Mark Okada in 1993, invests chiefly in credit markets.  RBS apologized to Highland and the court after Judge Burton
found one its employees, Sam Griffiths, had lied about the
transfer of the loans, Nicholls said.  Highland dropped a Dallas lawsuit against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in
June over the management of a $921 million collateralized loan
obligation. The firm has been involved in litigation with UBS
AG, a Houston pension fund and rapper Jay-Z over disputed debt
deals.  The May ruling “found that RBS misled both the court and
Highland Capital,” Stefan Prelog, a spokesman for Highland,
said in an e-mail. “We are confident the appellate court will
support this finding.”  RBS declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  