-- Treasuries Rise as Two-Year Note Auction Attracts Record Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-27T22:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/treasuries-rise-after-u-s-sells-35-billion-in-two-year-notes.html
Treasuries rose for a second day as
concern that  Greece ’s bailout may falter and U.S. deficit-
reduction plans are elusive spurred record demand at the U.S.
sale of $35 billion in two-year debt.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio at today’s sale, which gauges demand
by comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered,
was 4.07, matching the record high in November 2011 and compared
with an average of 3.79 for the past 10 sales. The  Federal
Reserve  bought $1.9 billion of Treasuries today and is acquiring
as much as $18.76 billion in six purchases this week. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he was “disappointed” by a
lack of progress in addressing the so-called fiscal cliff.  “There are fundamental things in place that are putting
downward pressure on yields,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The fiscal-cliff issue is the major near-term
overhang. The Greek bailout was unable to instill much
confidence in the pace of reform in  Europe .”  The benchmark 10-year yield fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 5:02 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in November 2022 added 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 28/32.  The current  two-year yield  was little changed at 0.26
percent.  Bid Data  The notes auction drew a yield of 0.270 percent at today’s
auction, compared with a forecast of 0.272 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Fed’s primary dealers.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 34.4 percent of the two-year notes,
compared with an average of 31.4 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 23.6 percent of
the securities, compared with a record 38.2 percent at the
October sale, and an average of 14.6 percent for the past 10
auctions.  Investors are hiding in the securities until they get
through the fiscal negotiations in Washington, said  Scott Graham , head of government-bond trading in  Chicago  at  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, a primary dealer.  Investor Positions  Investors in Treasuries held bullish bets unchanged this
week, while cutting shorts, according to a survey by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net longs was at four percentage points
in the week ending yesterday, according to JPMorgan, up from two
percentage points the week ending Nov. 19.  The percent of outright longs remained at 17 percent, while
the percent of outright shorts, or bets the securities will fall
in value, dropped to 13 percent, from 15 percent, according to
the survey.  Investors raised neutral bets to 70 percent from 68
percent, the survey reported, matching the highest level since
August.  Two-year notes have returned 0.2 percent this year,
compared with a 2.4 percent gain by Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The two-year
securities returned 1.5 percent in 2011, while Treasuries
overall rose 9.8 percent.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of five-year debt tomorrow
and $29 billion of seven-year notes on Nov. 29.  Fed Buys  The Fed purchased Treasuries maturing from February 2023 to
May 2030 today as part of its Operation Twist program to put
downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs, according to the
Fed Bank of  New York ’s website. The central bank is selling
shorter-term Treasuries and buying those in six to 30-years.  U.S. securities were supported earlier today on speculation
a plan agreed on by euro-area finance ministers for Greece to
buy back its bonds will fail to contain the region’s debt
crisis.  Euro-region finance ministers meeting in Brussels overnight
cut the rates on Greece’s bailout loans, suspended interest
payments for a decade, gave the country more time to repay and
engineered a Greek bond buyback.  The approach of the fiscal cliff budget deadline in the
U.S. has been accompanied by low volume and low volatility in
the Treasury market.  Price Swings  Volatility in U.S. government bonds dropped to the lowest
in more than five years yesterday. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings for Treasuries
based on options, fell to 53.5, the least since May 2007.  Treasury trading volume dropped yesterday to $151 billion,
compared with the 2012 daily average of $240 billion, according
to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government
debt .  Treasury yields have remained close to historic lows amid
fiscal cliff negotiations. President  Barack Obama  is working
with lawmakers to try to ease the measures to keep gross
domestic product growing. So far, talks between Obama and
congressional Republicans haven’t yielded any significant
progress. Ten-year yields have been in a range of 35 basis
points since the middle of August.  Demand for goods such as machinery and electronics climbed
in October by the most in five months, signaling companies are
starting to overcome concern the looming fiscal cliff will
derail the  U.S. economy .  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
a proxy for future business investment, rose 1.7 percent last
month, the most since May, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . Orders for all durable goods were little
changed, beating the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg that projected a 0.7 percent drop.  “The numbers are better for the growth bulls than for the
growth bears,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New
York at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., a primary dealer. “We’ve
got an economy that’s still trending sideways.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  