-- Treasuries Snap Gain as Greek Deal Cuts Demand for Safety
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-11-27T09:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/treasuries-snap-gain-as-greek-deal-cuts-demand-for-safety.html
Treasury 10-year yields approached
the highest level in almost three weeks after euro-area finance
ministers agreed on an aid plan for Greece, damping demand for
the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  Benchmark notes snapped a gain from yesterday amid signs
the  U.S. Congress  will reach a budget deal that averts the so-
called fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases. The
Treasury is scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year securities
today, the first of three auctions this week for $99 billion.
Orders for durable goods declined in October, economists
forecast before a report today.  “The markets are reacting to the progress made on Greece,
which will put that risk off the table for now,” said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels. “Until we
have some breakthrough news on the fiscal cliff, I don’t see
many reasons for Treasuries to move a lot lower.”  The 10-year  yield  rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.67 percent at 9:18 a.m. in  London , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent note due in
November 2022 fell 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount to
99 19/32. The yield climbed to 1.70 percent on Nov. 23, the
highest level since Nov. 7.  In the latest bid to keep the 17-nation euro intact, the
ministers lowered the rates on  Greece ’s bailout loans, suspended
interest payments for a decade, gave the nation more time to
repay and engineered a bond buyback. The country was also
cleared to receive a 34.4 billion-euro ($44.6 billion) loan
installment in December.  ‘Bad News’  “Some of the uncertainty in the  European debt crisis  may
be resolved,” said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman in  Tokyo  at
CIBC World Markets Japan Inc. “It’s good news for equities and
bad news for the  bond market .”  The approach of the fiscal cliff is making some fund
managers reluctant to sell Treasuries, said Kei Katayama, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $60.6 billion as a fund manager
at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo.  President  Barack Obama  is working with lawmakers to try to
ease the measures to keep gross domestic product growing. Ten-
year yields have been in a range of 35 basis points since the
middle of August.  “Nobody’s willing to push yields higher,” Katayama said.
“Everyone believes there will be some kind of compromise but
nobody can say exactly what the influence will be on GDP. That’s
the reason Treasury yields are staying in a very narrow range.”  ‘Bearish Momentum’  Bookings for U.S. goods meant to last at least three years
dropped 0.7 percent last month, according to the median forecast
of 75 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That compares with
a 9.8 percent increase in September. Other data today will show
property values and  consumer confidence  increased, according to
separate Bloomberg surveys.  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
said he advocates limits on U.S. quantitative easing.  The Fed could “pursue a different course” and announce
“a limit as to how much we are going to acquire of treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities, say up to a limit of X, up to a
point where our balance sheet reaches that,” Fisher said in a
speech today in Berlin.  The two-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.28
percent in pre-auction trading. Because of their shorter
maturity, the securities are more sensitive than longer-term
bonds to the Fed’s target for overnight bank lending, which
policy makers have pledged to keep near zero at least through
the middle of 2015.  The previous two-year sale on Oct. 23 drew record purchases
from the group of investors that includes pension funds and
insurance companies. So-called  direct bidders , or institutional
investors outside of the primary dealers, bought 38.2 percent of
the notes.  The Fed plans to buy as much as $2 billion of Treasuries
maturing from February 2023 to February 2031 today, according to
the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  The purchases are part of the central bank’s effort to put
downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs by selling
shorter-term Treasuries and buying those due in six to 30 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  