-- Treasuries Little Changed on Greece Talks Before U.S. Auction
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-11-27T16:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/treasuries-hold-gain-on-speculation-durable-goods-orders-dropped.html
Treasuries were little changed as
European policy makers eased terms on loans to  Greece  and the
U.S. prepares to sell $35 billion in two-year debt, the first of
three auctions this week totaling $99 billion.  U.S. 10-year note yields fluctuated after a report showed
orders for durable goods in October exceeded forecasts. U.S.
securities were supported earlier today on speculation a plan
agreed on by euro-area finance ministers for Greece to buy back
its bonds will fail to contain the region’s debt crisis. The
 Federal Reserve  bought $1.9 billion of Treasuries today and is
acquiring as much as $18.9 billion in six purchases this week as
part of its Operation Twist program to put downward pressure on
long-term borrowing costs.  “The market, in general, is better bid off the uncertainty
in  Europe  and the fiscal cliff,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at
Societe Generale SA in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers
that are required to bid at government debt auctions. “Unless
you get clarity on either side of the fence, you’re not going to
stray too far. That keeps us in a tight trading range.”  The benchmark 10-year yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.66 percent at 11:08 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in November 2022 traded at 99 3/4.  Yield Outlook  The benchmark yield will probably climb to 1.98 percent by
the middle of next year, according to a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies.  The U.S. two-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded
0.28 percent in pre-auction trading. The prior auction of the
maturity on Oct. 23 drew record purchases from the group of
investors that includes pension funds and insurance companies.
So-called direct bidders, or institutional investors outside of
the primary dealers, bought 38.2 percent of the notes. That
compares with a 12.2 percent average at the previous 10
auctions.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of five-year debt tomorrow
and $29 billion of seven-year notes on Nov. 29.  The Fed bought Treasuries maturing from February 2023 to
May 2030 today, according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s website.
The central bank is selling shorter-term Treasuries and buying
those due in six to 30 years.  Market Position  Investors in Treasuries held bullish bets unchanged this
week, while cutting shorts, according to a survey by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net longs was at four percentage points
in the week ending yesterday, according to JPMorgan, up from two
percentage points the week ending Nov. 19.  The percent of outright longs remained at 17 percent, while
the percent of outright shorts, or bets the securities will fall
in value, dropped to 13 percent, from 15 percent, according to
the survey.  Investors raised neutral bets to 70 percent from 68
percent, the survey reported, matching the highest level since
August.  The approach of the fiscal cliff budget deadline in the
U.S. has been accompanied by low volume and low volatility in
the Treasury market.  Volatility in U.S. government bonds dropped to the lowest
in more than five years yesterday. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings for Treasuries
based on options, fell to 53.5, the least since May 2007.  Trading Pace  Treasury trading volume dropped yesterday to $150 billion,
compared with the 2012 daily average of $240 billion, according
to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government
debt .  President  Barack Obama  is working with lawmakers to try to
ease the measures to keep gross domestic product growing. So
far, talks between Obama and congressional Republicans haven’t
yielded any significant progress. Ten-year yields have been in a
range of 35 basis points since the middle of August.  Euro-region finance ministers meeting in Brussels overnight
cut the rates on Greece’s bailout loans, suspended interest
payments for a decade, gave the country more time to repay and
engineered a Greek bond buyback.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said he
advocates limits on U.S. quantitative easing.  The Fed could “pursue a different course” and announce
“a limit as to how much we are going to acquire of Treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities, say up to a limit of X, up to a
point where our balance sheet reaches that,” Fisher said in a
speech today in Berlin.  Economic Data  Demand for goods such as machinery and electronics climbed
in October by the most in five months, signaling companies are
starting to overcome concern the looming fiscal cliff will
derail the  U.S. economy .  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
a proxy for future business investment, rose 1.7 percent last
month, the most since May, the Commerce Department reported
today in  Washington . Orders for all durable goods were little
changed, beating the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg that projected a 0.7 percent drop.  “The numbers are better for the growth bulls than for the
growth bears,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist in New
York at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., a primary dealer. “We’ve
got an economy that’s still trending sideways.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  