-- Remy Profit Increases on Premium Cognac Sales in China, U.S.
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-11-27T08:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/remy-profit-increases-on-sales-of-premium-cognac-in-china-u-s-.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , France’s second-
biggest distiller, reported first-half profit that beat
estimates as sales of higher-priced cognac improved in  China ,
the U.S. and Russia.  Adjusted operating profit rose 33 percent to 141.5 million
euros ($184 million) in the six months through September, the
company said today in a statement. The median estimate of eight
analysts was 137.3 million euros.  Remy said the results were helped by good performances in
 Asia  and the U.S. and also reported some improvement in  Europe .
The company sees “more moderate” growth in the second half yet
aims to “substantially” increase its full-year earnings amid
an uncertain economic environment. Analysts forecast a 26
percent increase in full-year operating profit, according to
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The results are “positive,” analysts at Natixis today
wrote, though the “market should not overreact to this news”
as the third quarter may be tough. Remy booked sales from 2012’s
Chinese New Year, a traditionally strong period for cognac
purchases, in its fiscal third quarter last year, whereas the
later timing of the festival in 2013 will shift sales into its
fourth quarter this year.  Shares Gain  Remy’s  shares  rose 1.9 percent to 84.70 euros as of 9:25
a.m. in Paris trading. The stock has gained 36 percent this
year.  Organic operating profit growth was 18 percent. Operating
margin, a measure of profitability, increased to 23.7 percent
from 22.4 percent.  Remy, the maker of Mount Gay rum, last month reported a 13
percent increase in organic sales for the period, less than
analysts expected, and said growth slowed in cognac sales in the
second quarter. The company gets the majority of its revenue and
profit from its  Remy Martin cognac  brand.  The Remy Martin cognac unit’s profit increased 27 percent
on an organic basis, aided by sales of more expensive variants
and growth in countries including  Russia  and China. Profit fell
25 percent at its Liqueurs & Spirits unit after it increased
marketing spending and as economic turmoil acted as a drag on
sales of Metaxa in  Greece .  The company said in October that it’s in talks to buy a
majority stake in Larsen, another cognac maker, as it seeks to
expand its exposure to the spirit.  Remy Cointreau reports current operating profit, which
excludes one-time items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  