-- Rice Fails to Assauge McCain Over Libya Attack Account
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/republican-senators-say-concerns-over-rice-increasing.html
Three Republican U.S. senators said
after meeting with  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the  United
Nations , that their concerns have increased over her flawed
account of the deadly attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in
Benghazi, Libya.  “We are significantly troubled by many of the answers that
we got and some that we didn’t get” about whether Rice knew the
Sept. 11 attack at the compound was related to terrorism,
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  told reporters yesterday. “It
was clear the information that she gave the American people was
incorrect.”  While Rice had said she looked forward to clearing up
matters with McCain, her visit to the Capitol fueled a fresh
round of Republican criticism of her judgment and of the
prospect that President  Barack Obama  may name her to succeed the
departing Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Republicans led by McCain have said Rice misled the public
by saying on five Sunday television talk shows on Sept. 16 that
the attack in Benghazi five days earlier that killed U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans unfolded from
a “spontaneous” demonstration against an anti-Islamic video
that was “hijacked” by militants.  Not all of McCain’s usual allies joined him in criticizing
Rice. Senator  Joseph Lieberman , an independent who regularly
sides with McCain on foreign policy issues, said yesterday that
“it wouldn’t be fair to disqualify her based on what she said
on those Sunday morning shows.” A number of Republican senators
declined to comment or said it was premature to pass judgment.  ‘More Concerned’  The two senators who attended the meeting with McCain --
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina and  Kelly Ayotte  of  New
Hampshire  -- said they left the sessions more troubled.  “Bottom line, I’m more concerned now than I was before”
about Rice’s remarks, Graham said. He said much more would need
to be learned “before anybody can make a decision about
promoting someone involved in Benghazi.”  After the session, in which she was joined by acting CIA
Director Michael Morell, Rice issued a statement saying she
didn’t intentionally provide misleading information during her
television appearances.  “We stressed that neither I nor anyone else in the
administration intended to mislead the American people at any
stage in this process, and the administration updated Congress
and the American people as our assessments evolved,” she said
in the statement.  Obama has defended Rice, a close confidante since his first
run for president in 2008, when she was his foreign policy
adviser. At a Nov. 14 news conference, Obama said his UN envoy
had done “exemplary work” and for senators including McCain
“to besmirch her reputation is outrageous.”  Lieberman’s Comments  “She said things that at the time she thought were
accurate but that weren’t accurate,” Lieberman of  Connecticut ,
who is retiring, said after a separate meeting with Rice and
Morell. “She made clear today she was just following the
intelligence community, and when they changed what they told her
wasn’t true, she changed what she was saying.”  Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , who is in line to take
over from McCain in January as the top Republican on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, told reporters Nov. 26 that he
thought Rice may have been used by the administration to spread
a misleading account.  Yesterday, after meeting with Rice, Inhofe said he’d 
changed his mind because she “willingly misled the American
public” and failed to acknowledge until now that her account
“was deeply and fundamentally flawed. Those are the reasons I
maintain my position that makes her an unfit replacement for
Secretary Clinton.”  Not Nominated  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky didn’t
respond yesterday when reporters asked a question about Rice.  “She hasn’t been nominated for anything so he hasn’t
commented on her nomination,”  Don Stewart , a spokesman for
McConnell, said in an e-mail.  Rice said in her statement after her session with McCain,
Graham and Ayotte that “in the course of the meeting, we
explained that the talking points provided by the intelligence
community, and the initial assessment upon which they were
based, were incorrect in a key respect: there was no protest or
demonstration in Benghazi. While we certainly wish that we had
had perfect information just days after the terrorist attack, as
is often the case, the intelligence assessment has evolved.”  Criticism ‘Misplaced’  Intelligence officials have previously acknowledged there
was no spontaneous protest. Shawn Turner, a spokesman for
Director of National Intelligence  James Clapper , said Sept. 28
that the intelligence community had revised its assessment “to
reflect new information indicating that it was a deliberate and
organized terrorist attack carried out by extremists.”  The “talking points” used by Rice in her television
appearances were written on request so that members of Congress
and administration officials could say something preliminary --
and unclassified -- about the attacks if needed, according to a
U.S. intelligence official who spoke yesterday on condition of
anonymity. While never meant to be definitive, the account
reflected early indications of extremist involvement, the
official said.  Intelligence officials have said they dropped references to
possible al-Qaeda connections to the attack from that initial
account to protect intelligence sources, not the president’s re-
election campaign.  At the White House, spokesman  Jay Carney  said the focus by
Rice’s critics on her televised comments borders on, “some
might say, obsession” and is “misplaced.”  “There are no unanswered questions” about Rice’s
appearance on the Sunday shows and her talking points, he told
reporters yesterday. The outstanding questions are who was
responsible for the deaths and how to ensure there isn’t a
similar event in the future, he said.  Corker, Collins  Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , who is in line to become
top Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee next
year, told reporters he will meet with Rice today.  “She always reminds me of somebody who has had every drop
of Kool-Aid, always espousing 1000 percent whatever point of
view the administration is putting forth,” Corker told
reporters yesterday, even as he said he was keeping an open mind
about her.  Senator  Susan Collins , who also plans to meet with Rice
today, also called it premature to draw conclusions on Rice’s
role. Still, the Maine Republican said yesterday that she was
troubled Rice went on the talk shows and Clinton didn’t.  “It’s highly significant that Hillary Clinton wasn’t the
person on these shows making those points in a highly
politicized way and at the height of a political campaign,”
Collins told reporters. “It troubles me that Susan Rice was
willing to take on that role.”  Rice, who didn’t speak with reporters after her meetings
yesterday, told reporters in New York on Nov. 21 that some of
McCain’s statements “have been unfounded, but I look forward to
having the opportunity at the appropriate time to discuss all of
this with him. I have great respect for Senator McCain and his
service to our country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  