-- Restructured Argentine Bond Holders Seek Emergency Stay
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-27T05:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/restructured-argentine-bond-holders-seek-emergency-stay.html
Holders of  Argentina ’s restructured
bonds asked for an emergency stay to block orders by U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa that prevent the country from
paying interest on the debt next month without paying $1.3
billion to owners of defaulted notes.  Holders of the restructured debt asked the federal appeals
court in New York to enter an emergency stay while they appeal
Griesa’s rulings, claiming that concern about whether Argentina
will default is causing the value of their bonds to drop,
according to court papers provided by ASC Advisors, which
handles public relations for their lawyers. The papers couldn’t
be immediately confirmed with the court.  Argentina is scheduled to make more than $3 billion in
payments on the restructured bonds in December, lawyers told
Griesa in a hearing this month. He ruled Nov. 21 that Argentina
must pay the money it owes the so-called holdouts, led by a unit
of billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott
Management Corp., into an escrow fund while it appeals. The
country has until Dec. 15 to comply.  “The stay will allow a full and fair hearing of all the
arguments,”  David Boies , an attorney representing the group,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “The motion would
ensure that interest payments to the bondholders continue while
the appeal is decided.”  Griesa ruled Nov. 21 that Argentina must pay the holders of
its defaulted debt if it goes forward with next month’s
scheduled payments. He declined Argentina’s request for a stay.
Argentine stocks fell to a five-month low on news of the ruling.
Argentina’s restructured dollar bonds have plunged 13 percent on
average since his decision, according to data compiled by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit ( New York ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lester Pimentel at 
 lpimentel1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 