-- Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for November (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-11-27T15:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-november-text-.html
The following is the text from the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity survey
for November.  Overview  Service sector activity expanded in November, although
employment remained soft, according to the latest survey by the
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Revenues rose at retail and
non-retail services businesses. Shopper traffic increased and
retail inventories flattened. However, big ticket sales dropped.
Retailers expected softer sales during the next six months,
while services providers anticipated continued business
improvement.  In service sector labor markets, the number of employees
fell while average wages continued to advance. However, the pace
of increase in wages slowed somewhat compared to last month.  Price growth ticked up slightly overall. Looking ahead six
months, survey respondents expected prices to advance more
quickly, with much of the push coming from retail price growth.  Service Sector  Revenues in the broad service sector picked up in November,
pushing the index to 7 from last month’s reading of 3.
Employment weakness continued, however, with the index for the
overall number of employees slipping five points lower to settle
at −6. Average wage growth lost some of its momentum, slowing to
an index of 9 following October’s 11. Looking ahead six months,
expectations for demand for goods and services were bolstered by
optimism from non-retail services firms. The sector index
finished at 7, one point above the previous month.  Retail Firms  Retail sales rebounded in November, with a burst of shopper
traffic. The retail sales index added nine points ending at 14
and the index for shopper traffic reversed direction, climbing
thirty-four points to 23 this month. In contrast, big-ticket
sales fell, with that index dropping nine points to −14. Retail
inventories were generally unchanged; the index settled at −1.
Despite the improvement in sales, retailers were less sanguine
about business prospects in the next six months. The
expectations index declined to −3 from October’s reading of 5.  Retail employment fell in November, with that index ending
the month at −13, a point below last month’s −12. In contrast,
average retail wage growth strengthened further, with the wage
indicator climbing to 8 this month from its previous reading of
2.  Services Firms  Non-retail services providers also noted an uptick in
revenues in November, with the index edging up to 4 from the
month-ago reading of 0. However, services providers reduced
their number of employees, sending that index down to −6 from
October’s 1. Average wage growth slowed, with the index shaving
three points from last month’s reading to end the survey period
at 7.  Non-retail services providers were somewhat more upbeat
about their business outlook for the six months ahead -- the
gauge for expectations rose three points this month to 9.  Prices  Growth in service sector prices was little changed from
last month’s pace, rising at an annualized 1.16 percent rate,
compared October’s 1.07 percent rate. Within the service sector,
retail prices rose a bit more slowly, at a 1.84 percent
annualized rate following last month’s 1.88 percent pace. Non-
retail services prices increased at an annualized 1.01 percent
rate, slightly above October’s 0.97 percent pace.  Survey participants anticipated a pickup in price growth
over the next six months. They expected future prices to grow at
an annualized 1.68 percent rate, compared to October’s outlook
for 1.41 percent growth. Separately, retailers looked for prices
to accelerate at a 2.43 percent clip, compared to last month’s
outlook for 1.74 percent growth. Non-retail services providers
expected prices to increase at a 1.53 percent pace, also above
their previous outlook. In October, they looked for future price
change of 1.39 percent.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  