-- Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for November (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-11-27T15:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-november-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector activity
survey for November.  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region
advanced moderately in November following a slight pullback in
October, according to the Richmond Fed’s latest survey. All
broad indicators -- shipments, new orders and employment --
landed in positive territory. Other indicators were mixed,
however. Capacity utilization was virtually unchanged, while
backlogs fell further from its October reading. Moreover, the
gauge for delivery times steadied, while finished goods
inventories grew at a slightly quicker pace and growth in raw
materials edged lower.  Looking ahead, assessments of business prospects for the
next six months were more optimistic in November. Contacts at
more firms anticipated that shipments, new orders, backlogs,
vendor lead-times and  capital expenditures  will grow more
quickly than anticipated a month ago.  Survey assessments of current prices revealed that growth
in both raw materials and finished goods prices grew at a
somewhat slower rate than a month ago. Over the next six months,
respondents expected growth in both raw materials and finished
goods prices at a slightly slower pace than they had anticipated
a month earlier.  Current Activity  In November, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity -- our broadest measure of manufacturing
-- gained sixteen points to 9 from October’s reading of −7.
Among the index’s components, shipments rose twenty points to
11, new orders moved up seventeen points to finish at 11, and
the jobs index increased eight points to 3.  Other indicators varied. The index for capacity utilization
changed little, adding one point to −3, and the backlogs of
orders declined six points to end at −9. In contrast, the
delivery times index rose two points to 0, while our gauges for
inventories were mixed in November. The raw materials inventory
index eased two points to finish at 21, while the finished goods
index gained four points to 19.  Employment  Labor market conditions firmed somewhat from a month ago.
The manufacturing employment index turned positive, picking up
eight points to 3, while the average workweek indicator was
almost unchanged at 2. Moreover, the wage index held steady at
10.  Expectations  In the current survey, contacts were generally more
optimistic about their business prospects than reported a month
ago. The index of expected shipments moved up seven points to 28
and the new orders index increased six points to finish at 25.
Backlogs added thirteen points to end at 19, and capacity
utilization moved down seven points to 12. Vendor lead-time
inched up three points to 10 and readings for planned capital
expenditures added four points to 4.  District manufacturers’ hiring plans were mixed in November.
The expected manufacturing employment index lost eight points to
finish at 0, while the average workweek indicator fell four
points to 6. Moreover, the index of expected wages rose three
points to end at 28.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 1.99 percent, notably
lower than October’s reading of 3.21 percent. Finished goods
prices rose at a 1.72 percent pace, slightly below October’s
reading of 1.99 percent.  Looking ahead, respondents on average expected that the
prices they pay will advance at a 1.95 percent pace, somewhat
below October’s reading of 2.55 percent. Contacts looked for
finished goods prices to increase at a 1.29 percent annual rate,
also slightly below last month’s 1.51 percent pace.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  