-- Rochon Plans to Build Direct-Selling Brands on LVMH Model
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-11-27T15:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/rochon-plans-to-but-direct-selling-brands-on-lvmh-model.html
John Rochon, the former head of Mary
Kay Inc., says he’s working to acquire a collection of door-to-
door selling businesses that will emulate  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s model of giving the brands’ founders
independence to run their businesses.  Rochon, who has invested in  RealPage Inc. (RP)  and Dirt Devil,
in August agreed to take over  Computer Vision Systems Laboratory
Corp. (CVSL)  to form a vehicle for buying direct-selling companies.
CVSL has buyouts with $6 billion in total sales in the works,
Rochon said, declining to name them. While some deals won’t be
completed, several are close, he said.  CVSL’s targets are in the health, home and beauty
industries and have annual revenue of about $100 million each.
Rochon said he wants the founders who had the energy and vision
to build their companies to stay involved and remain the face of
their brands.  “I would never let people exit a business where the
business success was the very charismatic nature of the
leadership,” Rochon, 61, said in an interview.  LVMH, based in Paris, is the world’s largest maker of
luxury goods with 23.7 billion euros ($30.6 billion) in sales
last year. The group, which owns brands including the Louis
Vuitton fashion line, Moet & Chandon champagne and Dior
perfumes, says on its website that it allows its  companies  to
“exercise stringent control over every minute detail of their
brands’ image.”  Rochon, who also is founder and chairman of Dallas-based
Richmont holdings, mounted takeover attempts for rival  Avon
Products Inc. (AVP)  in the late 1980s and early 1990s and at one point
was its largest shareholder with 22 percent of the stock.
Richmont was working on a proposal to buy a new stake in Avon, a
person familiar with the situation said in September. Rochon
declined to comment.  Direct Selling  Rochon said direct-selling businesses have an advantage
because they have been building experience with word-of-mouth,
relationship-based selling long before the advent of social
media. As chief executive officer of Mary Kay, known for
awarding pink Cadillacs to top representatives, he expanded the
brand overseas and helped boost revenue to almost $3 billion
when he left the company in 2001 from about $500 million at the
time he led its leveraged buyout in 1985.  Direct-selling “is doing great internationally,” and
should be more successful in markets where the economy is
lagging and people are motivated to earn extra money or more
independence, he said.  Volatile Industry  While the industry is volatile, and annual turnover among
distributors ranges from 40 percent to 90 percent, direct sales
companies “can grow exponentially with very little or no
incremental capital,” John San Marco, an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview.  “I can’t imagine you can’t find good, start-up
businesses,” he said. “My guess is that it’s pretty fertile
ground right now.”  Now is a good time for acquisitions because a generation of
founders is approaching retirement and sellers are concerned
about the potential for higher tax rates, Rochon said.  At Mary Kay, Rochon invested in technology, building an
online community for representatives and selling other
companies’ products through the Internet at a time in the late
1990s when many questioned whether online selling would kill
direct businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  