-- Ruble Climbs Seventh Day to Dollar on Greece Aid, Tax Payments
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-11-27T15:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ruble-climbs-seventh-day-to-dollar-on-greece-aid-tax-payments.html
The ruble gained for a seventh day
against the dollar, the longest rally since September, after
European officials reached a deal on aid for  Greece  and
companies bought the Russian currency to pay taxes.  The ruble appreciated as much as 0.4 percent and closed
less than 0.1 percent stronger at 31.0300 a dollar by 7 p.m. in
Moscow. It strengthened 0.1 percent versus the central bank’s
euro-dollar target basket and added 0.2 percent against the euro
to 40.1530.  Euro-region finance ministers eased the terms on emergency
aid for Greece, cutting the rates on bailout loans and
suspending interest payments for a decade. Russian exporters and
investors are buying the ruble to pay corporate income tax and
purchase government bonds, known as OFZs, at an auction
tomorrow, according to VTB Capital.  “Short-term ruble dynamics are unlikely to be weak due to
the upcoming corporate tax and OFZ auction on Wednesday, coupled
with positive global sentiment after the agreement on a Greek
deal,” VTB Capital’s Maxim Korovin and Anton Nikitin wrote in
an e-mailed note today.  The  Finance Ministry  plans to sell 15 billion rubles ($484
million) of five-year notes tomorrow.  Russia  sold the most
seven-year ruble debt at an auction last week, with demand
outstripping the 35 billion-ruble offer more than fivefold.  Non-deliverable forwards showed the ruble at 31.5038 per
dollar in three months compared with 31.4795 yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own Russia’s dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 191,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. An index
of five-year government bond yields fell three basis points to
6.6857 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  