-- H. Russell Fraser, ACA Capital’s Cowboy Founder, Dies at 71
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-11-27T14:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/russell-fraser-aca-capital-founder-marlboro-man-dies-at-71.html
H. Russell Fraser, a former chief
executive officer at Fitch Ratings who founded bond insurer ACA
Capital Holdings Inc. and worked in cowboy boots, hat and jeans,
has died. He was 71.  He  died  on Nov. 21 at home in Littleton,  Colorado ,
according to his wife, Patsy. The cause was emphysema.  Fraser, who was CEO at Ambac Financial Group Inc., a New
York-based bond insurer, before moving to Fitch, a credit-rating
company, founded ACA in 1997. The firm, which specialized in
municipal bonds with lower ratings than larger competitors would
guarantee, averted a downgrade in 2001 after firing 40 percent
of its employees and receiving $45 million in new funds.  As part of the reorganization, ACA shifted its focus to
structured finance and Fraser resigned to oversee a beef jerky
plant and pioneer town in Wyoming.  While at New York-based ACA, Fraser was known for his
cowboy appearance. He dressed in jeans, a 10-gallon hat, leather
vest and “looked like the Marlboro man,” Jennifer Lerch, who
worked at ACA, said yesterday in an interview.  Fraser didn’t look out of place on weekends, when he flew
home to his cattle ranch in Cody,  Wyoming .  When Fraser left ACA over the move to structured finance,
he picked up his satchel, which was more saddlebag than
briefcase, and “shuffled down the hall in his cowboy boots with
a giant squirt gun,” spraying employees on his way out, she
said.  Credit Crunch  “That was the way he could put levity in a situation that
was really hard for everybody,” said Lerch, now director of
business and cooperative programs in rural development at the
U.S. Department of Agriculture. “So he went down the hallway
and shot everybody with a giant squirt gun and got in the
elevator bank and left, and that was the end of it. He never
went back in again.”  ACA lost the investment-grade credit rating it needed to
guarantee new securities in December 2007 as defaults on home
loans to the riskiest borrowers packaged into bonds caused a
credit seizure, leading to writedowns and losses of more than $2
trillion at the world’s largest financial institutions.  Harold Russell Fraser was born on April 18, 1941, to Harold
and Alma Fraser in Middletown, New York, about 65 miles (105
kilometers) north of New York City. He attended Orange County
Community College, a two-year school in Middletown, and then
moved to the University of  Arizona , where he graduated in
finance and economics.  New Borrowers  Fraser went to work as a debt analyst at Standard & Poor’s,
and then in fixed-income research at Paine Webber Inc. He was
president and CEO of Ambac from 1980 to 1989, before becoming
chairman and CEO at Fitch.  While at Fitch, Fraser intensified its rivalry with the
larger ratings companies Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and
Standard & Poor’s Corp. During his tenure, Fitch’s revenue
increased 12-fold, Larry Taylor, president of the Fixed Income
Analysts Society Inc.,  said  when Fraser was inducted into the
group’s hall of fame in 1998.  Fraser founded ACA to insure a new crop of borrowers he
sometimes called “the cream of the crap.” They included
issuers such as the American Center for Wine, Food and the Arts
in Napa,  California , which sold municipal debt through the
California Infrastructure & Economic Development bank insured by
ACA Financial. Other borrowers included the Cleveland, Texas,
schools and Woodbury County Boys and Girls Home and Family
Services Inc. in Sioux City,  Iowa .  “That was the reason he started ACA, for the underdogs,”
Lercher said.  Fraser had “tremendous energy, tremendous enthusiasm for
his work,” Patsy Fraser said. When he left finance, he “missed
very much the intellectual stimulation of creating things,” she
said.  In addition to his wife, Fraser is survived by three
children, Suzanne, Chris and Amy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  