-- SAC Is Said to Plan Investor Conference Call Tomorrow
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-11-27T20:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/sac-is-said-to-plan-investor-conference-call-tomorrow.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14
billion hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, plans to hold a
conference call with clients tomorrow following the arrest last
week of a former portfolio manager, according to investors who
asked not to be named because the information is private.  SAC executives have already reached out to the firm’s
largest investors to calm concern about Cohen’s trading in  Elan
Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC after prosecutors for the first time tied
the hedge-fund founder to a specific transaction at the center
of an insider-trading investigation. SAC told the clients that
its compliance procedures are robust and that the firm is
cooperating with the investigation.  Mathew Martoma, the former portfolio manager at the firm,
was arrested on Nov. 20 for allegedly trading shares of Elan and
Wyeth based on inside information. Investors, who asked not to
be named because the fund is private, are much more concerned
about last week’s charges than previous ones because Cohen,
according to a criminal complaint, traded those shares in his
own portfolio and discussed them with Martoma.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based firm, declined to comment on plans for a
conference call.  ‘Acted Appropriately’  Last week’s charges mark the sixth time a current or former
employee was linked to insider trading while working at the
company. Prosecutors say SAC, one of the best-performing hedge
funds, reaped $276 million in profits and averted losses after
Martoma used inside information from a clinical trial to trade
in shares of the two health-care companies in 2008.  Cohen, who wasn’t mentioned by name in last week’s
complaint and hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing, is the
hedge-fund owner and investment manager referred to in the
criminal complaint and a related civil case filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  “Mr. Cohen and SAC are confident that they have acted
appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry,” Gasthalter said last week.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-MAG-2985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-8466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  