-- Safaricom, Commercial Bank Africa Start Mobile-Loan Service
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-11-27T12:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/safaricom-commercial-bank-africa-start-mobile-loan-service-1-.html
Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , East  Africa ’s
biggest mobile-network operator, and  Commercial Bank of Africa
Ltd.  introduced a service that allows cellphone users to apply
for and receive loans on their handsets.  Branded M-Shwari, which means all is well in the local
Swahili language, the facility also lets clients operate a
savings account with deposits earning as much as 5 percent
interest annually, Safaricom Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore told reporters today in Nairobi, the capital. The
product will provide access to financial services to the more
than half of  Kenya ’s population who are “unbanked,” he said.  “Just once click on your phone and you will have a bank
account at no cost,” Collymore said in an e-mailed statement.  Safaricom, in which Vodafone Plc owns a 40 percent stake,
is the inventor of M-Pesa, the mobile money-transfer system that
is used to transact 80 billion shillings ($931 million) a month,
according to the company. More transactions are carried out
using M-Pesa within Kenya than are processed globally by  Western
Union Co. (WU) , the world’s biggest money-transfer business,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  Commercial Bank of Africa, based in Nairobi, has been the
primary banker for M-Pesa.  M-Shwari users will be eligible for loans after at least
six months of using the service and all loans are payable within
a month of disbursement, Collymore said. Safaricom and CBA will
offer users loan of as much as 100,000 shillings payable at a
one-time interest rate of 7.5 percent, he said.  Customer deposits in Kenya’s 43 banks and one mortgage-
finance company climbed to 1.49 trillion shillings in December
2011 from 1.24 trillion shillings a year earlier, while gross
loans during the period grew 30 percent to 1.2 trillion
shillings, according to Central Bank of Kenya’s  annual report .
The number of loan accounts increased to 2 million from 1.74
million in the same period, it said.  Revenue from M-Pesa jumped 32 percent to 10.4 billion
shillings in the six months through September. The service
contributes 18 percent of Safaricom’s revenue.  Safaricom announced yesterday that it partnered with
British American Insurance Co, a unit of  British American
Investments Co. (BRIT) , and Chagamka, a closely held Kenyan company, to
introduce a “low-cost” medical-insurance product that lets
customers finance health-care services through their phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  