-- San Bernardino to Curb Payments on Retirees in Bankuptcy
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/san-bernardino-to-curb-payments-on-retirees-in-bankuptcy.html
San Bernardino, the second-largest
U.S. city to seek  bankruptcy protection , will put off paying $13
million to  California ’s retirement system and $3.4 million for
pension bonds issued in 2005, in a provisional spending plan.  The City Council voted 5-2 for the fiscal road map
yesterday to meet a court-imposed Nov. 30 deadline for a
balanced interim municipal budget while in bankruptcy
proceedings. In addition to deferring payments on pension
obligations, the plan calls for firefighting and policing cuts.  “Without restructuring its finances or maintaining the
protection of Chapter 9, the city could not pay its employees,
retirees, bondholders or vendors,” Andrea Travis-Miller, the
acting city manager, and Jason Simpson, the finance director,
said in a council memo. “This would result in uncontrolled
default and, presumably, a collapse of public services.”  San Bernardino became the second-largest U.S. city to seek
Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection after sales and property taxes
failed to recover from the longest recession since the
Depression. The city already has skipped a $5.3 million payment
owed to the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
known as Calpers, and a $1 million interest payment on the 2005
bonds, issued to cover pension obligations.  Total Debt  The city has $90 million of outstanding general-obligation
debt, according to an Aug. 29 council report. The municipality
is also responsible for an additional $200 million in securities
issued for its redevelopment agency, which was closed this year
under a law eliminating the function statewide.  To help curb spending, the city has fired school crossing
guards, closed three branch libraries and cut 41 non-uniformed
police jobs, according to budget memos. The municipality of
213,000 about 60 miles (100 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles ,
confronts a projected 20 percent increase in retiree costs and
has a $320 million pension deficit, the documents show.  The combined measures should eliminate a $45 million budget
gap this year, and begin to deal with an $18 million general-
fund cash deficit, according to the memo from Travis-Miller and
Simpson. San Bernardino already owes about $15 million to
workers’ compensation and redevelopment funds, among others,
that were tapped to supplement revenue for general spending.  With about 296,400 residents, Stockton, California, became
the largest U.S. city to seek bankruptcy protection in June.  The bankruptcy case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 