-- Schapiro Exits, CFTC-Intrade, HP Autonomy: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-11-27T13:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/schapiro-exits-cftc-intrade-hp-autonomy-compliance.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who took the agency’s helm in
2009 as it reeled from public rebukes for failing to rein in
Wall Street abuses, is leaving the agency next month.  Schapiro, 57, will be replaced as chairman when she steps
down on Dec. 14 by Commissioner Elisse Walter, former senior
executive vice president at the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, President  Barack Obama  said in a  statement .  It was unclear how long Walter might serve as chairman. An
administration official said Obama intends to make a new
nomination to the commission in the near future. The official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity, didn’t specify whether the
nomination would be for the chairman position.  Walter’s five-year term as a commissioner expired in June.
Under current law, she’s entitled to work through the end of
2013 without being reconfirmed. The president has the right to
designate any commissioner as chairman.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Intrade Sued by U.S. Commodities Regulator Over Options  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued the
operator of the Intrade website, alleging the company offered
trading in options banned for U.S. customers in violation of
securities laws and a previous agency order.  From September 2007 to June 25, 2012, Intrade continued to
offer options betting on future prices of gold, crude oil and
changes in U.S. economic data after it had pledged to stop doing
so under the 2005 order, the CFTC said in a lawsuit filed
yesterday in federal court in Washington.  The CFTC said it’s seeking a permanent injunction to
prevent Dublin-based Trade Exchange Network Ltd., which runs the
Intrade site, from operating in violation of securities laws
including a part of the Dodd-Frank Act intended to crack down on
abuses in the sales of derivatives. The CFTC also said it is
seeking fines and disgorgement of all monetary benefits received
as a result of the violations.  Unless the securities are listed for trading and traded on
a CFTC-registered exchange or are legally exempt, it’s illegal
to solicit people in the U.S. to buy and sell commodity options,
even if they’re called “prediction’ contracts,  David Meister ,
director of the CFTC’s enforcement division, said.  Intrade said all of its U.S. customers would be required to
shut down their accounts by Dec. 23 in a statement on its
website.  ‘‘We are sorry to announce that due to legal and regulatory
pressures, Intrade can no longer allow U.S. residents to
participate in our real-money prediction markets,” Intrade
said.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Trade Exchange Ltd., 1:12-cv-01902, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  Ex-SAC Portfolio Manager Martoma Appears in New York Court  Former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Mathew
Martoma, charged in what prosecutors called the biggest-ever
insider trading case, appeared in federal court in New York
yesterday.  Martoma, 38, is accused of using illegal tips about a
clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s disease drug to help SAC, the
hedge-fund company founded by  Steven A. Cohen , make $276 million
on shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC. He was arrested at his
Boca Raton, Florida, home Nov. 20 and freed on $5 million bond.  The defense and prosecution yesterday agreed to a modified
bail package under which the $5 million bond must be secured by
$2 million in cash or property, as well as signatures from three
instead of two financially responsible people. Martoma, who
surrendered his and his children’s travel documents, is limited
to Florida, Massachusetts, New Jersey and parts of New York.  He is charged with conspiracy and two counts of securities
fraud, a crime that carries a maximum 20-year prison term.
Defense lawyer  Charles Stillman  has said he expects his client
to be exonerated.  Martoma denies wrongdoing, and Cohen hasn’t been sued or
charged. A spokesman for the SAC founder, Jonathan Gasthalter,
has denied any wrongdoing and said  Stamford , Connecticut-based
SAC is cooperating with the government.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-mj-02985; and the
civil case is SEC v. CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-08466, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Zhang Quits Listed Companies Boards After Firm’s SEC Settlement  Billionaire Zhang Zhi Rong quit as chairman of two Hong
Kong-listed companies about five weeks after an investment firm
he controlled agreed to pay $14 million to resolve U.S. insider-
trading claims.  Zhang resigned from the boards of shipbuilder  China
Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101)  and developer
 Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. (845) , according to statements
yesterday. He is the largest shareholder in both companies. The
decision has nothing to do with the U.S. case, iPR Ogilvy in
Hong Kong, which handles Zhang’s public relations, said in an e-
mailed reply to Bloomberg News questions.  The billionaire is leaving “to devote more time to his
personal endeavors” and there were no disagreements with
boards, both companies said.  “We respect his decision to focus on his own personal
business,” Doris Chung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for
Glorious, said of Zhang’s departure.  Rongsheng said that Zhang himself had suggested leaving.
The move showed his “confidence in the management team,” it
said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News questions. Zhang
didn’t have an executive role.  Compliance Policy  Euro-Area’s Bailout Fund Wins Blessing of Highest EU Court  The euro area’s 500 billion-euro ($648.7 billion) firewall
today won approval from the European Union’s highest court. The
court rejected a challenge that threatened to derail efforts to
keep the currency bloc intact.  Examination of a treaty change in 2011 to allow for the
creation of the European Stability Mechanism, or ESM,
“disclosed nothing capable of affecting the validity” of the
mechanism, the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today.
The euro area’s 17 members acted in line with EU rules by
ratifying the ESM treaty, the court ruled.  Today’s ruling lifted a potential shadow hanging over
attempts to save the euro, just hours after ministers struck a
deal to ease the terms on emergency aid for Greece.  The EU’s top court worked on  the case  under a fast-track
procedure for almost 4 months, using for the first time in such
a case its full force of 27 judges to consider the challenge.  Irish politician Thomas Pringle had argued that the ESM,
which was declared operational on Oct. 8, violates the  no-
bailout provision  under EU law and encroaches on the bloc’s role
in economic and monetary policy. He challenged a  March 2011
decision  by EU governments to change a legal provision in a
treaty to allow for the ESM’s creation, saying this was done
incorrectly.  The ESM replaces the 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility. The two funds will run in parallel until the
EFSF is phased out in mid-2013. The ESM in September survived a
legal challenge in Germany, handing a victory to  Chancellor
Angela Merkel , who championed the facility as vital to save the
euro area from a fiscal meltdown.  The court’s ruling cannot be appealed. Ireland’s  Supreme
Court , which sought the EU court’s guidance in July, will have
to give a final decision on Pringle’s challenge in line with
today’s ruling.  The case is:  C-370/12 , Thomas Pringle v. Government of
Ireland, Ireland and the Attorney General.  In the Courts  HP Investors Sue Over Losses From Alleged Autonomy Fraud  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  was sued by shareholders over its $8.8
billion writedown that the company said was partly related to
falsified finances at Autonomy Corp., the British software maker
it bought last year.  The complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in  San
Francisco , appears to be the first investor suit alleging that
Hewlett-Packard issued false and misleading statements regarding
the acquisition. The company’s former Chief Executive Officer,
 Leo Apotheker , as well as its current CEO Meg Whitman are named
as defendants, along with Chief Financial Officer Catherine
Lesjak.  Hewlett-Packard said Nov. 20 that $5 billion of the total
charge is due to accounting practices, which were disclosed by a
senior executive at Autonomy. Hewlett-Packard said it referred
the matter to U.S. and U.K. securities regulators and will also
pursue civil litigation.  Hewlett-Packard said in a statement last week that some
former members of Autonomy’s management team used accounting
misrepresentations to inflate its underlying financial
performance before the acquisition. Mike Lynch, who founded
Autonomy, defended the company’s accounting practices in an
interview last week.  Deloitte LLC said last week that it didn’t find any
evidence of improper accounting methods or misrepresentations
when it last looked at Autonomy’s finances before Hewlett-
Packard bought the software company. Deloitte, which said it
wasn’t employed to do due diligence on the deal, last audited
Autonomy’s finances for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-
based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment immediately on the
complaint.  The case is Nicolow v. Hewlett-Packard Co., 12-05980, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  BofA Wins on Standing of Countrywide Securities Investors  Bank of America Corp.  may limit its exposure to claims by
Countrywide Financial mortgage-backed securities investors after
a federal judge said she may have erred two years ago by
allowing some claims to proceed.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles, who
presides over the consolidated mortgage-backed securities cases
against Bank of America’s Countrywide, said in a Nov. 21 order
that she is no longer convinced that a California state court
case extended the statute of limitation of claims brought in
federal court.  Pfaelzer in 2010 had allowed a federal class-action case to
proceed for mortgage bonds that were owned by investors who
filed the first securities lawsuits against Countrywide in state
court in 2007 and 2008. In her decision at the time, the judge
had agreed with the investors that the statute of limitations
hadn’t run out for those claims based on the earlier suits.  In her new ruling, the judge said that since state lawsuits
don’t have to meet the same requirements as class-action
lawsuits filed in federal court, the federal rules that would
have preserved the plaintiffs’ standing to pursue the claims
couldn’t be applied to the state lawsuit.  The case is FDIC v. Countrywide Financial, 12-4354, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  AU Optronics Executive Was Key Part of Price Fixing, U.S. Says  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  executive  Steven Leung  was a key part of
a liquid-crystal display screen price-fixing conspiracy that has
yielded a $500 million penalty against the company, prosecutors
said as Leung’s retrial began.  Prosecutors told a jury in San Francisco federal court
yesterday that Leung, an executive at the Taiwanese company’s
desktop-display unit, had pricing authority for computer monitor
panels, was responsible for large accounts including  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Hewlett-Packard Co. and was a key player in
meetings held from 2001 to 2006 where prices were fixed.  “The evidence will show that Steven Leung’s company was
already engaged in a price-fixing conspiracy and Leung knew
about that conspiracy,” Heather Tewksbury, a U.S. Justice
Department attorney, said in her opening statement.  A jury in March convicted AU Optronics, its vice chairman
and a senior vice president, while deadlocking on the charges
against Leung, leading government lawyers to retry his case. He
has pleaded not guilty.  Leung’s lawyers claim that the government’s key witness, an
AU Optronics employee, has testified that he didn’t know whether
executives in Taiwan were meeting with competitors to fix
prices.  Leung “had no authority to set prices, no authority to
bargain,” Dennis Cashman, Leung’s attorney, told jurors
yesterday in his opening statement.  The case is U.S. v. Lin, 3:09-cr-00110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  SEC’s Lawsuit Against Morgan Keegan Begins in Atlanta  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s suit against
Morgan Keegan & Co. over the sale of auction-rate securities
began yesterday in federal court in Atlanta. The nonjury trial
is scheduled to take two weeks.  The case alleges that Morgan Keegan told clients that the
more than $2 billion in securities it sold had “zero risk” as
the market was collapsing in late 2007 and 2008. It was
initially dismissed by U.S. District Judge William Duffey Jr. in
June 2011, but in May, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Eleventh Circuit reversed, finding he incorrectly concluded
brokers’ verbal comments to four customers were immaterial in
light of disclosures posted on the firm’s website.  In opening statements, M. Graham Loomis, a lawyer for the
SEC, said Morgan Keegan brokers told customers auction-rate
securities were “liquid, short-term investments.”  A lawyer for Morgan Keegan, Amelia Rudolph, said in an
opening statement that “Morgan Keegan’s failure to predict the
future is not securities fraud.”  The suit is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Morgan
Keegan & Co., 1:09-cv-01965, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  CME Group, Board of Trade Must Defend Price-Settlement Lawsuit  CME Group Inc. (CME) , operator of the world’s largest futures
market, must defend a lawsuit brought by Chicago Board of Trade
brokers and traders challenging a change in how final-trade
settlement prices are determined.  Cook County Circuit Judge Lee Preston in Chicago yesterday
denied in part a defense request that he throw out the lawsuit
filed against CME in June. The suit seeks to prevent a shift
from computing agricultural trade prices solely by open outcry
from the trading pits to a system relying on an algorithmic
blend of open outcry and electronic-trade information.  Announced in May, the change went into effect on June 25,
before the more than 20 suing traders and brokers, who claim
their membership rights were violated, could obtain a court
order to block it.  Preston yesterday said the plaintiffs could proceed on
their claims for injunctive relief and for breach of contract
against CME and the Board of Trade.  While Preston dismissed the breach of contract claim
against CME Group Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive
Officer Phupinder Gill, he said the plaintiffs could pursue
breach of fiduciary duty claims against them. The judge rejected
a breach of fiduciary duty claim asserted against the company.  Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based CME Group,
said the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  While his clients still seek a court order blocking the new
measure, Sang said no hearing date has been set. The parties are
due in court on Dec. 4 for a hearing on the next steps in the
case.  The case is McKerr v. The Board of Trade of the City of
Chicago, 12-ch-23185, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  