-- Senators Share Gas Hors d’Oeuvres to Break Impasse
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-11-27T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/senators-nosh-on-gas-hors-d-oeuvres-to-break-policy.html
He took her to a solar-panel
 manufacturer  in  Oregon  and a factory that makes a buoy to
capture the energy of waves.  She showed off a natural gas export terminal in  Alaska 
where they ate graham crackers dipped in a liquefied version of
the fuel, part of a demonstration to showcase its benign
properties.  Democrat  Ron Wyden , who will take over as chairman of the
U.S. Senate energy committee in January, and  Lisa Murkowski , the
panel’s top Republican, say the tours to each other’s home
states cemented a warm bond between the two and taught them new
lessons, such as the fact that a graham cracker soaked in liquid
gas tastes like a graham cracker.  “She’s just really refreshing,” Oregon’s Wyden said of
his Alaska counterpart. “In a place where so often people say
’a’ but really mean ’b,’ that’s not the case with Senator
Murkowski.”  Now they say the relationship can help break an impasse on
 energy policy  in Washington, where they will lead a committee
with oversight for everything from export licenses to ship
natural gas to  Asia  to offshore oil development, renewable
energy production and nuclear waste disposal.  “There are areas where we can and should be looking to
legislate,” Murkowski, 55, said in an interview.  The two took the trips -- in August to Alaska and in 2011
to Oregon -- before they even knew who would take over the
committee in the next Congress. Wyden, 63, will become chairman
because Democrats kept control of the Senate and the current
chairman, Senator  Jeff Bingaman  of  New Mexico , is retiring.  Energy Bills  Congress has been unable to pass a major  energy bill  since
2007, when lawmakers agreed to increase fuel efficiency
requirements to automobiles and production of biofuels.  Since then, the energy landscape has undergone a
“transformational shift,” Wyden said in a telephone interview.
Wind and solar power generation has doubled, and natural gas and
oil production is booming thanks to advances in a drilling
process known as hydraulic fracturing.  The increase has reduced dependence on foreign oil to its
lowest level in two decades. Cleaner, cheaper natural gas,
meanwhile, is edging out coal in electricity generation.  Direction from Congress can provide more “certainty and
predictability,” driving investment and creating jobs, Wyden
said.  “Gridlock is hampering our economy,” he said.  ‘Sore Spots’  Hammering out a deal in committee, of course, is only the
start of the process. Senate leaders control what measures come
to the floor for a vote and the amendments that can be offered
during debate.  Once the legislation clears the Senate, the Republican-
controlled House awaits. This Congress is on pace to pass the
fewest number of bills in at least 20 years, according to
 information  from the  Library of Congress .  Wyden and Murkowski say they’ll try to focus on issues
where there is agreement. That could keep traditional flash
points such as drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
off the table, at least initially.  “If we wanted to, we could start this off in a pretty
difficult way, but I don’t think either one of us is looking to
do that,” Murkowski said. “We’re looking to accomplish things
rather than to find areas of opposition and obstruction.”  The friendship hearkens back to a time when crossing the
aisle to find compromise was more common, said Burdett Loomis, a
University of Kansas political science professor, in a telephone
interview.  ‘Stuff Done’  “It’s an old-fashioned way of having a chairman of a
committee and having a ranking member working together to get
stuff done,” he said.  Energy is an area where Democrats and Republicans
historically have found agreement, in part because positions are
sometimes determined by geography rather than party affiliation.  Farm-state members favor corn-based ethanol, for example,
whereas both Republicans and Democrats from the  Gulf Coast  have
resisted proposed tax increases on oil and gas companies that
drive the economy in that region.  The partisan split has sharpened in recent years as
Democrats pushed climate-change legislation that Republicans saw
as too intrusive into the economy.  Republicans also attacked clean-energy programs that
Democrats favored.  “Partisan differences are much greater now,” Loomis said
said. “As individuals, someone like a Wyden or a Murkowski may
not be restrained, but if you can’t sell it to a lot of people,
you can’t move forward.”  Thoughtful Leader  Wyden, who called Bingaman a “really thoughtful,
reflective energy and public-policy leader,” said no one could
have accomplished anything in the current Congress given the
heightened partisanship.  “In the last couple of years he was playing arguably one
of the toughest hands I’ve seen in the Senate,” Wyden said.  Elections can wipe the slate clean, he said. Both Wyden and
Murkowski said their colleagues have told them individually
agreement on energy issues can be found.  One immediate shift may be over the issue of how much
revenue energy-producing states should retain and how much
should be sent to the federal government.  Bingaman opposed the idea of increasing the state share,
saying it would increase the  federal budget  deficit. Murkowski
and other coastal state senators argued the states that take on
the risk associated with energy development should reap more of
the reward.  ‘Some Friction’  While saying she and Bingaman have a good personal
relationship, Murkowski said the disagreement over revenue
sharing “created some friction” that stalled committee action
on other issues.  Wyden said he wants to build a broad coalition of
“resource communities” that would gain more from development.  His overall goal is to support a “low-carbon economy,” he
said. While a tax on carbon remains a “big lift politically,”
the committee could instead promote hydropower, biomass and
geothermal power sources as a way to lower emissions, Wyden
said. That would benefit both Oregon and Alaska, Wyden said.  “I’m very energized and optimistic about the possibilities
here,” said McKie Campbell, the Republican staff director for
the committee, in an interview.  Gas Exports  One area of potential disagreement is natural gas exports.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  sends liquefied natural gas to  Japan  from a
terminal in Kenai, Alaska. The company’s license expires in
March.  Wyden has said he’s concerned the U.S. could be trading
away a competitive advantage of cheap energy by allowing more
exports. The U.S. Energy Department is reviewing at least 15
applications to build export terminals.  Alaska’s situation may be unique, he said. If not exported
to Asia, the fuel just may sit unused in the state because it
can’t reach the continental U.S., Wyden said.  “Of course, we’re not going to agree on everything,” he
said. Yet there is more common ground than not, he said.  “Now that we’ve had an election, there is an opportunity
for renewal and progress on a whole host of these issues,”
Wyden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  