-- Shanghai Ship Index Challenges 268-Year-Old London Bourse
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-11-28T09:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/shanghai-ship-index-challenges-268-year-old-london-bourse.html
Shanghai Shipping Exchange 
introduced dry-bulk and oil-tanker indexes in a challenge to a
268-year-old London bourse that sets freight rates covering
about 75 percent of global commodity cargoes.  The indexes will track China-import shipping rates using
data collected from shipowners, brokers and charterers, the
 Shanghai  exchange said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg News
questions. The gauges will initially run on a trial basis
starting today. Derivatives, used to speculate on future rates,
will be added at a later date, it said.  The Shanghai bourse is introducing the gauges as  China ’s
biggest port tries to compete with London and  Singapore  as a
shipping-finance center. The bourse will need to overcome
concerns about the use of data from operators and slumping
derivatives trading to lure investors using indexes compiled by
Baltic Exchange Ltd.  “They have to convince the shipping market that their data
is independent and objective,” said Ralph Leszczynski, the
Beijing-based head of research at shipbroker Banchero Costa &
Co. “They shouldn’t create indexes that are only handy for
Chinese state-owned companies.”  Multiple Sources  The Shanghai exchange will take data from 23 companies for
dry-bulk indexes tracking three vessel types. The oil tanker
gauge, which only follows very large crude carriers, will use
information from 18 companies. It will track rates on the Middle
East-Ningbo route and from West Africa to the Chinese port,
according to a press release today.  State-controlled companies contributing data for the
indexes will include ship operators  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919)  and
 CSC Nanjing Tanker Corp. (600087)  and oil company China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. Overseas companies such as brokers Fearnleys A/S
and ICAP Plc will also provide information.  Baltic Exchange only takes data from shipbrokers for its
gauges, which include the Baltic Dry Index. That will remain an
advantage for the London bourse as brokers are perceived to be
neutral, unlike shipowners and charterers, said Philippe van den Abeele, managing director of London-based Castalia Fund
Management (UK) Ltd., a shipping hedge fund that trades in
freight derivatives.  “I am against any type of index that is partially
determined by principals that have a vested interest in the
market,” he said.  Transparent Market  Shanghai Exchange President Zhang Ye said today in the city
that the wider range of contributors will ensure that its
indexes accurately reflect rates in the market.  “With more sources of data, you can track abnormalities in
case there are discrepancies,” he said. “It’s also a
transparent market, and we’re not just getting data from one
company.”  The exchange has also published the names of contributors
and it intends to ask more companies to join the data panels in
future. The bourse already runs  container-shipping indexes , a
market the Baltic hasn’t entered.  The exchange said its China focus will help differentiate
its indexes from the  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY)  and other global gauges
run by the Baltic, which has about 600 corporate members. The
different basis means the Shanghai indexes will complement
Baltic ones rather than being competitors, it said.  “We just want to do a good job in providing freight rates
for China imports,” the bourse said. “A lot of foreign
companies care about rates for goods imported by China.”  The nation is the biggest user of iron ore and coal, which
are carried on dry-bulk ships, as well as being the second-
biggest  oil importer  after the U.S.  Baltic Indexes  The Baltic produces more than 40 daily route assessments,
drawing from shipbrokers worldwide, along with a sale and
purchase index, forward prices, fixture lists and market
reports, according to its  website .  “It’s a pity that the Shanghai Shipping Exchange has
decided to produce these indexes because the Baltic already
provides benchmarks for the bulk of the routes that they are
proposing to cover,” said Baltic Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Penn .  Trading Slowdown  Shanghai is adding the indexes as slower economic growth
and global overcapacity saps rates and derivatives-trading. The
Baltic Dry Index has plunged about 40 percent in the past year.
Average daily earnings for very large crude carriers were the
lowest in records going back to 1997 for the quarter ended
September, according to data from Clarkson Plc, the world’s
largest shipbroker.  Trading of derivatives used to bet on or hedge shipping
costs will plunge 53 percent to $7 billion because of falling
rates and fewer transactions, broker Freight Investor Services
Ltd. said in September. Freight-forward agreement trading this
year through Nov. 23 totals 871,439 lots, a 9.3 percent decline
from a year earlier, according to Baltic data. One lot equals
1,000 metric tons of freight or one day’s vessel hire.  The new Shanghai indexes may fragment the market and cause
confusion, especially because of overlap with Baltic ones, said
John Banaszkiewicz, managing director at London-based Freight
Investor. They may also provide a spur to the Baltic, he said.  “The Baltic needs to re-establish itself as the world’s
leading freight market information provider and consolidate its
market position, especially in  Asia ,” he said.  The Baltic traces its roots back to a London coffeehouse,
which changed its name to Virginia and Baltick in 1744 to
reflect the business of the merchants and shipowners who
gathered there, according to its  website . It introduced the
Baltic Freight Index in 1985, as it opened the first freight-
futures market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  