-- Singapore Police Stand Guard as SMRT Bus Drivers Halt Work
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-11-27T12:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/singapore-police-stand-guard-as-smrt-bus-drivers-refuse-to-work.html
Singapore  police stood watch at a
workers’ dormitory as bus drivers from  SMRT Corp. (MRT)  skipped work
for a second day after a wage dispute, in a rare public display
of labor discord in the island nation.  About 60 bus drivers didn’t turn up for work this morning,
some with valid medical reasons, SMRT, Singapore’s biggest
subway operator that also runs bus services, said in an e-mailed
statement. SMRT said yesterday that 102 of its drivers, all from
 China , didn’t report for duty.  “We continue to keep our communications open with the
service leaders,” SMRT said, referring to the drivers. The
company is “also working with the relevant authorities to find
an amicable resolution,” it said.  Strikes in Singapore are rare and  unions  have limited scope
for industrial action as the government encourages consultative
relations between employers and employees. Labor protests in the
1950s led to riots and deaths and the government subsequently
changed the legal framework to reduce “adversarial and
confrontational” industrial relations and promote investment,
according to the  Ministry of Manpower .  “By taking matters into their own hands the drivers have
clearly crossed the line,” the city state’s acting Minister for
Manpower Tan Chuan-Jin said in an e-mailed statement. “The
government views these disruptions very seriously. We have zero
tolerance for such unlawful action because disrupted essential
services not only affect the workers in the industry, but also
affect the daily life of all in the community.”  Illegal Strikes  Strikes are illegal for workers in essential services,
unless they give the employer 14 days’ notice of the intent to
go on strike and comply with the requirements of the notice, the
minister said in the statement.  Police are currently investigating “this illegal strike,”
he said. “There are rules and laws to follow, and we will let
the investigations run their course.”  Five police vehicles and at least six policemen were seen
outside the workers’ dormitory in Singapore’s Woodlands area, in
the island’s north. No arrests have been made, a police
spokesman said by phone, after the Today newspaper reported
earlier in the day the drivers would be detained. Reporters
weren’t allowed to enter the dormitory to speak to the drivers.  No Incidents  The main concern for the police is maintaining law and
order and there have been no incidents, the spokesman said,
declining to be identified by name because of policy.  The drivers’ protest, which affected some bus services
yesterday, highlights the island’s reliance on foreign labor.
Complaints that a surge in overseas workers is depriving locals
of jobs and driving up  home prices  helped opposition parties
achieve record support in last year’s general election. There
are 3.3 million citizens and 2 million foreigners in a country
that’s smaller than  New York  City.  “The resentment is really towards foreigner polices, as
opposed to foreigners,” said Leong Chan-Hoong, a research
fellow at the Institute of Policy Studies in Singapore who has
studied cross-cultural psychology. “We understand that there’s
a need, whether it’s an economic need or the demographic need,
to have immigrants, to have transient workers to complement the
local workforce. At the same time Singaporeans are also not
pleased with how we managed that influx in the past 10 years or
so.”  Pay Increments  SMRT said the workers who protested yesterday were unhappy
with their salary increments after recent adjustments made by
the company. Talks between management and the drivers ended at
about 6 p.m. yesterday, the company said in a statement late
yesterday, when it said the employees would return to work today.  “We regret that they chose to express their unhappiness
about their salaries in this manner, especially when our lines
of communication with them are always open,” it said in the Nov.
26 statement.  The labor disputes are the latest challenge for SMRT, which
was named the world’s best metro operator in 2009. It has had to
contend with public dissatisfaction after subway service
failures in 2011 and was fined the maximum S$2 million ($1.6
million) penalty for two breakdowns in December that were the
most disruptive since it began operations in the late 1980s.  The shares have dropped 4.5 percent this year, compared
with a 13.9 percent increase in the benchmark  Straits Times
Index (FSSTI)  of stocks.  Previous wage disputes between employers and workers in the
city state have involved pilots from the national carrier
Singapore Airlines Ltd. After protests by Singapore Air pilots
over lower pay, Singapore changed its  labor laws  in 2004 to
allow trade union executives to negotiate and agree to wage
agreements without the approval of its members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  