-- Sirius CEO Talks With Investors on U.K. Potash Mine Funding
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-11-27T11:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/sirius-ceo-talks-with-potential-investors-on-potash-mine-funding.html
Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX) , planning to
build a potash mine in the U.K., is in talks with potential
partners to help fund the project in the  North York Moors
National Park  that has been estimated to cost $2.7 billion.  Sirius will seek minority venture partners in the project,
which may be attractive to potential fertilizer customers, Chief
Executive Officer Chris Fraser said in an interview last week at
the site in northern  England . “We’re also talking to strategic
financial investors as well, where that injection of capital
would probably provide the earlier part of the funding.”  The project, called York Potash, hosts the world’s largest
estimated resource of polyhalite, with 2.2 billion metric tons
of the material used to make sulfate of potash. The U.K.’s only
potash mine, Boulby, is immediately north of York. Potash is a
form of potassium used to strengthen plant roots and protect
against drought.  An updated study into the mine development is due early
next month and Sirius is likely to scale back initial costs by
focusing on producing granulated polyhalite rather than adding a
layer of processing, Macquarie Group Ltd. said Nov. 20. That may
cut as much as 40 percent from the $2.7 billion estimated mine
cost and 60 percent from the operating costs, according to
Macquarie analyst Alon Olsha.  “The potential capital and operating cost advantages of
this new strategy could well ensure the success of future
capital raisings,” Olsha said.  The proposed site is about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) from
the coastal town of Whitby and is currently used for farming and
commercial forestry.  Sirius was unchanged at 21.75 pence at 11:24 a.m. in London
trading. The stock has dropped 18 percent this year, valuing the
London-based company at 291 million pounds ($466 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  