-- SNS Securities Equity Staff Asked to Take Salary Cut
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-11-27T16:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/sns-securities-equity-staff-asked-to-take-salary-cut-correct-.html
SNS Reaal NV (SR)  employees at the
securities unit’s equity business were offered a pay cut from
next year and a one-time compensation payment to keep their jobs
as the Dutch lender and insurer seeks ways to trim costs.  As many as 10 positions at SNS Securities’s equities unit
will be eliminated, while the remaining employees were asked to
accept a pay cut in exchange for an undisclosed compensation,
Roland Kroes, a spokesman for the Utrecht, Netherlands-based
bank and insurer said by telephone today. They have “a couple
of weeks to decide, he said. Kroes said yesterday that the
company plans to keep about 20 people in equities.  Securities firms from Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  to Tokyo-
based Nomura Holdings Inc. are cutting back their European
equity businesses as trading volumes fall and profitability
decreases. ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial-services
firm, said last month that it plans to cut about 25 jobs at its
Amsterdam equities unit as part of a wider restructuring effort.  ‘‘As difficult as it is for the employees, Securities feels
forced to ask this financial contribution,’’ Kroes said. ‘‘The
market has changed so much due to costs and pressure on margins
and volumes that these type of measures are unfortunately
needed.’’  SNS Reaal, which was bailed out in 2008, said on Nov. 15
that it plans to eliminate about 750 jobs to achieve its 2015
targets. The company aims to cut operating costs by at least 75
million euros ($97 million) by the end of that year, it said.  SNS Securities’s employees do not fall under a collective
labor agreement its parent company SNS Reaal concluded with
three trade unions on Nov. 21, Kroes said. Under that agreement,
workers won’t get a pay increase until at least 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  