-- South African Economic Growth Slows to 1.2% as Strikes Hurt
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-11-27T10:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/south-african-economic-growth-slows-to-1-2-as-strikes-hurt.html
South Africa ’s economy, the
continent’s largest, grew at the slowest pace since a recession
in 2009, as mining output plunged following the worst strikes
since the end of apartheid.  Gross domestic product  eased to an annualized 1.2 percent
in the third quarter from the previous three months, when it
grew a revised 3.4 percent, Statistics South Africa said in
report released in Pretoria today. The  median estimate  of 17
economists polled by Bloomberg was 1.5 percent.  Strikes at gold and platinum mines this year have cut
output by more than 10 billion rand ($1.1 billion) and will
shave about 0.5 percentage point off the economic growth rate,
according to the National Treasury. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is forecasting expansion of 2.5 percent this year, the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession. That’s less than half the 7
percent growth the government says is needed to slash a 25.5
percent  jobless rate .  “The scary bit is if you exclude mining from the economy
in the third quarter, you still would’ve seen a slowdown,” Gina Schoeman, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “Even though mining is such a drag, there
is no doubt that the rest of the economy is losing momentum.”  Manufacturing Output  The rand pared its gains after the data was released,
dropping to 8.86 per dollar and was trading at 8.8369 as of
11:56 a.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the R157 government
bond, due 2015, declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 5.5 percent.  Mining plunged an annualized 12.7 percent in the third
quarter after expanding 31 percent in the previous three months,
the statistics office said. Manufacturing, which makes up 15
percent of the economy, rose 1.2 percent compared with a 0.8
percent contraction in the second quarter.  “If you exclude mining we could have been growing 2
percent,” Kedibone Mabaso, manager of national accounts data at
the statistics agency, told reporters in  Pretoria  today.  Last quarter’s growth rate was the slowest since a
contraction of 2.7 percent in the second quarter of 2009.  The government and central bank have little room to
stimulate the economy as growth slows. While the Reserve Bank
surprised economists by lowering the repurchase rate by 50 basis
points on July 19, Governor Gill Marcus has held the rate at 5
percent since then because of a weaker rand and quickening
inflation.  Budget Deficit  “The slowdown is occurring in the economy, but it isn’t
necessarily that fast,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at
Nomura Plc in London, said in a phone interview. “This isn’t
providing enough of a shock yet for the  Reserve Bank  to cut
rates in January.”  Gordhan has pledged to keep the budget deficit under
control as South Africa faces scrutiny from  credit rating
agencies . Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have
cut the nation’s credit rating since Sept. 27, while maintaining
a negative outlook.  Agriculture rose an annualized 7.4 percent, the retail
industry expanded 1.7 percent and financial services grew 1.8
percent, the statistics agency said. The economy expanded 3.5
percent in 2011, compared with a previous estimate of 3.1
percent, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  