-- South African Farmworkers May Resume Strikes, Labor Group Warns
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-27T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/south-african-farmworkers-may-resume-strikes-labor-group-warns.html
South Africa ’s largest labor group
warned that farmworkers in Western Cape province may resume
violent  strike action  after the government said it couldn’t meet
a Dec. 4 deadline to review minimum wages.  Protests that claimed the lives of two people swept across
the province after farmworkers in the grape-growing De Doorns
region went on strike on Nov. 6 for higher pay. Calm has been
restored to most towns since Nov. 17, after the Congress of
South African Trade Unions brokered a two-week suspension of the
strike pending a minimum-wage review.  Under South African law, the government can only legislate
new minimum wages from April when the prevailing rates will have
been in place for 12 months, Labor Minister Edna Molewa told
reporters today in  Pretoria , the capital. Public hearings on the
issue are under way and will end on Dec. 13, she said.  Cosatu said the minister was undermining the negotiating
process and needed to do more to meet worker demands for the
minimum daily wage to be increased to 150 rand ($17) from 70
rand so that further strikes are avoided.  A resumption of the strikes “can set back labor relations
on farms by decades and could see a reversal to the low-level
civil war we all witnessed on farms a few weeks ago,” Cosatu
said in an e-mailed statement. “The entire country saw the
desperation and anger of the workers against these low wages.”  Agriculture makes up about 2.1 percent of South Africa’s
gross domestic product directly, and farms produce about 6.5
percent of the country’s exports, including wine, citrus fruit,
corn, grapes, sugar, apples and pears.  The protests have already caused about 120 million rand in
damages, with grape growers hardest hit, according to AgriSA,
the main farmers’ group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  