-- South Africa Has Scope for More Interest Rate Cuts: OECD
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-11-27T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/south-africa-has-scope-for-more-interest-rate-cuts-oecd.html
South Africa ’s central bank has
scope to cut interest rates further to bolster growth in the
face of the global economic slowdown, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said.  The Reserve Bank has left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5 percent since July as a weaker rand and rising
food and fuel prices stoked inflation, limiting its room to
stimulate the economy. Even so, inflation has remained within
the Pretoria-based bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target for the
past six months.  “Core inflation will be contained by the large degree of
slack in the economy,” the OECD said in its November 2012
Economic Outlook released today. “Monetary policy should be
used to provide short-term stimulus. There is scope for further
easing while staying within the inflation-target band.”  The Paris-based OECD expects  inflation  in South  Africa  to
slow to 5.4 percent in 2013 from 5.6 this year and predicts
Africa’s biggest economy will expand 2.6 percent this year and
3.3 percent in 2013. That’s more optimistic than the central
bank’s Nov. 22 forecast for 2.5 percent growth in 2012 and 2.9
percent the following year.  “The recovery has been held back by private-sector
deleveraging, as household debt-to-income ratios remain high
while business and  consumer confidence  are weak,” the OECD
said. There is also “slow growth of external demand. In
addition, a wave of wildcat strikes that began in the mining
sector in the third quarter of 2012 and subsequently spread
appears to have had significant output costs.”  On Nov. 11, the  International Monetary Fund  also said the
case for further easing on monetary policy was building as the
global economy slowed and the strikes curbed growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  