-- Speculators Raise Wagers First Time in Seven Weeks: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-11-27T18:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/speculators-raise-wagers-first-time-in-seven-weeks-commodities.html
Speculators raised bullish commodity
wagers for the first time since early October as signs of
improving economic growth in the U.S. and China pushed prices
higher for three straight weeks.  Hedge funds and other money managers increased combined
net-long  positions  across 18 U.S. futures and options by 9.6
percent to 846,321 contracts in the week ended Nov. 20,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. That was the
biggest gain since mid-August. Corn holdings rose the most since
July, and those on silver reached a five-week high.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
has rebounded 3.8 percent since reaching a three-month low on
Nov. 5. Manufacturing in China, the world’s biggest consumer of
everything from copper to coal to cotton, is on pace to expand
in November for the first time in more than a year, figures
showed Nov. 22. In the U.S., more Americans this month said the
world’s largest economy will improve than at any time in the
past decade, and new-home construction climbed to a four-year
high in October, separate reports showed last week.  “There are a lot of reasons to believe that we are
starting to turn the corner,” said James Paulsen, the
Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $325 billion. “Growth in the
U.S. and  China  gives me confidence to remain invested in
commodities.”  November Gains  The GSCI index is up 1.3 percent in November, as 16 of the
24 raw materials tracked by S&P gained. The dollar advanced 0.6
percent against a basket of six currencies, while the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities is up 0.1 percent. Treasuries
returned 0.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The preliminary  reading  for a Chinese purchasing managers’
index was 50.4, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics data
showed. That compares with a final level of 49.5 for October. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion. Manufacturers in the
country are “seeing the light at the end of tunnel,” boosting
demand for copper which will be in a supply deficit this year,
Societe Generale said in a report e-mailed on Nov. 20.  U.S. housing starts rose 3.6 percent to a 894,000 annual
rate, the fastest since July 2008 and exceeding all estimates in
a Bloomberg survey, Commerce Department figures showed on Nov.
20. The economy may “strengthen significantly” if U.S.
lawmakers are able to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts, Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said Nov. 20.  Europe Crisis  Europe ’s fiscal woes will be a drag on global growth even
as conditions improve in the U.S. and China, said John Kinsey,
who helps manage about C$1 billion ($1 billion) at Caldwell
Investment Management Ltd. in Toronto.  European finance ministers eased the terms on emergency aid
for  Greece  at a summit in Brussels that ended early today with
an agreement that was endorsed by the International Monetary
Fund and the European Central Bank.  In the latest bid to keep the 17-nation euro intact,
ministers cut rates on bailout loans, suspended interest
payments for a decade, gave Greece more time to repay and
engineered a Greek bond buyback. The country was also cleared
for a loan installment next month.  About 18 percent of global copper demand comes from Europe,
and the region consumes 22 percent of the world’s oil, according
to estimates from Barclays and  BP Plc. (BP/)  The euro zone fell back
into recession in the third quarter, shrinking 0.6 percent.  “Europe continues to muddle along, so we’re still not
bullish and standing on the sidelines,” Caldwell’s Kinsey said.
“The road seems to be strewn with minefields, and we try not to
step on them.”  Money Flows  Money managers added a net $1.75 billion to commodity funds
in the week ended Nov. 21, with gold and precious metals
accounting for $442 million, said  Cameron Brandt , the director
of research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows.  Silver  wagers  jumped 20 percent to 33,317 contracts, the
biggest gain since Aug. 28, the CFTC data show. Global holdings
in exchange-traded products have climbed 7.9 percent this year,
reaching a record 18,853.6 metric tons on Nov. 15.  Bullish crude-oil bets climbed 9.8 percent to 109,848
contracts, the biggest gain since Aug. 21. Sugar holdings surged
48 percent to 18,955 contracts, the first increase in six weeks.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lifted
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 7.4 percent to
446,348 contracts. Corn holdings rose 23 percent to 250,228
contracts, the highest since Oct. 23.  Hog Bets  Investors boosted their bullish hog bets by 15 percent to
41,265 contracts, the highest since Dec. 20. Cattle wagers
gained 7.4 percent to 22,335 contracts, the first advance in
four weeks.  Cattle prices touched a record on Nov. 23 on signs of
shrinking beef supplies. In the 10 months through Oct. 31, U.S.
commercial output of the meat fell 1.1 percent from the same
period in 2011, the government said the same day. As of July 1,
the U.S. herd shrank to the smallest since at least 1973.  “The U.S. looks fairly constructive, and we may see some
re-acceleration next year,” said Evan Smith, who helps manage
$500 million of assets at U.S. Global Investors Inc. in San
Antonio. “China is starting to show some signs of growth, so we
will see some demand coming in from there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  