-- Swedish Krona Weakens on Gloomy Economic Report: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-11-27T13:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/swedish-krona-weakens-on-gloomy-economic-report-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden ’s krona weakened the most in
more than two weeks against the euro as a survey of businesses
and consumers indicated that the economy had weakened more than
expected.  The krona weakened as much as 0.87 percent against the
euro, the most since Nov. 9, and declined 0.83 percent to 8.6453
as of 1:33 p.m. in  Stockholm . It depreciated 0.89 percent versus
the dollar and was weaker against all major currencies in a
basket compiled by Bloomberg.  The economic tendency indicator declined to 86 in November
from a revised 92.7 a month earlier, the National Institute of
Economic Research said today. That compared with an estimate of
91.5 in a Bloomberg survey of 6 economists.  “This indicator level clearly signals negative year-on-
year growth,” Anders Brunstedt, an economist at  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , said in a note. “Even if the third-quarter
GDP data on Thursday should hold a positive surprise, we think
it’s reasonable to expect the Riksbank to lower its growth
forecast in the shorter term.”  The central bank in October signaled it may cut interest
rates next month for a fourth time since December as an
expansion slows amid falling exports. Companies such as  Ericsson
AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest maker of mobile phone networks, and
truckmaker  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , are cutting jobs to cope with slumping
demand.  The  consumer confidence  index fell to minus 7.4 from minus
2.9 the previous month, the Stockholm-based research institute
said today. A manufacturing confidence index fell to minus 18
from minus 16, which was in line with estimates.  The reports suggest that “economic activity is
substantially weaker than normal,” Anna Raman, a senior analyst
at Nykredit A/S in Copenhagen, said in a note. She expects
Sweden’s economy to contract this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Toby Alder at 
 talder@bloomberg.net  