-- Swedish Banks Gird for Foreign Borrowing Cap After Borg Warning
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-11-27T11:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/swedish-banks-gird-for-foreign-borrowing-cap-after-borg-warning.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said he will try to limit bank borrowing in foreign currencies
in his latest proposal to curb the threat of losses posed to
taxpayers by the financial industry.  “It’s a risk that the banks are dependent on foreign
exchange funding,” Borg told reporters at a conference in
 Stockholm  today. The government is looking into various options
to prevent banks’ over-reliance on  currency markets , including
“introducing a fee or levy to make it more costly for the banks
to expose  Sweden  to that kind of risk,” he said.  Sweden has already pushed through higher  capital
requirements  than those set elsewhere, and plans to prevent
banks under-stating mortgage-asset risks by enforcing stricter
risk weights. Borg has committed to Sweden’s more rigorous
standards after the nation’s banks expanded into the Baltics at
the height of the former Soviet states’ property boom. The
government argues Sweden’s banks, which have assets about four
times the size of the $500 billion economy, need to be
restrained to protect taxpayers.  “This is a sector that will be regulated tougher and
tougher and tougher every year going forward and they may as
well prepare for that,” Borg said. “If you’re in the banking
business then you should envision a period of five to 20 years
when the regulatory framework simply will be made stricter.”  Deposit Funding  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender,  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  SEB AB (SEBA)  boast some of Europe’s
highest capital ratios, helping to give them cheaper access to
market funding. The lenders have largely avoided taking on
assets tainted by Europe’s debt crisis and credit default swaps
show they’re among the world’s safest lenders.  Borg said Sweden “needs to make the banks return to more
deposit-based financing.”  Credit default swaps, which show the cost of insuring
against an issuer’s failure to repay debt, traded at 81.76 on
Handelsbanken yesterday and 89.53 for Nordea. Swaps on SEB were
113.26 while Swedbank’s stood at 120.25. That compares with
162.79 for  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , 121.71 for Deutsche Bank AG and
160.23 for Barclays Bank Plc, according to data available on
Bloomberg.  “If one looks at all the short funding in the Swedish
financial system today, then 90 percent of all short funding is
in foreign exchange,” Mattias Persson, head of the financial
stability department at the Riksbank, said at the same event
today. “There are advantages and there are disadvantages with
that.”  Sweden’s central bank has warned against rising consumer
debt levels, which have grown to about 170 percent of disposable
incomes. Household debt by that measure mustn’t exceed 200
percent, Governor Stefan Ingves said this month. The bank
predicts the level will remain largely unchanged at about 170
percent through 2015, after having risen from 90 percent in
1996, provided the central bank doesn’t cut rates further.  Borg, who has previously lashed out against Sweden’s banks
for not cutting  mortgage rates  in tandem with central bank cuts
and warned banks not too hand out surplus cash to shareholders,
today said Sweden must cut household debt levels and control
property prices to safeguard financial stability. He also said
Sweden should target annual household borrowing growth of no
more than 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  