-- U.A.E. Mulls Allowing 100% Foreign Ownership of Companies
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-11-27T14:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-a-e-mulls-allowing-100-foreign-ownership-of-companies-1-.html
The United Arab Emirates government
is reviewing a draft commercial law allowing full foreign
ownership of some companies, according to an  Abu Dhabi  official.  “We recognize the importance of the foreign companies to
have 100 percent ownership, but within specific rules and
conditions,” Mohamed Omar Abdulla, undersecretary of the Abu
Dhabi Department of  Economic Development , said in an interview
in Dubai today.  The measure applies to some industries outside of free
zones, Abdulla said. The Abu Dhabi government and others within
the U.A.E. are reviewing the draft, he said, without specifying
when it will be passed. Foreigners make up about 90 percent of
the nation’s 8.3 million population, according to 2010
government estimates.  The current commercial law allows foreigners to own a
maximum of 49 percent of companies registered outside of free
zones. Corporations that are eligible would “have to be within
the industries that have certain priorities within the economy,
like petrochemicals, communications, logistics, aerospace,
financial, and others,” Abdulla said.  While the federal government has been negotiating the
revised commercial law for years, the financial crisis in 2008
has helped push discussions forward, he said. The Arab world’s
second-largest economy contracted 4.8 percent in 2009, according
to the  International Monetary Fund , as the credit crunch
tightened lending, causing a slump in property prices.  The country’s stock markets have failed to recover from the
crisis, with  Dubai’s benchmark index  trading at less than a
third of where it was in June 2008, and Abu Dhabi’s benchmark
index at about half.  Still, Dubai’s index rose 18 percent so far this year, and
Abu Dhabi’s gained 10 percent. The U.A.E.’s gross domestic
product may expand 4 percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2013,
the IMF forecasts.  Abu Dhabi, the richest of the seven sheikhdoms that make up
the U.A.E., is also working independently on a competitiveness
index and plans to release it in February, Abdulla said. “That
will provide us with a picture of where we stand, and help us in
building a comprehensive plan to improve the business
environment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  