-- U.K. Energy Reforms Unlikely to Meet Climate Goals, Survey Shows
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-11-27T13:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-k-energy-reforms-unlikely-to-meet-climate-goals-survey-shows.html
The U.K.’s 110 billion-pound ($176
billion) effort to reform the  electricity market  is unlikely to
deliver on 2020 climate goals, a survey shows.  The survey by law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
of 101 executives and investors in the U.K. electricity industry
found 77 percent do not think the power market reforms will
enable the country to meet legally binding goals to curb
greenhouse gas emissions. Many thought the 2020 target to cut
emissions 34 percent was over-ambitious, according to the
survey.  Britain is overhauling its energy market to clean up
electricity generation, ensure demand is met and integrate more
renewables such as wind farms into the system. Final proposals
are expected before Parliament this week in an Energy Bill.  “This is a once in a generation chance to reform a market
that literally feeds the U.K. economy, yet analysts seem to be
struggling to make the EMR investment case understandable, let
alone attractive to their clients,” Alan Rae Smith, head of
energy projects at Freshfields, said in a statement. The 110
billion-pounds of investment needed for the overhaul was seen as
“out of reach,” according to the research.  Most respondents were concerned their investments were at
risk from a lack of financial compensation in the event of
future law changes, according to the survey undertaken in
October with findings announced today. British Energy Secretary
Ed Davey Nov. 23 spelled out a number of measures ahead of the
Energy Bill, which didn’t “materially alter the core sentiments
expressed by the market” in October, the  law firm  said.  Among Davey’s proposals was a plan to offer contracts
guaranteeing a power price for low-carbon energy producers. The
government will create a company to act as contract counterparty
with the generators. The government-owned body will have powers
to collect funds from electricity suppliers to ensure the
generators get payments for electricity they produce.  Questions including what financial backing the counterparty
will receive and how the levies will be collected and funded
still weigh on investors. “The answers may, or may not come in
the revised draft of the Energy Bill,” Rae Smith said. “The
market is holding its breath until it sees what comes next”.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  