-- U.K. Tory Dorries Remains Suspended After Reality Show
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-27T13:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-k-tory-dorries-remains-suspended-after-reality-show.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s
Conservatives said lawmaker Nadine Dorries remains suspended
from the party for appearing on a reality-television show until
she’s “rebuilt bridges” within her electoral district.  The Tory party suspended Dorries -- “removed the whip”
from her in parliamentary parlance -- on Nov. 6 over her
decision to go to  Australia  to appear on ITV Plc’s “I’m a
Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!” While the show continues for
a month, she was the first contestant to be voted off by
viewers. That meant she missed 11 days of work.  “The whip has not been restored, and nor will it be until
she proves that she can rebuild bridges with her constituents,
her association and her parliamentary colleagues,” the
Conservative Party said in an e-mailed statement today.  Following a meeting with Chief Whip George Young, who
oversees Tory party discipline, Dorries told the BBC’s Three
Counties radio station, which covers her Mid-Bedfordshire
district, that she wants to carry on as a lawmaker.  “We had a very good-natured, a very happy meeting. We have
adjourned the meeting and we are reconvening this time next
week, if not before” she said. “Of course I want to be an MP.
An MP is not doing a job, it is a life choice. If I didn’t want
to make that life choice, I wouldn’t be doing it, I can assure
you.”  Young’s Options  Unless Dorries regains the whip, she will not be able to
run again as a Tory candidate. Young could restore her to the
party if he accepts she has rebuilt trust within her district,
or he could withdraw the whip permanently, leaving her to sit in
the House of Commons as an independent.  The risk for Cameron is that if she were expelled from the
party, she might defect to another political grouping, such as
the U.K. Independence Party, which campaigns for Britain’s
independence from the European Union. Dorries has repeatedly
criticized Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne for being out of touch with the concerns of ordinary
voters.  The reality show forces celebrities to live in a jungle
camp and perform challenges including eating insects and
touching dangerous animals such as snakes. Previous winners have
used the show as a springboard to better their careers.  Dorries said she wasn’t trying to cultivate a career in
television, arguing that she was seeking new ways of engaging
with the public.  “I have gone to a place where 12 million people go and
engaged with them at their level,” she told the  BBC . “I don’t
want a television career. I do want a platform which engages
with the public on a different level from that which Westminster
offers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  