-- U.K.’s Vivergo Says Its Ethanol Production Start Is Imminent
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-11-27T17:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-k-s-vivergo-says-its-ethanol-production-start-is-imminent.html
Vivergo Fuels, set to become the
U.K.’s largest ethanol maker, will start production at its plant
in northeast England imminently, the company said.  The  company , a joint venture between  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Associated
British Foods Plc (ABF)  and DuPont Co., will produce 420 million
liters (111 million gallons) of the biofuel annually using 1.1
million metric tons of feed-grade wheat, spokeswoman Anja
Hazebroek said today in a telephone interview. The plant also
will produce 500,000 tons of  animal feed  from ethanol
byproducts.  “We’re looking to start up before the end of the calendar
year,” Hazebroek said. “It’s now getting very imminent.”  Vivergo will be the second major ethanol facility to come
online in the U.K. this year, following Ensus Ltd., which
restarted  output  in August at its plant on Teesside, after a 15-
month shutdown.  Feed-wheat futures for May delivery have surged 47 percent
this year on NYSE Liffe in  London , after the wettest U.K. summer
in a century hurt crop yields. U.K. farmers harvested 13.31
million tons of wheat this season, down 13 percent from last
year, according to the Department for Environment, Food & Rural
Affairs. The country is expected to become a net-importer of the
grain for the first time in 11 years.  Construction at Vivergo’s facility near Hull,  England ,
began in 2008, Hazebroek said. The company plans to use only
wheat sourced in the U.K. and won’t operate using other crops
including corn, the most common grain for ethanol production in
the U.S., she said.  Vivergo will be the U.K.’s largest ethanol producer,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  