-- U.K. Health Shakeup Seen Spurring Ramsay’s Biggest Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-11-28T06:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-k-health-shakeup-seen-spurring-ramsay-s-biggest-bid-real-m-a.html
The biggest shakeup in the history
of Britain’s state-run health service is poised to entice
 Australia ’s  Ramsay Health Care Ltd. (RHC)  to pursue its largest deal.  Ramsay, based in Sydney, faces slowing profit growth as it
runs out of room to expand in Australia. The private hospital
operator more than doubled net income in the past three years,
making it the fastest growing health-care provider valued at $1
billion or more in the developed Asia-Pacific region, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Now, analysts  expect  earnings to
rise no more than 13 percent in each of the next three years.  As the U.K.’s  National Health Service  refers more patients
to private providers in an effort to cut costs, Ramsay may look
to that market to bolster earnings, said  Wilson HTM Investment
Group (WIG)  Ltd. While U.K. hospitals generate the company’s highest
profit margins, the unit only accounts for 14 percent of sales.
London-based Spire Healthcare Ltd., which may fetch $1.9 billion
in a takeover, and BMI Healthcare Ltd. are both potential
targets, said Deutsche Bank AG. That would surpass Ramsay’s top
deal -- the $1.1 billion purchase of Affinity Health Ltd.  “They have capacity to do a sizable acquisition,” Derek Jellinek, an analyst at  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  in Sydney, said
in a phone interview. “It’s just a matter of time. The growth
has been so strong for so long that they need ‘ex-Oz’ growth to
support what has become, as a business, a sizable entity.”  Carmel Monaghan, a Brisbane-based spokeswoman for Ramsay,
declined to comment beyond the company’s annual report.  Psychiatric Facility  “Our U.K. business is well-placed to capture future growth
in NHS volumes,” Ramsay said in the  report , released last
month. “While we are interested in expanding in the U.K. given
our success in this country, we will only progress opportunities
that meet our investment criteria.”  Formed in 1964 when  Paul Ramsay  converted a guest house in
northern Sydney into a 16-bed psychiatric facility, the company
now has a market value of A$5.27 billion ($5.5 billion) and runs
116 hospitals and clinics in Australia, Indonesia, France and
the U.K.  Profit rose to A$244.1 million in fiscal 2012 from A$106.5
million in the year ended June 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The 129 percent increase is the most of any
health-care services provider in the developed Asia-Pacific
region with a market value surpassing $1 billion, the data show.  Budget Cuts  Ramsay, which has run hospitals in the U.K. since its 2007
acquisition of Capio AB’s hospitals in  England , has room to
borrow for a takeover, said  David Low , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank in Sydney. The company’s net debt-to-equity ratio, a
measure of  indebtedness , has fallen by more than half since June
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Now is the time to be looking,” Low said. “They’ve got
the balance sheet. Opportunities in Australia are limited. The
NHS is under pressure. They will increasingly rely on the
private sector to provide services.”  Ramsay today  rose  as much as 1.6 percent, before closing up
0.9 percent at a record A$26.31 in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX
200 index fell 0.2 percent.  Founded in 1948 to provide health care to the entire U.K.
population, the  NHS  is now aiming to reduce annual costs by as
much as 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) by 2015, almost one-
fifth of its expected budget that year, according to the
 Department of Health . Under the Health and Social Care Act,
passed into law this year, health workers and layers of
administration are being cut, and NHS physicians are being given
more power to send patients to private providers -- at the
government’s expense.  Most Profitable  Already, patients referred by the NHS to Ramsay-run U.K.
hospitals rose 11 percent in the 12 months ended June, swelling
the proportion of those admissions to more than 65 percent of
Ramsay’s U.K. total. That was up from 44 percent in the year
ended June 2009, according to Ramsay filings.  The U.K. business generated an operating margin, before
rent, of 25 percent in the latest 12-month period, Ramsay said.
Australia and three hospitals in  Indonesia  still accounted for
74 percent of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization and rent. The company had an overall Ebitda margin
of 15 percent.  “It does make sense for them to replicate what they
have,” said Shane Storey, an analyst at Wilson HTM in Brisbane.
“Good facilities attract good surgeons. Good surgeons get good
outcomes. Good outcomes mean patients are out of hospital
faster. That improves profitability.”  Ramsay ranked No. 5 among private health-care providers in
the U.K. with an 8.8 percent share of the market in 2010, the
country’s Office of Fair Trading said in a  report  in April 2012.
General Healthcare Group, owner of BMI, was first with 24
percent and Spire ranked second with 18 percent of the market.  Rising Referrals  The NHS is the U.K.’s second-biggest buyer of private
health care, and the number of NHS patients treated in private
facilities has more than doubled in the past four years, the
 Office of Fair Trading  said.  This business is making up for a stagnant market for
private health care in the U.K., which exited a double-dip
recession in the third quarter, according to CIMB’s Jellinek.
While private patients pay higher fees, referrals from the
state-funded NHS, which pays private providers such as Ramsay
for treatment, are increasing at a sufficient pace to compensate
for lower profitability, said Jellinek.  The most logical target for Ramsay is Spire, which is owned
by private-equity firm Cinven Ltd., according to Deutsche Bank’s
Low. BMI, the U.K.’s largest private hospital group, is also a
possible target, though less likely, he said.  Largest Deal  If Ramsay paid 1.2 billion pounds, or about 9 times Spire’s
Ebitda, the acquisition would boost fiscal 2015 earnings per
share by 12 percent, Low wrote in a Nov. 8 report.  That depends on Ramsay leaving the hospital properties
themselves with Cinven and extracting cost savings, Low wrote.  Vanessa Maydon, a spokeswoman for Cinven in  London , said
the firm doesn’t comment on speculation. Zoe Horwich, a
spokeswoman for BMI in London, had no comment on any potential
bid for the hospital operator by Ramsay.  Spire,  bought by Cinven  in 2007 for 1.58 billion pounds,
runs 37 hospitals and nine clinics and generated sales of 674
million pounds in 2011, according to Cinven. BMI runs 69 U.K.
hospitals and treatment sites, its  website  says.  A takeover of Spire would be Ramsay’s largest. It has spent
$1.81 billion on 10 purchases since 2001, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The biggest was the $1.1 billion takeover in
2005 of Affinity Health in Australia, the data show.  Still, there’s no guarantee referrals will continue to be
directed to private health-care providers under new U.K. law,
said  Piers Ricketts , a London-based health-care partner at KPMG.  “This in theory will bring considerable opportunities for
the private sector, but in practice you’d have to be bold to bet
on massive growth,” he said in a phone interview. “Spire would
be a bridgehead, but a very expensive way of acquiring
additional capacity.”  Competition Report  Ramsay would find an advantage in the strong Australian
dollar, which is up 53 percent against the pound since November
2007, when Ramsay bought Capio’s English hospitals, said David Stanton, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney.  “The Aussie is strong and you need critical mass in a new
geography to derive synergies,” he said in a phone interview.
“That’s why they’re looking.”  Ramsay may also find an opportunity to strike a deal while
the U.K.  Competition Commission  investigates the local private
health-care market, said Deutsche Bank’s Low. With a provisional
ruling due by June and a final report expected by March 2014,
Ramsay may be able to buy assets at a discount with little
chance of being undermined by the final report, he said.  “I wouldn’t see it as an extraordinary risk if they went
down that path,” he said. “They might move now in the hope of
extracting a better price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 