-- U.K. to Tackle Binge Drinking With Minimum Alcohol Price
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-11-28T15:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-k-to-tackle-binge-drinking-with-minimum-alcohol-price.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
announced plans to tackle binge drinking in England and Wales
with a minimum 45-pence price for a unit of alcohol, raising the
cost of a bottle of whisky to at least 12.60 pounds ($20.20).  The Home Office in  London , starting a public consultation
on alcohol pricing today, said it will examine banning multi-buy
promotions, look at cutting red tape for responsible vendors and
set up a new health-related objective for alcohol licensing.  The government is seeking to reduce irresponsible drinking
that costs the taxpayer 21 billion pounds a year in police and
medical bills, even as the drinks industry argues the proposal
is a blunt instrument that does not tackle alcohol abuse.  “What we’re trying to stop specifically is very cheap,
very strong alcohol, because that’s what contributes most to the
terrible scenes we see in too many of our cities on a Friday and
Saturday night of hugely drunk people,” Policing Minister
Damian Green told BBC Radio 5.  “The reason for doing minimum unit pricing and not just
increasing taxes is precisely to hit those irresponsible
offerings of very cheap, very strong lager -- it can’t be right
that you can buy a can of lager for 20p when a bottle of water
will cost ten times that much,” Green said. “Clearly we’ve got
out of kilter with this very cheap, very strong lager.”  ‘Ineffectual Policy’  “We believe minimum pricing is an ineffectual policy,
which unfairly penalizes all consumers -- the majority of whom
drink alcohol responsibly,” Andrew Cowan, country director for
Britain at  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the maker of Johnnie Walker Scotch, said
in an e-mail. The company favors “targeted intervention
programs” instead, he said.  The  Wine and Spirit Trade Association  estimates a 45 pence
minimum unit price would see 52 percent of retail prices rise,
with a basic bottle of whisky going up from 10.32 pounds. There
would be price rises for 71 percent of vodka, 62 percent of
whisky and 38 percent of wine.  Cameron overruled Cabinet dissent to introduce the measure,
according to a spokesman, who declined to be named under U.K.
government rules.  The Scottish government is awaiting a ruling from the
European Commission on whether its plans to introduce a 50-pence
minimum price per alcohol unit breach European Union trade laws.
The Scotch Whisky Association is also seeking a judicial review
in the Scottish courts.  Competitive Disadvantage  “Although the minimum alcohol pricing proposals do not
raise competition-law concerns, as in  Scotland , they may be
susceptible to legal challenge,” Clare Thomas, head of food and
drink at law firm Addleshaw Goddard LLP in London, said in an e-
mail.  “If the changes affect cross-border trade in alcoholic
drinks by placing imports at a competitive disadvantage, then
they could breach the EU single-market legislation,” she
said. “However, EU trade law provides a limited exception to
the free movement of goods on the grounds of public health.”  The  Home Office  said in an e-mail that the measures are not
designed to target responsible drinkers and are aimed at
tackling alcohol-related violent crime, amounting to 1 million
offenses last year. More powers will be given to pubs to stop
serving alcohol to people who are already drunk and local
authorities will be given further authority to limit opening
hours.  A unit of alcohol is equivalent to about half a British
pint (0.6 of a U.S. pint) of low-strength beer, a 25-milliliter
(0.85 U.S. fluid-ounce) measure of whisky and half a 175-
milliliter glass of wine.  ‘Nanny State’  Philip Davies, a lawmaker from Cameron’s  Conservative Party 
who’s a frequent critic of the government, said the measures
announced today “won’t make a blind bit of difference” to
alcohol consumption.  “It’s nothing to do with tackling crime, it’s now the sort
of ‘health sell;’ it’s wanting to impose the nanny state on us
saying that they know best about what we do and they should tell
us how to live our lives,” Davies told the  BBC . “Alcohol
consumption’s actually fallen by 11 percent since 2004 so we
might have a lower alcohol consumption overall, but it won’t
make any difference to binge drinkers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  