-- U.S. Treasury Declines to Name China Currency Manipulator
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-11-28T01:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-s-treasury-declines-to-name-china-currency-manipulator.html
China isn’t a currency manipulator
under U.S. law, though the  yuan  “remains significantly
undervalued” and needs to rise further, the Treasury Department
said.  China “has substantially reduced the level of official
intervention in exchange markets since the third quarter of
2011,” the Treasury said in a  statement  accompanying its semi-
annual currency report to Congress yesterday. The yuan has
gained 9.3 percent in nominal terms and 12.6 percent in real
terms against the dollar since June 2010, the Treasury said.  “It appears that the strategy of the last two
administrations to use diplomacy rather than confrontation in
dealing with the yuan’s value is having some positive results,”
 William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign Trade Council ,
a Washington-based business group, said in an e-mail after the
report. “There is clearly room for further appreciation,
however.”  In declining to brand China a manipulator, the Treasury
cited the reduced intervention and “steps to liberalize
controls on capital movements, as part of a broader plan to move
to a more flexible exchange-rate regime.” The U.S. hasn’t
designated another nation since 1994, when it named China.  Critics of China’s  exchange-rate  policies, including former
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , say the nation
deliberately suppresses the value of its currency, making its
goods cheaper in overseas markets and costing jobs in the U.S.  Same Rules  “This report all but admits China’s currency is being
manipulated, but stops short of saying so explicitly,” U.S.
Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said in a
statement. “The formal designation matters because there can be
no penalties without it. It’s time for the Obama administration
to rip off the Band-Aid, and force China to play by the same
rules as all other countries.”  Many U.S. corporations favor less confrontation as they
seek access to China’s market. U.S. companies such as Apple Inc.
and Wynn Resorts Ltd. make a substantial share of their sales in
China, according to a Bloomberg Government analysis. Yum! Brands
Inc. runs more than 3,900 KFC and 690 Pizza Hut restaurants
there. General Motors Co., including through joint ventures,
sold more cars in China last year than it did in the U.S.  Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said Nov. 17
that full convertibility of the yuan will be the next step in an
overhaul of the exchange-rate system. Signs that Asia’s largest
economy is starting to recover after a seven-quarter slowdown is
also supporting the currency.  Japan Steps  In addressing other trading partners, the Treasury said in
the report that “it remains important that Japan take
fundamental and thoroughgoing steps to increase the dynamism of
the domestic economy, by easing regulations that unduly deter
competition.”  The Treasury said it will “continue to press”  South Korea 
to limit its foreign-exchange interventions to “the exceptional
circumstances of disorderly market conditions and to commit to
greater exchange-market transparency, including through the
publication of intervention data.”  Though the South Korean government doesn’t publish data on
currency intervention, “market participants indicate that
Korean authorities intervened on both sides of the market during
the course of the year.”  The South Korean won has strengthened 5.7 percent against
the dollar since the end of June, the best performance among the
11 most-traded Asian currencies.  Euro Crisis  On the euro area, the Treasury said the region’s success in
the next phase of fighting its debt crisis “will hinge on rapid
implementation of institutions that strengthen the euro, and
continued progress on economic reforms that support growth.”  The U.S. ran a $295.4 billion trade deficit with  China  last
year, about an 8 percent increase above the 2010 level. Allowing
the yuan to appreciate would make Chinese goods more expensive
for American consumers than they are now, reducing U.S. imports
of the merchandise.  The yuan climbed to a 19-year high yesterday after European
officials reached an agreement on Greece and on signs that
China’s slowdown is nearing an end. The yuan climbed 0.05
percent to 6.2223 per dollar in Shanghai, a 1 percent premium to
the daily fixing, the maximum it’s allowed to fluctuate,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Playing Field  The  U.S. Treasury  said it would pay “particular
attention” to the pace of the yuan appreciation and “press for
policy changes that yield greater  exchange-rate  flexibility,
improve transparency, level the playing field for American
workers and businesses, and support a strong, sustainable, and
balanced global economy.”  Because of the yuan’s appreciation, the U.S. decision not
to name China a manipulator isn’t a surprise, Ted Truman, a
former Federal Reserve official and assistant  Treasury secretary ,
said in an e-mail.  “But we are still living with economic, financial and
political after-effects of a decade of a very undervalued
yuan,” said Truman, who is now senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington .  China revalued the yuan, officially known as the  renminbi ,
and ended its peg to the  U.S. dollar  in 2005, allowing the
currency to become convertible for trade purposes, giving banks
more freedom to set  interest rates  and allowing some foreign
institutional investors access to the country’s stock and bond
markets.  More Difficult  “China’s overall trade surplus has come down while the
renminbi has appreciated and is trading in both directions on a
given day,” said  Phillip Swagel , who was an assistant Treasury
secretary under President  George W. Bush  and is now a professor
at the  University of Maryland  in  College Park . “With these
changes, it is more difficult to label China a currency
manipulator, especially when the Obama administration declined
to name them previously.”  John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council,
said the Treasury “again made the right call. China’s exchange
rate has strengthened over 30 percent against the dollar in the
past several years.”  “The exchange rate has little to do with the U.S. trade
balance or employment,” Frisbie said. “We need to move on to
more important issues with China, such as removing market access
barriers and improving intellectual-property protection.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  