-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise; Disney Sells $3 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-11-27T22:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-little-changed-after-greek-aid-deal.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose to the highest in a week amid investor concern that
lawmakers are running out of time to reach a compromise to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.5 basis points to a mid-price of 102.2 basis points at 5:24
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s poised for the highest closing level since 103 basis
points on Nov. 19.  A failure by lawmakers to reach a compromise to avoid $607
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect
next year would heighten investor concern that an economic
slowdown will hinder companies’ ability to repay debt. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has said such a scenario could lead
to a recession and a higher jobless rate. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said little progress has been made in budget talks in
 Washington .  “The market is 100 percent fixated on the fiscal cliff and
no news is probably construed as bad news,” Scott Carmack, a
portfolio manager at Leader Capital Corp. in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
said in a telephone interview. “As we get closer and closer to
year-end without an agreement, I think you’ll start to see
volatility pick up.”  Greece Aid  In  Europe , finance ministers eased the terms on emergency
aid for Greece. In the latest bid to keep the 17-nation euro
intact, the ministers cut the rates on bailout loans, suspended
interest payments for a decade, gave Greece more time to repay
and engineered a Greek bond buyback.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest entertainment company,
sold $3 billion of bonds in four parts in its first offering in
more than nine months. The owner of the ABC and ESPN networks
issued $500 million of 0.45 percent, three-year notes, $1
billion of 1.1 percent, five-year bonds, $1 billion of 2.35
percent, 10-year debt, and $500 million of 3.7 percent
securities maturing in 2042, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Speculative Grade  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
climbed 1 basis point to 5.87 percentage points while spreads on
the bonds of  utility companies  widened 44 basis points to 13.3
percentage points, Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  rose to the highest in more than a year,
climbing 24.6 basis points to 108.5 basis points as of 4:30 p.m.
in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The maker of Orville Redenbacher’s popcorn and Banquet
frozen meals agreed to acquire Ralcorp Holdings Inc. for about
$5 billion, creating one of the largest packaged food companies
in  North America .  Moody’s placed ConAgra on review for a  downgrade  following
the announcement, saying the company will take on at least $6.4
billion of additional debt that will push borrowings to four
times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. The company’s long-term debt is currently rated
Baa2, the second-lowest level of investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  