-- ‘Fast and Furious’ Gun Probe Suit in Settlement Talks
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-27T18:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-s-house-to-discuss-settling-suit-over-gun-probe-data.html
Lawyers for U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder and a House committee said they will discuss
settling a lawsuit to enforce congressional subpoenas probing
the Justice Department’s Operation Fast and Furious.  Holding settlement talks “is the appropriate course
here,”  Ian Gershengorn , a deputy assistant attorney general,
told U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in a hearing today
in Washington.  Kerry Kircher , the House general counsel, said the meeting
should occur in the “near future.” No date has been set. The
parties rejected the judge’s offer to appoint a mediator.  The lawsuit against Holder brought by the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee stems from the panel’s
investigation into so-called gun walking, which allowed illegal
gun purchases in the U.S. to proceed in an effort to link the
weapons to Mexican gangs. Holder, citing executive privilege,
has refused to give lawmakers some material they wanted.  The Republican-controlled House is seeking documents
describing internal Justice Department discussions about a
February 2011 letter to lawmakers that Holder later said
mistakenly contained incorrect information.  The letter said the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives, which conducted Fast and Furious, hadn’t
“knowingly allowed” the tactics in the law enforcement
operation to be employed.  Contempt Citation  The committee cited Holder for contempt of Congress in
June. President  Barack Obama  has asserted executive privilege
over the documents and declined to turn them over.  In an October filing seeking dismissal of the case, Holder
said that under the U.S. Constitution’s separation of powers
doctrine, conflict over Operation Fast and Furious should be
resolved between the political branches.  During today’s hearing, Gershengorn said “a lot has
happened” since lawmakers sued in August. He pointed to a Sept.
20 inspector general’s report that found management failures and
flawed strategy in the gun-tracking operation.  The inspector general report outlined management failures
as well as flaws in the program that lost track of about 2,000
guns purchased by straw buyers. Two of the guns were found at
the scene of the 2010 killing in  Arizona  of U.S. Border Patrol
Agent Brian Terry.  Holder’s Oversight  Republicans have faulted Holder’s oversight of Fast and
Furious and his responses to lawmakers’ queries about it. Holder
wasn’t found in the report to have known about the operation
until early 2011, when lawmakers began to probe its fallout.  “There does seem to be some overlap between documents at
issue in the lawsuit and documents now made public” in the
inspector general’s report, Jackson said.  If the parties can’t agree, Jackson said, she will consider
the department’s argument that the court lacks jurisdiction over
the case before deciding whether Congress has a right to any of
the documents it seeks.  She said today there was “not a lot of controlling legal
precedent” to guide any decision. She scheduled argument for
Jan. 10 on the department’s motion to dismiss.  Jackson, who was appointed to the court by Obama, told the
parties that although she has connections to lawyers on both
sides of the case, she doesn’t plan to pass it to another judge.  She said she worked with Kircher while in private practice
and that he was a reference for her during a background
investigation for the federal bench. Deputy Attorney General
James Cole was also a reference for her, and their children were
in the same middle-school class, she said.  “Do what you think is best after speaking to your clients
about it,” Jackson said.  The case is Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
v. Holder, 1:12-cv-01332, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  