-- U.S. Fiscal Cliff Could Lead Global Recession, OECD Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-11-27T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/u-s-fiscal-cliff-could-lead-global-recession-oecd-says.html
Failure to prevent the so-called
fiscal cliff in the U.S. would increase the risk of a global
recession, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said, while adding that the “greatest threats” to
the world economy lie in the euro area.  “If the fiscal cliff is not avoided, a large negative
shock could bring the U.S. and the global economy into
recession,” the Paris-based OECD said in its Economic Outlook
report released today.  As the administration of President  Barack Obama  prepares to
negotiate a budget agreement with Republicans in Congress, the
OECD urged “smooth” implementation of tax increases, spending
curbs and a higher debt ceiling in the medium term.  “Reducing the large federal  budget deficit  is necessary to
restore fiscal sustainability, but this should be done gradually
and in the context of a well-identified medium-term
consolidation plan,” today’s report said.  The fiscal cliff refers to the $607 billion in federal
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect early
next year unless Congress acts. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Nov. 16 the deadlock can be resolved “within
several weeks” while the uncertainty it has created “already
is having an effect on  consumer confidence  and the economy.”  Absent the automatic spending cuts and most of the tax
increases currently set to take effect next year, the U.S.
federal deficit would come to $1.04 trillion in fiscal year
2013, the fifth consecutive year of budget gaps exceeding $1
trillion, according to the non-partisan  Congressional Budget
Office .  Europe Crisis  The OECD report also said it is “urgent” to solve
Europe’s debt crisis.  “In the euro area, where the greatest threats to the world
economy remain, progress in adjustment and in strengthening
institutions has been significant over the recent past,” the
OECD said. “However, challenging fiscal sustainability
conditions in some countries risk sparking a chain of events
that could considerably harm activity in the monetary union and
push the global economy into recession.”  A “major financial event” in the  euro zone  “would spill
over into the rest of the global economy, including the United
States,” Pier Carlo Padoan, OECD chief economist, said during a
conference call with reporters yesterday.  Federal Reserve  The  Federal Reserve  should stand ready to enlarge its third
round of quantitative easing program if the U.S. economy
deteriorates, the OECD said.  “If the economic situation were to turn out significantly
worse than expected, the Federal Reserve should further expand
the size of its purchases of government and mortgage-backed
securities and start purchasing other types of assets if
necessary to ease financial conditions,” according to today’s
report.  The OECD also said the U.S. labor market has recovered 
“very slowly,” with the  unemployment rate  likely to decline to 
7.5 percent as a percentage of the labor force at the end of 
2014.  The OECD projects U.S. gross domestic product at market
prices to grow by 2.2 percent this year, 2 percent in 2013 and
2.8 percent in 2014. For the euro area, the group expects a 0.4
percent contraction in 2012 and 0.1 percent decline in GDP in
2013.  The OECD “uses its wealth of information on a broad range
of topics to help governments foster prosperity and fight
poverty through economic growth and financial stability,”
according to its  website . Its 34 member countries include the
U.S., Japan,  Chile , Australia,  France , the U.K. and  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  