-- UBS Challenges Trader Math in ’13 Chile Rate Boost: Andes Credit
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-11-27T12:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/ubs-challenges-trader-math-in-13-chile-rate-boost-andes-credit.html
Chilean traders who are wagering
that policy makers will wait more than a year before raising
 interest rates  risk underestimating the central bank’s
commitment to containing inflation, according to the most-
accurate forecaster.  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Rafael De La Fuente, ranked first among analysts
based on a two-year history of rate predictions compiled by
Bloomberg, says the threat  Banco Central  de Chile will boost
borrowing costs as soon as the first half of 2013 has increased.
Two-year  interest-rate swaps  have risen 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 5.16 percent since Nov. 13, reflecting
expectations policy makers will lift the benchmark rate by
December 2013, according to calculations made by Banco de Chile,
the nation’s largest bank.  Chile, the world’s biggest copper producer and the highest-
rated country in Latin America, has resisted cutting rates or
easing bank-reserve requirements longer than any emerging market
with below-target inflation. After increased retail sales and a
surge in mining investment helped fuel 5.7 percent economic
growth in the third quarter, the minutes of the Nov. 13 central
bank meeting to be released tomorrow may show policy makers are
starting to consider a rate rise from 5 percent, De La Fuente
said.  “Chile is an economy that needs to put the brakes on,” De
La Fuente, senior economist for  Latin America , said by telephone
from  Stamford ,  Connecticut  on Nov. 19. “Rates are just too low
to cool off all this domestic demand.”  Credit Rating  Policy makers have kept the key rate unchanged for 10
months after a 25 basis point cut in January. The bank last
discussed changing borrowing costs on May 17 when it considered
reversing that reduction, according to bank minutes. De La
Fuente said he wouldn’t be surprised if policy makers had
considered a 25 basis-point increase at their November meeting.  Chile’s Aa3 grade from Moody’s Investors Service, the same
as  Japan  and  South Korea  and five levels higher than  Brazil , has
helped the nation obtain Latin America’s lowest  interest rates 
in the  bond market . The government sold 10-year dollar debt last
month at a yield of 2.38 percent, or 3.19 percentage points
below JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index of Latin American
sovereign debt. Chile’s dollar bonds traded at an extra yield,
or spread, of 70 basis points over U.S. Treasuries yesterday.  The peso is the world’s third-best performing currency this
year with a 8.1 percent gain against the dollar. It gained 0.2
percent today to 480.68.  Inflation Accelerates  The cost of protecting Chilean bonds against default for
five years fell three basis points to 76 basis points yesterday
from the end of last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yield on Chilean five-year inflation-linked benchmark
bonds rose to 2.54 percent on Nov. 23, the highest level of the
year, as traders bet on higher benchmark rates. The yield fell
one basis point to 2.53 percent yesterday.  Inflation has accelerated for the past three months,
reaching 2.9 percent in October, and may be put under additional
pressure if domestic demand continues to increase, policy makers
said in their rate meeting that month.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on swaps,
has increased 26 basis points to 2.85 percent since the end of
last month as inflation expectations rise.  Mining Boom  A mining boom in  Chile ’s northern desert about 770 miles
(1240 kilometers) north of Santiago helped pull in $17.8 billion
in foreign direct investment in the first nine months of this
year, a 63 percent increase from the year earlier.  That’s helped to feed a 6.4 percent increase in spending by
businesses and consumers in the third quarter, the most in a
year, the central bank said Nov. 20.  Economists polled monthly by the central bank have raised
their 2012 growth forecast in every survey since July and now
expect expansion of 5.2 percent.  “A hiking cycle should begin by the second half of next
year,” George Lei, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New
York , said in a telephone interview on Nov. 20. “Domestically,
very strong growth momentum could continue.”  Growth is being driven by investment, not consumption, and
inflation remains under control, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain
told reporters in Santiago on Nov. 19. Chile’s inflation rate is
the lowest among major Latin American countries tracked by
Bloomberg and its benchmark interest rate is the highest behind
Brazil. Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, reduced the
overnight Selic rate to a record-low 7.25 percent in October
from 12.5 percent last year.  Slowing Down  Chile’s economic growth will slow in the fourth quarter as
exports contract on weaker copper prices, Larrain said. The
price of copper, which accounts for more than half of Chile’s
exports, has fallen 9 percent to an average of $3.63 a pound
this year from all of 2011.  Industrial production is already easing. Manufacturing
output declined in September at the fastest pace since the
aftermath of an 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck in February
2010.  Soaring domestic demand and weakening exports led the
deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of the
trade in goods and services, to widen to 7.4 percent of gross
domestic product in the third quarter from 4.9 percent a year
earlier.  The data show a “two-speed” economy where gains in
manufacturing trail retail sales growth,  Michael Henderson , an
emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a
telephone interview from  London .  Growth Outlook  Economic growth in 2013 may defy the government’s
predictions and accelerate from this year as the U.S. is
expected to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of government
spending cuts and the Euro area probably will avoid a breakup,
Nomura’s Lei said.  The  Finance Ministry  expects growth to ease to 4.8 percent
next year from a “little” over 5 percent in 2012.  “As Chinese data remains positive and the local economic
data is good, we will start pricing in 5.25 percent in the first
six months of 2013,” Sebastian Ide, the head of rates trading
at Banco de Chile in Santiago, said by phone Nov. 22.  Chilean policy makers are unlikely to receive help from the
government in containing domestic demand ahead of elections next
year, said De La Fuente. The government has proposed a 4.8
percent spending increase for 2013.  “There is a risk that there may be hiking earlier in
2013,” De La Fuente said yesterday. “The risk of that is
rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  