-- Tulane Joins Big East Conference Beginning in 2014-15
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-27T20:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/tulane-joins-big-east-conference-beginning-in-2014-15-correct-.html
Tulane University  will join the  Big
East  Conference starting with the 2014-15 school year, entering
a league that last week lost  Rutgers University  to the Big Ten.  The New Orleans-based school will leave Conference USA and
join the Big East for all sports, President Scott Cowen said
today in a news conference.  East Carolina University  will join
as a football-only member, ESPN reported, citing unidentified
people.  Tulane has an undergraduate enrollment of 8,423 and
sponsors 16 sports, 10 of which are women’s teams. The
university is located about 340 miles (550 kilometers) away from
the closest Big East school, the  University of Houston , which
will join the conference next year.  “As far as I am concerned, this is a win-win-win,” Cowen
said. “A win for  New Orleans , a win for  Tulane University  and a
win for the Big East.”  Big East presidents voted unanimously to extend an
invitation to Tulane, the conference said today in an e-mailed
release. Cowen said his hand shook as he signed the contract
making the move official.  “Tulane University is an outstanding academic institution
and is committed to excellence in athletics,” conference
Commissioner Mike Aresco said in the release. “They will be a
valued member of the Big East.”  East Carolina spokesman Tom McClellan declined in an e-mail
to comment on the ESPN report, citing a 5 p.m. news conference
at the school in Greenville,  North Carolina . Big East spokesman
Craig Sullivan didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment on ECU’s reported membership.  Losing Streak  Tulane’s football team was 2-10 this year, its 10th
consecutive losing season. The team is 33-86 in that span, and
hasn’t played in a bowl game since 2002.  The Green Wave men’s basketball team has had a similar run,
with three winning seasons in the past 10 years and no
postseason tournament appearances. The school’s baseball team
advanced to the College World Series in 2001 and 2005, and its
women’s golf team played in National Collegiate Athletic
Association national championships in 2009 and 2010.  Rutgers last week became the fourth team to announce its
plans to leave the conference in the past two years.  West
Virginia  joined the Big 12 this season, and Pittsburgh and
Syracuse are set to join the ACC next year.  The moves leave  18 schools participating  in most Big East
sports as of July 1, 2014. The conference’s football lineup as
of July 2015 will include 14 members, including the two
newcomers as well as Central Florida, Boise State, Memphis,
Houston, Navy, San Diego State and Southern Methodist, all of
whom competed in other conferences this season.  “I am so proud of our university and the fact that we are
joining a conference with a footprint all over the  United
States ,” Cowen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  