-- Tulane, East Carolina Join Big East After Rutgers Exit to Big 10
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-11-28T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/tulane-joins-big-east-as-full-member-east-carolina-for-football.html
Tulane University  and  East Carolina
University  will join the  Big East  Conference starting with the
2014-15 academic year following  Rutgers University ’s exit from
the league to the Big Ten.  New Orleans-based Tulane will leave Conference USA and join
the Big East for all sports, President Scott Cowen said
yesterday in a news conference. ECU will join for football only,
according to an e-mailed release.  Tulane has an undergraduate enrollment of 8,423 and
sponsors 16 sports, 10 of which are women’s teams. The
university is located about 340 miles (550 kilometers) away from
the closest Big East school, the  University of Houston , which
will join the conference next year.  “As far as I am concerned, this is a win-win-win,” Cowen
said. “A win for  New Orleans , a win for  Tulane University  and a
win for the Big East.”  Big East presidents voted unanimously to extend an
invitation to Tulane, the conference said yesterday in an e-
mailed release. Cowen said his hand shook as he signed the
contract making the move official.  “I am so proud of our university and the fact that we are
joining a conference with a footprint all over the  United
States ,” Cowen said.  Tulane’s football team was 2-10 this year, its 10th
consecutive losing season. The team is 33-86 in that span, and
hasn’t played in a bowl game since 2002.  The Green Wave men’s basketball team has had a similar run,
with three winning seasons in the past 10 years and no
postseason tournament appearances. The school’s baseball team
advanced to the College World Series in 2001 and 2005, and its
women’s golf team played in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association national championships in 2009 and 2010.  Pirates’ Move  East Carolina, which is located in Greenville,  North
Carolina , has an undergraduate enrollment of about 21,000. The
school will continue its current partnership with Conference USA
through the 2013 campaign, and will be included in all of the
Big East’s future television, marketing, promotion and bowl
negotiations, according to the release.  “We know we will be successful and add value to the Big
East,” Chancellor Steve Ballard said in the release. “It is a
great day to be a Pirate.”  East Carolina’s football team is 8-4 this season, and 7-1
in Conference USA play, losing a tiebreaker against future Big
East conference-mate Central Florida for a berth in the league
title game. The Pirates won conference titles in 2008 and 2009,
and had 13 former players invited to National Football League
training camps in July, including Baltimore Ravens fullback
Vonta Leach and  New York  Giants defensive lineman Linval Joseph.  The school’s next task will be to find an “equally
exciting and competitive environment for the 18 sports other
than football,” Athletic Director Terry Holland said in the
release.  Rutgers’ Departure  Rutgers last week became the fourth team to announce its
plans to leave the conference in the past two years.  West
Virginia  joined the Big 12 this season, and Pittsburgh and
Syracuse are set to join the Atlantic Coast Conference next
year.  The moves leave  18 schools participating  in most Big East
sports as of July 1, 2014. The conference’s football lineup as
of July 2015 will include 14 members, including the two
newcomers as well as  Central Florida , Boise State,  Memphis ,
Houston, Navy, San Diego State and Southern Methodist, all of
whom competed in other conferences this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  