-- Turkey Yields Decline to Record Low on Greek Aid, Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-11-27T15:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/turkey-yields-decline-to-record-low-on-greek-aid-rate-cut-bets.html
Turkey’s bond  yields  dropped to a
record low after an easing of terms on emergency aid for  Greece 
boosted risk appetite for emerging-market assets and on bets
 interest rates  will probably be cut next month.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt fell for a second day,
declining seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.05
percent at the close in Istanbul, the least since at least 2005.
The lira appreciated 0.2 percent to 1.7926 per dollar, the
strongest level since Nov. 9.  European finance ministers cut the rates on Greece’s
bailout loans, suspended interest payments for a decade, gave
the nation more time to repay and engineered a Greek bond
buyback. The country was also cleared to receive a 34.4 billion-
euro ($44.7 billion) loan installment in December.  “Today’s move can be tied to the optimism in the world
markets after the Eurogroup meeting yesterday,”  Inan Demir ,
chief economist at Finansbank AS, in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. The drop in the yields is “driven by the short-term
improvement in the risk appetite,” Inan said.  The retreat in yields today brings the drop this month to
103 basis points. Yield have fallen as  Fitch Ratings  upgraded
Turkey to investment grade on Nov. 5 and central bank Governor
Erdem Basci said on Nov. 12 he won’t tolerate any unwarranted
currency gain jeopardizing the country’s external balances. He
said the central bank will act if an inflation-adjusted measure
of lira’s strength showed the currency appreciating to
overvalued territory.  Investors expect the central bank will reduce interest
rates at its monetary policy meeting on Dec. 18 to stimulate a
slowing economy.  The nation’s confidence index for manufacturers fell to 101
in November, the lowest in 2012, the central bank said
yesterday. Capacity utilization for the same month also declined
to 74 percent from 74.9 percent in October, the bank said.  Turkey ’s economic growth fell to 2.9 percent in the second
quarter from 9.1 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  