-- Vague Plans to Limit Tax Breaks Will Soon Die
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-11-27T23:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/vague-plans-to-limit-tax-breaks-will-soon-die.html
As negotiations over the U.S. fiscal
cliff get down to details, they will become more arduous --
something that financial markets seem to be ignoring. The
superficial appeal of proposals to limit tax expenditures, for
example, will fade as the details become clearer.  Whether the negotiators can navigate the obstacles and
still get a deal done before Dec. 31 remains an open question.
Automatic tax increases and spending cuts are scheduled to take
effect at the beginning of January.  On their face, proposals to raise revenue by limiting tax
breaks enjoy unusual bipartisan support -- at least when they
are described generically as “broadening the tax base and
eliminating loopholes.” Enacting legislation, though, requires
much more than such platitudes, and therein lies the political
difficulty.  Take the recent proposal to limit itemized deductions to a
maximum of $50,000 a year. According to the  Tax Policy Center ,
that  would raise  more than $700 billion over the coming decade,
almost as much as the  marginal-rate increases  the  Barack Obama 
administration is proposing for high-income taxpayers. Because
 median household income  in the U.S. is also about $50,000, that
level of allowable deductions strikes most people as
extraordinarily generous, adding to its luster.  Perhaps more important, the proposal doesn’t specify which
deductions would be limited, but rather leaves that up to the
individual. It thus reflects the new fundamental law of
political economy: The vaguer the proposal, the better.  Average Deductions  Let’s take a closer look at the effects of such a limit,
though. In 2009, according to data from the  Internal Revenue
Service , taxpayers who itemized their deductions and had incomes
of more than $200,000 had average deductions of $50,000 or more.
For those with $200,000 to $500,000 in income, average
deductions amounted to more than $51,000; from $500,000 to $1
million in income, the average was more than $100,000. At higher
incomes, the averages rose further.  That households with incomes of more than $200,000 would be
disproportionately affected by the deduction limit is neither
surprising nor necessarily troublesome. Here comes the problem.
In 2009, those taxpayers deducted more than $300 billion, 90
percent of which came from just three categories: taxes paid
(mostly state and local taxes), home-mortgage interest and
charitable contributions.  Of the big three, charitable giving is the most
discretionary (unless a family moves to a smaller house with a
smaller mortgage, or a city or state with lower taxes). The
charitable sector thus has the most to lose from a limitation on
itemized deductions.  How much money is involved? In 2009, households with
incomes of more than $200,000 claimed almost $60 billion in
charitable deductions -- or about 20 percent of total charitable
giving in the U.S. that year. Households with incomes of more
than $10 million claimed an average of $1.75 million each in
charitable donations in 2009, and they accounted for roughly 5
percent of all giving.  Charitable giving  reacts to tax incentives , and in response
to any limits on deductions it could even fall by about the same
amount as the increase in the tax bill, according to John List
of the  University of Chicago , who recently reviewed the
literature on this subject. Other studies have suggested an
effect about half as large. Even that smaller estimate, though,
suggests that limiting deductions to $50,000 a year could easily
reduce giving by tens of billions of dollars.  How long do you think it will take the charitable sector to
figure this out?  Better Strategy  This is just one way in which the $50,000-limit idea is
likely to become less politically attractive. In addition, there
are important questions about the proposal’s design. For
example, above the $50,000 limit on deductions, the tax
incentive disappears. Below that threshold, though, the per-
dollar tax break would still be tied to the individual’s
marginal-tax rate. As I have  written before , it would be fairer
and more efficient to replace a wide variety of deductions with
flat-rate credits.  What’s more, evidence suggests that charitable giving would
be higher if the tax incentive took the form of a matching
credit (which goes to the charity) rather than a rebate (which
goes back to the individual). So rather than curtail the tax
deduction for charitable giving indirectly, through a $50,000
limit on all itemized deductions, it would be far better to
replace the existing deduction with a flat credit that would go
to the charity.  Under this approach, if someone gave $1 to a charity, the
government would also contribute, say, 15 cents more to that
charity in the form of a matching tax credit. (It may be
necessary for both constitutional and policy reasons to exclude
religious organizations from this matching credit. Such
organizations could, though, continue to benefit from a simple
flat-rate tax credit that takes the form of a rebate, as with
the existing structure.) The tax subsidy per dollar of
charitable giving would no longer depend, as it does today, on
the individual’s marginal-tax bracket.  The bottom line? The legislative process will soon reveal
the flaws in vague, simplistic strategies to limit tax
deductions. If we are going to put in the effort to reform the
 tax code , we should at least try to do it right.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Mohamed Mursi’s flirtation
with tyranny in Egypt  and on the  EU’s Plan C for Greece ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Hillary Clinton’s next move ; Clive Crook on
why the  U.K. must remember it needs the EU ; Cass R. Sunstein on
the  behavioral economics of Christmas consumption ; Richard
Vedder on the  evolving private-state-federal university.   To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  