-- Vedanta Awaits Bauxite to Revive $9 Billion Aluminum Project
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-11-27T14:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/vedanta-awaits-bauxite-to-revive-9-billion-aluminum-project.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , controlled by
billionaire  Anil Agarwal , is counting on a court verdict next
month to secure raw material and revive a faltering $9 billion
aluminum project in  India .  The  Supreme Court  on Dec. 3 may grant unit Vedanta
Aluminium Ltd. access to a bauxite mine in Odisha, helping it to
cut production costs by almost 24 percent, Chief Operating
Officer  Mukesh Kumar  said today in a phone interview. The
project in the eastern state includes a refinery, a smelter and
a power plant.  The government in August 2010 rejected Vedanta’s plan to
secure bauxite from the nearby Niyamgiri hills, citing concerns
it would affect tribes and wildlife. The shortage has left
Vedanta Aluminium with accumulated debt of $3.65 billion.  The 1 million metric ton-a-year refinery is operating at 60
percent capacity with ore purchased from domestic suppliers,
Kumar said. Vedanta has halted plans to expand its smelting
capacity to 2.6 million tons, awaiting approval to mine bauxite,
he said.  A 15 percent decline in aluminum prices from this year’s
peak has worsened the company’s finances. While the three-month
forward aluminum price is $2,014.50 a metric ton on the London
Metals Exchange, Vedanta Aluminium’s cost of production is about
$2,100 ton, Kumar said today.  “Captive bauxite will change the entire economics of the
complex,” Kumar said. “We are seeking the government’s help to
purchase alumina from National Aluminium Co. and in the interim
survive by selling power from our captive plant.”  About 4 tons to 5 tons of bauxite ore are needed to extract
2 tons of alumina, from which 1 ton of aluminum can be produced,
according to the European Aluminium Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  