-- Chavez Seeks More Cancer Treatment in Cuba After Election
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-11-29T00:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/venezuela-s-chavez-to-travel-to-cuba-today-for-cancer-treatment.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is
seeking treatment in Cuba to aid his recovery from cancer, seven
weeks after winning re-election in a campaign in which he told
voters he was “totally free” of the disease.  The self-proclaimed socialist, who cut back public
appearances after earning a third six-year term in October,
yesterday sought permission from Congress to leave  Venezuela  and
travel to the Communist island for a seventh time this year to
undergo hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Chavez, who has undergone
three surgeries to remove two tumors since June 2011, arrived in
 Havana  today, Cuban state newspaper  Juventud Rebelde  reported on
its website.  Yields on Venezuela’s dollar bonds maturing in 2027 fell to
the lowest since August 2008 as investors bet Chavez may not
serve out a full term, said  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin
America fixed-income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. Yields
fell 34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage point, to 10.13 percent
yesterday. The price rose 2.43 cents on the dollar to 93.32
cents, the highest since July 2008.  “The headline that Chavez now heads to Cuba for treatment
should again trigger another round of expectations of regime
change and supports the hypothesis that it was pain management
during the campaign,” Morden said in an e-mail.  Public Appearances  The former paratrooper was expected to attend an air show
yesterday in Aragua state commemorating the 20th anniversary of
an attempted coup to depose then-President Carlos Andres Perez,
in which Chavez took part. Since defeating challenger Henrique
Capriles Radonski by more than 10 percentage points in the Oct.
7 vote, Chavez, 58, has cut down on his public appearances. He
last appeared on television Nov. 15 during a meeting with his
economic team, when he spoke for three hours.  Chavez, who consolidated his rule by nationalizing
companies and using oil export revenue to fuel spending on
social programs for the poor, began reducing his public exposure
even before the electoral campaign finished. He cut his time in
public by 76 percent to 879 minutes in October from 3,730
minutes in August, Barclays Plc analysts Alejandro Arreaza and
Alejandro Grisanti said in a report. He’s been seen in public
for just 495 minutes this month, they said.  Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said Chavez was
undergoing a complementary therapy and would be sworn in Jan. 10
for his new presidential term.  “As we all know, he is finishing up a difficult process
for any human being, someone who passed through radiation
therapy,” Villegas said. “Even so, he didn’t pay attention to
those who told him not to campaign. He got involved in his
campaign, we all saw him campaign and he won. He won the
election with all the presumed limitations from going through
radiation therapy.”  While Chavez didn’t say how long he’d stay in Cuba,
Venezuelan law requires the president to seek permission from
the National Assembly for any absence longer than five days.  ‘Special Treatment’  “I’ve been carefully watching over my health and jealously
carrying out the treatment plan ordered by my medical team,”
Chavez wrote in a letter read on state television yesterday by
National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello. “It’s been
recommended to me that since it’s been six months following my
last treatment, that I begin a special treatment consisting of
various sessions of hyperbaric oxygen therapy that along with
physiotherapy will continue to consolidate the process of
recovery.”  The manner in which Chavez announced his trip will fuel
speculation that his health is worse than he’s letting on, said
 Eric Farnsworth , vice president of the Council of the Americas.  “You’d anticipate that if he really were doing well he’d
want to show that publicly,” Farnsworth said in a phone
interview from Washington. “It’s difficult to know what’s
really going on because this is probably the tightest kept state
secret in Venezuela.”  Hyperbaric oxygen treatment is unlikely to be a treatment
for cancer, said Michael Pishvaian, an oncologist at the
Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center at Georgetown University in
Washington. It’s more likely to be used to treat any lingering
effects from radiation or surgical healing, he said in a phone
interview. Pishvaian hasn’t treated Chavez.  Tissue Healing  “It increases oxygen delivery to tissues as they heal
themselves, to enhance healing,” Pishvaian said. “It is not
simple at all -- it is a high-tech chamber. Even in  Washington ,
only one or two hospitals have a hyperbaric chamber.”  Chavez first told Venezuelans he had cancer in June 2011
after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an abscess from his
pelvic area during which he said doctors discovered a baseball-
sized tumor in the same area. The tumor was excised in a
subsequent operation, Chavez said, without specifying the exact
location or type of cancer.  After four bouts of chemotherapy, he returned to Cuba in
February for a third operation after his medical team discovered
a second tumor and underwent several rounds of radiation therapy
over the following months. In July he said he was “free,
totally free” of illness, echoing words he said in October 2011
after completing chemotherapy treatment.  Succession Law  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez is too ill to serve during
the first four years of his term, the vice president assumes the
presidency for 30 days while elections are held. If he can’t
serve the final two years, the vice president can finish out the
term. If his health fails between now and being sworn in for a
new term Jan. 10, Congress President Cabello would assume power
while elections are arranged.  Chavez on Oct. 11 appointed his longtime Foreign Minister
Nicolas Maduro as vice president in a sign that he’s grooming a
successor should his health fail, said Farnsworth.  “If it really weren’t serious he wouldn’t be doing that
because he doesn’t want to create potential challengers to the
throne,” Farnsworth said. “That’s an implicit admission from
Chavez that, without putting a timeline on it, it is pretty
serious.”  Chavez said Oct. 20 that his health had restricted him to
campaigning at about 10 percent of his capacity.  Boxing Ring  “I went into the ring to box with my left arm tied behind
me and one foot restricted,” Chavez said Oct. 20 on state
television during a ministerial meeting in Caracas. “I boxed
for about 15 rounds like that. Our people did a great job to
make up for my vulnerabilities that were evident in some
cases.”  If Chavez is absent from the country for a prolonged period
of time it could impact regional elections scheduled for Dec. 16
in which he’s seeking to win gubernatorial seats from his
opponents, said Luis Vicente Leon, president of Caracas-based
polling firm Datanalisis. Chavez picked former Vice President
Elias Jaua to run for governor in the state of Miranda against
Capriles as he seeks to neutralize his former challenger’s
chances of remaining the opposition’s de facto leader, Leon
said.  “Chavez’s physical absence could reduce Jaua’s electoral
prospects since he’s not a charismatic leader but rather a
confidant of Chavez who’s propped up by his closeness to the
president,” Leon said. “That the president should travel to
Cuba in the middle of an electoral campaign reveals that Chavez
has a complicated situation regarding his illness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  