-- Viacom Promotes Davis to CFO Job, Replacing Barge
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-11-27T21:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/viacom-promotes-wade-davis-to-finance-chief-job-replacing-barge.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the media giant that
owns the Paramount film studios and cable networks such as
Nickelodeon and  MTV , promoted Wade Davis to the job of chief
financial officer, replacing Jimmy Barge.  Davis, who had served as executive vice president of
strategy and corporate development, will add the additional
responsibilities immediately, New York-based Viacom said today
in a statement. After a transitional period, Barge will leave to
pursue other opportunities, the company said.  Davis, 40, joined Viacom almost seven years ago as a senior
vice president in charge of mergers and acquisitions. The former
investment banker helped oversee the company’s Viacom18 venture
in  India  and its Epix premium cable channel.  “This is a well-deserved promotion for Wade, who has made
so many contributions to the growth and success of Viacom,”
Chief Operating Officer Thomas Dooley said in the statement.
“We are fortunate to have such a multitalented executive in our
ranks with the leadership skills and the depth of experience to
move seamlessly into the CFO role.”  While Davis brings a background in M&A, he’s taking the job
at a time when Viacom sees fewer opportunities to make deals.  “Looking at the universe of available acquisitions out
there, I continue to not see any large-scale acquisition that
makes sense for Viacom,” Chief Executive Officer Philippe Dauman said after the company’s earnings report earlier this
month. “We have a lot to do in growing organically.”  Before joining Viacom in 2005, Davis worked at various
financial firms, including Wasserstein Perella & Co. and Lazard
Freres & Co.  Viacom shares  rose 0.5 percent to $50.38 at the close today
in New York. The stock has gained 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  