-- Visa, MasterCard Settlement Order Appealed by Plaintiffs
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-11-27T20:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/visa-mastercard-settlement-order-appealed-by-plaintiffs.html
The tentative approval of  Visa Inc. (V) 
and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s proposed $7.25 billion settlement of a
merchant fee price-fixing case will be challenged in a federal
appeals court, according to a notice filed by objecting
plaintiffs in Brooklyn, New York.  Four retailers and six trade groups today filed the notice
that they are appealing a component of U.S. District Judge John Gleeson’s approval order barring merchants from suing the
payment firms over the fees.  About 1,200 retailers and trade organizations opposed the
accord, which would end seven years of litigation over
interchange, or swipe, fees that retailers are charged when
customers pay with credit cards. Lawyers for the objectors
argued at a Nov. 10 hearing that the agreement is unfair because
it strips merchants of the right to sue over the fees in the
future.  “This settlement has fatal legal defects and should not
get preliminary approval,” Jeffrey Shinder, a lawyer for
objectors, said today in a statement. “We look forward to
presenting the problems we see in this proposal to the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals.”  Covering more than 7 million merchants, the accord would be
the largest-ever antitrust settlement, according to lawyers for
plaintiffs. Gleeson granted preliminary approval Nov. 10, saying
some issues still “require significant scrutiny.” The
settlement is subject to final approval later.  No Concern  “This obscure appeal is just a badly underthrown legal
Hail Mary that shouldn’t give anyone any concern,” Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments Coalition, a
credit-and-debit-card industry trade group advising defendants
in the case, said today in a statement.  “The retailer objectors are focusing on an extremely
limited and technical issue,” she said. The move “does nothing
to slow or change the settlement process,” she said.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 