-- Vitro Says Mexico Judge Rejects Some Creditor Challenges
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-11-27T02:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/vitro-says-mexico-judge-rejects-some-creditor-challenges.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA) , Mexico’s largest
glassmaker, said a judge in the country rejected some challenges
to the company’s debt restructuring by bondholders including
Elliott Management Corp.  Judge Claudio Perez in Monterrey ruled that certain
bondholders’ appeals of a court decision recognizing and
establishing the priority of claims in the company’s Mexican
bankruptcy process lacked merit, Vitro said in a statement. The
judge “also affirmed the company’s challenge regarding the
calculation of interest the bondholders are attempting to
collect,” Vitro said.  “We are very pleased with this decision as it confirms
once again that Vitro has acted in accordance with the law,”
Alejandro Sanchez, Vitro’s general counsel, said in the
statement. “In addition to being an important step towards the
final conclusion of the various appeals initiated by certain
dissident bondholders, this ruling also creates a very important
precedent for ongoing proceedings.”  Vitro, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, defaulted
on $1.2 billion of bonds in February 2009 as the U.S. recession
reduced demand for construction and auto glass. While the
company won Mexican court approval for its debt restructuring
plan earlier this year and exited bankruptcy, the plan is
currently unenforceable in the U.S. after a judge in  Dallas 
ruled against it in June.  Pending Appeals  The company said last month there were 23 appeals or
challenges pending in the Mexican courts that could take more
than six months to resolve. Bondholders including Elliott and
Aurelius Capital Management have said the company underestimated
by as much as two years how long the Mexican appeals process
could take.  Judge Perez issued his decision on Nov. 23 and notified the
company of the decision today, Vitro said in the statement.  Vitro “anticipates that this decision will be contested
through an injunction,” it said. “The company will continue to
assert its rights, and remains confident in the strength of its
arguments.”  Donald Cutler, a spokesman for the bondholders who are
challenging Vitro in court, declined to comment by e-mail.  Vitro is appealing the U.S. court decision and the Mexican
government has also filed papers urging the appeals court to
reverse the decision and enforce the reorganization of Vitro in
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in  Mexico  City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  