-- Wachtell, Clifford Chance, Paul Weiss: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-11-27T16:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/wachtell-clifford-chance-paul-weiss-business-of-law.html
Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP announced
year-end bonuses for associates, ranging from $10,000 for the
newest associates to $60,000 for the most senior, according to a
memo the firm gave its lawyers that was obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Associates who joined the firm in the class of 2004, will
get $60,000 on Dec. 21, while the class of 2007 will receive
$34,000. Those who are in the class of 2009, will receive
$20,000.  The bonuses, which usually set an industry standard,
reflect a substantial increase from last year’s, which was
$37,500 for the most senior associates at Cravath, according to
the New York Times.  Christine Varney , the head of Cravath’s antitrust practice
and former chief of the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust
unit, said at a panel last month that her practice has been very
busy. She predicted that merger activity will continue to be
strong. Among Cravath’s work this year has been advising Hertz
on its $2.6 billion purchase of Dollar Thrifty and Crown Castle
on its acquisition of 7,200 T-Mobile USA cellular towers valued
at $2.4 billion.  The bonuses aren’t awarded according to billable hours or
other criteria, the memo said, though “suitable performance at
that attorney’s experience level,” is required.  A spokesman for Cravath declined to comment on the bonuses.  Deals  Four Firms Advise on $2.5 Billion McGraw-Hill Sale to Apollo  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and  Clifford Chance  LLP
advised  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  on its agreement to sell its education
unit to  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  for $2.5 billion as Chief
Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III remakes his
family’s 124-year-old company around financial services.  Apollo received legal advice from Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP and Morgan, Lewis and Bockius LLP.  The transaction is expected to close by year-end or in
early 2013, the company said yesterday in a statement. It will
have a non-cash impairment charge of about $450 million to $550
million in the fourth quarter and use an estimated $1.9 billion
in net proceeds to fund share buy backs and debt payments.  Partner Kathy Honeywood in London led Clifford Chance’s
team. Wachtell’s team included partners: Trevor S. Norwitz,
corporate; Joseph D. Larson, antitrust; Adam J. Shapiro,
executive compensation and benefits; Joshua A. Feltman,
restructuring and finance; and Deborah L. Paul, tax.  Paul Weiss ’s New York corporate partners Greg Ezring and
John Scott, and tax partner Brad Okun, worked on the deal.
Morgan, Lewis Washington antitrust partner Jonathan Rich advised
Apollo.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP New York partner Ethan Klingsberg is advising Goldman Sachs, financial adviser to
McGraw-Hill.  Following the sale, McGraw Hill Financial, as the new
company will be called, will have at its core  Standard & Poor’s ,
the world’s largest credit-rating company. More than a year ago,
McGraw-Hill announced plans to split into two businesses, one
focused on educational publishing and the other on financial
operations.  The  education division  reported $2.3 billion in sales last
year and publishes in more than 65 languages. McGraw-Hill has
weighed a sale or a spinoff of the business since at least last
year, when hedge-fund investor Jana Partners LLC proposed a plan
for a breakup.  McGraw-Hill “has consistently underperformed its potential
and traded at a sizable discount,” with the education unit
creating a “drag” on the company’s value, Jana said in August
2011.  For more, click here.  Kaye Scholer, Weil Work on Onex $2.3 Billion USI Insurance Deal  Kaye Scholer LLP advised  Onex Corp. (OCX) , Canada’s largest
publicly traded buyout firm, which agreed to buy USI Insurance
Services LLC from a fund run by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in a
transaction valued at $2.3 billion. Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP
advised GS Capital.  Kaye Scholer corporate partner Joel Greenberg served as
lead partner. Others partners on the team included Tom Yadlon
corporate; Jeff London and Lou Tuchman, tax; and Stephen Culhane, investment funds. Onex’s general counsel is Andrea Daly.  Weil’s team was led by mergers and acquisitions and
corporate partner Michael Aiello. Additional partners included
Matthew Bloch,  capital markets ; Richard Ginsburg, banking and
finance; Michael Nissan, executive compensation and benefits;
Helyn Goldstein, tax; and Jeffrey Osterman, technology and IP
transactions.  The deal includes a $700 million equity investment by Onex
Partners III fund, the Toronto-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Employees of the Briarcliff Manor, New York-based
insurance broker will remain “significant” investors in USI,
which has about 100 offices in the U.S.  Private-equity firms are buying insurance-services
companies for their steady  cash flow  and low capital needs.  For more, click here.  Firm News  EADS Hires Clifford Chance for Internal Bribery Probe  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  has hired law firm
Clifford Chance LLP to start internal probe in response to
investigations into whether EADS paid bribes to win a 2003
fighter jet contract, EADS spokesman  Rainer Ohler  said by phone.  German and Austrian prosecutors conducted raids in three
countries Nov. 7 as part of separate investigations into whether
EADS paid bribes to win a 2003 fighter jet contract.  The Austrian parliament in 2007 investigated whether
Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH or EADS, one of the venture’s co-
owners, paid bribes to win the 1.96 billion-euro ($2.52 billion)
contract signed in July 2003. Along with EADS, Eurofighter’s
parent companies include London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and Rome-
based  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   Vienna prosecutors are looking into allegations of bribery,
 money laundering , breach of trust and  tax evasion , Thomas Vecsey, a spokesman for the prosecutor, said.  Der Spiegel  reported the story earlier, citing EADS CEO Tom Enders as saying that he wants to “clear up this matter as
quickly as possible”  Slaughter and May Advise Glaxo on Indian, Nigerian Stake  Slaughter and May is advising  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the
U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, on its plans to buy shares in its
publicly traded Indian and Nigerian consumer-products units,
boosting stakes in businesses that are growing faster than
branded pharmaceuticals.  Glaxo offered to buy as many as 13.4 million shares of
 India ’s  GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd. (SKB)  for 3,900
rupees each, or a total of 52.2 billion rupees ($940 million),
the London-based company said in a statement yesterday. Glaxo
also will buy about 321 million shares of  GlaxoSmithKline
Consumer Nigeria Plc (GLAXOSMI)  at 48 naira a share, for a total of 15.4
billion naira ($100 million), Glaxo said in a separate
statement.  Slaughter and May supported GlaxoSmithKline’s in-house
legal counsel, Steven Rix, and worked closely with law firms AZB
& Partners in India and Udo Udoma & Belo-Osagie in  Nigeria , the
firm said in a statement.  The Slaughter and May team is led by corporate partners
 David Johnson , Simon Nicholls and  Richard Smith . The AZB &
Partners team is led by partner Ajay Bahl. The Udo Udoma and
Belo-Osagie team is led by partner Daniel Agbor  The Indian unit sells Horlicks and Boost nutritional
drinks, Sensodyne toothpaste and Eno antacid, among other
consumer products. Horlicks is India’s top packaged beverage
behind bottled water and sells more than twice as much as
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s namesake cola.  The Nigerian unit manufactures, markets and distributes
consumer-health brands including Sensodyne, Horlicks and the
Lucozade sports drink. The company also sells pharmaceutical
products including antibiotics and vaccines.  Consumer health-care sales have been rising 19 percent
annually over the last five years in India and 21 percent a year
over the past four years in Nigeria, according to the company.
Glaxo’s pharmaceutical sales fell 2 percent at constant exchange
rates in the first nine months of this year.  For more, click here.  Moves  Jenner Hires Co-Chairman of the Private Equity Practice  Jenner & Block LLP hired mergers and acquisitions lawyer
Mark A. Harris as a partner in the Chicago office. Harris will
join Jenner & Block’s corporate practice and become co-chairman
of the firm’s private equity practice. Harris was a partner at
McDermott Will & Emery LLP, the firm said.  Harris will advise clients on acquisitions, divestitures,
spinoffs, LBOs, going-private transactions, reorganizations,
proxy contests and other complex transactions, as well as on
corporate governance and other general business matters.  “Mark is well-known for his work in numerous areas,
including private equity transactions. He will be a tremendous
asset to companies engaging in complex legal and financial
transactions, and his hiring further demonstrates our commitment
to deepening our transactional service offerings,” Susan C. Levy, the managing partner of Jenner & Block, said in a
statement.  Among his past work was on Wrapports LLC’s acquisition of
the  Chicago Sun-Times . He also advised Merge Healthcare on its
acquisitions of AMICAS and Ophthalmic Imaging Systems and  Munich
Re  in its acquisition of the Windsor Health Group as well as the
management teams of CDW Corp. and Nuveen Investments Inc. in
their going-private transactions led by Madison Dearborn
Partners.  Prior to his work in private practice, Harris was the COO
and a Principal, Portfolio Manager of GTCR Golder Rauner LLC, a
Chicago private-equity firm.  He has also served as a senior
executive and the chief legal officer for two VC-backed
technology companies -- PrairieComm Inc. and Click Commerce Inc.
-- and has been an outside director of two public companies,
including Global Imaging Systems Inc., a distributor and
servicer of computer peripherals and copiers, which was acquired
by Xerox in 2007, the firm said.  Jenner & Block has about 450 attorneys at offices in
Chicago,  Los Angeles , New York and Washington.  Dmitry Kurochkin Joins Dechert’s Litigation Group in Moscow  Dechert LLP announced that Russian litigator Dmitry
Kurochkin joined the firm as a partner in its dispute resolution
practice in Moscow. Prior to joining Dechert, Kurochkin was head
of litigation for Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa at
 Herbert Smith  in Moscow, the firm said.  Kurochkin focuses his practice on commercial, corporate,
shareholder, employment, regulatory litigation and arbitration
matters for both domestic and international clients.  A Russian-qualified lawyer, Kurochkin received a Master of
Laws from the University of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. He is
fluent in English, French and German as well as his native
Russian.  Dechert has lawyers in 26 offices worldwide.  Litigation  Morgan Keegan Trial Judge to Decide SEC Claims He Dismissed  Morgan Keegan & Co. is going to trial before a judge whose
decision to throw out regulators’ claims the retail brokerage
misled thousands of investors about the risks of auction-rate
securities was reversed on appeal.  Lawyers for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
the Memphis, Tennessee-based financial firm delivered opening
statements yesterday in federal court in Atlanta in a nonjury
trial scheduled to take two weeks.  The case, alleging that Morgan Keegan told clients that the
more than $2 billion in securities it sold had “zero risk” as
the market was collapsing in late 2007 and 2008, was dismissed
by U.S. District Judge William Duffey Jr. in June 2011. In May,
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta overruled Duffey, finding
he incorrectly concluded brokers’ verbal comments to four
customers were immaterial in light of disclosures posted on the
firm’s website.  Morgan Keegan brokers told customers auction-rate
securities were “liquid, short-term investments,” M. Graham
Loomis, a lawyer for the SEC, said during openings yesterday.
“None of the brokers told them their money could be tied up
indefinitely.”  “Morgan Keegan’s failure to predict the future is not
 securities fraud ,” a lawyer for Morgan Keegan, Amelia Rudolph,
a partner at Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP, said in openings
yesterday. “This was a market that went up in smoke overnight.
Morgan Keegan did not misrepresent this product to anyone.”  The suit is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Morgan
Keegan & Company Inc., 1:09-cv-01965, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  For more, click here.  News  Schapiro to Quit as SEC Chairman and Be Replaced by Walter  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who took the agency’s helm in 2009 as it reeled from
public rebukes for failing to rein in Wall Street abuses, is
leaving the agency next month.  Schapiro, 57, will be replaced as chairman when she steps
down on Dec. 14 by Commissioner Elisse Walter, former senior
executive vice president at the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, President  Barack Obama  said in a  statement .  It was unclear how long Walter might serve as chairman. An
administration official said Obama intends to make a new
nomination to the commission in the near future. The official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity, didn’t specify whether the
nomination would be for the chairman position.  Walter’s five-year term as a commissioner expired in June.
Under current law, she’s entitled to work through the end of
2013 without being reconfirmed. The president has the right to
designate any commissioner as chairman.  Walter, who served as interim chairman before Schapiro took
over, will return to the helm as the agency works to implement
Dodd-Frank rules ordered in response to the credit crisis and
looks to overhaul oversight of the money-market mutual fund
industry after Schapiro’s initial effort ended in failure.  Schapiro tapped  Robert Khuzami , a former federal
prosecutor, to reinvigorate the agency’s enforcement division,
setting in motion the biggest overhaul in that unit’s history.
The enforcement division, which has since filed dozens of cases
related to the financial crisis, has also faced criticism from
lawmakers, judges and investors that it has gone easy on top
executives.  In the most prominent enforcement effort after the 2008
financial crisis, Schapiro’s SEC sued Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in 2010, accusing it of fraud when it sold investors a mortgage
security without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped
pick the loans and bet against them. Goldman paid a record $550
million fine.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  