-- WFP Provides Emergency Rations to Congo Refugees After Violence
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-11-27T10:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/wfp-provides-emergency-rations-to-congo-refugees-after-violence.html
The  World Food Programme  provided
emergency food rations to about 81,000 displaced people in and
near the city of Goma in eastern  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
after fighting in the region prompted residents to flee.  An estimated 140,000 civilians in Goma, the capital of the
DR Congo’s North Kivu province, may need food aid, the  United
Nations ’ Rome-based WFP wrote in a  report  on its website
yesterday. The agency fed about 470,000 displaced people in the
province until last week when it suspended operations as unrest
spread to Goma, the agency said.  Rebel group M23 captured Goma on Nov. 20 after their
rebellion started in April amid claims the government had failed
to respect a 2009 peace agreement that called for a number of
steps to bring stability and economic development to the North
and South Kivu provinces.  “The spiral of violence in North Kivu has cut many people
off from their regular food supplies and they need emergency
assistance to survive,” Martin Ohlsen, the WFP’s country
director for DR Congo, was cited as saying in the statement.  Most of the families that received food aid and fled in
recent days were from refugee camps north and west of the city,
WFP said. They were given rations consisting of corn meal,
pulses, salt and cooking oil, contributed by Canada, Japan and
the U.S.  A “precarious security situation” may make it difficult
to reach people needing aid beyond Goma, according to the WFP.
The agency faced a funding shortfall of $23 million for the next
six months of emergency operations in the eastern DR Congo, and
recent unrest will increase humanitarian needs, the WFP wrote.  About 2.4 million people are displaced in eastern DR Congo,
the agency said, citing an October report of the UN Office for
the coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  