-- Holiday Shopping Tips From Behavioral Economists
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-27T23:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/why-holiday-gifts-receive-more-ughs-than-oohs-.html
Behavioral economists study human
errors. People don’t always make the best choices for
themselves, so there’s good reason to doubt whether they will
always make the best choices for others.  If you’ve ever received a useless gadget, a horrendous tie
or some kind of bowl, you’ll know that when people buy Christmas
presents, they can blunder badly. Chances are pretty good that
whatever you end up getting people this year, and however hard
you try, some of your friends and family members aren’t going to
think that the gift is worth what you paid for it.  University of Minnesota  economist Joel Waldfogel, author of
“ Scroogenomics ,” finds that Americans spend about $65 billion on
winter holiday presents every year -- and that many of those
billions are simply wasted, because a lot of people don’t much
like what they get. Typically the value of a gift, to the
recipient, is about 20 percent lower than its cost. He describes
the holiday season as “an orgy of value destruction.”  Mis-giving is a big problem for givers as well as
recipients. In a large survey, the average respondent was found
to give 23 presents every holiday season. Gift-giving can also
take an economic toll. Personal debts tend to jump after
December. That isn’t ideal, especially in hard economic times
and if recipients aren’t thrilled with what they get.  Egocentric Bias  Here are some tips for gift-givers, building on six
behavioral findings that bear directly on holiday-season mis-
giving. They might help you get through December a little
better.  -- Egocentric bias: If you are like most people, you have
an exaggerated sense of how much other people are like you. You
probably think their tastes and values are closer to yours than
they actually are. Suppose you covet that new “Star Wars”
limited-edition  watch , or think your life would be immeasurably
better with a fishing rod. Even if so, your spouse or your best
friend might not much want those things. Beware of thinking that
other people will like what you like.  -- Focusing illusion: When people focus on a product or an
activity, or on a single feature of a situation, they tend to
think that it matters a lot more than it does. For example,
people in both California and  Iowa  have been found to think that
people in California are happier than those in Iowa (which isn’t
so). The reason for the mistake is that people focus on the most
salient difference between  California  and Iowa, which is the
weather, even though a warmer climate doesn’t much affect
people’s happiness.  The same can be said about holiday gifts. People have a
tendency to focus on an eye-catching object that produces an
immediate “wow!” when it is given, but that goes promptly into
the desk or the closet, never to emerge again. The solution?
Give serious consideration to gifts that people will actually
put to daily or at least weekly use.  -- Projection bias: When people are hungry, they tend to
order a ton of food, even if they are not going to eat all or
even most of it. People know, of course, that their tastes will
change over time, but they project their current emotional state
into the future and thus underestimate the magnitude of the
change.  On frigid days, people buy clothing that is needed in cold
weather, such as parkas and winter coats. That’s fine as far as
it goes, but they sometimes buy more than they need. The return
rate is unusually high for cold-weather products bought in low
temperatures. For gift-givers, the lesson is clear: Don’t be
unduly influenced by how you feel on the day that you happen to
be shopping.  Unrealistic View  -- Optimistic bias: Human beings tend to be unrealistically
optimistic. Most people think they are better than the average
driver and less likely to be involved in a serious accident.
When people give presents, unrealistic optimism goes off the
charts. We are often amazed that people don’t love what we’ve
selected. Please don’t be. (And please consider avoiding the
optimistic exclamation, “You’re going to love it!”)  -- Cumulative-cost neglect: People often borrow too much
because they neglect the cumulative costs of individual
expenditures. If you use your  credit card  to purchase 20
sensible gifts, you might be alarmed by the total expense. When
gift-givers don’t keep at least a rough running tab, they may
find that they have spent a lot more than they expected, or even
can easily afford.  -- Spotlight effect: If you are like most people, you think
that people are watching you far more carefully than they
actually are. In one experiment, students were asked to go into
a classroom wearing a shirt with a picture of Barry Manilow on
it (which is pretty embarrassing). Those who wore the shirt
greatly exaggerated the number of people who actually noticed
the picture. Most people didn’t.  For the holiday season, many of us focus too intensely on
how other people will react to what we get them, when it may be
the mere existence of the present, rather than exactly what it
is, that most matters. Unless you are dealing with someone who
really cares about what you get them, you should worry a lot
less (and maybe spend less, too).  A few years ago, my sister declared a family moratorium on
Christmas presents for anyone over 15 years old. We all
celebrated. Other people, including Waldfogel himself, have
suggested a different solution. Instead of giving people more
gadgets, ties or bowls, tell them that this year, you’re going
to make a donation in their name to a charity of their choice.
Can you think of a better way to show the spirit of the season?  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 