-- Why China’s People’s Daily Found Kim Jong-Un So Sexy
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-11-27T19:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/why-china-s-people-s-daily-found-kim-jong-un-so-sexy.html
It may turn out that the editors of
the English language edition of the Chinese Communist Party’s
mouthpiece, People’s Daily, were only kidding when they ran a
 55-image slideshow  based on “ Kim Jong-Un Named The Onion’s
Sexiest Man Alive for 2012 .”  But if it turns out that they weren’t, the explanation for
how such an article ended up in China’s most important tribunal
isn’t so hard to parse. In three distinct ways, the Onion’s
satire was perfectly engineered to appeal to editorial biases --
some might call them blind spots -- at the English edition of
People’s Daily.  The first bias is for extended photo essays depicting Kim
Jong-Un in official, often heroic poses. This phenomenon started
not long after Kim ascended to the North Korean leadership.
Nonetheless, Kim-related slideshows now run frequently. Take,
for example, last Wednesday’s 12-slide “ Kim Jong-Un inspects
horse riding training ground of KPA .” Perceptive visitors will
immediately recognize that the first slide of this obscure
feature is the same as the first one in the now-infamous
“sexiest man” slideshow. Two days later, on Nov. 23, People’s
Daily ran the less heroic but no less important, eight-picture
“ DPRK’s Kim visits Ministry of State Security .” Other examples
are rife across the site.  The second editorial bias is for stories that highlight
foreign leaders or news organizations praising aspects of China
that might ordinarily be criticized by overseas voices. For
example, in advance of this month’s National People’s Congress,
the paper ran a four-picture slideshow earnestly titled,
“ Reporters highly praise Press Center of the 18th National
Congress .” This editorial trend dates back many years. For
example, after the failure of the Copenhagen climate talks in
2009, and accusations that  China  played a leading role in that
breakdown, the paper ran an article with the headline, “ World
media reports praise China’s contribution to Copenhagen Climate
Talks .” Likewise, in 2010, after a now-annual deluge of overseas
articles criticizing China’s pressure-filled college entrance
examinations, the paper ran a piece entitled “ British media
praise China’s college entrance compositions .” Obviously, Kim
Jong-Un is not Chinese. But he does run a Chinese client-state
about which the Chinese leadership has serious misgivings. Thus,
foreign praise for him -- even his looks -- is likely very
welcome in places where, no doubt, his handlers are keenly aware
that his image reflects at least in part on China’s.  The third, and final, bias is People’s Daily’s interest in
sexy slideshows. On Sunday the paper posted a 52-image slideshow
entitled “ Attractive beauties at auto exhibitions ” depicting, as
the title suggests, models -- sometimes skimpily dressed --
lounging with cars (this was preceded, three days earlier, by
“ Sexy car models at 3rd Harbin Autumn Auto Exhibition ”). No
surprise, the sexy slideshows often descend into blatantly
sexist agitprop, such as a now-notorious example, “ ‘Beautiful
scenery’ at 18th CPC National Congress ,” where the “beautiful
scenery” turned out to be young women who worked at the all-
important political event. Finally, there are the more prosaic,
single-model examples (in which Kim Jong-Un is obviously
working), such as Friday’s “ Glamorous Li Xiaoran poses on
beach .”  No doubt, few would seriously describe Kim Jong-Un as sexy,
much less as the world’s sexiest man. Nor would many people
equate People’s Daily with sexiness. But if there’s one place in
the world willing -- or, at least, desiring -- to believe that a
foreign publication would praise him in such a way, it’s
certainly the English-language edition of People’s Daily. In
retrospect, it was almost inevitable.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World View blog
and a contributor to the Ticker.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .
 