-- Why GivingTuesday is the Social Innovation Idea of the Year
-- B y   P e t e r   S i m s
-- 2012-11-27T20:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-27/why-givingtuesday-is-the-social-innovation-idea-of-the-year.html
The most adaptive,
agile companies and organizations are figuring out how to leverage what they do
best to take advantage of global, seismic shifts in media, technology and
society. Today’s newest and brightest example is a distributed philanthropic movement
called  GivingTuesday . I’ve seen the
underlying trend firsthand as an advisor to General Electric Co.’s Innovation
Accelerator, an initiative led by GE’s Chief Marketing Officer Beth Comstock in
which GE convenes partners in academia, venture capital, business
entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship, branding and social media. They're
discussing megatrends, such as Big Data, the future of MRI imaging, or how to
build out  ecoimagination  into to
new sustainability partnerships across sectors. Obama Administration officials describe a similar transition, manifested
in their recent decision to preserve the social media arm from the 2012
campaign, as well as the recent national “listening tour” with potential
partners and collaborators led by White House Chief Technology Officer Todd Park. Increasingly,
administration officials view the White House as a platform for convening power, rather than a monolith that hands down executive orders and speeches from upon high, including Jonathan Greenblatt, special assistant to the
President and director of the Office of Social Innovation and Civic
Participation in the Domestic Policy Council, and Alec Ross, senior advisor for innovation to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. This is just the
beginning. The era of the command-and-control organization is over, at least
for now. Its replacement is still taking shape. Companies like Cisco Systems Inc., GE and Genentech Inc. and are out in front, trying to restructure their
legacy hierarchies into more collaborative networked organizations. It’s a messy
and inefficient process. Also, witness
the U.S. Army’s attempts to modernize its archaic structure, which, as Thomas
Ricks’ has documented in his latest book,  The
Generals , has not gone well. Change is indeed hard -- but critical to
capitalize on pervasive change in technology and society. New kinds of
organizations are emerging where effective social entrepreneurship meets the
networked effects of technology. My favorite case study of the moment is
GivingTuesday, which describes itself as a “national day of giving at the start
of the annual holiday season.” What started just a few months ago as a small
social media campaign has blossomed into a networked philanthropy that claims  2,000 partners  across
all 50 states. They include well-known social causes like  Kiva  and  DonorsChoose.org ; companies, such as JC Penney and
Microsoft; small nonprofits and charities, such as the Case Foundation and the
Otsego County (New York) United Way; and local governments, including Atlanta.
(Disclosure: I’ve been advising and supporting the founding team personally for
some time now; my company,  the BLKSHP ,
is a partner organization.) The idea is simple.
Instead of starting the giving season with shopping on Black Friday or Cyber
Monday, people are encouraged to start on GivingTuesday with philanthropy.
Co-founder Henry Timms, deputy executive director of New York’s 92nd Street
YMHA ( 92Y ), contrasts Black Friday shopping
and GivingTuesday philanthropy: “We have two days that are good for the
economy. Here's a new day good for the soul." American culture
seems primed for this message, especially in the wake of superstorm Sandy. The
way that GivingTuesday has proliferated has been quite remarkable to me. It
came to life at the 92Y, in partnership with the United Nations Foundation, and
then spread quickly across real and virtual social networks, attracting more
organizations and people into its sway. I’ve watched with great admiration and
excitement as the idea has developed into a movement. How did it happen?
Distributed leadership. We’re living in a tribal society. The Web’s nimble,
networked structure allows organizations to tap vast, hive-like relationship
clusters. Once a novel idea emerges, like GivingTuesday, and large institutions
identify them and sign on to it, as JPMorgan Chase & Co. or the Salvation Army has,
then a constellation of smaller non-profits or charities will follow suit.
Before you know it, a movement is born. This is not unlike the way traditional
consumer behavior often unfolds, as early adopters scale up toward mainstream
adoption. The combination of
technology savvy, such as  Mashable’s  and  Facebook’s , and
public-service organizations, like the 92Y and the U.N. Foundation, can open
new pathways for civic activity, allowing like-minded business leaders, social
entrepreneurs, activists, technologists, opinion-makers and bloggers to follow
suit. GivingTuesday portends big things for the future of citizen-focused,
empathic, bottom-up social change in the government sector and society at
large. The movement is
reinventing how a simple, good idea can reshape networks online and off. The
revolution will be improvised. Peter Sims  is founder & a
‘sir’ of the BLKSHP, cofounder of the social venture Fuse Corps, and his latest
book is  Little Bets: How
Breakthrough Ideas Emerge from Small Discoveries. Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability  for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global business.  