-- 
LabCorp Can Complete Purchase of Westcliff, Judge Rules

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-02-23T23:07:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/labcorp-can-complete-purchase-of-westcliff-judge-rules-1-.html
Laboratory Corp. of America can
complete the purchase of rival clinical-testing company
Westcliff Medical Laboratories Inc., a U.S. judge ruled,
rejecting a challenge by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.  U.S. District Judge Andrew J. Guilford in  Santa Ana ,
California, yesterday denied the FTC’s request for a preliminary
injunction. The agency argued in court papers that the
transaction would harm competition in Southern  California .  LabCorp, the second-largest independent clinical laboratory
in the U.S., agreed to buy Santa Ana-based Westcliff Medical for
$57.5 million in May.  “Based on the applicable facts and law concerning the
relevant markets and other issues, the court cannot conclude
that the FTC is likely to succeed on the merits,” Guilford
wrote in his 40-page decision.  The FTC in December filed for an injunction to prevent
Burlington, North Carolina-based LabCorp from merging with
Westcliff, claiming it would lead to higher prices and lower
quality in the  Southern California  market for clinical
laboratory-testing services sold to physician groups.  The FTC filed a motion to appeal the decision today and
another request to prevent the transaction from being completed
until the appeal is decided, FTC spokesman Mitchell Katz said.  “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling,” FTC Bureau
of Competition Director Richard Feinstein said in an e-mailed
statement.  Steve Anderson, LabCorp’s director of  investor relations ,
didn’t immediately return a telephone message seeking comment.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Laboratory
Corporation of America, 10-cv-1873, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 