-- 
Macau Home Prices May Climb as Much as 20% as Casino Growth Fuels Demand

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-02-23T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/macau-home-prices-may-climb-as-much-as-20-as-casino-growth-fuels-demand.html
  Macau  home prices, which have
recovered to pre-global credit crisis levels, may rise as much
as 20 percent this year as the city’s economy benefits from an
expanding casino industry.  Residential values in the world’s biggest gambling hub
will gain 20 percent in 2011, according to  Midland Holdings Ltd. ,
Hong Kong’s largest publicly traded real estate agency.  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc ., the world’s second-biggest commercial
property broker, predicts a 10 percent gain, while London-based
 Savills Plc  forecasts a 15 percent jump.  Low interest rates, a lack of new supply and rising
personal incomes driven by a 58 percent surge in  casino revenue 
helped real estate prices in the former Portuguese colony in
southern  China  climb 15 percent in 2010 even as the government
introduced measures to stamp out speculation.  “The  property market  is now being supported by locals
whose incomes have risen off the casino boom, and also the huge
demand for rental from foreign workers coming in for the new
casinos and other infrastructure projects,” said Gregory Ku,
managing director for Macau at  Jones Lang .  Casino revenue in Macau may climb 30 percent to $30 billion
this year as visitors from mainland China increase, CLSA Ltd.
said in a report last month. China contributed more than half
the number of Macau’s 25 million tourist arrivals last year.  Macau’s casino revenue grew to more than four times that of
the  Las Vegas Strip  after the government allowed the entry of
overseas operators in 2002, including  Las Vegas Sands Corp ., the
world’s biggest casino company by market value, and Wynn Resort
Ltd., ending billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s four-decade monopoly.  Local Investors  Prices for some luxury projects, such as the  One Central
Macau Residences  co-developed by Ho’s  Shun Tak Holdings Ltd . and
Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd., have risen to about 6,000 patacas
($748) to 7,000 patacas a square foot at the end of last year
from about 4,000 patacas in early 2009, according to Jones Lang.  About 10 percent of those who bought the properties last
year were foreign investors, compared with about 35 percent
between 2007 and 2008, said Ku.  “The credit crisis has pretty much driven out all the
foreign funds looking to make a quick profit,” he said.    Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd ., the casino operator part-
owned by Permira Advisers LLP, plans to hire as many as 8,000
workers this year after the opening of its 600-table casino in
Macau’s Cotai district, Chief Financial Officer Robert Drake
said Feb. 15. Macau, the only region in China where casinos are
legal, has a  population  of 550,000.  Huge Demand  The city’s government is building a light-rail system aimed
to be finished in 2014 and is working with neighboring Hong Kong
and Zhuhai to build a bridge connecting the three cities.  “People are earning more and that’s creating a huge demand
to upgrade to better properties,” said Franco Liu, managing
director for Savills’s Macau unit. “With limited new land
supply in the next few years, there’s so much pressure on prices
to keep going up.”  Prices of some luxury apartments have risen as much as 80
percent from the trough during the credit crisis, prompting the
government last year to impose higher property transaction taxes
and raise mortgage down payments for transactions larger than
3.3 million patacas.  That may lead luxury prices to lag “slightly behind”
those in the mass market this year, said Savills’s Liu.  “The measures may push some buyers to shift to lower value
properties because they can get a higher mortgage and fall into
a lower tax brackets,” he said.  Luxury Prices  With no standard definition for Macau luxury prices,
property agencies normally distinguish them from those in the
broader market based on location and prices, said Stanley Poon,
managing director for Macau at  Centaline Property Agency Ltd. ,  Hong Kong ’s biggest closely held realtor. Centaline forecasts
Macau home prices to rise 15 percent in 2011.  Macau’s luxury home prices fell as much as 40 percent in
early 2009 from a previous height in 2007, according to
Centaline, after several foreign funds sold investments and
developers halted projects as liquidity dried up during the
credit crisis.  The number of property transactions fell to 17,000 in 2009,
a seven-year low, before rebounding to 30,000 last year,
according to data from the Macau government.  Macau’s economy may rise 26 percent in 2010 from a year
earlier, according to a forecast by Secretary of Economy and
Finance Francis Tam. The jobless rate of 2.7 percent in the
fourth quarter was the lowest since 1999, according to
government statistics.  Limited Supply  About 80 percent of Macanese own their homes, whose values
are still at “a substantial discount” to properties in Hong
Kong, about an hour by ferry, said Tom Ashworth,  fund manager 
for  Macau Property Opportunities Fund Ltd ., which has about $333
million in assets and is developing residential projects
including the Fountainside in Macau. Hong Kong home prices have
surged about 60 percent in the past two years.  “That gap’s got to close,” Ashworth said. “It’s not
going to go to parity, but we believe the current 70 percent
discount to Hong Kong could definitely narrow to maybe 50
percent.” Ashworth compared prices at One Central Macau and
Hong Kong’s Bel-Air, a luxury apartment project in Hong Kong’s
Island South district where units are selling at about HK$20,000
($2,567) a square foot.  Approval for new real estate and infrastructure projects
has slowed since the jailing of a former senior government
official in 2008 that sparked a series of anti-graft measures by
the government, said Ronald Cheung, managing director for Macau
at Midland.  About 2,500 new apartments in projects including the One
Grantai and The Riviera Macau are expected to be completed in
2011, down from 3,400 in 2010, he said. Annual completion will
probably fall below 1,000 in each of 2012 and 2013 before
rebounding in 2014.  “This two-year gap will continue to push up both rents and
prices for new units,” Cheung said. “Buyers are also mindful
of the threat of inflation that’s driven by the low  interest
rates ,” which are near 20-year low, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  