-- 
Madman Is Wanted to Fill Europe’s Job From Hell: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-02-23T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/madman-is-wanted-to-fill-euro-s-job-from-hell-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
It comes with a nice office and a
grand title. You would probably have a pretty generous expense
account. And there may well be a lucrative consulting gig with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. when it is all over.  Even so, you would have to be bordering on insanity to
accept the role of European Central Bank president when Jean- Claude Trichet steps down in October this year.  It’s the job from hell. The euro crisis is getting worse.
You will be asked to achieve the impossible. You will have zero
independence. And the chances are that you will wind up being
remembered as the person who presided over one of the biggest
monetary failures in history.  That’s hardly an appealing prospect.  When Axel Weber unexpectedly resigned as Bundesbank
president this month, the favorite to take over from the usually
calm and confident Trichet was suddenly out of the running.  The field is now wide open.  Mario Draghi , the Bank of  Italy 
governor, has been installed by the bookmakers as most likely to
get the job. He is followed by Erkki Liikanen, the Finnish
central banker, who is now at odds of 2-1, followed by
Luxembourg’s  Yves Mersch , and Dutchman Nout Wellink. An outsider
at 20-1 is another German, Klaus Regling, the head of  Europe ’s
bailout fund. It could even be another Frenchman -- Xavier Musca, the economics adviser to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , has been mentioned as a possibility.  Euro Mess  Yet surely any job would be preferable to running the ECB.
Greek finance minister, for example. Or running the public
relations unit for BP Plc on the  Gulf coast . Either would be
better than trying to sort out the mess the euro has become.  Here’s why.  First, the crisis ebbs and flows. But the only real fix is
for the economies of the 17 members to converge, and there is no
sign of that.  Germany  is booming, and the peripheral countries
are slumped in recession. The German economy will expand 2.3
percent this year, according to the government. By contrast, the  Greek economy  shrank 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter alone.
From a year earlier, its economy contracted 6.6 percent.  The difference in growth rates between Germany and the
worst performing countries is now close to nine percentage
points. In effect, the imbalances are widening -- and that means
the crisis is becoming more severe.  Inflation Lurks  Second, the new ECB president will be asked to achieve the
impossible. The central bank is mandated to keep consumer-price
increases at just below 2 percent. In January, the euro area’s
inflation rate was already 2.4 percent. Thomas Straubhaar,
director of the Hamburg Institute of International Economics,
says German inflation will reach 4 percent by the end of 2012.
Price pressures are growing everywhere, and at some point the
ECB will have to act.  That will plunge the struggling nations into a depression.
What happens to an economy that has already contracted more than
6 percent in the past year when you boost interest rates? You
create a full-blown depression -- 1931 will seem mild by
comparison. They will burn your effigy in Athens and Dublin. You
can’t maintain  price stability  and rescue the peripheral
nations, but that’s what you will be asked to do.  Three, the bank’s independence is about to be compromised.
The euro area’s leaders will struggle to keep the single
currency together. They have invested too much capital in this
project to let it fail. They will come up with a dozen plans and
trillions of euros in rescue packages. The chances of the ECB
maintaining its independence during that process are zero.  Let Inflation Rip  If you need to print money to keep the euro intact, you
will have to turn on the presses. If you have to prop up
bankrupt banks, the euros will have to be made available. If you
need to cut  interest rates  and let inflation rip, you will have
to ignore your mandate for price stability. The ECB president
will end up having to do what French and German politicians tell
him, regardless of whether it makes any economic sense.  Four, you will probably end up presiding over the
dismemberment of the euro. This is an eight-year term. Whoever
gets the job will still be there in 2019. It is hard to see the
single currency surviving that long without one or more
countries leaving. The pressures within the system are too great
to be contained. Who wants to be remembered as the person who
presided over one of the great monetary failures in history?  They will probably find someone to take the job. There’s
always someone who wants a promotion.  But Axel Weber was a candidate of stature, just what the
ECB needs. He walked away from the gig. The other candidates are
now taking a good hard look at the job description.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  