-- 
Steel Authority of India, Afripalm Plan African Steel Plant

-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-23T14:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/afripalm-steel-authority-to-build-2-9-billion-south-african-steel-plant.html
  Steel Authority of India Ltd ., the
country’s second-largest steelmaker, agreed with Afripalm
Resources Ltd. to build a 21 billion-rand ($2.95 billion) plant
in South Africa to rival  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd .  The steel mill will have a capacity of 3 million to 5
million metric tons a year and may take four to six years to
build, Afripalm Chairman Lazarus Zim said today by telephone. As
part of the agreement, Afripalm will begin distributing Steel
Authority’s products in  Africa ’s largest economy, he said.  South Africa’s steel market is dominated by  ArcelorMittal   South Africa , or AMSA, which accounts for 73 percent of local
supply. The government has for years sought to push down the
price of steel produced locally, and said in August it was
“extremely concerned” that high prices would damage the
economy. Afripalm will be introducing “healthy competition into
the local market,” Zim said today in an e-mailed statement.  There is a need for more steelmaking capacity in South
Africa, Zim said, citing a feasibility study for the steel-mill
project. A more “comprehensive” investigation will be
completed over the next six months to determine the costs and
full scope of the venture, he said, declining to specify the
type of steel to be produced or give a possible location.  The mill’s output will serve the domestic and export
markets, he said.  Overseas Expansion  Steel Authority of India, the nation’s largest producer
after  Tata Steel Ltd ., plans to spend as much as $12 billion
developing plants overseas as demand for the alloy recovers. The
state-run company, known as SAIL, is in talks to build factories
in Indonesia, Mongolia and Oman, as well as South Africa,
Chairman C.S. Verma said Feb. 21. Global steel use may increase
11 percent this year, according to the  World Steel Association .  Afripalm and SAIL are yet to hold talks with suppliers of
iron ore, a key steelmaking ingredient, Zim said. “South Africa
is very good in terms of iron ore, there is a lot of  iron ore  in
existing production and in new production; I cannot say we will
get from this one or from that one,” he said.  Zim stepped down as chairman of  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd ., a unit
of Anglo American Plc, in December because of a possible
conflict of interest. Kumba had become embroiled in a dispute
over prospecting rights at its Sishen mine that were awarded to
Imperial Crown Trading, a company with links to Zim through his
relationship with Jagdish Parekh, an Imperial shareholder.  Zim wouldn’t comment on whether Afripalm and SAIL intend to
acquire their own iron-ore operation, saying only, “Watch this
space.” Afripalm hasn’t approached Kumba over supply, he said.  Cutting Costs  SAIL, which will operate the new mill, has technology that
avoids the need for metallurgical coking coal in steelmaking and
uses less energy than older plants, limiting costs, Zim said.
Coking coal rose 46 percent in 2010 to $215 a ton, and traded at
$321.25 on Feb. 18. Benchmark coke contracts are set quarterly.  “SAIL has done their modeling and found that yes, we can
get an edge based on technology,” Zim said. “I don’t think the
cost base will be similar to incumbents, but I don’t want to
pre-empt the business plan.”  Both partners will raise financing for the project, he
said, declining to elaborate on funding arrangements for the
factory’s construction.  R.K. Singhal, a spokesman for SAIL, declined to comment on
the agreement with Afripalm today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  