-- 
Afridi Leads Pakistan to World Cup Rout; Ponting Reprimanded Over TV Smash

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-02-23T22:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/afridi-leads-pakistan-to-world-cup-rout-ponting-reprimanded-over-tv-smash.html
  Shahid Afridi  took five wickets to
lead  Pakistan  to a 205-run victory over Kenya in its opening
match at the Cricket World Cup.  Afridi claimed 5-16, the best figures by a Pakistan bowler
at the World Cup, as his team dismissed Kenya for 112 after
racking up 317-7 in Hambantota,  Sri Lanka  yesterday. Umar Akmal,
Kamran Akmal, Younus Khan and Misbah-ul-Haq hit half centuries.  All-rounder Afridi said his team needs to raise the scoring
rate in its next Group A game against Sri Lanka in Colombo on
Feb. 26. Pakistan lost openers Mohammad Hafeez and Ahmed Shehzad
within seven overs to slump to 12-2 against the Kenyans.  “We should be more positive in the batting,” Afridi said
at the presentation ceremony. “The next game is very important
for us, I think it will become harder. We learned a lot of
things from here. I know that was a little bit of a slow track
but we should start in a positive way.”    Kenya , a bottom-ranked 13th in the one-day standings, gave
away 46 extras, including 37 wides. The Africans have lost both
games so far, after a 10-wicket defeat to New Zealand.  “Every time we got a wicket we gave a few runs here and
there and that should not be the case,” captain Jimmy Kamande
said. “We should be getting on top of the other team.”  Kenya plays Sri Lanka in Colombo in its next game on March
1.  South Africa  and West Indies meet today in New Delhi.  Sixth-ranked Pakistan, which won the World Cup in 1992, is
without Salman Butt,  Mohammad Asif  and  Mohammad Amir , who were
banned earlier this month for violating the sport’s anti-
corruption code.  The top four teams from each of the two seven-team groups
advance to the quarterfinals after a round-robin competition.  Ponting Reprimand  Away from the pitch,  Australia  captain Ricky Ponting was
reprimanded by the International Cricket Council after damaging
a television during his team’s opening match against  Zimbabwe .  Ponting breached a clause in the ICC Code of Conduct that
covers “abuse of cricket equipment or clothing, ground
equipment or fixtures and fittings during an international
match,” cricket’s ruling body said in an e-mailed statement.  The incident occurred shortly after Ponting, 36, was run
out during Australia’s 91-run win over Zimbabwe in Ahmedabad,  India , three days ago. He caused “some damage” to a television
set in the team dressing room when he threw down a piece of
equipment which bounced off his kit bag and hit the corner of
the television, the ICC said.  “Ricky knows that his action was in breach of the code,
involving a brief moment of frustration,” match referee Roshan
Mahanama said in the  statement . “That said, it was clear that
the damage he caused was purely accidental and without malice,
he apologized shortly after the incident at the ground and
immediately agreed to pay for the damage.”  Ponting, who’s trying to become the first captain to win
three consecutive  World Cup  titles, accepted the reprimanded,
meaning there was no need for a formal disciplinary hearing, the
ICC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  