-- 
Airline Credit Swaps Climb for Second Day as Oil Reaches $100

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-02-23T22:36:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/airline-credit-swaps-climb-as-oil-reaching-100-may-hinder-debt-reduction.html
The cost of protecting U.S. airline
companies against default rose for the second day as oil reached
$100 a barrel and pushed jet fuel prices to the highest in more
than two years.  Credit-default swaps on Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines Inc.,
the world’s second-largest air carrier, climbed to the highest
in four months. Contracts on Chicago-based United Continental
Holdings Inc. and AMR Corp., the parent company of  American
Airlines , also increased.  The short-term impact from higher fuel prices may be offset
by derivatives contracts the companies buy to hedge against such
price swings, according to  Fitch Ratings . Those hedges typically
tail off early next year though and a continued increase of oil
to $110 may hinder efforts to reduce debt loads, Fitch analysts
including Mark Sadeghian and William Warlick wrote in a report
yesterday.  “Although airline management teams continue to express
optimism regarding air travel demand and the sustainability of
capacity discipline in the wake of industry consolidation, the
recent surge in energy prices highlights the industry’s
vulnerability to sharp and sudden changes in jet fuel costs,”
the analysts said.  Jet fuel, which is refined from  crude oil , accounts for as
much as 35 percent of total operating expenses for the nation’s
air carriers, up from 20 percent a decade ago, the analysts
said. The price of jet fuel climbed to $3.04 a gallon, its
highest since October 2008.  Airline swaps rose along with broader gauges of corporate
credit risk as the violent uprising in  Libya  pushed crude oil to
$100 a barrel in New York trading. Credit swaps are used by
banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers to protect against
debt losses or to speculate on creditworthiness.  Delta, AMR  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.75 basis points to a mid-
price of 86.5 basis points as of 5:17 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The
benchmark, which has climbed 6.8 basis points the past two days,
reached a one-year low of 79 on Feb. 8.  Swaps on Delta rose 23 basis points to 644 basis points,
according to London-based data provider CMA. Contracts on United
Continental, the world’s largest air carrier, climbed 9 basis
points to 626 basis points. Swaps on  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR
rose 34 to 861. AMR swaps reached a three-year low of 742 last
month.  Crude Oil  Crude oil for April delivery touched $100 a barrel before
settling at $98.10 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  yesterday vowed to keep fighting the
rebellion in the country,  Africa ’s third-biggest oil supplier.
Oil producers including Total SA, Eni SpA and OMV AG have scaled
back their operations in the country and analysts estimated that
the revolt has resulted in the loss of as much as two-thirds of
its oil output.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 