-- 
Manchester City's Carlos Tevez May Return to Corinthians: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-02-23T11:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/manchester-city-s-carlos-tevez-may-return-to-corinthians-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Tevez Brazil-Bound?  Manchester City  striker  Carlos Tevez  may return to
Brazilian club Corinthians in the next two years, the  Daily
Express  reported.  “Carlos would be happy to return to Brazil and play for
Corinthians,” Tevez’s agent Kia Joorabchian was cited as
telling Brazil’s TV Gazeta. “I want to help Corinthians in
their sporting quest. I would like the deal to be done swiftly
but in reality it will probably take a couple of years.”  Wednesday Chasing Hammers  League One side  Sheffield Wednesday  is in talks with  West
Ham  about signing Benni McCarthy and Herita Ilunga, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  McCarthy, who has been struggling with his weight this
season, hasn’t started a game for West Ham since October. Ilunga
has been “frozen out” by West Ham manager  Avram Grant , the
newspaper reported.  “We are obviously facing a battle to convince them to drop
down two divisions but we are asking the questions,” the Mirror
quoted Wednesday manager Gary Megson as saying.  West Ham is prepared to let McCarthy go while still paying
80 percent of the South African’s 60,000 pounds ($97,000)-a-week
salary.  Mourinho ‘Loves Chelsea’  Real Madrid  manager  Jose Mourinho  is unsure of serving out
his four-year contract in Spain and still loves his former club
 Chelsea , the  Daily Mail  reported.  “I don’t know,” the paper quoted Mourinho as saying. “I
love Chelsea. I was the happiest man when I was there. I was
thinking I could be there all my life. So you never know.”  Mourinho was fired by Chelsea in September 2007.  Arsenal’s Japan Tour  Arsenal  may go to Japan on a pre-season tour that could
earn the  London  club as much as 15 million pounds, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Although Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  normally prefers to
prepare his squad in  Europe , the club’s owners see a trip to
East Asia as a lucrative marketing opportunity.  Dalglish’s Boyzone Bonding  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish and new signing Andy Carroll went to a Boyzone concert after lead singer Ronan
Keating offered them tickets to watch the Irish boy-band at the
Liverpool Echo Arena, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Dalglish wants to keep a close eye on the 35 million-pound
striker and curb his “wild reputation” after off-field
incidents, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 