-- 
Tanker Loading in Libya Signals Crude Supply Still Moving

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-02-23T17:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/tanker-seabravery-loaded-600-000-barrels-of-libyan-crude-thenamaris-says.html
A tanker loaded 600,000 barrels of
crude at two Libyan ports and set sail today, suggesting supply
is still flowing from  Africa ’s third-biggest producer.  The Seabravery picked up the oil at the ports of Zawia and
Es Sider and sailed at 1 a.m. local time, according to Dimitris Tsahalis, chartering manager at Athens-based Thenamaris Ships
Management Inc., which owns the vessel. Brent crude oil futures
jumped as much as 3.5 percent to $109.45 a barrel today, partly
on speculation the conflict will disrupt exports.  Operations at Libyan oil ports are suspended, Al Arabiya
television reported yesterday. Libya declared force majeure on
all oil-product exports, a legal clause allowing companies to
miss contractual obligations because of circumstances beyond
their control, Reuters reported yesterday.  “Loading went normally, there was no abnormality,”
Tsahalis said by phone.  Libya pumps 1.6 million barrels a day, exporting most of
its crude and fuel across the Mediterranean to  Europe , according
to Bloomberg estimates. That’s about 1.8 percent of world oil
supply. It is Africa’s third-largest oil producer after Nigeria
and  Angola . Libya’s 44.3 billion barrels of proven oil reserves
are the largest deposit in Africa and 3.3 percent of the global
total, according to BP Plc.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  yesterday said the nation’s
ports and airports were closed because of the escalating
violence. An oil facility at Ras Lanuf operated by Harouge Oil
Operations was running normally, an official at the company’s
movement department said yesterday.  Cargo Ports  CMA CGM SA, the world’s third-largest container shipping
line, said its vessels aren’t calling at the ports of Benghazi,
Misurata, Khoms and Tripoli. The company, which is represented
by agent OSCL locally, created an emergency response team to
monitor the situation, it said in an e-mailed statement.  “CMA CGM continues to accept bookings to  Libya , excluding
reefer and hazardous cargo bookings that are temporarily
suspended until further notice,” the company said. Reefers
means refrigerated cargo ships.  Benghazi and Misurata handle cargoes including livestock,
chemicals, iron ore and grain, according to marfamar.com, the
website of Al-Marfa Shipping & Maritime Services Co. About 600
ships sail to Tripoli a year, it says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  