-- 
Anna Wintour Hails McQueen at Ritzy London Launch of Met Show

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-02-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/anna-wintour-hails-mcqueen-at-ritzy-london-launch-of-met-show.html
Alexander McQueen, the fashion
designer who took his own life last year, received a tribute
at  London ’s Ritz Hotel, heralding a show of his work at  New
York ’s  Metropolitan Museum of Art  and a fundraising gala.  The press breakfast, held in a frescoed dining hall
yesterday, was opened by Samantha Cameron, wife of U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron . Its other patron was Anna Wintour,
editor-in-chief of American Vogue.  Every year, the Met has a fundraiser coinciding with its
spring fashion exhibition. This year’s gala -- to help finance
and rebuild the museum’s Costume Institute -- is coupled with
“Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty” (May 4-July 31). Gala co-
chairs are actor  Colin Firth , designer Stella McCartney and
Wintour, a supporter of the bash since the mid-1990s.  Wintour, in a perfect bob and leopard-print coat,
remembered McQueen as “unpredictable, original, imaginative,
brilliant, fun.”  “There’s a lot of very commercial runway approaches:
What was so exciting about going to a McQueen show was that
you never knew what you were going to see,” she said in an
interview, recalling instances when the catwalk was a pool of
water, a wall of flames or a game of chess.  Devilish Horns  “That sense of theater and brilliance is something that
will influence young designers all over the world for many
generations to come,” she said, standing in front of a
mannequin with devilish horns and a blazing-red gown.  Cameron flagged the gala in her brief speech. “I’m sure
the party on the 2nd of May will be a very special night,”
she said.  The exhibition, drawn mostly from the London-based
McQueen archives, will feature about 100 examples of his
designs, including the “bumster” trouser.  Showcased at the Ritz breakfast were other McQueen
creations, including a dress made of oyster shells, and a
brocaded military coat that McQueen worked all night on --
even though his design team told him it wasn’t doable. The
team returned the next morning to find the finished coat on a
mannequin, and McQueen asleep on the sofa with his dog.  Met Director Thomas Campbell emphasized that McQueen’s
work was rooted in art history, and that he loved 15th-century
Flemish painters such as Jan van Eyck.  “It’s just the sort of conversation between artists,
periods, styles, even media that is always on view at the
Met,” he said.  The museum exhibition is sponsored by the Alexander
McQueen fashion house, American Express, and  Conde Nast 
(publishers of Vogue).  The British designer, born Lee Alexander McQueen, was
found dead at his London home on Feb. 11, 2010. Aged 40, he
was killed by asphyxia caused by hanging.  Gucci Group NV, the luxury-goods arm of Paris-based  PPR 
SA, bought a 51 percent stake in the Alexander McQueen fashion
house in December 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 