-- 
Appeals Court Upholds Lower Court Ruling on Finra Damage Suits

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-02-23T22:52:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/appeals-court-upholds-lower-court-ruling-on-finra-damage-suits.html
An appeals court ruled that the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and present and former
officers including Securities and Exchange Commission chairman  Mary Schapiro  are immune from lawsuits in connection with the
creation of the brokerage industry regulatory body.  The Second Circuit Court of Appeals let stand a district
court ruling related to the consolidation in 2007 of the
National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. with the
regulatory arm of the  New York  Stock Exchange to form Finra,
according to a decision filed yesterday in Manhattan.  Standard Investment Chartered Inc. had appealed the lower-
court ruling, charging that officers of the NASD, of which it
was a member, had made misstatements related to a proxy
solicitation in 2006. NASD was amending its bylaws at the time
to make them conform with the New York Stock Exchange’s.
Standard claimed that the defendants misrepresented on the proxy
solicitation that a payment of no more than $35,000 could be
given to each member.  “We are pleased with the decision,”  Nancy Condon , a
spokeswoman for Finra, said in an e-mail.  George Hill, chief executive of  Costa Mesa , California-
based Standard Investment, didn’t immediately respond to
messages seeking comment.  The district court dismissed the lawsuit last March, ruling
that the defendants as “quasi-governmental organizations” and
their officers were entitled to immunity relating to the proxy.  Defendants in the suit included the NASD, the NYSE, Finra,
Schapiro, Richard Brueckner, chairman of Pershing LLC, and
Howard Schloss, a senior vice president at Finra. Schapiro was
CEO of the NASD in 2006 when it combined with the NYSE’s
regulatory body.  The case is Standard Investment Chartered Inc. v. NASD, 10-
945,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  