-- 
Apple May Unveil Updated IPad on March 2 in San Francisco

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-02-23T21:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/apple-may-introduce-updated-ipad-tablet-at-march-2-event-in-san-francisco.html
  Apple Inc ., the world’s biggest
technology company by market value, may unveil its new iPad
tablet computer at an event March 2 in  San Francisco .  An Apple invitation sent to reporters today with the image
of a corner of an iPad, says, “Come see what 2011 will be the
year of.” The event will be held at 10 a.m. local time.  The original iPad went on sale April 3, and Apple sold
almost 15 million units through its first fiscal quarter, which
ended Dec. 25. The device accounted for 17 percent of revenue in
the period, compared with 39 percent for the iPhone, which first
reached the market in 2007.  The timing of the March 2 event would put the iPad on an
annual cycle of updates similar to those of the iPhone and iPod
media player, and keep Apple ahead of competitors, said  Scott Sutherland , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in San
Francisco.  “The tablet becomes the next growth starter for the next
two years for Apple,” said Sutherland, who rates Apple shares
“outperform” and doesn’t own any. The company is releasing a
second edition while many competitors are introducing their
first tablets, he said.  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s Xoom tablet will be
available tomorrow, and Research In Motion Ltd. plans to release
four versions of its PlayBook this year.  Battery Life    Mike Abramsky , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto, said in November that Apple may introduce a thinner
iPad in the first half of 2011. Richard Doherty, director of
consulting firm Envisioneering Group in Seaford,  New York , said
today he expects the updated iPad to offer longer battery life
and front- and rear-facing cameras.  Apple is boosting its sales force to focus on burgeoning
demand from business customers, particularly for the iPhone and
iPad, Chief Operating Officer Tim Cook told a shareholders’
meeting today.  “We’ve never seen anything like this before,” Cook said.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, rose $4.01 to
$342.62 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The shares have gained 6.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 