-- 
Apple Board Challenged by Shareholders on Steve Jobs Succession Planning

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-02-23T14:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/apple-board-challenged-by-investors-on-jobs-succession-planning.html
  Apple Inc .’s board faces a showdown
with investor groups today over its succession plan for Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who is on medical leave for the
third time in the past seven years.  Under a  resolution  slated for a vote at Apple’s shareholder
meeting, the board would be asked to disclose plans for
replacing Jobs and explain how it’s nurturing the executive team
under him. The proposal, backed by the  Laborers’ International
Union of North America , is endorsed by the investor-advisory
service  Institutional Shareholder Services .  “Shareholders deserve to know the company has a plan in
place,” said Jennifer O’Dell, assistant director of corporate
affairs for the union, which has about 500,000 members and $34
billion in assets under management. “We want to know that
companies are considering these issues.”  Apple opposes the measure, saying that revealing secret
plans would aid competitors and make it harder to retain
executives. And that argument is expected to carry the day,
according to  Brian Marshall , an analyst for Gleacher & Co.
Still, today’s meeting will be the first time Apple’s board will
be available for questioning since Jobs announced a leave of
absence on Jan. 17. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  has taken
over the company’s day-to-day operations since then.  Bout With Cancer  The move has generated a fresh wave of concern over Jobs’s
health, following his cancer surgery in 2004 and a liver
transplant in 2009. Jobs is credited with saving Apple from
near-bankruptcy in 1997, transforming it into a consumer-
electronics giant and spurring its valuation to the highest
level of any technology company.  Katie Cotton, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to say if Jobs would be attending the meeting or
whether the full board will be there.  Cook, 50, took over daily management during Jobs’s previous
two absences. Apple’s shares climbed 67 percent during Cook’s
stint as acting chief in 2009, signaling that investors were
content with his leadership.  Jobs took the latest leave of absence after his health
deteriorated from fighting a rare form of cancer and the effects
of his  liver transplant  two years ago, a person with knowledge
of the situation said in January. Jobs had been unable to keep
on weight as he underwent treatment for his conditions, said the
person, who requested anonymity because the matter is private.  Obama Meeting  The CEO vowed to remain “involved in major strategic
decisions,” and he dined with  Barack Obama  last week during a
meeting between the president and top technology executives.  Jobs, who turns 56 tomorrow, hasn’t said when he will
return from medical leave.  “I love Apple so much and hope to be back as soon as I
can,” he said in a note released by Apple on Jan. 17. “In the
meantime, my family and I would deeply appreciate respect for
our privacy.”  The laborers’ union, whose members are mostly construction
workers, started pushing for companies to disclose their
succession policies two years ago, O’Dell said.  “Other companies are doing it,” she said. Apple is “a
leader in the industry, so they should be doing the same.”  Apple said in a regulatory filing in January that it has a  succession plan  in place. The details are kept confidential
because making them public would provide rivals with an unfair
advantage and possibly rankle some executives.  Majority Vote  Apple also is facing a shareholder proposal backed by the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  that would
require a majority vote to elect candidates to the board,
instead of a plurality. Apple said the plan would hinder its
ability to keep members on its board. That one isn’t likely to
pass either, said Gleacher’s Marshall, who works in San
Francisco.  Apple’s stock reached record levels last week, making it
less likely for the succession proposal to pass, he said. The
shares gained $3.82 to $342.43 at 9:37 a.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. They have climbed 5 percent this year.  “If the stock wasn’t making new highs, I would say it is
possible,” Marshall said. “Considering its performance,
however, I think it is highly unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 