-- 
Apple Investors Pass Measure for Bigger Say in Board Vote

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-02-24T00:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/apple-investors-pass-majority-vote-measure-reject-ceo-succession-proposal.html
  Apple Inc . investors, gathered today
at an annual meeting, passed a measure that gives them more say
over which directors get elected, while rejecting another that
would push for more disclosure about executive succession plans.  The board proposal requires directors to be elected by a
majority vote, rather than a plurality, and was backed by the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the largest U.S.
pension fund. Apple opposed both measures.  Support for the majority vote signals that Apple investors
want a bigger role in choosing board members. Corporate-
governance advocates have complained in the past that Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  had too much sway over directors.
The close-knit nature of the board may have resulted in the
limited disclosures about Jobs’s health, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a
dean at Yale University’s School of Management, said last year.  “We’re asking for an election, not a coronation of the
board,” Anne Simpson, a senior portfolio manager at Calpers,
said in a statement today. “An election where you can be voted
in without a majority is unworthy of a great company like
Apple.” Calpers owns 2.6 million Apple shares, according to the
 statement .  Under the executive succession  proposal , the board would
have been asked to disclose plans for replacing Jobs and explain
how it’s nurturing the executive team under him. Jobs, who is
currently on medical leave for the third time in the past seven
years, didn’t attend the annual meeting.  All of Apple’s directors were re-elected at the meeting.
Neither of the shareholder proposals had been expected to pass,  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco,
said before the meeting.  Voting System  The majority-vote measure makes it harder to elect
unopposed members to the board and means shareholders have more
power to overrule the wishes of Apple management.  Apple argued that board members would risk losing their
seats simply because too few shareholders cast votes.  The rejected succession proposal, backed by the  Laborers’
International Union of North America , was endorsed by the
investor-advisory service  Institutional Shareholder Services .  “Shareholders deserve to know the company has a plan in
place,” Jennifer O’Dell, assistant director of corporate
affairs for the union, said before the vote. “We want to know
that companies are considering these issues.”  Competitive Risk  Apple opposed that measure as well, saying that revealing
secret plans would aid competitors and make it harder to retain
executives. Apple said in a regulatory filing in January that it
has a  succession plan  in place.  O’Dell said the union would push for the succession plan
measure again next year.  Today’s meeting, held at Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino,
California, was the first time the board was available for
questioning since Jobs announced his leave of absence on Jan.
17, handing day-to-day operations to Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook .  The move generated a fresh wave of concern over Jobs’s
health, following his cancer surgery in 2004 and a  liver
transplant  in 2009. Jobs is credited with saving Apple from
near-bankruptcy in 1997, transforming it into a consumer-
electronics giant and spurring its valuation to the highest
level of any technology company.  Cook’s Leadership  Cook, 50, took over daily management during Jobs’s previous
two absences. Apple’s shares climbed 67 percent during Cook’s
stint as acting chief in 2009, signaling that investors were
content with his leadership.  Apple shareholder Kirk DeBernardi, of Brentwood,  California , said a public succession plan isn’t necessary.  “They are secretive, but it doesn’t worry me,” he said at
the meeting today. “Companies can have their own private
plans.”  Jobs took the latest leave of absence after his health
deteriorated from fighting a rare form of cancer and the effects
of his liver transplant two years ago, a person with knowledge
of the situation said in January. Jobs had been unable to keep
on weight as he underwent treatment for his conditions, said the
person, who requested anonymity because the matter is private.  Strategic Decisions  The CEO vowed to remain “involved in major strategic
decisions,” and he dined with  Barack Obama  last week during a
meeting between the president and top technology executives.  Jobs, who turns 56 tomorrow, hasn’t said when he will
return from medical leave.  After the voting was concluded, Apple executives answered
questions from shareholders. When asked about the company’s
plans for its $60 billion in cash and investments, Chief
Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer said the company had no
plans to change its policy of saving it for “strategic
opportunities,” without providing more specifics.  Oppenheimer said the company is close to completing a $1
billion  data center  in  North Carolina  that will be used to help
power the iTunes digital-music store, the MobileMe storage
service and other features.  Cook told investors the company is confident its product
success would continue. He called sales of 40 million iPhones in
2010 “unbelievable by any measure,” and noted that Apple still
has room for growth in personal computers, smartphones and
tablets.  Other executives echoed Cook’s optimism. “All of our
competitors are trying to design an iPhone, and I’m sure they’ll
be trying to design an iPad,” said Phil Schiller, Apple’s
senior vice president of worldwide product marketing.  iPad Event  On March 2, the company will hold an event in  San Francisco 
where it may unveil a new version of the iPad. An Apple
invitation sent to reporters today with the image of a corner of
an iPad says, “Come see what 2011 will be the year of.”  Cook also defended the company’s efforts to ensure safe
working conditions in its supply chain, saying Apple
investigates suppliers to ensure they adhere to social
responsibility standards.  The New York Times reported that workers of one of Apple’s
suppliers in  China  are seeking compensation after being injured
by a toxic chemical used to make glass screens of the iPhone.  Cook said the company pushes suppliers to change their
policies. “I’m really proud of the changes we have forced,” he
said.  Apple gained $4.01 to $342.62 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have climbed 6.2 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 