-- 
Aramco to Start Trading Oil Products to Gain From Refinery Push

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-02-23T11:52:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/aramco-to-start-trading-oil-products-to-gain-from-refinery-push.html
  Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest
crude exporter, will start trading refined oil products this
year through a new unit that seeks to take advantage of the
company’s expanding refinery business.  The wholly owned unit, Saudi Aramco Product Trading Co.,
will buy and sell refined fuels internationally, Aramco said in
a  statement  posted on its website late yesterday. Trading
companies try to profit from short-term fluctuations in prices
and mismatches in supply and demand, a business new to Aramco,
which mainly exports crude and relies on long-term tenders.  “They have made significant investments in downstream
capacity over the last five years, and this is a natural
extension to maximize that value,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Saudi Arabia holds the world’s largest oil reserves and is
the biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. The kingdom imports gasoline, diesel and other
refined products because it lacks the capacity to meet rising
domestic demand, which Aramco hopes to satisfy by building
refineries and adding units at existing plants to raise output.  Aramco completed a capital spending program of more than
$100 billion in 2009, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in a speech
in Singapore Nov. 1. While much of the money went toward
expanding oil-production capacity, Aramco is shifting focus to
boost its refining and petrochemicals output, Chief Executive
Officer Khalid al-Falih said at a conference in Dubai in
December.  Joint Ventures  The company is investing about $40 billion in three
refining and petrochemical projects that together will add more
than 8 million metric tons of domestic production capacity, al-
Falih said then.  The outlays include about $20 billion on a plant Aramco is
building jointly with Dow Chemical Co. and as much as $8 billion
to expand Rabigh Refining and Petrochemicals Co., a venture with
Sumitomo Chemical Co., al-Falih said. Aramco and  Total SA  are
moving ahead with a $12 billion refinery at Jubail on the
Persian Gulf coast.  Aramco is building other refineries at Yanbu on the Red Sea
and Jazan in the country’s southwest. Some of these plants will
supply products such as  fuel oil  and naphtha for export.  The company sells naphtha and fuel oil on a term basis, but
these sales have declined over the years as domestic demand has
grown. In 2009, Aramco exported 149 million barrels of refined
products and 2.06 billion barrels of crude, according to the
company’s annual review for that year.  Aramco Veteran  “We hope to better capture integration opportunities in
our global system, and additionally create more value for our
expanding downstream business in the kingdom of  Saudi Arabia  and
overseas,” Khalid Al-Buainain, Aramco’s senior vice president
for downstream operations, told customers at a reception at the
IP Week conference in  London , according to the statement.  Said Al-Hadrami will be the president and CEO of Aramco
Trading, as the new unit will be known. Al-Hadrami served most
recently for four months as head of Saudi Aramco Total Refining
and Petrochemical Co., or Satorp, a 400,000 barrel-a-day
refinery complex Aramco is building with Total. He was a
marketing manager for products at Aramco’s headquarters in
Dhahran for the last decade, after having worked for the company
in the late 1990s as a trading manager for oil products in
London, according to Bloomberg data.  Aramco plans to expand petrochemical production along with
its refineries to create more valuable products from crude,
Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, the head of its chemicals business said in
an interview in December. The company set up a new
administration area within its Refining and Marketing division
last year to manage the integration of its crude-processing and
petrochemicals facilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net . 