-- 
Arizona Bill Would Void Foreclosures Without Full Title History

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-02-23T21:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/arizona-bill-would-void-home-foreclosures-without-complete-title-history.html
Arizona may become the first state
to require lenders to prove they have the right to foreclose by
providing a complete list of any previous owners of the
mortgage, under a bill passed yesterday by its Senate.  The  legislation , which is headed to the House after being
approved 28-2 in the Republican-dominated Senate, would allow
foreclosure sales to be voided if lenders that didn’t originate
the loan can’t produce the full chain of title. Arizona permits
nonjudicial foreclosures, meaning property can be seized from
the homeowner without a court order.  Lawmakers in states including  New York ,  Oregon  and  Virginia 
also have  proposed legislation  to address concerns among
consumer advocates that lenders or mortgage servicers are using
incomplete or false paperwork to repossess properties in
default. The attorneys general of all 50 states are jointly
investigating how the mortgage-servicing industry operates.  “If you foreclose on somebody you should have to tell them
who owns the property,” Michele Reagan, who sponsored Senate
Bill 1259, said in a telephone interview. “People have the
right in this country to face their accusers.” The Republican
lawmaker is in litigation with her mortgage servicer, which she
said won’t identify the owner of the loan.  The bill is opposed by the Arizona Bankers Association; the
Arizona Trustees Association, which represents the trustees that
conduct foreclosure auctions on behalf of lenders; and Merscorp
Inc., an industry-owned company that operates a database with
more than half of all U.S. mortgages. Matthew Benson, a
spokesman for  Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, said
she doesn’t comment on legislation until it reaches her desk.  Names, Addresses  The bill would require lenders to provide a document
attached to the notice of foreclosure sale with the name and
address of every beneficial owner of the deed of trust in
chronological order, along with the date, recordation number and
a description of the instrument that “conveyed the interest of
each beneficiary.”  Anyone with an interest in the property could file an
action to void the sale for failure to comply and be entitled to
an award of attorney fees and damages, according to the bill,
which wouldn’t affect past foreclosures.  “If Arizona passes this, it will be the only state in the
union that will require a production of chain of title,” said
Paul Hickman, chief executive officer of the  Arizona Bankers
Association  in Phoenix. “States that pass these types of laws
will be riskier environments to lend in and more difficult
environments to get a loan in.”  Foreclosure Crisis  Arizona had a foreclosure filing rate of one in 175
households in January, the second-highest among states,
according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based seller
of real estate data. Nationally, a record share of mortgages
were in the foreclosure process at the end of 2010 as lenders
such as Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
temporarily delayed seizures to review allegedly improper
documents. The state attorneys general and federal regulators
are investigating the practice of using assembly lines of
employees to sign thousands of affidavits and other documents
without reading them, a practice known as robo-signing.  The Arizona proposal was suggested to Reagan by her
attorney, Beth Findsen, who said she also helped write the bill.
Reagan and her husband, David Gulino, were sued by their
servicer,  Fort Worth , Texas-based Colonial Savings FA, after
they told the bank in a July 2009 letter that they were
rescinding the loan because it failed to disclose certain fees
and that its underwriter inflated their income by 12 percent in
violation of the federal Truth in Lending Act.  Suit, Countersuit  Colonial Savings asked the court to declare that the couple
isn’t entitled to revoke the loan. Reagan and Gulino filed their
own suit, arguing that they were steered to an adjustable-rate
mortgage they didn’t need and that Colonial Savings won’t tell
them who owns their loan. Janet Walter, a spokeswoman for
Colonial Savings, declined to comment.  “It makes Michele mad that the bank servicers will not
disclose to a borrower the true noteholders,” Findsen said.
“She was taken aback that such basic information was not
readily available.”  Reagan’s bill has both technical and conceptual problems,
and could add to uncertainty over title in the state, said
Richard Chambliss, president of the Arizona Trustees Association
in Phoenix.  Lenders that don’t file mortgage assignments with county
recorders offices could face borrower challenges if the bill
passes, even though the assignments weren’t required by state
law, Chambliss said. Banks using Reston, Virginia-based
Merscorp’s database typically don’t file assignments because the
ownership information is supposed be tracked electronically.  Proposed Amendment  The trustees association has suggested an amendment to the
bill that would instead require the owner to certify to the
trustee that it has the legal right to foreclose. Under the
amendment, which wasn’t taken up by the Senate, the lender could
face perjury charges if the certification is found to be false.  “Is this bill intended to punish the lenders and screw up
the process or address the problem that needs to be solved?”
Chambliss said. “What is it accomplishing by requiring that the
history from the birth of the deed of trust to 20 assignments
down the road have to be fully identified?”  About two thirds of mortgages originated in the previous
decade were bundled into securitized trusts and sold to
investors. Loans were typically sold at least three times, and
often many more, before reaching the trust.  Loan Modifications  The Arizona legislation would make it easier for borrowers
to negotiate loan workouts, said Walter E. Moak, a bankruptcy
attorney in Chandler, Arizona. Servicers often reject
modification requests because the borrower doesn’t meet investor
guidelines, even as they refuse to identify the investors, Moak
said.  “The person who has decision-making power is not the
servicer, it’s the investors,” he said.  Christopher L. Peterson, a law professor at the University
of Utah in  Salt Lake City , said the legislation will test the
completeness and accuracy of bank records. The law could also
have the unintended consequence of pushing more lenders to
modify loans rather than face a voided sale.  “I like it because it forces the financial institution
into providing information about who owns loans and rebuild
transparency,” Peterson said. “It makes it significantly more
difficult to foreclose if they don’t have good records of the
history of ownership of the loan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 