-- 
Fabregas, Walcott Get Injured as Arsenal Cuts United's Premier League Lead

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-24T00:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/arsenal-beats-stoke-1-0-to-move-within-point-of-premier-league-soccer-lead.html
Arsenal moved to within a point of  Manchester United  atop English soccer’s Premier League with a
1-0 win over Stoke that was marred by injuries to Cesc Fabregas
and Theo Walcott.  Sebastien Squillaci scored in the eighth minute at the
Emirates Stadium in north London last night as Arsenal extended
its unbeaten run in the league to 10 games. The Gunners have 56
points, having played one match more than United.  “We did the job in a very professional way,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  said in post-match comments on his club’s
 website . “If you can take three points and glide closer to the
top, that means that your team is really hungry for success.”  The victory came at a cost as the Gunners vie for four
trophies. Winger Walcott sprained his ankle and will miss the
Carling Cup final against Birmingham in three days, Wenger said,
while captain Fabregas will be assessed today after leaving the
game in the 14th minute with a hamstring injury.  “It is a concern that he is injured, but it can happen
unfortunately,” Wenger said of Fabregas, who’s had regular
hamstring problems. “He was very upset, I am as well, but it is
not his fault and it is not my fault. It is part of sport.”  Arsenal got the only goal last night as  Jack Wilshere ’s
corner kick went to Nicklas Bendtner at the far post. Bendtner
put the ball back into the middle and central defender Squillaci
headed into the net for his second goal of the season.  Fabregas pulled up minutes later and was replaced by Andrey Arshavin. Walcott was then stretchered off after being taken
down by Dean Whitehead in the 70th minute. Wenger said it’s too
early to know how long the England winger will be sidelined.  The win opened a five-game stretch over 14 days that will
also see Arsenal play the Carling Cup final, an F.A. Cup replay
against Leyton Orient, a league match with Sunderland and the
second leg of the Champions League last-16 matchup at Barcelona.  Stoke, which lost for the third time in four league
matches, remains in 10th place with 33 points, six clear of the
three-team relegation zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  