-- 
Hartford’s McGreevey Wagers on Commercial Property Rebound

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-02-23T16:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/hartford-s-mcgreevey-wagers-on-commercial-real-estate-rebound.html
  Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc . Chief Investment Officer Gregory McGreevey, who slashed
commercial-property holdings during the market slump, is betting
on a rebound by expanding the insurer’s real-estate financing.  “The real-estate market in total has likely bottomed in
terms of its price declines,” McGreevey said of commercial
property in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York
yesterday. “Most of our opportunities are in direct whole-loan
investments where we can find good properties at attractive
prices.”  U.S. commercial property values posted the smallest decline
in three years in 2010 as the economy expanded and near record-
low  interest rates  lured buyers. McGreevey, who managed $3.4
billion of commercial mortgage whole loans as of Sept. 30, said
he’s focusing on industrial properties and expects to find
opportunities in the U.S. Midwest.  “Properties, we think, are in better shape today than they
were,” said McGreevey, who oversees more than  $130 billion  of
investments. “The broad market has probably seen its worst
days.”  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index slipped
2.1 percent in the 12 months ended Dec. 31 after falling 29
percent in 2009 and 15 percent in 2008. The index posted gains
in three of the last four months of 2010. Hartford, based in the
Connecticut city of the same name, rose 14 percent on the New
York Stock Exchange last year.  Fixing Bad Bets  McGreevey, hired in August 2008 and promoted to CIO less
than two months later, is seeking new investments after spending
the first portion of his tenure paring bad bets made by his
predecessor, Dave Znamierowski. McGreevey cut Hartford’s
holdings of commercial mortgage-backed securities by  36 percent 
in his first 27 months to $7.9 billion. He said he’s done
trimming CMBS and is now focused on underwriting new loans.  “Now that we’re largely through the heavy lifting in our
derisking, we’re able to have that group focus their attention
on putting new loans on the books,” McGreevey said. “We like
industrial properties, and we don’t like office properties, as a
generalization.”    Prudential Financial Inc ., the second-biggest U.S. life
insurer, said today its mortgage-finance business closed $94
million of loans on 17 industrial properties in  Southern
California .  MetLife Inc ., the No. 1 life insurer, views
commercial mortgages as “a very attractive sector,” Chief
Investment Officer Steven Kandarian said in December.  Profit Rebound  Hartford, which sells life insurance and property-casualty
coverage, posted its first annual profit since 2007 last year as
bond losses narrowed and the stock-market rally lifted the value
of customer accounts. Book value per share gained as a surge in
corporate bonds lifted the value of Hartford’s portfolio.  Hartford is slowing purchases of corporate bonds after the
holdings rose 13 percent to $39.9 billion last year, McGreevey
said. The firm is shying away from new loans on offices because
prices may decline, he said. Industrial properties were subject
to “a lot less overbuilding” than offices during the boom,
McGreevey said.  “Industrial just never got as bubbly as office and hotel
and it didn’t crash as hard,”  Randy Binner , an analyst with FBR
Capital Markets, said in an interview. “You can still be kind
of cautious on commercial real estate and probably still capture
better yield than you would in the corporate credit market.”  Prices on investment-grade bonds rose to an average of
107.7 cents on the dollar at the end of 2010 from 90.8 cents two
years earlier, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The securities slipped to 106.7 cents on Feb. 18.  “There’s been a ton of price improvement that has taken
place so we’re being very selective in the corporate bonds that
we’re purchasing overall,” McGreevey said. “We’re beginning to
slow our purchase activity on the corporate side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 