-- 
Harvard Scientists Create Hand-Held Device to Detect Cancer at Bedside

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-02-23T21:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/harvard-scientists-create-hand-held-device-to-detect-cancer-at-bedside.html
A hand-held scanner that can detect
cancer at a patient’s bedside using just a speck of tissue has
been created by scientists from  Harvard University  and  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology.  The device, about the size of a desk telephone, is the
world’s smallest cancer diagnostic system, according to the
scientists. Described today in the journal  Science Translational
Medicine , the system uses antibodies and magnetic particles to
seek out and flag cancer in cells, which are extracted with a
needle, rather than large amounts of surgically removed tissue,
researchers said.  The technique identified malignant tumors in 44 patients
scheduled to have stomach tissue biopsies, the report said. It
costs only $200 to manufacture, making it affordable for clinics
or in poorer countries, said Cesar Castro, a co-author of the
study and a physician at  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston , which holds the patent on the technology.  “We have harnessed the power of nanotechnology to get
real-time assessments,” Castro said today in a telephone
interview. “Not only can it be used for diagnosis, but it will
also allow us to see how the tumor is responding to therapy.”  The device is capable of on-the-spot cancer diagnosis,
delivering results in less than an hour instead of the days-long
wait for biopsy results, the researchers wrote. The device can
attach to monitors used by mobile phones or laptop computers to
display its findings, the report said.  More Accurate Findings  The technology is also more accurate than current
diagnostic tests, the scientists said. The portable diagnostic
device achieved 96 percent accuracy, compared with the 84
percent rate associated with more traditional assays.  “Eventually the technology will take you to a device the
size of a cell phone,” Castro said. “ We are still working to
miniaturize this.”  The journal study, which used 70 patients, was the first
full-scale clinical test, Castro said. While the device found 44
confirmed cases of cancer, it also discovered cancer in patients
where the pathology reports came up negative. Later those
patients ended up developing cancers that were detected by
traditional technologies, Castro said  “This is superior to even the pathologists,” Castro said.
“But it is still experimental and must prove itself.”  The scientists who developed the system work at the
hospital’s Center for Systems Biology and are affiliated with  Harvard Medical School  in Boston or MIT in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  