-- 
FTSE 100 Falls for Fifth Day; RBS, Britvic Shares Decline, Capita Advances

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-02-24T16:50:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/ashmore-bae-national-express-rbs-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks declined for a fifth day
as concern about the soaring price of oil in the wake of  Libya ’s
violent uprising was offset by U.S. reports that showed a
stronger recovery in the world’s largest economy.    Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  sank 3.6 percent as
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank posted a full-year loss
that missed analyst estimates.  Britvic Plc  led declines on the
FTSE 250 Index as the company said higher raw-material costs may
stem an increase in profit. Capita Group Plc climbed 7.2
percent, the most in more than three years.  The FTSE 100 retreated 3.35, or 0.1 percent, to 5,919.98 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , capping the longest losing streak
since July. Declines this week have almost erased this year’s
advance amid speculation political instability in the Middle
East will cause higher inflation, weakening the economic
recovery and curbing earnings. The  FTSE All-Share Index  slid 0.2
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index dropped 0.5 percent.  “The situation in Libya shows no signs of abating,” said
Will Hedden, a sales trader at IG Index in London. “Further oil
price increases are likely to put a serious dent in the global
economic recovery and could, in a worst case scenario,
potentially kick-start double-dip recessions on both sides of
the Atlantic.”  Crush Dissent  Oil soared to a two-year high as Libya’s uprising reduced
supplies from Africa’s third-biggest producer.  Loyalists of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  sought to crush
dissent in the capital, Tripoli, as his opponents tightened
control of eastern cities. Libya’s civil unrest halted 500,000
barrels a day of oil production, creating “significant upside
risk” by reducing OPEC’s ability to absorb further supply
disruptions, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Libya holds
the biggest oil reserves in  Africa .  Even so, the FTSE 100 trimmed a loss of as much as 1.1
percent as a report showed U.S. consumer confidence climbed last
week to the highest level since April 2008 as Americans grew
less pessimistic about their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, formerly the ABC News
U.S. Weekly Consumer Comfort Index, was minus 39.2 in the period
to Feb. 20, compared with minus 43.4 the prior week, a report
today showed. Forty-nine percent of those polled held positive
views on their financial situation, the most in a year.  Separate U.S. reports showed fewer Americans filed
applications for unemployment insurance payments last week,
while orders for durable goods climbed.  RBS, Britvic       RBS fell 3.6 percent to 45.60 pence. The net loss for 2010
was 1.1 billion pounds ($1.78 billion) compared with a loss of
3.6 billion pounds in 2009. That was worse than the 406.5
million-pound median loss estimated by 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Irish loan-losses almost doubled to 1.16 billion
pounds, while operating profit at the investment bank fell by
2.2 billion pounds.  Britvic fell 12 percent to 369 pence, the biggest drop in
almost five years. The maker of Robinson’s fruit drinks said
prices of key raw materials are rising at an “unprecedented”
pace and operating margins won’t improve this year.    Capita Group Plc , which provides a criminal records service
for the U.K. Home Office, surged 7.2 percent to 718 pence. The
company said it is bidding for and winning more orders than in
2010 as the economy recovers from recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 