-- 
Asia’s Cash-Poor Small Hedge Funds Vulnerable to U.S. Rules

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-02-24T04:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/asia-s-cash-starved-small-hedge-funds-face-tsunami-of-u-s-registration.html
  Asia ’s smaller hedge funds may be
hardest hit by new rules in the U.S. making it costlier to raise
and manage funds from the world’s biggest investment market.  Overseas hedge funds with more than 15 U.S. clients and
investors managing more than $25 million for them will have to
register for the first time with the Securities and Exchange
Commission by July 21 as part of the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul. That means higher costs as managers have to keep the
SEC up to date with assets and trading positions, and comply
with U.S. securities laws.  For smaller managers, such as Solaris Asset Management,
registration and monitoring costs are prohibitive. A decision
not to register may shut the door on a region that contributes
about 40 percent of assets for Asia’s hedge funds, exacerbating
a capital shortage since the financial crisis.  “Asian hedge funds will not be able to avoid increased
regulatory reforms from overseas,” said Andrew Hill, head of  Citigroup Inc .’s prime finance sales in Singapore. “The
encroaching regulatory globalization from the U.S. and Europe
will undoubtedly increase the fixed costs of doing business in
this industry and thereby will stack the cards further in favor
of the larger funds.”  The average size of an Asia-based hedge fund is $97 million,
less than half of the assets managed by counterparts in Europe
and the U.S., according to  Eurekahedge Pte . About 45 percent of
the hedge funds in Asia manage less than $25 million, according
to the Singapore-based industry data provider.  ‘Too Expensive’  While Asia-focused hedge funds attracted more than $500
million in net new capital in the fourth quarter, the industry’s
total assets of $83.4 billion remain 17 percent less than the
second quarter of 2008, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc. About 40 percent of the assets of Asian hedge
funds come from the U.S. and 50 percent from  Europe , according
to Eurekahedge.  Solaris, which started a hedge fund last year with money
from investors in  China , doesn’t plan to register with the SEC
or raise money from U.S. investors. The cost of complying with
U.S. rules would be “very high,” said Thomas Tey, managing
partner of the firm in Singapore.  “There’s too much regulatory work for too little return,”
Tey said. “Unless you get to some of the very big investors,
like Calpers, state government money or some extremely wealthy
individual, it’s not worth the hassle.”  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , known as Calpers, is the largest
U.S. public pension fund.  Meeting Compliance  Registration for smaller hedge funds will likely cost at
least $40,000 as managers may need to hire an external
consultant to help them get their documents and procedures in
order, said Sree Vallipuram, chief operating officer of Iridium
Asset Management, a Singapore-based firm which runs an Asian
equity hedge fund that focuses on commodity-related industries.  To meet reporting requirements, managers may also need to
hire a compliance officer, he said. Vallipuram declined to
comment on whether the fund plans to register with the SEC.  “It’s the monitoring cost that will be recurring and it’s
something that people will need to budget for,” said Ho Han Ming, a Singapore-based partner at law firm Clifford Chance LLP.
“It could be a non-amount because you already do it anyway, but
if you were a very lean outfit then it’s going to be an
infrastructure you have to build.”  AIMA Request  The Dodd-Frank Act subjects financial companies including
hedge funds to increased federal oversight following the 2008
credit crisis.  The London-based  Alternative Investment Management
Association  in January provided a written submission to the SEC
to raise the threshold for assets under management to at least
$100 million, so that those sourcing less than that amount from
clients and fund investors in the U.S. will be exempt from SEC
registration, according to a submission filed by the group that
was seen by Bloomberg News. The current proposed threshold of
$25 million is “exceedingly low” and many of AIMA’s members
wouldn’t be exempted from registration, according to the group.  “Some managers are taking a position that it’s all going
to go away because the SEC is going to expand exemptions from
registration,” said Ho, who heads Clifford Chance  Singapore ’s
funds practice group, which advises managers on the structuring
and registration of their funds. “Believe me - it’s not going
to go away this time.”  New Rules  Registered hedge-fund managers will have to maintain and
file with the SEC certain information including the amount of
assets under management and trading positions. Asian managers
would also be obliged to comply with U.S. securities laws,
contributing to “high monitoring costs,” said Ho, who is also
chairman of the Singapore chapter of AIMA.  “The biggest concern is probably the surrounding cost
structure for compliance,” said Singapore-based Kemmy Koh, who
heads the Asian unit of Pacific Alternative Asset Management Co.,
which invests in hedge funds. “This would obviously have a
greater impact on the smaller hedge fund managers.”  Under the European Union’s Alternative Investment Fund
Managers Directive, any  fund manager  who has clients in the EU
will have to obtain a “passport” to operate across the 27-
nation bloc from 2015. Managers will have to comply with
transparency rules.  Overseas Dependence  Most managers in Asia are likely to register with the SEC
as the U.S. has become a key source of capital for their funds,
in particular institutional investors, Koh said. Paamco, based
in  Irvine ,  California , has generally required that Asian hedge
fund firms it invests in register with the SEC, even before the
Dodd-Frank Act, Koh said.  “The U.S. is still for the foreseeable future the largest
and deepest capital pool globally for hedge funds,” said Dagmar Baeuerle, Hong Kong-based head of prime finance Asia-Pacific
consulting services at Citigroup. “Until the large Asian
capital owners start putting money to work in their own backyard,
the Asian-based managers will need to go to the U.S. and Europe
for capital.”  Some Asian hedge funds registered in late 2004 and 2005
during the SEC’s first attempt to gain regulatory oversight over
the industry, Baeuerle said. A  U.S. federal court  threw out the
SEC’s hedge fund registration rule in June 2006, just months
after the requirement went live, calling it “arbitrary.”  Singapore Haven  This time it’s different as the new registration
requirement is part of a broader financial-services regulatory
reform package, said Baeuerle.  In contrast with the U.S., Singapore has made it easier for
hedge funds to set up shop in the island-state than in other
Asian cities such as  Hong Kong , where hedge-fund managers face
the same licensing requirements as mutual funds. While Singapore
is introducing new rules to increase oversight of the industry,
small funds can keep operating without a license.  New hedge funds in Asia raised $3.84 billion in assets last
year, 48 percent more than 2009, according to the AsiaHedge New
Funds Survey released today. A total of 95 funds started last
year in the region compared with 78 in 2009, the survey said.
Average new fund size increased to $40 million in 2010, it said.  Permal Asset Management Inc., a Legg Mason Inc. unit that
invests clients’ money in hedge funds, prefers to allocate money
to managers that are registered with the SEC, said Isaac Souede,
New York-based chairman and chief executive officer of Permal.  “The cost of being in the business, especially for the
small manager, has increased significantly because of what you
need to do from the regulatory standpoint,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  