-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Rises to Record a Second Day

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-03-02T22:48:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-extends-rally-on-libyan-unrest.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Rises to Record for Second Day on Inflation,  Libya  Concern  Gold rose to a record for the second straight day on
mounting demand for an investment haven amid surging commodity
prices and turmoil in Libya. Silver climbed to the highest
since 1980.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Ronald McDonald Sidelined as Chain Touts Lattes (2)  As McDonald’s Corp. morphs into a more upscale chain,
there’s one person you won’t see munching salads, sipping a
cappuccino and surfing the Web: Ronald McDonald, age 48.  Buffett Takeover Criteria Includes General Dynamics: Real M&A    Warren Buffett  wants to use his almost $40 billion pile of
cash to pursue bigger acquisitions. That may put companies from
Archer Daniels Midland Co. to General Dynamics Corp. and Exelon
Corp. in his sights.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls on Concern Surging Energy Costs Will Crimp Economy  Copper in  New York  fell for the first time in five
sessions on concern that surging energy costs will hinder the
global economy, eroding demand for industrial metals.  Aluminum Inventories in  China  Increased in February on Slowdown  Commercial stockpiles of aluminum in China increased in
February to around 700,000 metric tons because demand was
subdued as a result of the Chinese New Year holidays, an
industry analyst said.  MINING:  Tata Steel, JSW Debt Set for Worst Quarter in Year:  India 
Credit  India’s biggest steelmakers are heading for their worst
quarter in the  bond market  in at least a year, as record high
raw-material costs erode earnings.  Kinross Gold Starts Ecuador Talks as Correa Lures Miners (2)  Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa  is seeking to attract
billions of dollars of investment from resource companies eager
to tap the nation’s copper and gold deposits, three years after
he canceled 4,474 mining permits.  Kazakhmys Said to Pick JPMorgan, Citigroup for Asia Share Sale  Kazakhmys Plc, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer,
selected JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and China
International Capital Corp. to manage its Hong Kong share sale,
according to two people with knowledge of the plan.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Hedges Fell Most in a Year, May Rebound, VM Group Says (1)  Global gold hedges, or sales of future production, fell
the most in a year in the fourth quarter and may start to
increase again if the metal’s rally ends, VM Group said.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans Rise on U.S.,  Brazil  Crop Concerns; Corn Declines  Soybeans rose for the second straight day on speculation
that adverse weather may cut yields in Brazil and slow planting
in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporters. Corn fell for the
first time in four sessions.  Cattle Futures Climb on Signs of Rising Beef Demand; Hogs Gain  Cattle climbed for the first time in three days on
speculation that demand for U.S. beef is rising. Hog futures
also gained.  Wheat Futures Rise as Dry U.S. Great Plains May Hurt Winter
Crop  Wheat futures rose to a one-week high on speculation that
dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains will hurt winter crops as
they exit dormancy in the next month.  Sugar May Tumble 24% on ‘Head-and-Shoulders:’  Technical
Analysis   Sugar may fall 24 percent within 60 days if it completes a
so-called head-and-shoulders pattern, according to Infinity
Trading Corp.  Cotton Tops $2 as Demand Outpaces Supplies; Orange Juice Rises  Cotton prices rose, extending a rally above $2 a pound, on
signs that global supplies will remain limited this year amid
increased demand from China, the world’s biggest consumer.
Orange juice also gained.  Sugar Futures Advance to Two-Week High; Cocoa, Coffee Climb  Sugar rose to a two-week high after a unit of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. took delivery of enough sweetener to meet about 9
percent of U.S. demand, signaling tightening supply. Cocoa and
coffee also gained.    Russia  May Extend Ban on Grain Exports to End of This Year (2)  Russia, once the world’s third- biggest wheat exporter,
said it may extend a ban on grain shipments through the end of
this year.  SHIPPING:    Iron-Ore  Ship Rates Jump Most in Three Weeks on Stronger Demand  The cost of hiring capesize ships to haul iron ore and
coal climbed the most in almost three weeks as demand
strengthened.  ECONOMIES:  Fed’s Lockhart Sees ‘Inflation Anxiety’ From Commodities (1)    Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said rising commodity prices are creating “inflation anxiety”
even while consumer cost gauges fail to show broader increases.  Rules Force Bank Sales as Yields at Two-Year High: China Credit  Banks in China plan to meet tighter capital requirements
by selling bonds as demand for new share sales slumps, pushing
yields on their debt to a two-year high.  Gross Says Treasury Yields Too Low as Fed Approaches QE2 End    Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said yields on Treasuries
may be too low to sustain demand for U.S. government debt as
the Federal Reserve approaches the end of its second round of
quantitative easing.  Fed Says Labor Market Strengthened on Manufacturing, Retail (1)  The Federal Reserve said the labor market improved
throughout the country early this year, driven by increasing
retail sales and “solid growth” in manufacturing.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Rise on Job-Market Strength; Oil Jumps, Dollar
Falls  U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from yesterday’s slump, as
chipmakers rallied and signs of a strengthening job market
bolstered optimism the economy can withstand a surge in energy
costs. Treasuries and the dollar fell. Persian Gulf shares slid
to the lowest level since July.  Bank of America Raises Euro Forecasts Amid Oil Surge, U.S. Debt  Bank of America Corp. raised its first-quarter and long-
term forecasts for the euro versus the dollar, saying the
revisions reflect gains in the shared currency and concern the
U.S. will have difficulty dealing with its  budget deficit .  Congress Approves Temporary Budget Bill, Avoids Shutdown (2)  The U.S. Congress approved a budget bill that will prevent
a government shutdown for now while lawmakers negotiate over
Republican demands to further cut federal spending this year.  Treasuries Fall as Employment Data, Economic Growth Damp Demand  Treasuries fell after a report showed the pace of U.S.
employment growth is picking up, fueling speculation that
economic growth is accelerating and curbing demand for the
safety of fixed-income assets.  Gasoline Surges to 30-Month High as Mideast Tensions Escalate  Gasoline surged above $3 a gallon as spreading political
unrest in northern  Africa  and the Middle East threatened  crude
oil  supplies for refiners.  Oil Rises to 29-Month High, Gasoline Surges on Libyan Concern  Crude oil climbed to a 29-month high and gasoline surged
on concern that the unrest curbing exports from Libya will
spread to other countries in the region.  SPORTS:  O’Brien’s 100 Helps Ireland Stun  England  in Cricket  World Cup   Ireland’s Kevin O’Brien scored the fastest century in the
history of cricket’s World Cup to lead a three-wicket victory
over England in one of the biggest upsets in the tournament’s
35-year history.  Nicklaus ‘Very Surprised’ Woods Hasn’t Bounced Back From Slump  Jack Nicklaus said he is “very surprised” that  Tiger
Woods  hasn’t won a tournament in 16 months and still believes
the former top-ranked golfer will surpass his record of 18
career major golf titles.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 