-- 
Surging Prices From Singapore to Vietnam Herald Higher Rates, Currencies

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-02-24T10:20:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/asia-s-accelerating-inflation-bolsters-case-for-higher-rates-currencies.html
Accelerating inflation from  Singapore  to Vietnam is set to spur higher interest rates and
currency gains in Asian economies.    India ’s food inflation accelerated for the first time in
three weeks to 11.49 percent in the week ended Feb. 12, a report
showed today. Singapore’s inflation rate rose to a two-year high
of 5.5 percent in January, while prices in  Malaysia  climbed at
the fastest pace since mid-2009, reports yesterday showed.
Vietnam’s prices gained the most in 24 months in February.  China, India,  Indonesia ,  South Korea ,  Thailand  and Vietnam
all increased borrowing costs this year, widening the gap with
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s near-zero benchmark rate, as rising
oil and commodity prices threaten to fuel inflation. A surge in
capital inflows into the region is also contributing to higher
asset prices and stronger currencies,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “Asian central banks will have to stay tight or continue
tightening in the coming months,” said Chua Hak Bin, a
Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Rising oil prices are “the next major threat, following on the
heels of food prices.”  A 10 percent increase in global oil prices boosts inflation
by about 10 to 40 basis points across Asian countries, with the
lower-income countries seeing a larger impact, Chua said. While
currency strength has helped to partly offset inflation
pressures, this option may become less tenable if growth
decelerates more significantly, he said.  $100 a Barrel  Oil prices reached above $100 a barrel in  New York ,
climbing to the highest level in more than two years as
intensifying violence in  Libya  stoked concern that supplies will
be disrupted should the turmoil spread to other crude-producing
countries in the Middle East and North Africa.  Asian currencies have climbed in the past year, partly on
speculation central banks will raise  interest rates  as surging
oil prices threaten to fuel inflation. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-active
currencies, added 4.4 percent in the past 12 months.  “Asia is the region where interest-rate hikes are expected
in some countries,” said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency
strategist at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “That
means regional currencies are also on a trend of appreciation.
The region’s economy remains quite solid.”  Gains in commodity prices may hurt Asia’s growth should it
force governments to tighten domestic policies to control
inflation, Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam
said Feb. 18.  Harsh Weather  “Food and other commodity prices have climbed sharply,
because supply has been affected by harsh weather conditions
while demand continues to grow in  China  and elsewhere,”
Shanmugaratnam said. “The political uncertainties in the Middle
East have also driven oil prices up. There will not be early
relief from these inflationary pressures.”  In India, an index measuring wholesale prices of
agricultural products including lentils, rice and vegetables
rose 11.49 percent in the week ended Feb. 12 from a year earlier,
the commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. It
gained 11.05 percent the previous week.  India’s stocks tumbled after the report, dragging the
benchmark index down by the most since August 2009. Rising food
costs have sparked protests and prompted the Indian central bank
to raise interest rates the most in Asia. The  Reserve Bank  of
India has increased its benchmark repurchase rate seven times in
the past year to 6.5 percent.    Vietnam ’s Measures  Vietnam’s consumer prices rose 12.31 percent in February
from a year earlier, according to figures released by the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi yesterday. The central bank
raised its reverse repurchase rate on Feb. 22, the second
increase in borrowing costs in less than a week.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has approved a plan to
tackle inflation that includes a lower lending-growth target and
“tight” monetary policy. He reduced the credit-growth target
to below 20 percent from 23 percent for 2011, according to a
document presented at a meeting between the premier and policy
makers in Hanoi today.  Dung also instructed ministries to narrow the  budget
deficit  to less than 5 percent of gross domestic product this
year, and ordered the central bank to pursue a “cautious and
tight” monetary policy.    Hong Kong  Risk  Vietnam is under pressure to curb inflation that is poised
to accelerate as electricity prices rise and four currency
devaluations in 15 months spur import costs. It raised its
refinancing rate by 2 percentage points to 11 percent last week.  In Hong Kong yesterday, Financial Secretary John Tsang
named inflation and the risk of a property bubble as the “two
main challenges” for the city in the coming year. The
government will increase the supply of land, and sell inflation-
linked bonds to help residents cope with rising prices, Tsang
said. The city’s currency peg to the dollar prevents it from
using interest rates to contain price pressures.  Some Asian economies have imposed  capital controls  to curb
inflows and such measures have “limited impact” on a nation’s
creditworthiness, S&P said in a report yesterday.  “In most cases, these policies aimed to prevent
instability arising from excess liquidity, asset-price bubbles,
or a potential disorderly future withdrawal of invested funds,”
said Kim Eng Tan, a credit analyst at S&P in Singapore.  Singapore Prices  In Singapore, where the central bank uses the currency to
manage price gains, consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in January
from a year earlier, after climbing 4.6 percent in December, the
government said yesterday.  Wage pressures may also increase in Singapore as the
government this month said companies will be required to
increase contributions into employees’ pension funds and pay
more to hire foreign workers.  Economists from  Standard Chartered Plc  to Citigroup Inc.
are predicting the Monetary Authority of Singapore will revalue
the currency or let it appreciate faster at the policy review in
April. The central bank revalued the currency in April 2010 and
said in October it would steepen and widen the currency’s
trading band while continuing to seek a “modest and gradual
appreciation.”  Consumer prices may climb 3 percent to 4 percent this year,
up from a previous forecast of 2 percent to 3 percent, the
Singapore government said Feb. 17.  Malaysia’s inflation rate rose to 2.4 percent in January,
the statistics department said yesterday.  Bank Negara Malaysia’s benchmark interest rate of 2.75
percent has been left unchanged at the past three meetings, most
recently in January when the central bank signaled it may use
other monetary policy tools to manage excess cash that’s
building up in the financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  