-- 
Australia’s Wages Grew More Than Forecast in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-02-23T01:57:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/australia-s-wages-grew-more-than-forecast-in-fourth-quarter-2-.html
Australian wages grew at a faster
pace than economists forecast in the fourth quarter as employers
increased hiring in an economy the central bank predicts will
accelerate this year.  The wage price index, which measures hourly pay rates
excluding bonuses, advanced 1 percent from the third quarter,
when it rose 1.1 percent, the statistics bureau said today in
Sydney. That compares with the median forecast for a 0.9 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  Australia’s wages growth may strengthen further as the
labor market approaches full employment, with the jobless rate
holding at 5 percent in January.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
Governor Glenn Stevens kept the benchmark interest rate on hold
at 4.75 percent this month, saying consumer restraint is slowing
inflation and offsetting an expansion of the  mining industry .  Today’s report “provides a hint of inflationary wages
growth,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura
Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “There’s no surprise that mining and
utilities were at the forefront. But we are now seeing very few
wage increases lower than 3 percent.”  Hourly rates of pay at electricity, gas, water and waste
services advanced 4.7 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
gain among the 18 industries surveyed by the statistics bureau,
and mining climbed 4.6 percent. Transport, postal and
warehousing salaries rose the least, gaining 2.9 percent.  Year Earlier  The wage price index advanced 3.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the biggest jump since the first
three months of 2009, today’s report showed. Economists forecast
a 3.8 percent gain from a year earlier.  The Australian dollar was little changed after the data,
trading at $1.0021 at 12:18 p.m. Sydney time from $1.0017
immediately before the release.  A separate government report today showed total
construction work done in the fourth quarter rose by 0.8 percent,
less than the 1.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 18 economists.  Australia’s economy is getting a lift from demand in
developing nations for natural resources. Shipments of  iron ore 
and coal to  China  are increasing demand for workers.  A government report this month showed Australian employment
climbed by 24,000 in January, surpassing the median forecast for
a 17,500 gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The
jobless rate of 5 percent matched the lowest level in two years.  The RBA has paused for two straight meetings after raising
rates seven times from October 2009 to November last year,
spurring the local dollar to above parity with the U.S. currency.
Policy makers are forecast to hold borrowing costs unchanged
through the first quarter because inflation slowed at the end of
last year and households are saving more.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  