-- 
U.S. Supreme Court Opens Automakers to Seatbelt Lawsuits

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-02-23T21:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/auto-industry-can-be-sued-over-seatbelt-design-u-s-supreme-court-rules.html
The U.S. Supreme Court opened the  auto industry  to new lawsuits over seatbelt design, ruling that
a  Mazda Motor Corp . unit must defend against claims pressed by
the family of a woman killed while riding in the back of a
minivan.  The justices today  said  that automakers can be sued for not
equipping seats with a shoulder strap, ruling that companies
aren’t immunized by a federal regulation that allowed lap-only
belts in some rear seats prior to 2007. The unanimous ruling
said regulators intended to set only a minimum standard.  The ruling marks a change in the law in much of the
country. Every lower court to consider the issue had concluded
that the federal rules preempted suits by accident victims over
seatbelt design. More than 1 million cars on the road as of 2008
had at least one lap-only belt.  “This case really reaffirms the importance of state tort
law in achieving greater vehicle safety,” said Martin Buchanan,
a San Diego lawyer for the family of Thanh Williamson, who died
in the 2002 crash.  Auto shares plunged following the ruling.  General Motors
Co . fell $1.18, or 3.3 percent, to $34.59 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m.  Ford Motor Co . fell 37
cents, or 2.43 percent, to $14.86, its lowest closing price
since Nov. 2.  Product Liability  The ruling scales back a 2000 Supreme Court decision that
said federal law insulates automakers from claims under state
product-liability law that they should have moved more quickly
to install air bags. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said in a
concurring opinion today that lower courts had been reading too
much into that ruling.  Mazda said it is “extremely disappointed” with the
ruling. The company will “vigorously defend this vehicle when
the case heads back to trial court,” Jay Amestoy, Mazda’s U.S.
vice president for government and public affairs, said in a
statement.  Williamson died when she was riding in an aisle seat
equipped with a lap belt in the second row of a 1993 Mazda MPV
in Kane County,  Utah . The van struck a Jeep Wrangler that had
become detached from a motor home that was towing it.  The collision caused Williamson’s body to jackknife around
her seatbelt, causing severe abdominal injuries and internal
bleeding, according to the complaint, now pending in a state
court in  Santa Ana ,  California .  Shoulder Straps  Under National Highway Traffic Safety Administration rules
put in place in 1989, shoulder straps were required only for so-
called outboard seats -- those next to a window, rather than
alongside an aisle or in the center of a row. Current
regulations, in effect since 2007, require new cars to have
three-point belts -- a lap belt plus a shoulder strap -- in all
forward-facing seats.  Mazda, based in Hiroshima, Japan, contended that NHTSA
wanted carmakers to have flexibility as to which type of belt to
install and that the Williamson suit would interfere with that
policy. Its argument tracked the high court’s reasoning in the
2000 air bag case, known as Geier v. American Honda Motor Co.  Breyer said that logic didn’t apply in the seatbelt case.
With air bags, he said, regulators wanted to let manufacturers
experiment with different passive restraint systems. By
contrast, regulators were focused on the cost-effectiveness of
shoulder straps and weren’t concerned that state court juries
might require greater safety measures.  “Unlike Geier, we do not believe here that choice is a
significant regulatory objective,” Breyer wrote.  Agency Views  Breyer pointed to the Obama administration’s contention
that lawsuits wouldn’t interfere with the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration ’s work. “The agency’s own views
should make a difference,” he wrote.  The ruling “corrects a widespread misreading of the
court’s prior decision in Geier,” Buchanan said.  A California state appeals court barred the suit from going
forward. The dead woman’s husband, Delbert Williamson, appealed
to the nation’s highest court.  The case is Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, 08-1314.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 