-- 
Bank of America Sued by Investors Seeking to Unload Loans

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-02-24T00:44:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/bank-of-america-sued-by-mortgage-backed-securities-investors-over-buybacks.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, was sued by investors in mortgage-backed
bonds who are seeking to force the bank to buy back loans
underlying their securities.  Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit breached
representations and warranties about the loans, which it
originated, the investors said in the complaint filed today in  New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  “Each of these breaches of representations and warranties
materially and adversely affected the interests of both the
trust and plaintiffs in those  mortgage loans ,” they said.  The lawsuit against Bank of America was filed as defaults
on mortgage loans soar and mortgage investors demand that banks
buy back poorly performing loans. So-called mortgage putbacks
may cost banks and lenders as much as $90 billion, JPMorgan bond
analysts said in an October report.  A separate group of mortgage-bond investors is fighting
with Bank of America over $47 billion of securities. The group,
which includes Pacific Investment Management Co.,  MetLife Inc .
and the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said in October it was
considering declaring Bank of America in default of its loan-
servicing duties.  “There hasn’t been a lot of repurchase activity recently
in terms of lawsuits being filed but there’s been a lot more
activity going on behind the scenes with loan files being turned
over and looked through,” Isaac Gradman, a San Francisco-based
consultant and formerly a lawyer at Howard Rice Nemerovski
Canady Falk & Rabkin, said today.  ‘Unreasonably Failed’  The plaintiffs in the New York lawsuit are a group of
limited liability companies with variations of the name Walnut
Place, according to the court filing. They also claimed in the
lawsuit that  Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the trustee for
investors, “unreasonably failed” to sue Bank of America to
force it to repurchase the loans.  The plaintiffs are suing on behalf of the trust that holds
the loans and which issued the mortgage bonds, according to the
court filing. The original balance of securitization involved in
the case was $2.8 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Walnut Place investors said at least 1,190 mortgage
loans in the trust didn’t comply with underwriting guidelines
and that at least 413 had loan-to-value ratios of more than 95
percent. Countrywide represented that no loan had a ratio of
more than 95 percent, the investors said.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, declined to
immediately comment.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 650497-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 