-- 
Bank Capital Buffers May Cut Growth, Volatility, BIS Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-02-23T17:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/bank-capital-buffers-may-cut-growth-volatility-bis-study-says.html
Plans to require banks to hold extra
capital during credit booms could limit growth, reducing the
volatility of the global economy by up to 20 percent, according
to a report published by the  Bank for International Settlements .  Such buffers “could have a more sizable dampening effect
on output volatility” than rules regulators set to govern the
capital banks must hold at all times. Economic fluctuations
could be reduced by up to 20 percent compared with a
“baseline” scenario, the study published today said.  “This is a vital first step to allow regulators and the
banking industry to understand the long term impact of Basel
III,” said Irina Sinclair, a senior associate at law firm  Allen
& Overy .  A repeat of the excessive lending that fueled the financial
crisis could be prevented using so-called counter-cyclical
capital buffers, according to regulators. The buffers would be
imposed on lenders when authorities determine a credit bubble is
forming, and could then be drawn down to help lenders absorb
losses after a market crash. Details of that plan were published
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  in December.  “What’s important now is for the industry to test the
assumptions and models which the study is based on if it is
going to have the credibility everyone wants,” Sinclair said.  The Basel committee brings together authorities from 27
countries to coordinate capital and liquidity rules for banks
and is part of the BIS structure.  Increasing the capital banks must hold at all times to
protect themselves against insolvency will lead to a “long-
term” reduction in economic growth, the BIS said. Each one
percentage point increase in capital causes an average 0.09
percent decline in output, compared with the baseline, it said.
The Basel committee agreed in September to more than double the
core capital banks must retain.  The committee said in December that the capital rules would
cut economic growth by as much as 0.22 percent over the eight-
year period in which they will be implemented.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  