-- 
Barclays Need Not Pay ‘Windfall’ to Lehman, U.S. Judge Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-02-23T18:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/barclays-doesn-t-owe-lehman-for-windfall-on-brokerage-buyout-judge-says.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. lost a
bid to recover an alleged $11 billion “windfall” from  Barclays
Plc ’s purchase of its defunct brokerage unit when a judge ruled
the transaction was fair.  London-based Barclays stands to get at least $800 million
of the $3 billion it wanted, and may get a similar amount later,
according to a ruling yesterday by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  Manhattan  and previous court filings.  The trustee liquidating the remnant of Lehman’s brokerage
claimed Barclays owed $7 billion. Peck disagreed, while ordering
Barclays to return any cash it got in the deal that closed in
the credit crisis of 2008. The U.K. bank must pay trustee James Giddens about $1.4 billion in margin, and relinquish its claim
to another $1.2 billion, said the trustee’s chief trial lawyer,
William R. Maguire, in a phone interview today.  “In this very high-stakes dispute, Barclays was sure
enough of its position that it was willing to bet the house on
prevailing rather than entertaining settlement,” said George
Kuney, a professor at the University of Tennessee College of Law
in Knoxville who teaches bankruptcy and contract law.  Barclays rose as much as 2.9 percent at the opening in
London trading today, then slipped to close at 319 pence, off
.35 pence, or .1 percent. Michael O’Looney, a Barclays
spokesman, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the trustee’s
calculations.  Lapses in Disclosure  The bankruptcy fight pitted the U.K.’s third-biggest bank
against Lehman, whose creditors the company has said will get an
average of 18.6 cents on the dollar, without lawsuit proceeds.  Peck said it was “especially” important that emergency
sales in  bankruptcy court  should be final, to encourage buyers
of distressed assets.  “The court concludes that the lapses in disclosure at the
sale hearing did not affect the fairness or alter the outcome of
the hearing and were not characterized by either the deliberate
withholding of material information or willful misconduct,” as
Lehman and the trustee had alleged, Peck wrote.  “The sale process may have been imperfect, but it was
still adequate under the exceptional circumstances of Lehman
Week,” he said.  Sole Bidder  Barclays bought the brokerage in September 2008 after
Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history, as
regulators urged approval of the deal to prevent a panic. The
sale took a week. Barclays has said it was the sole bidder,
taking 10,000 employees and giving 72,000 customers access to
$40 billion in assets frozen in the September 2008 bankruptcy.
Lehman’s lead bankruptcy lawyer,  Harvey Miller  of Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP, testified in April that the sale “was of enormous
benefit to the nation.”  The U.K. bank has been fighting with Giddens over $2.3
billion of clearance box assets, of which the trustee said $1.5
billion was already “wrongfully” transferred to Barclays. They
also disputed $769 million in the brokerage’s reserve accounts
for customers, and $4 billion in margin assets.  Peck said Barclays is entitled to the remaining clearance
box assets. It must forgo margin assets it sought and might get
securities in the reserve accounts later if there isn’t a
deficit for customers, he ruled.  $4.8 Billion  “This ruling upholds the estate’s rights to $4.8 billion,
which remains available for customers,” the trustee said in an
e-mailed statement.  Lehman has sued banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Bank of America Corp ., for tens of billions of dollars in
collateral and damages. The defunct firm spent almost $1.2
billion on managers and lawyers through January, according to a
regulatory filing.  Lehman, in its November 2009 lawsuit, accused Barclays of
taking a $5 billion “secret” profit on a portfolio of
securities it acquired with the brokerage, and of making another
$6 billion by writing up business assets, skimping on promised
payments and “grabbing” more financial assets from the
brokerage’s accounts.  Some of the disputed assets were assigned to Barclays in a
so-called clarification letter that should have been shown to
Peck, Lehman said.  Sales Final  Peck deemed the clarification letter to be approved, saying
it was “especially” important that emergency sales in
bankruptcy court should be final.  Contracts are usually final under federal law. Judges can
reopen a contract to correct mistakes or, under so-called Rule
60(b), if new evidence or fraud is discovered.    Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy law professor at the University
of  California ,  Los Angeles , said he knows of no emergency
bankruptcy sale in his 911-case database that has been reopened.  So-called 363 sales, which saved Lehman’s brokerage from
liquidation, also helped the former General Motors Corp. and
Chrysler LLC to reorganize in bankruptcy.  Peck, 65, was the Manhattan court’s second most-junior
bankruptcy judge when he was randomly assigned the $639 billion-
asset Lehman bankruptcy in September 2008. His sale order that
month gave lawyers leeway to make changes in the deal, and he
didn’t demand to know about them.  The trial began in April and continued intermittently
through November. Witnesses included Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond .    Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for New York-based Lehman,
said she couldn’t immediately comment yesterday.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 