-- 
Bayern Loosens Inter Milan's Grip on Champions League Title; United Draws

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-23T23:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/bayern-loosens-inter-s-grip-on-champions-league-with-1-0-win-united-draws.html
  Mario Gomez ’s last-minute goal gave  Bayern Munich  a 1-0 win at Inter Milan in their Champions League
round of 16 opener. Manchester United drew 0-0 at Marseille.  Gomez put in the rebound after goalkeeper Julio Cesar was
unable to hold onto Arjen Robben’s long shot at Milan’s San Siro
stadium last night, giving Bayern the advantage in a rematch of
last year’s Champions League final, won 2-0 by Inter.  “I had hoped we could decide the game earlier as Inter
began to tire but we squandered our chances,” Bayern coach
Louis van Gaal said in comments on  UEFA ’s website. “It was a
big step towards the quarterfinals.”  Bayern, which won European soccer’s elite competition for
the fourth time in 2001, will host the return game on March 15,
when Marseille visits  Manchester United .  Inter’s Esteban Cambiasso was stopped from close range by
Bayern goalkeeper Thomas Kraft in the first half, while Bayern’s
Franck Ribery headed off the crossbar and Gomez shot over the
goal. Kraft made a one-handed save from Samuel Eto’o in the 33rd
minute, before Inter’s Wesley Sneijder and Maicon sent shots
wide just before halftime.  Bayern missed early chances after the break as the unmarked  Thomas Mueller  headed wide from about six yards out and Robben’s
shot hit the post. Kraft later saved from Eto’o and Cambiasso
put the rebound over the goal. Robben shot over the goal moments
later and Thiago Motta’s header went right at the Bayern keeper.  With time winding down, Robben cut into the center and his
shot from outside the area was parried by Cesar. Gomez pounced
first to knock the ball into the net for his seventh Champions
League goal this season, tying Eto’o and Chelsea’s Nicolas Anelka for the competition lead.  ‘Out of the Blue’  “The goal came out of the blue as everyone was already
thinking about the goalless draw,” Inter coach Leonardo said.
“We can win in  Germany . It will be a difficult game for sure,
but it would have been hard even after a 0-0 draw here.”  Manchester United and Marseille only managed two shots on
target each in a scoreless match between former European
champions at the Stade Velodrome in southern  France .  “Nil-nil can be a dangerous scoreline if you lose a goal
at home, but for us it’s about winning the game,” United
manager  Alex Ferguson  told reporters. “If we win the game we’re
through. We’ve a good chance.”  United’s  Darren Fletcher  had the game’s best chance in the
eighth minute with a shot from a Marseille clearance which
goalkeeper Steve Mandanda reached back to save. Brandao had
Marseille’s best opportunity early in the second half, but
headed straight at United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar.  Shut Out  Souleymane Diawara made a block to keep out Dimitar Berbatov’s goal-bound effort before Mandanda sprinted off his
line in the 82nd minute to smother the ball at Nani’s feet.  “For the first game it is very important you don’t concede
a goal,” Marseille coach Didier Deschamps told ITV. “It was a
tough game because Manchester are a big team.”  Also yesterday,  Luis Fabiano ’s goal gave Sevilla a 1-0 win
at Porto, which still advanced to the last 16 of the second-tier
Europa League following last week’s 2-1 win in  Spain .  The two-match series ended 2-2, with Porto progressing on
away goals. Both teams finished with 10 men as Porto’s Alvaro
Pereira was shown a red card for a two-footed challenge in the
72nd minute and Sevilla’s Alexis received his second yellow card
five minutes later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  