-- 
Berlusconi's `Slavish' Courtship of Qaddafi Haunts Italy

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-02-23T11:07:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/berlusconi-s-slavish-courtship-of-qaddafi-to-befriend-libya-haunts-italy.html
In his pursuit of business with
North Africa’s longest-serving dictator, Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  let  Muammar Qaddafi  pitch his tent in the
heart of Rome.  Berlusconi shut down the city’s biggest park in June 2009
to allow the visiting Libyan leader and his entourage of all-
female bodyguards to set up camp by the 16th-century Villa Doria
Pamphili. A year earlier,  Italy  agreed to pay $5 billion over 25
years to its former colony in reparations.  “With hindsight, the more slavish manifestations of
deference could have been avoided,” Franco Pavoncello, a
politics professor at John Cabot University in Rome, said in a
telephone interview. “He went out of his way, more than others,
to be best friends with Qaddafi. He can’t exactly take it all
back now.”  Libya has invested in Italian companies including  Fiat SpA ,  UniCredit SpA  and the Juventus soccer team, while  Eni SpA  has
been present in the North African country for half a century,
leaving Italy reliant on Libya for a quarter of its crude oil.
As his ties with Qaddafi developed, Berlusconi built on that
economic legacy, which is now unraveling and underscores the
cost of doing business with autocratic regimes.  “There will be a negative impact for Italian companies,”
which risk losing 4 billion euros ($5.5 billion) in
infrastructure projects in Libya, Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said in parliament today.  Pipeline Disruption  The supply of gas to the Italian island of Sicily through
Eni SpA’s Greenstream pipeline under the  Mediterranean Sea  was
temporarily suspended yesterday after some of its activities in
Libya were disrupted, the company said.  UniCredit plans to make a decision on  voting rights  by
Libyan investors after a “careful review,” according to a
statement distributed to reporters in Milan the same day.    Juventus Football Club SpA  said it’s unclear what will
happen to the 7.5 percent stake in the Turin soccer team held by
Libya’s state-owned investment company amid continuing political
unrest in the North African nation.  Berlusconi spoke with Qaddafi by phone yesterday, the
premier’s office said in an e-mailed statement. He urged the
Libyan leader to avoid bloodshed and bring a peaceful end to the
conflict, newspaper  Corriere della Sera  reported today. Qaddafi
yesterday said he will fight with his “last drop of blood” to
retain power and pledged to deploy the army and police today to
impose order.  Roman Era  Roman ruins along the Mediterranean are a reminder that
Italy’s ties to Libya date back to antiquity. The town of  Leptis
Magna , the birthplace of Emperor Septimius Severus in 145, was
developed as an archeological site under Fascist dictator Benito Mussolini in the 1920s. Today it’s a major tourist attraction.  To strengthen modern-day ties with the oil-rich former
colony, Berlusconi led a succession of world leaders willing to
put Libya’s past as a sponsor of terrorism and a developer of
nuclear weapons behind them and go into business with Qaddafi, a
man  Ronald Reagan  called the “mad dog of the Middle East.”  Former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  and former German
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder visited Libya in search of
contracts when in office. Qaddafi traveled to Paris in 2007 to
meet with President Nicolas Sarkozy.  Seating Reshuffled  At a dinner at the 2009 Group of Eight summit in L’Aquila,
Italy, Berlusconi reshuffled the seating arrangements to put
Qaddafi to his left and President Barack Obama to his right,
forcing a handshake between the two, according to an Italian
official present at the event.  The Italian premier ignored U.S. and U.K. criticism and
went ahead with a visit to Tripoli in August 2009, days after
convicted Lockerbie bomber Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, freed
from a Scottish prison on medical grounds, was welcomed by
cheering crowds.  “For years he boasted about his special relationship with
Qaddafi,” Dario Franceschini, a leader of the  Democratic Party ,
the main opposition to Berlusconi, told reporters in  Rome  Feb.
1. “We’d love for him to tap that now and stop the bloodshed.”  Now Berlusconi is faced with the prospect of a flood of
Libyans seeking to escape the violence. As part of the
reparation deal, Qaddafi agreed to tighten border controls,
which led to the number of Libyan migrants to Italy falling to
less than 3,000 last year from a record 37,000 in 2008,
according to the Interior Ministry.  As many as 350,000 of the 2 million migrant workers
currently in Libya may seek to escape the turmoil and head to
Italy, Cyprus, Malta and  Greece , Frattini said today.  Slow to Criticize  As the first reports of civil unrest began to filter
through from Libya this month, Berlusconi was reluctant to
criticize his ally.  The premier said Feb. 19, four days after anti-government
protests began, that he did not want to “disturb” Qaddafi and
had not called him.  He eventually put out a late-night statement on Feb. 21, in
which he condemned the “unacceptable” use of force by the
military regime to suppress protests and called for a common
effort “to prevent the Libyan crisis from degenerating into a
civil war that will have consequences difficult to predict.”  Shares in Rome-based Eni, the biggest foreign energy
company in Libya, declined for a third day today and have lost
almost 7 percent since the violence escalated this week. Italy
is the European Union country that does most trade with Libya,
and the Milan-based  FTSE MIB index  has declined for four days.  Eni in Libya  Eni gets about 14 percent of its 98 billion euros of annual
revenue from Libya and has committed itself to $25 billion of
investment there over the next decade.  “Italy has lots of interests in Libya, primarily linked to
Eni,” said Nicolo Sartori, an analyst who specializes in energy
policy at Rome’s IAI institute of international affairs. “These
ties have become even tighter recently with the Berlusconi-
Qaddafi bilateral pacts.”  The 2009 friendship treaty signed by the two leaders at a
ceremony in Tripoli stipulated that Italy would build a Libyan
coastal highway. Contracts for the projects were to go to
Italian infrastructure companies such as  Impregilo SpA  and  Ansaldo STS SpA .  “As Qaddafi’s regime unravels, Italy’s close links to
Libya, which have been the case for a number of years, came back
to haunt it,” Milan-based Mediobanca SpA analyst Ope Adewale
said in a note to investors yesterday.  -- With assistance from Tariq Panja in  London , Alessandra
Migliaccio in Rome and Marco Bertacche, Tommaso Ebhardt and
Francesca Cinelli in Milan. Editors: Eddie Buckle, John Fraher  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  