-- 
Billionaire Slim May Reverse Decision to Snub Televisa Ads, Analysts Say

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-02-23T14:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/billionaire-slim-may-reverse-decision-to-snub-televisa-ads-analysts-say.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s companies
probably will reverse their decision to snub  Grupo Televisa SA 
and agree to buy advertising this year to reach the audience of
the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster, Barclays Plc
and Citigroup Inc. analysts said.  Slim’s companies -- America Movil SAB, Telefonos de Mexico
SAB and Grupo Carso SAB -- eventually will strike a deal with
Televisa because both sides would benefit, said Michel Morin, an
analyst at Barclays in New York. The rivalry was probably a
factor in the decision by Slim’s companies not to purchase ads
from the broadcaster this year, the analyst said.  Slim’s companies won’t want to miss out on the reach of
Televisa, which controls 70 percent of  Mexico ’s broadcast
market, Morin said. Televisa would rather avoid a revenue
decline this year after its annual sales of advance advertising
dropped 4 percent this year with Slim’s absence, the analyst
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Everything is negotiable,” Morin said. “There will
probably be a desire on both parts to come to an agreement.”  Televisa Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said
last week on an earnings conference call that the company, after
raising prices, had failed to sell upfront advertising this year
to companies controlled by Slim.    Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim, said last week that
Slim’s companies had made the decision solely because of price.
Slim’s Telmex competes with the cable units of Televisa for
phone and Internet customers, and Televisa has said it plans to
enter Mexico’s mobile-phone business, where  America Movil  is the
top carrier.  Low Prices  Televisa has maintained for years that its advertising
rates are low, compared with other markets around the world,
Morin said. A 10 percent to 15 percent price increase would
encourage shareholders, said the analyst, who predicts that
Televisa’s U.S.-traded shares will perform in line with the rest
of the industry in the next 12 months.  Televisa rose 15 centavos to 58.50 pesos at 9:46 a.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading. The shares had dropped 8.7
percent this year before today.  A Televisa official didn’t respond to phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment. A Telmex official who can’t be named
under company policy declined to comment. Slim’s advertising
purchases last year contributed 1.5 percent of Televisa’s 57.9
billion pesos ($4.77 billion) in sales.  Slim’s request to enter the pay-TV market to compete
against Televisa has been rejected by government regulators, who
say he must first comply with rules for connecting phone calls
from competing networks. The standoff with Televisa may indicate
that Slim is interested in bidding on broadcast-TV airwaves that
the Mexican government plans to auction this year, said James Rivett, an analyst at Citigroup in  New York .  Still, the negotiations may be just “business as usual,”
Rivett said yesterday in a research note. Slim’s companies have
normally been late participants in the “upfront” season when
advertisers buy airtime in advance, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  