-- 
Billionaire Goenka Said to Seek Partner to Buy Evonik Unit

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-02-23T05:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/billionaire-goenka-said-to-seek-private-equity-partner-to-buy-evonik-unit.html
  Phillips Carbon Black Ltd ., a unit
of billionaire Rama Prasad Goenka’s RPG Group, is seeking a
private-equity partner to help buy Evonik Industries AG’s carbon
black unit, said three people with knowledge of the situation.  Phillips Carbon is considering bidding with Apollo
Management LP or Triton Beteiligungsberatung GmbH, two of the
people said, who asked not to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. The unit may sell for about 900 million euros
($1.2 billion), one of the people said.  A sale to a group led by Phillips Carbon would mark the
second purchase by an Indian company of a producer of carbon
black, which is used as a pigment and reinforcement in rubber
and plastic products.  Aditya Birla Group  agreed to acquire
Columbian Chemicals Co. for about $875 million last month to
become the world’s largest maker of the product.  Phillips Carbon is seeking to buy as much as a 60 percent
stake, which would give it control of the unit, the person said.
The company won’t be able to bid without help from a private
equity partner, the person said. The next round of bids has been
set for Feb. 25, said another person.  The Kolkata-based company has fallen 21 percent in Mumbai
trading this year, eroding its market value to 4.5 billion
rupees ($100 million). Phillips Carbon reported cash and
equivalents of 325 million rupees at the end of March.  Record Deals  Indian companies announced a record $43 billion of overseas
acquisitions last year led by deals in the telecommunications,
energy and metals sectors, according to Bloomberg data. Morgan
Stanley was the top-ranked merger adviser on Indian cross-border
deals last year, followed by  Barclays Capital , the data show.  Talks between Phillips Carbon and Boston-based private-
equity firm Advent International Corp. failed because of a
disagreement over control issues, said two of the people.  New
York-based Rhone Capital LLC is also interested in acquiring the
Evonik unit, one person said.  Phillips Carbon Black Chairman Sanjiv Goenka, didn’t
respond to an e-mail and multiple calls to his mobile phone
seeking comment. Evonik spokeswoman Barbara Mueller declined to
comment. The company hired Barclays Capital to advise on the
sale process, she said.  Apollo didn’t immediately return a voicemail left with an
official in  New York . Triton didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment. Louisa Feltes, an external spokeswoman
for Advent, declined to comment.  Evonik said last year that it planned to sell the carbon
black unit, which has annual sales of about 1 billion euros and
1,700 employees.  Phillips Carbon had on Feb. 1 told the Bombay Stock
Exchange that it was aware of the divestment process for
Evonik’s carbon black business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  