-- 
BlackRock, Futures Exchanges Balk at CFTC Block Trading Limit

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-02-23T15:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/blackrock-futures-exchanges-balk-at-cftc-block-trading-limit.html
  BlackRock Inc .,  CME Group Inc . and
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. are pressing the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission to lower a proposed threshold for
transactions that occur on centralized  futures markets .  The CFTC proposed that 85 percent of all transactions in a
futures contract must be done through a market’s central limit
order book system, with the remaining 15 percent allowed to be
done off-exchange in block trades. If a contract fails to meet
the threshold it would have to be taken off the exchange. The 
proposal  is meant to protect price discovery for futures by
limiting non-public block trading, according to the CFTC.  “The minimum trading threshold set by the Commission would
allow only the most liquid contracts to remain as futures,”
Audrey Hirschfeld, general counsel for Atlanta-based
Intercontinental Exchange, wrote in a  letter  to the CFTC dated
yesterday.  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset management firm,
suggested the CFTC lower the threshold to 75 percent in a  letter 
dated yesterday. Intercontinental agreed that a threshold of 75
percent would be more reasonable, according to its letter.  CME Group, the world’s largest futures exchange, said the
85 percent requirement would have impeded its most successful
contracts, including futures on the S&P 500 and currencies,
because it took years for trading to reach a sustainable volume.  “Market participants may lose access to a vibrant and
liquid centralized market that simply failed the arbitrary 85
percent test,” CME Group Chief Executive Officer Craig Donohue
wrote in a  letter  yesterday to the commission.  OTC Market  Donohue said the rule would drive trading in many futures
to the over-the-counter  derivatives market . Following the
implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC will have
oversight of the OTC market, where swaps that are to be sent to
clearinghouses must be traded on exchanges or swap-execution
facilities.  “Thus, the commission will not receive any additional
information for use in regulation by forcing the instrument to
trade on a SEF or in the OTC market, and market participants
will not obtain any benefit,” Donohue wrote.  Donohue questioned the need for the 85 percent threshold,
and filed a Freedom of Information Act request to the CFTC in
December for the data and analysis behind the proposal. The
company hadn’t received “a substantive response” from CFTC to
the FOIA request as of yesterday, Donohue said.  BlackRock’s letter to the CFTC was signed by executives
including Richard Prager, head of global trading for the New
York-based firm. “Limiting the buy side’s ability to execute
bona fide block trades should be reconsidered by the CFTC,”
they wrote in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 