-- 
Blankfein Opposed Raising Salaries Months Before His Tripled

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-02-23T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/blankfein-opposed-raising-salaries-months-before-his-tripled.html
  Lloyd Blankfein ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc .’s chairman and chief executive officer, warned against
raising base salaries on Wall Street less than eight months
before his own more than tripled to $2 million.  Goldman Sachs prefers paying compensation in bonuses that
are contingent on the firm’s performance, rather than offering
guarantees or high salaries, Blankfein said in a June 16
interview with staff of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission ,
a  recording  of which was made public this month. On Jan. 28, the
New York-based firm disclosed it had raised salaries for
Blankfein and four other top executives that had been $600,000.  “Salary is another form of guarantee, so we would like low
salaries and high contingent comp,” Blankfein said in the
interview. “We think the world is going in a poor direction. We
think having high fixed salaries for people, or guarantees for
people and lower contingent comp actually is worse behavior.”  Goldman Sachs raised salaries after competitors including
Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. lifted base pay for
employees and executives. New U.S. rules on bank pay, approved
for public comment by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. on
Feb. 7, aim only at bonuses and leave salaries untouched.    Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for the company, declined to
comment on Blankfein’s remarks and the subsequent pay decision.  ‘Same for 20 Years’  Blankfein, who said in the June interview that “my
salary’s been the same for 20 years,” was awarded a $12.6
million stock bonus for 2010 in addition to the salary upgrade,
according to company filings on Jan. 28. The filings don’t show
any cash bonus that he might have received, which won’t be
public until the firm files a shareholder proxy in a few weeks.  On Jan. 28, the firm also disclosed that it raised base
salaries for Chief Financial Officer David Viniar, President  Gary Cohn , and Vice Chairmen J. Michael Evans and John S. Weinberg to $1.85 million each from $600,000 previously.  Goldman Sachs set a  Wall Street  pay record in 2007 when it
awarded Blankfein a $67.9 million bonus comprised of $26.8
million in cash and $41.1 million in restricted stock and
options.  Since 2000, Blankfein, 56, has received more than $125
million in cash bonuses on top of his salary and stock awards,
company filings show. As of March 8, 2010, Blankfein owned 3.37
million shares of Goldman Sachs stock, according to last year’s
proxy filing. That would be worth $549 million at yesterday’s
closing price of $162.94.  Blankfein said in the June interview that he was opposed to
a rule imposed by the Financial Services Authority in London
limiting how much of employees’ total compensation could be paid
as a bonus.  ‘Out of Whack’  “If we could do it, we would have their bonus be 100
percent of their comp,” Blankfein said. “And so we do
something different in  London  than we do here. We regard that as
subversion of our process. We don’t do that here, but we do it
there.”    Alan Johnson , president and founder of compensation
consulting firm Johnson Associates Inc. in New York, said he has
long advocated higher salaries on Wall Street.  “On Wall Street, many of these firms hadn’t increased
salaries in 10 years or longer, so they were out of whack,”
Johnson said in an interview.  Still, he said he worried that regulatory efforts to
restrict bonus payments may lead Wall Street firms to go too far
in raising base salaries.  “We may have a second and third wave of salary increases,
which will be detrimental, which will raise fixed costs, will
reduce the incentives for people to perform,” Johnson said.
“The first wave I think was long overdue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 