-- 
Bloomberg, MLB.com Launch Front Office 2011

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-23T17:09:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/bloomberg-mlb-com-launch-front-office-2011.html

Press Release  Streamlined Product, Added Features, Mobile Applications All
Part of 2011 Consumer Offering for Fantasy Baseball Enthusiasts
and Casual Fans of the Game    NEW YORK  -- Bloomberg L.P. and MLB.com today unveiled Front
Office 2011, a state of the art, comprehensive, easy to use,
online service for  fantasy baseball  players and fans.  Front
Office 2011 will contain added features, easier navigation tools
and the ability to integrate seamlessly with the major fantasy
game providers.  Starting today, baseball fans can access a 5-
day free trial for the product, which will cost $19.95 for the
season, available at MLB.com/Bloombergsports.  The Front Office suite of tools includes a dynamic fantasy draft
kit with constant updates throughout spring training injuries,
roster moves and other relevant developments that affect
decisions right up to the start of a player’s draft.  It also
includes Bloomberg’s proprietary, technology-based ranking
system tailored to each fantasy player’s league settings, and a
 Trade Analyzer  that will recommend trades as well as evaluate
proposed deals.  “We had a great start last year, and have added some great
improvements and new features for Front Office 2011,” said Bill
Squadron, head of Bloomberg Sports.  “Our unique  B-Rank
projections , continuously updated, will prepare both expert and
novice players for their draft like no other tools, and
throughout the season we will - every day - suggest free agents,
recommend lineup adjustments, and propose trades that will be
both fun and game-changing for fantasy players. We have worked
closely with our partners at MLB.com, to make ‘Front Office
2011’ the best fantasy tools ever.”  This year Bloomberg Sports Front Office 2011 adds new features
such as:  - Target Round will tell you the round in the draft that a
player should be picked.  This is specific to your fantasy
league, as the scoring system and number of teams help to
determine that player’s ideal placement in the draft.  - Fantasy Factors such as health, age, luck that may lead you to
choose one player over another.
- Lineup Manager that provides a list of suggested lineup moves
(who to move in/out of your starting lineup) intended to improve
your team’s performance that day.  - Free Agent Finder not only ranks all available players,
factoring in your league’s scoring system but will also suggest
players that best compliment your existing roster.  Front Office 2011 uses Bloomberg’s proprietary scientific
algorithms presented through a rich and interactive interface to
provide customized and prescriptive analysis and fantasy
recommendations from pre-draft straight through to the playoffs.
By focusing on creating a tighter integration with the major
fantasy providers, Bloomberg was able to create customized
rankings (B-Rank) to each user, regardless of league type.  Gone
are the days of the “one size fits all” ranking system, B-Rank
is flexible to support the standard 5 by 5 leagues or the most
esoteric 15 by 15 league that a fantasy commissioner can dream
up.  Front Office 2011 was designed with ease-of-use in mind by
 Roundarch , a leading design and development firm, and the input
of some of the biggest names in fantasy and professional
baseball.  “We continue to be proud of our partnership with Bloomberg
Sports, and feel that our collaboration on Front Office 2011
reflects the high quality our subscribers expect,” said Kenny
Gersh, Senior Vice President, Business Development, MLB.com.
“Front Office 2011 leverages our data and Bloomberg Sports’
analytic systems to provide fantasy players of all skill levels
the best tools in a cutting-edge format, ultimately delivering a
fun, easy-to-use product that gives them a competitive edge for
achieving fantasy baseball success.”  Fans may purchase Bloomberg Sports Front Office 2011 for $19.95.
The mobile version of the product will be available in early
March.  More details are available at MLB.com/Bloombergsports.  About Bloomberg Sports  Launched in 2010, Bloomberg Sports takes the technology
developed by Bloomberg, the leading global provider in data and
analytics, and applies them to the vast data analysis
opportunities in sports.  Working with MLB.com and NFL.com,
Bloomberg Sports fantasy products give fans the most powerful
easy to use resources as they draft and manage their fantasy
teams.  Additionally, Bloomberg Sports provides a professional
product that delivers  Major League Baseball  clubs with a secure,
virtually unlimited set of analytical functions to assist them
in personnel evaluation and game preparation.  For more details,
please visit  http://www.bloombergsports.com .  About Major League Baseball Advanced Media  Established in June 2000 following a unanimous vote by the 30
Major League Baseball club owners to centralize all of
Baseball’s Internet operations, MLB Advanced Media LP (MLBAM) is
the interactive media and internet company of Major League
Baseball. MLBAM manages the official league site, www.MLB.com,
and each of the 30 individual Club sites to create the most
comprehensive Major League Baseball resource on the Internet.
MLB.com offers fans the most complete baseball information and
interactivity on the web, including up-to-date statistics, game
previews and summaries, extensive historical information, online
ticket sales, baseball merchandise, authenticated memorabilia
and collectibles, fantasy games, live full-game video streaming
and on-demand highlights, live and archived audio broadcasts of
every game, mobile applications, Gameday pitch-by-pitch
application, around-the-clock hosted and specialty video
programming and complete blogging capabilities. MLB.com powers
more live events on the Internet than any other website in the
world.  Contact:  Silvia Alvarez, +1 212-617-3707,  salvarez13@bloomberg.net 
