-- 
Bloomberg Releases Comprehensive Islamic Finance Platform

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-23T22:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/bloomberg-releases-comprehensive-islamic-finance-platform.html

Press Release  Also launches AIBIM’s MYR Sukuk Index. ISLM platform increases
transparency and offers broadest set of Shariah-compliant data,
news and research    Kuala Lumpur , February 21, 2011 -- Bloomberg Professional®
service executives today announced the launch of a Bloomberg
Islamic Finance Platform (ISLM), a comprehensive solution
designed to increase transparency, better connect the community
and provide analytical tools to maximise  investment performance 
in the rapidly growing market for Shariah-compliant products and
services.  Bloomberg also announced, in cooperation with the Association of
Islamic Banking Institutions Malaysia (AIBIM), the launch of a
Malaysian Ringgit (MYR) sukuk index to provide a benchmark for
MYR sovereign sukuk investments.  “The Islamic marketplace is growing rapidly and there is high
demand for a wide range of resources,” Dan Doctoroff, President
of Bloomberg L.P, said from Kuala Lumpur. “Bloomberg is
delighted to increase its commitment to serve this dynamic
market, where we have nearly 20 years of experience in reporting
on Islamic financial news, in all regions and across multiple
asset classes.”  Gerard Francis, Bloomberg’s Global Head of Emerging Markets and
Islamic Finance, said: “Bloomberg’s Islamic Finance Platform
provides the most complete, customizable and innovative solution
available today. ISLM has the broadest set of  Islamic finance 
data, analytics and proprietary news, significantly increasing
market transparency.  ISLM will give investment professionals
the edge they need to make informed decisions and meet the
increasing demands of investors and regulators.”  The new Bloomberg ISLM platform has extensive resources for
investing in fixed income, equities and money markets that
comply with Shariah including:  -Sukuk- News coverage, analytics and search tools of more than
1,500 Islamic bond issues globally including fatwa endorsements
and structured diagrams of the financial instruments.  It also
includes credit ratings and searchable data on Islamic loans
globally.  -Equities & Funds - Screening of over 35,000 Shariah-compliant
stocks by prominent screening agencies. Database of more than
500 Islamic funds with ability to research and monitor debt,
commodities, equities and exchange traded funds (ETFs).  -Islamic Community Database - Providing full transparency into
more than 250 Shariah scholars with details on which sukuk they
have rated, boards they represent and their fatwa endorsements.
Also included is a listing of more than 70 Islamic banks and
profiles on all prominent Islamic institutions and regulators.  -Regional specific content - Carrying the Malaysia International
Islamic Financial Centre (MIFC) initiative’s content, developed
in collaboration with Bank Negara  Malaysia  and other MIFC
community members; providing insights on Shariah, MIFC business
opportunities and  key developments; and listing the more than
90 community members for  business connections.  The platform is integrated with the Bloomberg Professional®
service. It supports Bloomberg’s leading Order Management System
(OMS) and Asset and Investment Management system (AIM).  The Bloomberg AIBIM Bursa Malaysia Sovereign Shariah Index
(BMSSI) developed together with The Association of Islamic
Banking Institutions Malaysia (AIBIM), provides a benchmark of
performance for investors seeking exposure to Shariah-compliant
Malaysian Ringgit-denominated Sovereign Issuances. The BMSSI
will set a standard for increased transparency and provide
performance measures for Islamic markets.  “The MYR sukuk index developed with Bloomberg will become the
Islamic benchmark of choice for the Malaysian sukuk market and
help stimulate the growth, competitiveness and sustainability of
Islamic financial services,” says Dato’ Mohd Redza Shah Abdul
Wahid, President, AIBIM.  “With strategic partnerships and
collaborative efforts, we can build an extensive and innovative
leading-edge Islamic financial community that will succeed
globally and enhance international presence for Islamic products
and services.”  Sheikh Dr. Mohd Daud Bakar, Managing Director, Amanie Islamic
Finance Consultancy and Education, said:  “Islamic finance
represents important growth opportunities, and through the full
range of institutions and products available, contributes to the
expansion and intensity of the financial markets.  Islamic
products and services present feasible and competitive
alternatives to conventional methods of investment. They are
increasingly popular as financing and investment tools.”  “We are delighted to provide a unique solution for our
customers. Our product and service should not only benefit the
existing Islamic finance community, but potential new players in
this rapidly growing market,” says UAE-based Max Linnington,
Regional Head Middle East and  Africa , Bloomberg.  The announcement was made at Bloomberg client event in Kuala
Lumpur, where leading financial executives attended
presentations and panel discussion with Shariah Scholars,
Bloomberg Islamic Finance experts and Central Bank
representatives.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytic, data, news,
research, display and distribution capabilities, to deliver
critical information via the Bloomberg Professional® service and
multimedia platforms. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. For
more information go to www.bloomberg.com  About AIBIM  The Association of Islamic Banking Institutions Malaysia (AIBIM)
was established in 1995. AIBIM’s objectives, among others are to
foster the establishment and the conduct of sound Islamic
banking system and practices in Malaysia in cooperation and
consultation with  Bank Negara Malaysia  or other domestic
regulatory bodies, to promote and represent the interests of
members, to promote Islamic banking related education and
training programmes and to work in collaboration with other
similar associations worldwide.  Media Contacts:  Pam Snook, Bloomberg LP, +1 212-617-7652,  pamsnook@bloomberg.net   Sophie Fischman, Cognito Media-US, +1 646 395 6300,
 Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com   Stuart Macaulay, Cognito Media-EMEA, +44 20 7438 1100,
 BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com   Anne Karumo, Cognito Media-APAC, +65 811 264 09,
 BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com   Chuma Goodwin - Dubai, Tamra C2 for Bloomberg, +9714 295 11 77,
 chuma@tamra-c2.com   #<761373.6922700.2.1.69.30975.2660>#
-0- Feb/23/2011 22:05 GMT
 