-- 
BOJ Yamaguchi Cautious on Economic Outlook Due to Deflation

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-02-23T07:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/boj-s-yamaguchi-cautious-on-japan-outlook-as-deflation-weighs-on-recovery.html
  Bank of Japan  Deputy Governor
Hirohide Yamaguchi said while he’s optimistic about the nation’s
economy in the short term, he’s cautious in the long run because
of the difficulty of overcoming deflation.  “Japan’s economy appears to be getting out of the pause for
the time being, and on the price front, the deflationary
situation is improving,” Yamaguchi said today in a speech to
business leaders in Aomori in northern Japan. Still, “there will
be twists and turns until overcoming deflation is in sight.”  The Bank of Japan this month raised its assessment of the
economy for the first time in nine months, saying that
accelerating overseas growth spurred exports and production.
Even as the central bank’s economic view improves, it will
probably keep  interest rates  near zero until 2013 to try to
spark moderate inflation, according to forecasts by 12 of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month.  “The BOJ made a small upgrade to its assessment, but there
are still uncertainties about the economy’s outlook and the road
to overcome deflation remains bumpy,” said Maiko Noguchi, an
economist at Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo, before the
speech. “The BOJ will probably refrain from raising rates at
least until late 2012.”  The central bank left its key interest rate between zero
and 0.1 percent and kept the size of an asset-buying program at
5 trillion yen ($60.5 billion) at a regular policy meeting on
Feb. 15. It has pledged to maintain the policy until the end of
persistent price declines is in sight.  Passed By  China   Japan’s gross domestic product contracted in the fourth
quarter and the nation was overtaken last year by China as the
second-biggest economy. Nomura Securities Co., Japan’s largest
brokerage, upgraded its forecast for the nation’s economic
growth to 1.5 percent from 1.2 percent in the year starting
April, saying last week that increasing exports will start
lifting domestic demand.  The domestic economy will likely emerge from a lull in the
spring, Yamaguchi said. Japan’s spring season starts in about a
month.  Risks for growth include any fallout from overheating in
emerging economies and resource-exporting countries, the
uncertain outlook for the U.S. and  Europe , and the impact of
rising commodity prices, he said.  Commodity Prices  “Amid uncertainty about the Middle East, attention should
be paid to how international commodity prices will develop and
how those developments will specifically affect economic
activity and prices both in advanced and emerging economies,”
Yamaguchi said.  Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.4
percent in December from a year before, the slowest decline
since 2009.  Yamaguchi said a government review of the  consumer price
index  in August will likely lead to a downward revision in the
price data.  The government revises the index every five years to
reflect current price trends and analysts say recent price
declines of flat panel televisions and laptop computers will
drag down the revised data.  No Forecast Change  Speaking at a press conference later in the day, Yamaguchi
said rising commodity costs may hurt Japan’s terms of trade and
cause the country’s income to flow abroad.  Still, commodity-price gains may also suggest robust demand
from emerging economies, and the BOJ sees no immediate need to
revise its January forecasts of economic growth and prices, he
said.  The recent gain of the yen has helped offset upward pressure
on prices from rising oil costs, Yamaguchi said.  “We must judge  oil prices , foreign-exchange rates and the
economy’s demand and supply as a whole,” to predict Japan’s
consumer-price trend, he said.  He also said Japan’s bond yields haven’t been affected much
by Moody’s Investors Service’s decision yesterday to lower
Japan’s debt rating outlook to negative. Even so, Japan must
come up with measures to stop the expansion of debt “as soon as
possible,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo
  at  motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at  