-- 
Brazil Should Curb Real to Beat ‘Dutch Disease’

-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-02-23T11:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/brazil-should-curb-real-to-overcome-dutch-disease-effect-barclays-says.html
(Corrects name in second paragraph.)  Brazil’s economy has recovered from
the global economic crisis and needs to combat the onset of
“Dutch disease” that may blunt its growth, according to  Barclays Plc .    South America ’s largest economy is showing early symptoms
of the ailment, with industrial output unchanged since the start
of the year and net exports contracting on an inflation-adjusted
basis, according to Marcelo Figueiredo Salomon, New-York based
chief economist for Brazil at Barclays Plc.  The term “Dutch disease”  was coined by  The Economist 
magazine to describe a surge in income from new natural-gas
fields in the Netherlands during the 1960s that triggered a
currency gain and eroded other exporters’ earnings.  A strengthening real would negatively affect the Brazilian
economy and needed to be restrained, said Salomon, who spoke
yesterday in Tokyo. Brazil’s efforts at holding the currency at
around 1.65 to the dollar were feasible, he said.  The real rose to as high as 1.6435 per dollar on Jan. 3, a
level last reached in September 2008. In the past two months,
the currency traded in a range of around 1.65 real to 1.7 and
will remain there at the end of June and December, according to
the median forecast of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation, as measured by the benchmark IPCA price index,
rose 0.97 percent in the month through mid-February, pushing the
annual rate to 6.08 percent, the national statistics agency said
yesterday on its website. The rate quickened to the fastest pace
in almost eight years.  Brazil ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate to 11.25 percent last month, the highest
since March 2009.  With translation by Taku Kato in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the translator on the story:
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net  