-- 
Brown Voids Schwarzenegger Appointments to California Teacher Pension Fund

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/brown-voids-schwarzenegger-appointments-to-california-teacher-pension-fund.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  has
rescinded two appointments to the state teachers’ retirement
fund, the second-largest U.S. public pension, made by his
predecessor,  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  Brown, a Democrat, revoked the nominations of Steven Kram
and Cameron Percy to the California State Teachers’ Retirement
System on Feb. 18, a spokesman for the governor, Evan Westrup,
said in an interview yesterday. The two were appointed Dec. 30
by Schwarzenegger, a Republican who left office Jan. 3 because
of  term limits .  Calstrs, as the fund is known, earned a 12.7 percent return
last year, bringing its asset value to $146.4 billion. The fund
that provides benefits for 833,000 public school and community
college teachers has said it plans to ask lawmakers for an
increase of as much as 14 percent to what the state and school
districts already pay toward employee retirement benefits.  “These appointees served at the pleasure of the governor,
and their services were no longer required,” Westrup said in a
telephone interview.  Percy, 26, was one of five graduate students who co-wrote
an April 2010  study  that said California’s biggest public
pension funds are as much as $400 billion short of meeting
future benefits promised to retirees.  Stanford Report  The report, by the  Stanford Institute for Economic Policy
Research , said the funds understated their liabilities by using
projected rates of return that don’t properly account for  investment risk . Schwarzenegger, a Republican critical of
public-pension costs, commissioned the study.  Kram, 54, chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based
 Content Partners LLC , was chief operating officer for William
Morris Agency, the talent-management company, from 1988 to 2005,
according to a December announcement.  Schwarzenegger also appointed his long-time economic
adviser,  David Crane , to the California Board of Regents, a
governing board for the  University of California  system. Crane
led Schwarzenegger’s effort to roll back pension benefits for
public workers and has criticized the way California accounts
for the cost of future benefits.  Westrup said Crane’s appointment had not been rescinded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  