-- 
California Republicans Propose Curbs on Public Pension Costs

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/californian-republican-lawmakers-seek-to-restrain-public-worker-pensions.html
  California  government unions would
lose the power to negotiate pension benefits and new employees
would be forced into defined-contribution plans under measures
proposed by two Republican lawmakers from Orange County who seek
to rein in the state’s spiraling personnel costs.  Traditional pensions would be eliminated for newly hired
state workers in one bill offered by Senator Mimi Walters of
Laguna Niguel. Fellow Republican Allan Mansoor, an Assembly
member from Costa Mesa,  proposed  an end to collective bargaining
for retirement benefits.  “Our pension systems are massively underfunded and
unsustainable,” Walters, 48, said in a  statement . “We must act
now to ensure that our state employees can effectively plan for
their retirement,” she said.  The measures touch on themes that have spurred
demonstrations in  Wisconsin , Ohio and  Indiana  as government
unions protest moves to limit their power and raise costs for
their members. Pension payments and retiree benefits cost
California taxpayers $5 billion a year, up from $1 billion in
fiscal 1999, according to one of Walters’s bills. It projects
those costs to jump to $15 billion annually in a decade.  The cornerstone of her pension proposals is  a bill  to
replace traditional defined-benefit pension plans with 401(k)-
style retirement funds for new government workers, Walters said.
“We must first stop the bleeding, which is why it is crucial
that we establish a viable defined-contribution plan for new
employees,” she said.  Since he hadn’t seen the bills from Walters and Mansoor,
Jim Zamora, a spokesman for  Service Employees International
Union  Local 1000, said he couldn’t comment when reached by
telephone. The union is the state’s largest for government
workers, with about 95,000 members.  First Step  Taking unions out of the process of negotiating pension
benefits is the first step toward broader changes to control
costs, Mansoor, 46, said by telephone. The former  Costa Mesa 
mayor said his bill is narrower in scope than those in Ohio and
Wisconsin, which would do more to limit union power.  “I’ve been trying to address pension benefits for quite a
while,” Mansoor said. “It’s a huge part of our  budget deficit 
here in California. I appreciate what public employees do, but
we’ve gotten locked into these unaccountable costs.”  Walters and Mansoor introduced their pension-related bills
last week, just ahead of a deadline to be considered in the
current legislative session. Another measure she proposed would
raise the minimum  retirement age  to 55 from 50 for police and
firefighters.  Earlier Attempt  Former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican,
withdrew a proposed ballot measure in 2005 that would have set
up defined-contribution pension plans for government workers
after an outcry from police and firefighters. Democrats control
both legislative chambers in California and Schwarzenegger was
replaced by Democrat  Jerry Brown , a former governor who approved
collective bargaining for state employees in 1976.  During a press briefing Feb. 18, Brown showed little
interest in limiting government unions’ negotiating power as he
grapples with a projected deficit of about $25 billion through
June 2012.  “I hope in California that we can demonstrate that both
management and working people in the public sector can rise to
the occasion and do what’s in the public interest,” Brown told
reporters who gathered in his Sacramento office.  “I don’t think we have to go the route of eliminating
participation,” Brown said. “I think in a democracy you want
more participation, not less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 