-- 
California Lawmaker Says Vote on Brown Budget May Come as Soon as March 4

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-02-23T19:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/california-lawmaker-says-vote-on-brown-budget-may-come-as-soon-as-march-4.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
proposal to erase a $25 billion deficit could come before the
full Legislature for a vote by March 4, the head of a joint
conference committee said.  The panel, made up of members from the Assembly and the
Senate, both controlled by Democrats, began meeting today to
reconcile changes each chamber made in Brown’s proposed budget
to produce a unified spending plan.  “I hope to resolve the issues before us in the next six
days so that the budget package can be considered on the floor
as early as the end of next week,” said the committee chairman,
Assemblyman Bob Blumenfield, a Democrat from the San Fernando
Valley.  Brown, a 72-year-old Democrat, has vowed to fix the
financial strains leaving  California  with the biggest deficit of
all U.S. states, and the lowest  credit rating . He proposes $12
billion of spending reductions and wants lawmakers to call a
special election in June for voter permission to extend almost
$10 billion in higher vehicle fees, sales taxes and income-tax
rates for five years, to avoid even deeper cuts.  Brown has said wants the budget and the companion special
election measure approved by March 10 to give election officials
time needed to prepare the ballot. The Legislature has a
constitutional deadline of  June 15  to send the governor a
budget. Last year’s budget was passed a record 100 days late.  Republican Opposition  The ballot measure would ask voters to extend fee and tax
increases that were approved in 2009 when the state faced a $42
billion deficit. Republican lawmakers, whose votes will be
needed to obtain a two-thirds vote required to put the measure
on the ballot, oppose the plan.  If approved, it would retain a 0.25 percentage-point
increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-point
boost in the retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an increase
in the rate for auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage point,
to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and reduction of the
state’s child tax credit to $99 from $309.  Brown would use sales-tax and vehicle-license fee revenue
to fund a $5.9 billion shift of public-safety and welfare
programs such as parole and foster care to local governments.
The amount would increase to $7.3 billion by 2015. The income-  tax revenue  would finance $3.3 billion for education, increasing
to $5.2 billion by 2015.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  