-- 
Cameron Says Some Middle East Rulers Use Issue of Israel as a Distraction

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-02-23T16:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/cameron-says-some-middle-east-rulers-use-issue-of-israel-as-a-distraction.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
told students in Qatar that some Middle Eastern rulers were
using the Israel-Palestine conflict as a distraction from their
own oppressive regimes.  “In too many countries in the Middle East, some rulers say
to their people ‘be angry about that, don’t be angry about the
fact that you live in a non-open society,’” Cameron told his
audience at  Qatar University  in the capital, Doha, today after
taking a series of questions on  Israel .  The prime minister is on a tour of the region that has so
far taken in  Egypt  and Kuwait. In both countries he said rulers
in the Middle East and North Africa should respond to the waves
of protest by offering more economic and political openness.
He’s also pushing the European Union to tie its aid program to
commitments on greater democracy.  Tomorrow he will record an interview with the YouTube
website and  Al Jazeera television , a forum that allows him to
bypass state media in the region. He’ll take questions submitted
over the Internet. More than 10,000 had been put forward as of
yesterday.  Describing himself to the students as “a liberal
Conservative, not a neo-conservative,” Cameron said he didn’t
believe it was Britain’s role to “point our finger and say this
leader has to go and that leader has to go.”  ‘Cautious Optimism’  In a speech yesterday to  Kuwait ’s parliament, Cameron said
he saw grounds for “cautious optimism” in the political
protest that is sweeping the region from  Algeria  to the  Persian
Gulf . He said political and economic change are essential for
stability.  The prime minister used his speech to tell his audience
they should welcome the demonstrations springing up across the
region. He said young people, protesting “peacefully and
bravely,” are showing that there were other alternatives than
“repression and extremism.”  Two days ago, Cameron became the first Western leader to
visit Egypt since President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted on Feb. 11.
He urged the country’s new military rulers to bring opposition
leaders into the government and end a state of emergency to
demonstrate their desire to move toward democracy.  At Qatar University today, Cameron condemned attempts by
the Libyan leader,  Muammar Qaddafi , to use force to crush an
uprising against his rule.  “We should send a very clear warning to Colonel Qaddafi
and to the Libyan armed forces that what they’re doing is
against the law,” the prime minister said.  Future aid to the region must be conditional on more
political openness, Cameron said at a press conference in Doha
today.    Europe  has given a huge amount to these countries. It
hasn’t really insisted on proper conditions,” Cameron said.
“We have seen far too much money disappearing into a great
big black hole. This is a wake-up call for the European Union to
look at the aid that it gives. It’s not acceptable that this
money has gone and no particular reform has happened in
return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Doha, Qatar, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  