-- 
Canada Fourth Quarter Financial Statistics Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-23T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/canada-fourth-quarter-financial-statistics-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's financial statistics report for the fourth
quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian corporations earned $65.5 billion in operating
profits in the fourth quarter, up 7.9% from the previous
quarter. Increases were widespread across the economy, as
19 of 22 industries reported higher profits.  In the non-financial sector, profits increased 7.3% to
$49.6 billion, while in the financial sector profits rose
9.5% to $15.9 billion.  In the non-financial sector, three industries
(manufacturing, primarily petroleum and coal
manufacturers; oil and gas extraction; and mining)
accounted for the majority of the $3.4 billion quarterly
gain in profits. In the financial sector, the growth was
led by insurance carriers and related activities.
Depository credit intermediaries, mainly chartered banks,
also posted gains.  On a year-over-year basis, operating profits for all
industries were 9.0% higher in the fourth quarter compared
with the fourth quarter of 2009. In the non-financial
sector, profits were 15.3% higher, while they were 7.0%
lower in the financial sector.
Non-financial sector: Growth in manufacturing and oil and
gas  Profits in the manufacturing industry rose 15.3% to
$12.9 billion in the fourth quarter, mostly on the
strength of petroleum and coal products manufacturers,
where profits rose 55.4% to $3.7 billion compared with the
third quarter.  Profits for chemicals, plastics and rubber
manufacturers rose 16.6% to $1.8 billion, while profits of
primary metal manufacturers increased 20.0% to $1.2
billion.  Profits for the oil and gas industry were up 23.3% to
$3.8 billion in the fourth quarter compared with the
previous quarter. Much of this gain came from higher  oil
prices  and greater sales volumes. It was the second
consecutive quarter of growth in oil and gas.  The  mining industry  reported $2.3 billion in profits in
the fourth quarter, up 21.9% from the previous quarter. A
combination of strong commodity markets and rapid growth
in demand from emerging markets contributed to this
growth.  Financial sector: Profits increase after three quarters of
decline  The fourth quarter increase in profits in the financial
sector follows three consecutive quarters of decline.  Most of the fourth quarter growth came from the
insurance carriers and related activities industry, where
profits more than doubled to $1.2 billion. This gain was
led by life insurers.  Profits in the depository credit intermediation
industry, mainly chartered banks, increased 5.6% to $7.3
billion.  Note to readers  Quarterly profit numbers referred to in this release
are seasonally adjusted and are in current dollars. The
quarterly financial estimates for the first three quarters
of 2010 have been revised.  Quarterly financial statistics for enterprises are
based upon a sample survey and represent the activities of
all corporations in  Canada , except those that are
government controlled or not-for-profit. An enterprise can
be a single corporation or a family of corporations under
common ownership and/or control, for which consolidated
financial statements are produced.  Profits referred to in this analysis are operating
profits earned from normal business activities. For non-
financial industries, operating profits exclude interest
and dividend revenue and capital gains/losses whereas for
financial industries, these are included along with
interest paid on deposits.  Operating profits differ from net profits, which
represent the after tax profits earned by corporations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  