-- 
Canadian Bank Profits May Rise on Mortgage, Credit-Card Fees

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k ,   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/canadian-first-quarter-bank-profits-may-rise-on-mortgage-credit-card-fees.html
Canadian banks, ranked the world’s
soundest for three straight years by the  World Economic Forum ,
may report higher first-quarter profit on rising fees from
mortgages and credit cards and fewer bad loans.  Profit will increase an average of 14 percent in the
quarter that ended Jan. 31, according to Andre-Philippe Hardy,
an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets . Hardy expects provisions for
credit losses to drop 27 percent from the year-earlier period.  Canada’s economic growth rate is expected to accelerate to
3 percent in the second half of the year, driving bank earnings
higher.  Consumer-banking  fees will cushion a slowdown in trading
and other investment-banking revenue, Hardy said. The lenders
begin reporting results tomorrow, starting with Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce and  National Bank of Canada .  “All the evidence quantitatively says the banks should do
well,” said Tony Demarin, chief investment officer at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba. “The debt level is not a
scary story, given that the economy continues to show growth.”  The profit outlook has pushed Canadian bank shares higher,
with  Toronto-Dominion Bank , Bank of Nova Scotia, and National
Bank touching records this month.  Hardy, ranked the top Canadian bank analyst last year by
Brendan Wood International, expects “slowing but still-solid
growth,” as banks such as Toronto-Dominion come off record
profit levels for  consumer lending .  TD Dividend  “We’ve had pretty phenomenal growth rates,” in domestic
consumer banking, Toronto-Dominion Chief Executive Officer
Edmund Clark said in a Feb. 1 interview. “What we’ve said is
that they’re going to come down, but we’re still going to have
very good, solid profit growth.”  Toronto-Dominion may also increase its quarterly dividend
for the first time in more than two years, according to at least
eight bank analysts. The country’s second-largest bank by assets
may boost its payout 3 cents to 64 cents a share, according to
the Bloomberg Dividend Forecast.  Personal credit lines increased by 8 percent in December,
the slowest pace since February 2001, according to Bank of  Canada  statistics.  Mark Carney , the country’s central bank
governor, has been encouraging households to cut debt levels,
which surpassed the U.S. for the first time in 12 years.  Mortgage volume climbed 8.7 percent in December compared
with the year-earlier period, according to  Bank of Canada  data,
while credit card volume rose 6.5 percent. Those segments
represent about two-thirds of Canadian lending.  “Canadians today can manage current debt levels, because
if you look at debt servicing capability we’re in actually very
good shape,”  Royal Bank of Canada  CEO Gordon Nixon said in a
Feb. 11 interview in Toronto. “We’re still able to manage it as
long as we don’t get a massive spike in  interest rates .”  CIBC, National Bank  CIBC and National Bank, the country’s fifth- and sixth-
largest banks, are scheduled to report results tomorrow morning.
CIBC, based in Toronto, is expected to have profit before one-
time items of C$1.88 a share, according to Hardy, a 14 percent
increase. National Bank, based in  Montreal , is expected to
report earnings of C$1.62 a share, 4.5 percent higher than a
year earlier, Hardy said.    Bank of Montreal , the country’s fourth-largest bank, may
report profit of C$1.31 a share when it release results March 1.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender, is expected to earn
C$1 a share, according to the average estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Toronto-Dominion will report
earnings of C$1.54 a share, a 3.8 percent decline, according to
Hardy. Both banks release results on March 3.    Bank of Nova Scotia  may earn C$1.08 a share, compared with
93 cents a year ago, said Hardy. The bank reports on March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 