-- 
EU Speeds Up Work on Carbon-Market Oversight After Thefts

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-02-23T19:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/carbon-market-oversight-work-speeds-up-in-european-union-after-thefts.html
The European Union will speed up
work on protecting the world’s biggest carbon market from fraud
and will discuss with emitters and traders next month how to
handle allowances stolen in computer-hacking attacks.  The European Commission discussed proposals to “strengthen
the integrity” of the EU emissions market at a meeting with
member states in Brussels today and one option on the table was
extending the bloc’s financial-markets regulations to include
spot trading. The efforts to tighten oversight come after
hackers roiled the market in the past months, illegally
transferring from national registries around 60 million euros
($82.4 million) of permits.  “The commission has identified a range of actions that
member states can already take in the short term to further
improve security, for example by regularly reviewing security
plans, by reinforcing registry account policies and identity
checks,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in a
 statement  today.  The commission said it will shortly propose a modification
to the EU regulation on national registries that keep tabs on
pollution permits “to give a stronger legal basis for measures
to protect the integrity of the carbon market and uphold the
reputation” of the bloc’s emissions trading system.  Broad Terms  “Member states welcomed in broad terms the proposals by
the commission for enhanced registry security measures as a
basis for the further discussions,” the EU executive said after
the meeting. “At the same time several emphasized the need for
striking the right balance between enhanced security
requirements and the administrative costs for authorities and
market participants.”  The commission imposed a suspension on all 30 registries in  Europe  on Jan. 19 after reports from companies and national
authorities that hackers had illegally transferred about 32
million euros of permits from  Austria , the Czech Republic and  Greece . It has allowed 10 of the carbon centers to reopen; the
remaining 20 yet have to present independent reports showing
they meet the minimum security requirements.  Suspended registries can’t record transactions, except for
the surrender and allocation of permits. That prevents account
holders from selling or buying permits for spot delivery and
drove spot carbon markets to a halt for 15 days before the
BlueNext SA exchange resumed earlier this month.  Energy Exchange  Spot trading on the ICE Futures Europe, the biggest energy
exchange in Europe, is still frozen, even as registries in  France ,  Germany , the Netherlands,  Portugal , Slovakia,  Spain  and
the U.K. have reopened in the past weeks. Those in Belgium,
Estonia and Luxembourg are to resume full operations tomorrow.  European spot trading accounts for 10 percent to 15 percent
of the region’s carbon market, according to the EU estimates.
Trading in futures wasn’t halted by the crisis, and allowances
for December lost 0.4 percent to 15.29 euros in  London  on ICE.  Hedegaard said earlier this month that the commission was
mulling a “delay mechanism” to protect it from speculation and
crime. The commission and member states will discuss introducing
a 48-hour delay on delivery of spot carbon allowances, a person
with knowledge of the matter said today.  The mechanism will provide extra time for the transfer of
permits between user accounts in the registries that track
ownership of the allowances, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the consultations are private.  Carbon Derivatives  An analysis by the EU regulator in December showed that
while trading in carbon derivatives already falls under
financial-markets regulation and is subject to appropriate
oversight, the regime for spot trading requires further
examination. One available option was the classification of
carbon allowances as a financial instrument, it said.  The commission “will intensify work to make the European
carbon market subject to appropriate financial-markets
legislation,” it said today. “The commission will bring
forward and shortly initiate a public consultation on enhanced
carbon-market oversight.”  Last month’s attacks on the EU carbon market followed
“carousel fraud” involving value-added tax collection and
password “phishing” last year. Holcim Ltd., a Swiss cement
maker, reported 1.6 million permits missing from its account in
November and managed to track 600,000 of them. Italian energy
trader TCIE Srl, operating under the name The Cube Energy, still
hasn’t found around 268,000 allowances that disappeared from the
registry last month.  Missing Allowances  Both TCIE and Holcim are suing the commission, demanding
help in locating the missing allowances and seeking as much as
100,000 euros a day in penalty payments.  Some member states and firms neglected security rules,  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at the commission, said on
Jan. 28. Organized crime may be responsible for the theft, and
national authorities are working with Europol to catch the
criminals, he said.  Still, even as the three countries attacked by hackers in
January managed to locate some of the missing permits, legal
questions about how to prevent recirculation of the stolen
allowances and how to recover them are keeping investors away
from spot trading. The EU has said the recovery of any
allowances transferred illegally has not been harmonized in the
27-nation bloc and is a matter for national law and local
enforcement authorities.  “The topics to be discussed at a meeting next month will
include how to deal with stolen allowances and how to prevent
thefts in the future,” said Isaac Valero-Ladron, EU climate
spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  