-- 
Carmelo Anthony Improves Knicks' Championship Prospects, Stoudemire Says

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-23T14:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/carmelo-anthony-improves-knicks-championship-prospects-stoudemire-says.html
Amar’e Stoudemire said he’s
expecting an “electric” atmosphere at Madison Square Garden
when he plays alongside new teammate Carmelo Anthony, perhaps as
soon as tonight.  The  New York Knicks  acquired Anthony from the  Denver
Nuggets  as the central figure in a three-team trade completed
yesterday that involved 13 players, three draft picks and a $3
million payment.  The All-Star forward has averaged almost 25 points a game
for his career and gives the Knicks two of the top six scorers
this season in the  National Basketball Association . Stoudemire
is tied for second in the NBA at 26.1 points a game in his first
season with the Knicks.  “Our goal when I signed with New York was to build a
championship team and that’s where we’re headed,” Stoudemire
told reporters after practice yesterday.  The Knicks are sixth in the Eastern Conference with a 28-26
record and are pursuing their first winning season since 2000-
01. Even with their on-court struggles, the team is worth $655
million, the most in the NBA, according to Forbes magazine. It’s
$64 million in operating profit also leads the league. The
Knicks are owned by Madison Square Garden Inc., which was spun
off from New York-area cable-television provider Cablevision
Systems Corp., last year.  Anthony, 26, could be in a Knicks uniform -- No. 7 instead
of his usual No. 15 -- for tonight’s game against the  Milwaukee
Bucks  if he passes medical exams required as part of the trade.
Ticket prices on the secondary market tripled in anticipation of
Anthony’s possible debut.  ‘Electric’ Garden  “It’s going to be electric,” said a smiling Stoudemire,
adding that Madison Square Garden will draw comparisons to the
home of the  Los Angeles Lakers . “It’s the new Staples Center
because L.A. is known for having all the stars there. I think
New York is now going to take over the stardom stage.”  To get Anthony, New York traded  Wilson Chandler ,  Raymond Felton , Danilo Gallinari and Timofey Mozgov to land Anthony.
They also add a veteran point guard in 34-year-old Chauncey Billups, along with Shelden Williams, Anthony Carter and Renaldo Balkman from the Nuggets and Corey Brewer from the Minnesota
Timberwolves. Balkman started his NBA career with the Knicks,
playing two seasons in New York before being traded to Denver in
July 2008.  “There’s not many times in this league you can get a 26-
year-old superstar in his prime,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni 
said at a news conference. “You have to give up something to do
that, and we did, but we’re real excited about what we have and
where we can go.”  Odds Lower  After the trade, Las Vegas Sports Consultants lowered the
Knicks’ odds of winning the NBA championship to 15-1 from 20-1,
eighth best among the league’s 30 teams. New York has compiled a
173-319 record over the past six complete seasons, including a
29-53 mark last year before signing Stoudemire.  “On the surface, from the bettors’ viewpoint, it looks
like they’re better,” Las Vegas Sports Consultants senior
oddsmaker Mike Seba said in a telephone interview. “But from a
pure handicapping standpoint, they’re probably a little bit
better, but not very much better.”  Stoudemire, cautioning that it takes time to build
chemistry with new teammates, said Anthony and Billups are
veteran players who should quickly adjust to the up-tempo
offense run by D’Antoni.  Better Defense  “It’s a matter of being able to play within the flow of
the offense and you want to get the other guys involved as
well,” Stoudemire said. “Offensively we’re very talented, but
the challenge is for us to get better defensively, too.”  Hall of Fame player Charles Barkley said that, even with
Anthony, the Knicks aren’t among the elite teams in the East.  The Miami Heat, behind  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris
Bosh , have the most wins in the conference at 41-15, followed by
the  Boston Celtics  (40-14), Chicago Bulls (38-16) and  Orlando
Magic  (36-21).  “They’re better with Carmelo, because he’s a terrific
player, but they’re not one of the four best teams in the
East,” Barkley, an NBA TV analyst, said on the league’s
website. “They’re not a contender right now. Everything hinges
on what point guard they can get -- whether it’s Chris Paul or
Deron Williams -- in the next couple years.”  Paul, of the  New Orleans Hornets , and Williams, of the  Utah
Jazz , are All-Stars who could become free agents after next
season.  Stoudemire, who came to  New York  in July after eight years
with the  Phoenix Suns , declined to comment yesterday when asked
about Paul eventually joining the Knicks. The team has made one
playoff trip since 2001, when their run of 14 straight
postseason appearances ended.  “The plan is in motion,” Stoudemire said. “We are taking
the right steps toward building something special here. It’s
been a long time coming, and the Knicks are back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  