-- 
CBOE’s Grip on S&P 500, VIX May Lure Bids After Board Talks

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-02-24T21:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/cboe-management-said-to-tell-board-u-s-options-exchange-is-open-to-deals.html
  CBOE Holdings Inc .’s monopoly on two
of the most popular U.S. equity derivatives may make it too
attractive to pass up as exchange mergers accelerate.  Executives at CBOE told directors on Feb. 8 that they are
open to strategic partnerships, a person with direct knowledge
of the discussion said yesterday. A buyer would get a company
with exclusive rights to options on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and  Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, the third and ninth most-traded U.S. contracts last year.  The Chicago-based company handled 29 percent of U.S.
trading in 2010, according to data compiled by Options Clearing
Corp.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc ., based in  New York , handled 25
percent on two markets. The proposed combination of  New York- 
based NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse AG  of  Frankfurt  would
top them with 43 percent by combining NYSE Amex Options and NYSE
Arca Options with the  International Securities Exchange .  “What CBOE offers to a potential bidder are their
proprietary products, large revenue generation and a unique
place in the industry,” said Peter Bottini, executive vice
president for trading and customer services at OptionsXpress
Holdings Inc. in Chicago. Assuming Chicago-based  CME Group Inc .,
the world’s largest futures exchange, isn’t interested, “Nasdaq
is probably the most likely suitor for the CBOE. They’re very
competitive with NYSE and very energized to do a deal.”  Market Share  Nasdaq OMX’s market share grew to 27 percent in January,
while CBOE’s fell to 28 percent, data from Chicago-based OCC
show.  NYSE Euronext  had a total of 24 percent in 2010.  Eric Frait, CBOE’s vice president of strategic planning,
led the Feb. 8 presentation to the company’s board, according to
the person, who asked not to be named because the talks are
private. While CBOE wants to operate on its own, the changing
competitive landscape could make that difficult and a deal may
be needed, Frait told the directors, according to the person.  CBOE rallied as much as 5.1 percent yesterday as investors
bet the company may be a takeover candidate. The shares gained
4.3 percent to $27.52 as of 4 p.m. in New York today. They have
advanced 12 percent since  Deutsche Boerse  said Feb. 9 it was
negotiating to acquire NYSE Euronext.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William Brodsky said
in a July interview that the company can grow without a partner.
A person who answered the telephone in Frait’s office yesterday
said he wasn’t available. Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for CBOE,
declined to comment on the discussions.  ‘Natural Target’  “As exchanges look to diversify and grow in derivatives,
CBOE is a natural target,” said Rich Repetto, a New York-based
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP who has a “hold”
rating on the stock. “They’re a major player in options and
often looked at as a consolidation candidate because they focus
only on options and they control some very important indexes and
proprietary products.”  The Feb. 8 presentation wasn’t out of the ordinary for CBOE
and echoed strategic options that Brodsky had previously
commented on in public, according to another person who attended
the meeting. The Wall Street Journal first reported the CBOE
discussions.  While options trading is increasingly competitive, the
company’s market benefits from its exclusive contracts and from
its floor traders, “who make CBOE a great place to arrange large
trades,”  Ed Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New
York, said in an e-mail. “It is still, by far, the big cat in
the industry.”  More Than NYSE,  Nasdaq   The company accounted for 38 percent of industry revenue
during the fourth quarter, more than NYSE’s Arca and Amex
markets and Nasdaq’s PHLX and Nasdaq Options Market exchanges
combined, Ditmire said.  CBOE fell 10 percent through Feb. 22 since the company’s
initial public offering in June. That’s the biggest drop among
23 stocks in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index. Nymex Holdings
Inc., CBOT Holdings Inc. and International Securities Exchange
Holdings Inc. were bought within three years of their offerings.
There have been $100 billion in completed industry takeovers
since January 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Speculation that CBOE may be purchased follows Deutsche
Boerse’s Feb. 15 agreement to buy NYSE Euronext for $9.53
billion, creating the world’s largest exchange operator.  Singapore Exchange Ltd . bid A$8.35 billion ($8.39 billion) in
October for  ASX Ltd ., which runs the Australian stock market,
and London Stock Exchange Group agreed Feb. 9 to pay 1.94
billion pounds ($3.15 billion) to buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc .  “The strategy of the day is eat or be eaten,” said  Andy Nybo , head of derivatives at research firm Tabb Group LLC in New
York. “Exchanges are being pressured by competitors and
shareholders to provide an indication of strategy with respect
to future growth and direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 