-- 
Centrica Agrees $3.25 Billion Deal With Qatar for LNG Supply to Britain

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-02-23T13:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/centrica-agrees-3-25-billion-gas-deal-with-qatar-for-lng.html
  Centrica Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
energy supplier, agreed a 2-billion pound ($3.25 billion) deal
with Qatar to deliver liquefied natural gas to the U.K. as the
country seeks to replace dwindling North Sea reserves.  The three-year contract with Qatar Liquefied Gas Co. to
deliver 2.4 million metric tons of gas every year will meet
about 10 percent of Britain’s annual residential demand,
Windsor, England-based Centrica said in a statement today.  Britain,  Europe ’s biggest gas consumer and the world’s
fastest-growing major gas importer, is booking more seaborne
imports of the fuel from the Middle East,  Africa  and the
Caribbean as North Sea production declines. The country is
seeking to contract supplies in multiyear deals to shield
customers from price volatility.  “This is the first step; if this arrangement is
successful, I expect that this will lead to a longer term
arrangement,” Centrica Chief Executive Officer Sam Laidlaw
said, speaking to reporters in Doha, Qatar. An ideal long-term
contract would be for 10 years or more, Managing Director Mark Hanafin said on a conference call with journalists.  Qatar accounts for about 15 percent of proven world gas
reserves, ranking third behind Russia and  Iran . In 2010, 15
percent of the U.K.’s natural gas was supplied by Qatar,
Centrica said in the statement. By 2025, LNG may account for as
much as 50 percent of the country’s total supplies.  “This is an important step towards greater energy security
for Britain,” British Prime Minister  David Cameron  said at a
press conference today in Doha. “It’s also good for British
consumers.”  First Delivery  The first delivery under the contract is due in June and
will go to National Grid Plc’s Isle of Grain LNG terminal,
Centrica said. Half of the 70 slots controlled by Centrica at
the terminal will be taken up with shipments under the contract.  The price of the fuel is not oil linked, Hanafin said. The
company has committed to buying a specific volume of gas and may
pay more or less, depending on floating prices, he said.  Centrica rose as much as 4 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 342.7
pence and traded at 340.6 pence at 10:41 a.m. in  London . The
stock has risen 25 percent in a year, valuing the company at
17.5 billion pounds.  U.K. natural gas fell as network manager National Grid
forecast an oversupply of the fuel and after Centrica signed the
agreement. Power declined along with the fuel.  QatarGas  Seventeen of the 23 cargoes Centrica bought in 2010 came
from Qatar, it said in a separate statement. The company has
purchased a total of 2.5 million tons of LNG from the country on
the short-term gas market.  QatarGas, as the company is known, is a venture between
state-run Qatar Petroleum,  Exxon Mobil Corp .,  ConocoPhillips ,  Total SA  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  Centrica has sought to shore up its gas resources by
acquiring North Sea fields and LNG production. The company
bought Venture Petroleum Corp. in 2009 and paid $380 million for
Suncor Energy Inc.’s gas assets in Trinidad and Tobago in
February 2010. The Trinidad deal provided Centrica with its
first opportunity to own LNG production.  “The key to the U.K. energy security is diversity,”
Hanafin said. “We’re scouring the world for these kinds of
deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  