-- 
Centrica Profit Set to Jump on Gas as U.K. Probes Household Energy Prices

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-02-23T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/centrica-profit-set-to-jump-on-gas-as-u-k-probes-energy-prices.html
  Centrica Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
energy supplier, will likely report its highest profit in two
years this week as energy regulator Ofgem finishes a probe into
whether utilities are overcharging.  Adjusted earnings per share will rise 17 percent to 25.4
pence from a year earlier, according to the average estimate of
25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit at residential unit
 British Gas  will jump 21 percent to 722 million pounds ($1.2
billion) on increasing demand and lower wholesale prices,
according to Citigroup Inc. Centrica reports earnings tomorrow.  The results come as rising energy prices put pressure on
household budgets and may convince Ofgem to refer Centrica to
the  Competition Commission  when it finishes its review next
month, Citigroup’s Peter Atherton said in a note. Margins on an
average dual-tariff energy bill jumped about 25 pounds to 90
pounds after a round of price rises in September,  Ofgem said .  “It’s tough to argue that the consumer has been unfairly
treated by Centrica,” Royal Bank of Canada analyst Nick Hyslop
said in a telephone interview, adding that competitors charged
more and earned less. “Centrica has the ability to enhance
their margin versus other companies because they produce a lot
of what they supply.”  The company pumps enough natural gas to supply over 5
million customers, about 60 percent its U.K. total, compared
with around 37 percent four years ago.  The stock has gained 23 percent in the past twelve months,
valuing the company at about 17.5 billion pounds.  Cold Winter  Demand for gas rose 11 percent in the first half of 2010,
driven by the coldest winter in 30 years, Citigroup’s Atherton
said. Coupled with low wholesale prices, residential earnings in
the first six months alone almost equaled full-year 2009
profits, according to Credit Suisse analyst Mark Freshney.  “Centrica accepts that they won’t do well every year, but
over the last couple of years things have worked out for them,”
Freshney said in a telephone interview. “Some of that is good
management and some is luck that the gas price remains low.”  Centrica may further benefit from changes in U.K. energy
policy. Four proposals under consideration include setting a
floor price for carbon dioxide emissions and guaranteeing long-
term prices for low-carbon generators.  “We see Centrica as a beneficiary due to its low carbon
intensity generation fleet,” JPMorgan Cazenove analysts Edmund Reid and Ihor Okhrimenko said in a note to investors. Centrica
owns eight combined-cycle gas turbine power plants in the U.K.
and acquired a 20 percent stake in EDF SA’s British atomic
reactors.  Renewable Pledge  The government has pledged to get 15 percent of the U.K.’s
energy from renewable sources by the end of the decade and about
a quarter of the country’s generation capacity will go offline
by 2015. This is likely to result in a quadrupling in annual
household electricity and gas bills from 2009 levels, to 4,733
pounds by 2020, according to price-comparison website uSwitch.  “With Britain facing an investment bill of 200 billion
pounds over the next 10 years, consumers have the right to
expect that the energy retail market is providing them with
value for money,” Ofgem Chief Executive Officer Alistair Buchanan said in November.  With profits at record levels and no near-term options for  capital investment , Centrica should consider increasing the
dividend at a faster rate, HSBC Plc analyst Verity Mitchell said
in a note to investors. She suggested 10 percent a year compared
with a consensus of between 7 and 8 percent for the next two
years.  “It appears to us that the U.K. government is still some
way from agreeing to a framework for generation support
including nuclear new build,” Mitchell said. “The deployment
of proceeds from the rights issue in 2008 will be slower than
management originally anticipated.”  Centrica raised 2.2 billion pounds in a rights offer two
years ago to help fund the acquisition of a 20 percent stake in
EDF SA’s fleet of eight U.K. nuclear plants. The companies have
said they want to build four new reactors, assuming government
policy provides some guarantee of long-term returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 