-- 
Chelsea Halts Slump With Champions League Win in Copenhagen; Madrid Draws

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-23T00:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/chelsea-halts-slump-with-champions-league-win-in-copenhagen-madrid-draws.html
Chelsea halted its form decline by
beating FC Copenhagen 2-0 in their Champions League round of 16
opener, while Lyon scored late to tie 1-1 with Real  Madrid .    Nicolas Anelka  got both goals in  Denmark  last night to join
Samuel Eto’o as the competition’s top scorer this season and end
Chelsea’s three-game winless run. The Blues had won just one of
their previous five matches.  “We are still alive,” Chelsea coach  Carlo Ancelotti  said
in comments posted on his team’s website. “Now I want to see my
players do this again, again, again.”  Bafetimbi Gomis’s 83rd-minute goal gave Lyon the home draw
after Karim Benzema put record nine-time European soccer
champion Real Madrid ahead. The return matches in the two-game
series are scheduled March 16.  Anelka scored in each half as Chelsea rebounded from a
shootout loss to Everton in  England ’s F.A. Cup four days ago.
Copenhagen was playing its first competitive game since the
final round of the Champions League group stage on Dec. 7
because of the winter break in Danish soccer.  Chelsea took a 17th-minute lead after a mistake from former
Blues winger Jesper Gronkjaer. Anelka gathered in the misplaced
pass, took the ball into the area and shot past goalkeeper Johan
Wiland.  Anelka doubled the lead nine minutes into the second half
by running onto Frank Lampard’s lofted pass into the area and
firing a first-time shot past Wiland for his seventh goal in six
Champions League games this season.  Torres’s Toil  Chelsea’s  Fernando Torres  made his longest appearance since
his 50 million-pound ($81 million) move from Liverpool last
month. The Spanish striker, still seeking his first Chelsea
goal, had four attempts on target before being replaced by  Salomon Kalou  in second-half stoppage time.  “The key to this game was the good movement up front from
Nicolas Anelka and Fernando Torres,” Ancelotti added. “They
started very well and for us it was easy to attack.”  Although Real Madrid failed to keep its lead in  France , the
away goal means it has the advantage going to the Bernabeu
Stadium, where it has won all 19 competitive games this season.
Madrid, eliminated by Lyon at this stage a year ago, is trying
to reach the quarterfinals for the first time since 2004.  Lyon goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris  dived to stop Cristiano Ronaldo’s free kick and Gomis had a close-range effort deflected
over the Madrid net in a scoreless first half.  Immediate Impact  Ronaldo hit the post with a free kick just after halftime
and  Sergio Ramos ’s header struck the crossbar. Benzema then
replaced Emmanuel Adebayor midway through the second half and
took just one minute to give Madrid the lead.  Mesut Ozil won the ball on the left side and found Ronaldo,
who sent a one-touch pass to Benzema on the edge of the area.
The Frenchman, who joined Madrid from Lyon in 2009, moved across
to the middle and squeezed a shot through Lloris’s legs.  With seven minutes remaining, Cris headed a free kick into
the path of Gomis, who was left alone in front of the Madrid
goal to send a volley past Iker Casillas.  “At 1-1 the contest remains open,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said in post-match comments on UEFA’s website. “We
have a slight advantage but Lyon are quality rivals.”  The final two round-of-16 matchups begin tonight as
defending champion Inter Milan hosts  Bayern Munich  in a rematch
of last year’s final and  Manchester United  visits Marseille.  Also yesterday, CSKA Moscow tied 1-1 with PAOK Salonika to
become the first team to advance to the last 16 of the second-
tier Europa League.  Sergei Ignashevich scored off the rebound of Wagner Love’s
missed penalty in the 80th minute to give CSKA a 2-1 win over
two games. Zlatan Muslimovic got PAOK’s goal in the 67th minute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  