-- 
Chevron Halts Work at Gorgon LNG Site, Apache Shuts Gas Plant on Cyclone

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-02-23T03:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/chevron-halts-construction-at-gorgon-lng-project-on-cyclone.html
  Apache Corp . halted gas production
from Varanus Island and  Chevron Corp . suspended construction at
the A$43 billion ($43 billion) Gorgon project in  Western
Australia  because of Tropical Cyclone Carlos.  Carlos is a Category 2 cyclone that a week ago struck the
city of Darwin, more than 1,800 kilometers (1,150 miles) to the
northeast of the Gorgon site on Barrow Island. The storm is 20
kilometers south of Exmouth and moving southwest, the Bureau of
Meteorology said on its  website  at 8:50 a.m. local time. Winds
as strong as 155 kilometers per hour are possible along the
coast west of Onslow, the bureau said.  Production from Varanus Island will resume “when weather
conditions permit,” David Parker, a Perth-based spokesman for
the U.S. company’s Apache Energy unit, said by telephone today.
The plant is Western Australia’s second-largest producer of
domestic gas and provides more than 30 percent of supplies.  A La Nina weather system may boost the number of tropical
storms in Australia, the bureau said this month. The cyclone
season typically runs from November to April.  Construction at the Gorgon liquefied natural gas venture,
which Chevron is developing with  Exxon Mobil Corp . and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc , was suspended yesterday, Guy Houston, Perth-
based spokesman for Chevron said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Slaughtered’ by Storms    Woodside Petroleum Ltd . said the Enfield oil field and the
Cossack Pioneer project off Western Australia remain shut
because of the impact of storms in the area, while the Vincent
field is closed for maintenance, Francine Tonkin, a Perth-based
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Woodside has been “slaughtered” by the series of storms
that has inflicted “horrific” weather on its northwest
Australian operations, Chief Executive Officer Don Voelte said
this week.  “It’s been rough as hell,” Voelte said as the company
reported earnings Feb. 21. Woodside lost 20 days work at the
site of Pluto LNG project at Karratha, he said.  Woodside operates the North West Shelf Venture, the biggest
source of gas for Western  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  