-- 
Chicago Mayor-Elect Emanuel to Face Union Test Bedeviling U.S. Statehouses

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-23T20:31:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/chicago-mayor-elect-emanuel-to-face-union-test-bedeviling-u-s-statehouses.html
Rahm Emanuel, the mayor-elect of the
third-most-populous U.S. city, faces the same question roiling
statehouses across the country: how much will public employees
have to sacrifice to keep government afloat.  Emanuel, who wasn’t endorsed by most  Chicago  unions, said
he will reach out to labor leaders to gain consensus on the
city’s pension and budget gaps to avoid confrontations like
those between public workers and  Wisconsin  Republican Governor  Scott Walker .  “I’m going to make them my partner,” Emanuel said at his
first news conference after yesterday’s election. “I reject the
way Wisconsin has approached this.”  Emanuel, 51, a former congressman who served two Democratic
presidents in the White House, won 55 percent of the vote to
become his hometown’s next mayor in May as  Richard M. Daley 
retires after 22 years in the job.  Avoiding a runoff, Emanuel will be Chicago’s first Jewish
mayor and the first former top aide to President  Barack Obama 
elected to office.  He will face a declining population, a 2012  budget deficit 
forecast at more than $600 million and shortfalls in the pension
funds for city workers. While Emanuel repeated pledges to
maintain a defined-benefit system and to forgo a pension as
mayor, he said sacrifices will be needed by all.  ‘Shared Changes’  “There will be shared changes,” said Emanuel, who earned
at least $17 million as an investment banker after leaving the
administration of President  Bill Clinton  in 1998. “I believe
they have to know that everybody has something involved in this,
otherwise people feel somebody got a special break.”  He declined to outline any potential tax increases beyond
his proposal to expand the city’s sales tax to include luxury
services such as dog facials and limousine rentals.  “I’m not looking at property taxes,” he said at the
city’s Union League Club.  Daley, 68, who with his father,  Richard J. Daley , ran
Chicago for 43 of the past 55 years, leaves Emanuel a city
adorned with public amenities like the lakefront  Millennium Park 
and burdened by fiscal and political hurdles.  “He will still have big challenges working with the city
council and dealing with the structural deficit,” said Dick Simpson, a political science professor at the  University of
Illinois  at Chicago.  Ratings Cut  Repeated use of reserve funds to balance budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit rating on Nov. 5 by
one level to A+, the fifth-highest grade.  Emanuel, Obama’s former chief of staff, said in a Feb. 8
 speech  that the city must take immediate action to control
pension costs.  While Emanuel won endorsements from some unions, the city’s
police, fire and other labor groups backed former Daley chief of
staff Gery Chico. More than 10 percent of the city’s 2.7 million
residents belong to unions, said Nick Kaleba, a spokesman for
the  Chicago Federation of Labor , which didn’t endorse a
candidate. Nine out of 10 municipal employees are union members.  Emanuel already faced tense labor relations because he
helped Clinton win passage of the  North American Free Trade
Agreement  and made critical comments about unions as Obama’s top
aide.  “They are particularly unhappy with his call for a more
vigorous debate of the number of employees and residency
requirements,” Simpson said. “There are going to be battles
between him and the unions.”  City Workers  During the campaign, Emanuel was more vocal than other
candidates in his calls for “shared sacrifice” by those who
work for the city of 2.7 million people.  Emanuel beat a field that included Chico, a former Daley
chief of staff and one-time Chicago school board president; City
Clerk Miguel del Valle; and former U.S. Senator Carol Moseley Braun. Chico, 54, was Emanuel’s nearest rival with 24 percent of
the vote.  While only 42 percent of the city’s 1.4 million registered
voters cast ballots, Emanuel said that “doesn’t diminish the
sense of reform and the urgency that is required” to address
the city’s problems.  “Fifty-five percent of voters are clear about reform,” he
said. “They know the status quo is unacceptable.”  There will be at least 20 new members of the city council
after the April 5 runoff election, an influx that has the
potential to be a “counterforce to the mayor,” said  Alan
Gitelson , a political science professor at Loyola University
Chicago.  Strained Relations  His relations with the city’s 50 aldermen could be
immediately strained, Gitelson said.  In a televised debate last week, Emanuel said Alderman
Edward M. Burke, a Chico supporter and chairman of the finance
committee, could lose his police bodyguards, driver and
potentially his chairmanship.  His relationship with Burke will be a “major problem” for
Emanuel, said Gitelson, who noted that Burke is the council’s
longest-serving member.  Emanuel said at his news conference that he was “open to
different roads to take” and wanted to listen to the new
council.  “They need to be partners in reform,” he said.  Corruption Convictions  About a third of the current aldermen have Daley to thank
for appointing them to their posts as he filled spots triggered
by resignation or corruption convictions, Simpson said.  Emanuel raised $10.6 million through Jan. 19, four times as
much as Chico, campaign disclosure  records show . Since then,
Emanuel has raised at least $1.4 million more.  The new mayor could use any of his remaining campaign
resources to win aldermanic allies by helping them in their own
runoffs, Gitelson said.  “He’s going to have a fair bit of money left over from his
war chest,” he said. “That solidifies allegiance to the
mayor.”  A flap over Emanuel’s residency dominated the campaign in
December and January. A week before early voting began Jan. 31,
Emanuel’s name was off the ballot after an appellate court ruled
that he didn’t meet a residency requirement.  Restored to Ballot  The Illinois Supreme Court put him back on by unanimously
ruling Jan. 27 that Emanuel, who had moved to  Washington  in 2009
to work for Obama, satisfied the law.  “Thank you, Chicago, for this humbling victory,” Emanuel
said last night in a speech at a union hall. “You sure know how
to make a guy feel at home.”  Emanuel remained composed in public before the election,
not showing what he has acknowledged to be a sometimes
expletive-laced, explosive personal style.  Daley didn’t formally endorse any of the candidates, though
he has a long relationship with Emanuel, who worked as a
fundraiser on Daley’s first successful mayoral campaign in 1989.  Emanuel said he would be focused on his transition, not
running the city.  “There will be one mayor at a time,” he said. “Mayor
Daley is the mayor until May 16, not  Rahm Emanuel . He has my
full support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  