-- 
Chicago Economist’s ‘Crazy Idea’ Wins Ken Griffin’s Backing

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/chicago-economist-s-crazy-idea-for-education-wins-ken-griffin-s-backing.html
John List, a University of  Chicago 
economics professor, strides through the Griffin Early Childhood
Center chatting with teachers, complimenting girls on their
braids and hollering out the window.  He acts like it’s his school, and in many ways, it is. The
 preschool  in the low-income suburb of Chicago Heights is the
centerpiece of one of the largest field experiments ever
conducted in economics, and it’s List’s brainchild.  With $10 million from hedge-fund billionaire Kenneth Griffin, List will track the results of more than 600 students--
including 150 at this school. His goal is to find out whether
investing in teachers or, alternatively, in parents, leads to
more gains in kids’ educational performance, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its April issue.  List, 42, is a pioneer in designing experiments that test
how well economic theories explain the real world. He works in
venues ranging from sports-card shows in Denver to villages in  Tanzania . His field experiments on altruism, reputation and
discrimination upended theories reached in the lab and spurred
other economists to use his methods.  Now, List wants to use experiments to solve youth violence
in schools and gender bias in hiring. In each case, he wants to
isolate why people behave the way they do.  Why They Do It  “Economists obsess about what people do, and what’s
missing is why people do it,” List says. “Field experiments
tell you why people do it.”  Experiments conducted by  List  and his followers have the
potential to shape public policy in everything from education to
energy. While medical researchers have long used randomized,
controlled trials to test drugs, only in recent decades have
economists deployed them to answer questions about behavior.  List says that his experiments will give policy makers,
executives and investors much greater certainty about why
students, donors and shoppers make the decisions they do.  Squatting on a toddler’s chair in one of the classrooms in
the Griffin school, List sketches out the design of the
experiment with a magic marker on an easel. Local families with
kids 3 to 5 years old were encouraged to enter a lottery and
were randomly sorted into three groups.  Students selected to attend the Griffin school are enrolled
in the free, all-day preschool. Children in another group aren’t
enrolled in the school, while their guardians take courses at a
“parenting academy” and receive cash or scholarships valued at
up to $7,000 annually as a reward.  Lifelong Monitoring  The more than 300 kids in the third contingent receive no
benefits -- nor do their parents -- and serve as a control
group.  List and his collaborators, Steven Levitt of the University
of Chicago and Roland Fryer of  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts  -- both economists with an interest in education
-- will monitor the students through annual tests, attendance
records and graduation rates.  As the students move into adulthood, their employment, pay
and criminal records, if any, will also be tracked. While early
results from the experiment may be published as soon as this
year, the project has money to follow the students “until they
die,” List says.  The Griffin experiment may show that the U.S. doesn’t spend
enough on helping parents, List says. “We have too many eggs in
the kid basket,” says List, himself a father of five. “We need
to spend much more time and many more resources on helping
parents.”  ‘Crazy Idea’  List says he doesn’t know much about education theory, so
he enlisted specialists to consult on the preschool curriculum.
One such consultant, Clancy Blair, a  New York  University
professor of applied psychology, says he was astonished by the
size of the project and by how it focuses on financial
incentives without looking at such variables as how the parents
interact with their children.  “That’s a crazy idea,” says Blair, who studies how young
children learn. “It’s not based on any prior research. This
isn’t the incremental process of science. It’s ‘I have a crazy
idea and I convinced someone to give me $10 million.’”  List says too many decisions in fields from education to
business to philanthropy are made without any scientific basis.
Without experimenting, you can’t evaluate whether a program is
effective, he says.  “We need hundreds of experiments going on at once all over
the country,” he says. “Then we can understand what works and
what doesn’t.”  Top-Rated Economist  List is the author or co-author of more than 150 academic
papers and is the top-rated economist in the world with less
than 15 years of experience, according to a ranking of
economists that weighs how much they publish, how often their
papers are cited by peers and the quality of journals that use
their work.  He’s ranked 133rd among the more than 27,000 economists
tracked by  IDEAS , a database of economic papers maintained by
Christian Zimmermann, an economics professor at the University
of  Connecticut  in Storrs.  List may one day be rewarded with a Nobel Prize, says Gary Becker, who won the  1992 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic
Sciences  for his work studying human behavior and is a fellow  University of Chicago  professor.  “He absolutely could be a candidate,” Becker says. “The
No. 1 contribution he’s made, which has had considerable
influence on others, is showing that field experiments are an
important way to extract information about behavior.”  New for Economics  Unlike other scientific disciplines, economics hasn’t
relied on experimenting as a source of data, says Gregory Mankiw, who chaired President George W. Bush’s  Council of
Economic Advisers , where List worked from 2002 to 2004.  “You can’t experiment with whole economies,” says
Mankiw, who’s now an economics professor at Harvard. “It’s not
like you have 100 economies in financial crisis and you can
apply this remedy to half and this remedy to another half.”  List’s field experiments are part of an effort to find
information beyond government statistics, Mankiw says. “There
has been a big movement of looking for more data sources, more
ways of observing the world,” he says.  While experiments can be helpful, “they’re not the magic
bullet that people think they are,” says Angus Deaton, an
economist at  Princeton University , who has written about the
shortcomings of experiments in  developing countries . Results
reached with a specific population of test subjects may not be
transferable to larger groups, he says.    Adam Smith ’s Influence  “They tend to be very good at proving causality but often
in a very narrow framework,” Deaton says. “Just because
something works in this crazy, local way doesn’t necessarily
mean that’s very useful.”  The first economists, including Adam Smith, the Scot who
published The Wealth of Nations in 1776, derived theories from
logical deduction, says David Colander, a professor of economics
at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont, who’s the co-
author of History of Economic Thought (Houghton Mifflin, 1994).  Economists in the 1930s began using data and statistical
analysis to prove theories or build new ones, he says. Harvard’s
Edward Chamberlin was one of the first economists to begin
experimenting. In the 1940s, he used students to test how
transactions conducted between people differed from theory.  One of Chamberlin’s students, Vernon Smith, designed
experiments with undergraduates at Purdue University in the
1950s, duplicating the bid-ask structure of the Chicago Board of
Trade, the world’s oldest futures and options exchange.  Testing Pioneer  “I was teaching introductory economics and I realized I
didn’t know the connection between supply-and-demand theory and
what people actually do in the world,” says Smith, 84, who’s
now a professor at Chapman University in Orange,  California .
Smith, who later designed experiments that simulated the effects
of deregulation and privatization, shared the  2002 Nobel
Memorial prize  for his work in pioneering lab experiments.  Experiments have become an important part of the
discipline, Colander says. Economists experiment in three ways:
They look for “natural experiments” in historical data, such
as from neighboring states that have different laws; they
experiment in the laboratory; and they experiment in the field.  List is a leader in field experiments, Colander says. Field
experiments have been slower to catch on than lab work because
of their cost and the effort they entail, says Richard Thaler, a
University of Chicago economics professor, who does both types
of experiment.  “It’s much easier to run a regression than to travel to  India  and run an experiment!” Thaler wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Field Testing’s Drawbacks  Field experiments aren’t always superior to lab
experiments, Thaler says. Sometimes they aren’t practical, such
as in investigating how people react to large financial losses.  “I am a big believer in a multi­method approach,” Thaler
says. “In a large majority of cases, we get similar behavior in
the lab and the field. Where we get divergence, we need to
figure out why: Was it the realism in the field that was
important? Or was it the lack of proper controls in the field?”  List says more of his peers should take up field
experiments.  “If Adam Smith saw what I do now, he would say it’s about
time these economists started to go to the factories and go to
the shops where people do business to see how people are
behaving,” he says.  Golf Scholarship  List followed an unconventional path to economics. The son
of a truck driver and a secretary from rural  Wisconsin , he
attended the  University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point  on a partial
golf scholarship. (A scratch golfer in college, List says he now
has a 4 handicap because he has time to play only twice a
month.)  After initially aspiring to be a stockbroker or golf pro,
List says he was drawn to a career in academia after noticing
economics professors on the golf course almost daily and
wondering how he could emulate their lifestyle.  He applied to graduate programs in environmental economics,
which studies the costs and benefits of environmental policies,
and ended up at the  University of Wyoming  in Laramie.  Life in Laramie was bleak. The city sits 7,200 feet (2,200
meters) above sea level, with short summers and long, cold
winters. List’s wife, Jennifer, whom he met in high school and
married in 1993, had to take a job at a Kinko’s copying shop,
and from the Lists’ living-room window they could see into a
Kmart store across the street.  Jennifer List, 41, now owns a children’s clothing business
she runs out of their home in the Chicago suburbs.  Sports-Card Shows  Recruited to take part in a  Wyoming  professor’s project,
List says he was told he represented a company and was asked to
make pricing decisions based on facts given to him. He recalls
being dumbfounded. Students in the lab couldn’t possibly
replicate the complexities of decision making by a corporation,
where officers balance the needs of shareholders, customers and
employees, List says.  List knew where he could experiment with real decisions
about prices: at sports-card trade shows, which he attended as a
collector of baseball and football memorabilia. In one
experiment, aimed at finding out why people in business
transactions treat each other fairly, List had card buyers ask
dealers for a card of Chicago White Sox slugger Frank Thomas in
mint condition.  He found that when dealers didn’t think they were being
watched and they knew the buyer couldn’t check the quality, they
gave unfair prices, to a degree that rose with the dealers’
distance from their home markets.  ‘Few Nice People’  The dealers gave the customers a fair price when they knew
that transactions were being observed by third parties.  Dealers’ concerns about their reputation and its effect on
future business mattered more than societal pressure to be fair,
List concluded.  That  study , “The Behavioralist Meets the Market: Measuring
Social Preferences and Reputation Effects in Actual
Transactions,” published in the Journal of Political Economy in
2006, helped refute a prevailing theory -- which behavioral
economists had arrived at in the lab -- that humans were
altruistic by nature.  “Very few people will not screw each other,” List says.
“There are very few nice people out there.”  After receiving his Ph.D. in 1996, with a dissertation on
pollution control, List applied for about 150 academic jobs. He
was granted only two interviews: at Montana State University in
Billings and the University of Central Florida in Orlando.  Grand Slam of Economics  Hired at Central Florida, List began churning out papers
about environmental economics. He also continued tinkering with
field experiments. In what would become a pattern, List took a
mundane task -- raising money for his department -- and turned
it into a field experiment that asked if the presence of seed
money in a fundraising campaign increased donors’ willingness to
give. The more seed money, List found, the greater the
contributions.  In 2004, List published papers in four major journals:
American Economic Review, Econometrica, the Journal of Political
Economy and The Quarterly Journal of Economics. The feat was
equivalent to winning the four Grand Slam tournaments in tennis,
says Chad Syverson, a colleague at Chicago.  Job offers came pouring in from  Cornell University ; the  University of California , Berkeley; and Princeton as well as
from the University of Chicago’s Economics Department and Booth
School of Business.  ‘Unheard Of’  “He sort of forced people to take note of him,” Thaler
says. “To come from Wyoming and Central Florida and wind up
with job offers from Chicago and Princeton, that’s unheard of.”  List chose Chicago’s Economics Department because of the
quality of its students, its reputation -- 25 Nobel winners in
economics studied or taught there -- and proximity to his family
in Wisconsin.  At Chicago, where he is the Homer J. Livingston Professor
of Economics, List wears T-shirts to meetings, talks about the
Super Bowl-winning Green Bay Packers football team and expands
his roster of projects.  He consults for companies such as United Airlines, a unit
of  United Continental Holdings Inc ., on pricing strategies and
for Chrysler Group LLC on designing a weight-loss program for
its employees. He says he turned down an offer last year to
become chief economist at  Amazon.com Inc ., the Seattle-based
online retailer, partly because the company wouldn’t have let
him publish the results of research.  India, Tanzania  He’s also writing a college textbook, as well as a mass-
market book on behavior with the tentative title Big Hairy
Problems.  List has also been taking on more-ambitious field
experiments. In 2006, he traveled to villages of the male-
dominated Masai in Tanzania and the female-dominated Khasi in
India to test differences between genders.  With almost $1 million in funding from the  National Science
Foundation , he and colleagues spent weeks asking members of the
tribes to toss balls into a basket. The results showed that
women can be raised to be more competitive than men.  Even though it was expensive, it was a worthwhile
experiment, Princeton’s Deaton says. “Understanding the human
brain is pretty important,” he says. “This is something that
certainly contributes to human knowledge.”  Craigslist Test  In a later experiment, List and two colleagues posted an ad
for an administrative job on  Craigslist  in 16 cities. About
7,000 job seekers responded and were then given different
compensation plans. Some were offered a flat hourly rate while
others had to compete for their money.  In general, women shied away from competition, although
they were more likely to compete when they operated in teams and
when they could earn more than the prevailing wages in their
region, the research found. The study helps explain why there
are relatively few women executives in fields where promotion is
based on competition, List says.  “An important component of gender imbalance is
compensation structure,” he says. “If you had a different type
of compensation regime, the composition of the top echelon of
workers would be different.”  In 2008, William Payne, a Chicago Heights physician who
knew about List’s work in fundraising, sought the economist’s
help in improving schools in the town, List says.  He devised an experiment to test whether cash incentives
for ninth graders and their parents would increase academic
performance in the town, where 92 percent of students are from
low-income families.  Bankrolled by Griffins  List needed $400,000 for the experiment -- and got lucky.
He was approached by  Kenneth Griffin , founder of Chicago-based
Citadel LLC, and his wife, Anne Dias Griffin, who were looking
for someone to run their philanthropic foundation.  The Griffins, who had an interest in supporting education
and had donated $2.75 million to a charter school run by the
University of Chicago in 2005, met with List for two hours,
during which he explained the school project he planned.  He convinced the Griffins to hire his graduate student, Min
Sok Lee, a 32-year-old born in  South Korea , to run their
foundation, with the understanding that List would be available
as a consultant.  “The next day, Ken wrote a check for $400,000,” List
says. “I said, ‘Now, this is pretty cool.’”  The experiment was a limited success, List says. While the
ninth graders and their parents responded to the cash incentives
with better grades and fewer behavioral problems, the
improvements weren’t enough to justify the cost.  ‘Value of Parents’  “It was too expensive,” List says. “But it pinpoints the
incredible value of parents and that if you use incentives in
the right way, you can get people to move.”  List and the Griffins decided they would have more
influence on education if they worked with younger children. The
result was the current project involving the all-day preschool
and parents academy, along with an incentive program for
teachers.  The Griffins set aside $10 million -- a level of funding
they say might be replicated in other communities. “If you’re
going to do something that resonates and has an impact, it has
to be at scale,” Dias Griffin, 40, says in an interview in the
53rd-floor boardroom of Chicago-based Aragon Global Management
LLC, the hedge fund where she’s managing partner.  At the core of the experiment is List’s conviction that
incentives will motivate family members to take part in the
parents academy and become better tutors and coaches.  Toilet Training Incentives  List believes so strongly in incentives that he offers his
own children lottery tickets to do extra math homework, he says.
He promised a daughter a trip to Disney World in exchange for
her becoming potty trained. The day he made the offer, she used
the toilet and was trained, he says.  “Incentives are the pillar of economics and represent
everything I’m about,” List says. “If you understand the
incentives people are operating under, you have a good first
guess about what they’re going to be doing in certain
circumstances and how changes in the environment and/or in their
institutions will influence their behavior.”  It makes sense that researchers would look at paying
parents, says Fred Doolittle, director of K-12 education policy
at  MDRC , a nonprofit research institute with offices in New York
and Oakland, California.  “There’s a lot of evidence that parental involvement in
the process is important,” Doolittle says. Paying parents or
students for school performance is an attempt to find new ways
to motivate those who don’t see the value in education, he says.  Role of Teachers  Blair, the NYU psychologist, says he’s concerned that the
design of the experiment emphasizes parents while discounting
the work that teachers do.  “What educators need to know are what are the best ways to
educate kids, and this is trying to short-circuit that,” Blair
says. “We have fundamental problems in education, and this is
sort of a distraction.”  List says he understands the objections. “If I was in the
field, I’d hate me, too,” List says in November while driving
to his sons’ indoor baseball practice in one of Chicago’s south
suburbs. “There should be skeptics.”  List says that while he hopes his school experiment
produces a result that can be reproduced elsewhere, that’s not
the point. The idea is to further knowledge, one experiment at a
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  or
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 