-- 
China, India to Lead Mining Mergers After 89% Growth, E&Y Says

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-02-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/china-india-to-lead-mining-mergers-after-89-growth-e-y-says.html
China and  India  will lead mergers
and acquisitions in metals and mining in 2011 after global deals
rose 89 percent last year as rivalry for commodities among the
fastest growing economies spurs prices, Ernst & Young LLP said.  “The majors out of India and China will lead the deals,”
Michael Lynch-Bell, head of mining and metals at Ernst & Young,
said in an interview in London. “The Indians are desperate.
They are about 10 years behind China. They are really looking
for coal and iron ore supply for the next 10 years.”  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans $1 trillion of
spending to improve the rundown state of road, rail and power
networks that the government says carves 2 percentage points
from economic expansion. Quarterly growth in  China , the largest
consumer of commodities from copper to zinc and iron ore, has
outpaced  India’s economy  for at least the past six years.  Indian companies were the seventh most acquisitive in
mining and metals last year, up from the 14th a year earlier,
Ernst & Young said in a report published today. The country,
which recorded $4.6 billion of deals, for the first time
surpassed China, with $4.5 billion, the consultant said.  “India and China are going head to head in every market
for energy sources or metals or minerals or whatever because it
is now the critical constraint,” Sunny Verghese, chief
executive officer of  Olam International Ltd ., the Singapore-
based supplier of more than 20 commodities, said this month.  Head to Head  Demand for steel in India may double in five years, while
for non-ferrous metals such as copper and aluminum it may grow
at twice the pace, according to Kunal Shah, head of commodity
research with Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. The economy
will probably expand 8.6 percent in the year to March, the most
in three years, the government’s statistics office said Feb. 7.  In China, domestic producers plan to own more than half of
the  iron ore  resources supplying the country’s imports of the
steelmaking ingredient, the Economic Information Daily said Feb.
22, citing a meeting of the China Iron and Steel Association.  “The steel companies all need iron ore and coal and they
need thermal coal for their power stations,” Lynch-Bell said.  Global mining mergers and acquisitions will also expand
this year as gains in metals prices, increased earnings and a
greater willingness of banks to lend encourage deal-making,
according to Ernst & Young.  Bigger Deals  “It wouldn’t surprise me if this year’s M&A value reaches
25 percent higher than last year’s,” Lynch-Bell said. “Large
companies will continue to perform add-on acquisitions, worth $1
billion to $3 billion” instead of bigger “transforming”
deals. Smaller companies valued between $500 million and $1
billion may combine in equity-based mergers, he said.  The number of transactions worth more than $1 billion each
rose to 23 for a total value of $58.4 billion in 2010, from 13
worth $23.4 billion a year earlier, according to the report.  The total $113.7 billion of deals in 2010 was less than the
$175 million the consultant had forecast as producers used cash
“to reduce debt gearing to create a buffer against a potential
global downturn” instead of buying assets, Lynch-Bell said.
Mining and metals companies raised a record $329.5 billion from
equity-related issues, mostly to extend debt maturity, he said.  “Companies will be able to do deals as well as keeping
that buffer in 2011, when there will be so much cash because the
cash generation will be fantastic,” Lynch-Bell said.  BHP Shale Gas  Mine operators have been returning money to investors after
reporting record profits last year as iron ore, coal and copper
prices recovered from the worst recession since World War II.
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, is still
seeking potential takeover targets even after setting aside $80
billion for its own projects, Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. on Feb. 21.  The company yesterday agreed to buy Chesapeake Energy
Corp.’s Arkansas shale gas assets for $4.75 billion in cash,
more than doubling its U.S. oil and gas reserves.  Developing-country mining deals reached $49.6 billion in
2010, 43 percent of the total, while more than half of the top
20 acquirers were from emerging markets, Ernst & Young said. The
number of Latin American transactions surged 94 percent, while
gold, coal and steel made up more than 50 percent of the total.  Gold was the most sought-after commodity with 431 deals
worth $30.4 billion, the company said. The metal won’t perform
as well this year because of valuation gaps between buyers and
sellers, Lynch-Bell said.  The value of initial public offerings in the industry will
probably increase this year from the $17.95 billion in 2010 as
the global economy continues to recover, he said. Glencore
International AG, the largest commodities trader, is studying a
$10 billion IPO in  London  and  Hong Kong  by the third quarter,
two people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  “The IPO market will be busier this year; it wouldn’t
surprise me if it exceeded 2007 levels, even without Glencore,”
Lynch-Bell said. The level for 2007 was $21.4 billion, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  