-- 
Christie Holds Property-Tax Credits Hostage to Union Givebacks in Budget

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-02-23T16:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/christie-holds-property-tax-relief-hostage-to-union-givebacks-in-budget.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
is holding homeowner tax credits hostage until he gets state
unions and their legislative allies to give up some benefits as
part of his $29.4 billion budget for fiscal 2012.  “We’re not trying to break the unions,” Christie said
today on MSNBC television’s “Morning Joe”  program . “The
unions are trying to break the middle class in New Jersey. I am
fighting for middle-class taxpayers.”  If the Democratic-led Legislature doesn’t pass his plan to
charge state workers 30 percent of the cost of their health-care
benefits by 2014, Christie will skip a planned $190 million
boost in residential property-tax credits, he said yesterday.  Christie, 48, a Republican who took office last year, also
asked the Democrats who lead the Senate and Assembly to reverse
a 9 percent pension-benefit increase that began in 2001 and
freeze cost-of-living raises for pension payments to retirees.
If lawmakers go along with his plan, Christie said he’ll pay
$506 million into state retirement funds.  “The governor is attempting to pit neighbors against
neighbors to distract from the fact that he is ignoring his
legal obligation to fund the pension system and his campaign
promise to deliver property-tax relief,” Assembly Majority
Leader  Joseph Cryan , a Union Democrat, said in a statement.
“Democrats are not going to play into this divisive game.”  Paying More  The governor outlined his budget in Trenton yesterday as
government workers prepared to mass outside the Capitol on Feb.
25 following demonstrations in Wisconsin, Ohio and  Indiana  over
attempts to make state employees pay more for benefits and to
limit their bargaining power in contract talks.  Christie’s budget counts on $323 million in savings from
passing measures to force government employees to pay more than
the current 1.5 percent of salary for their health insurance,
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said. The governor has said
the current system means a teacher earning $60,000 a year pays
$900 annually for a medical plan that costs as much as $22,000.  “It’s a brilliant tactic,” said Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from  Red Bank  who is his party’s budget
officer. “He’s taking people who might be resistant to some of
his reforms because of special interests and he’s holding their
feet to the fire. It’s a shame he would have to do that, but
it’s brilliant.”  Pension Payment  The spending plan, Christie’s second since taking office,
would also cut Medicaid by $300 million and raise aid to public
schools by about $250 million. He cut aid to schools by $820
million last year. Real-estate tax credits would rise to $458
million from about $268 million last year, provided lawmakers
pass his proposals on state employee benefits and pensions.  Last year, Christie skipped a $3 billion payment to state
pensions, saying he wouldn’t put more money in until lawmakers
approved his overhaul plan. The state has an unfunded gap of
$53.9 billion between what it has promised to current and former
workers and projected assets.  Christie in his budget for the current fiscal year that
ends June 30 suspended the state’s Homestead Rebate program for
most homeowners and reconstituted it in the final quarter as a
credit against property-tax bills. His fiscal 2012 plan proposes
seniors and the disabled earning as much as $150,000 receive
credits averaging $540, and non-seniors making as much as
$75,000 get $404, according to a budget summary.  Tax Bills    New Jersey  is the second-wealthiest U.S. state after  Maryland , with a 2009 median household income of $68,342,
according to Census data. Its homeowners paid the nation’s
highest real-estate taxes, an average bill of $7,281 in 2009,
according to state  data . The governor has said the high cost of
providing benefits has been a key driver of that spending.  “If you want to do things in New Jersey like I want to do
that provide property-tax relief to middle-class taxpayers, you
can’t continue to pay for health benefits where the government
pays 92 percent,” Christie said on NBC’s  Today Show . “We have
to make choices and they have to become part of the shared
sacrifice.”  The  New Jersey Education Association , the state’s largest
teachers union, said in a statement the higher health costs
would be akin to a 15 percent pay cut for its members.  “He promises to provide property-tax relief to senior
citizens, but only if teachers and school employees pay
thousands more in higher health-care premiums -- on top of what
they already pay,” said Barbara Keshishian, president of the
union. “The governor continues to scapegoat public-education
employees by pitting senior citizens and all of New Jersey
against them.”  $125 Billion  New Jersey is among states that may face as much as $125
billion of collective deficits in the next fiscal year,
according to the Washington-based  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a nonprofit research group focused on issues that
affect lower-income Americans. New Jersey will spend $4.3
billion on health insurance this year, and that cost will rise
40 percent within four years, Christie said last month.  Christie’s budget speech -- and the choices between worker
benefits and tax relief he offered -- were divisive, according
to Charles Wowkanech, president of the state chapter of the AFL-
CIO, the nation’s biggest labor organization.  “This truly is politics at its worst,” Wowkanech said in
a statement. “Rather than respecting the collective-bargaining
process and entering into good-faith negotiations with state-
worker representatives, the governor is offering an ‘either or’
scenario -- either trample collective bargaining and legislate
health and pension changes, or grant property-tax rebates to
senior citizens.”  Union Rallies  In Wisconsin and  Ohio , Republican governors sparked a
series of rallies with their plans to bring  government spending 
under control. In 17 states, government workers are the subject
of efforts to limit union power and curb earnings, said Steve Kreisberg, collective bargaining director of the  American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees  in  Washington .  Christie, who ousted Democrat  Jon Corzine , made reducing
property taxes a central theme in his 2009 campaign and last
year signed a law capping the annual levy growth at 2 percent.  The governor’s tactics binding tax relief to pension
changes are a “tacit admission” that his opponents have an
edge heading into budget negotiations, said  Patrick Murray , who
teaches politics at  Monmouth University  and directs its polling
center in  West Long Branch . By focusing so much on the need to
lower property taxes, Christie has shifted the issue onto
himself and taken some of the onus from lawmakers, Murray said.  “He alone is going to be held responsible for lowering
property taxes,” Murray said of Christie. “It’s a tacit
admission that right now, Democrats have a bit of the upper hand
on this issue because the public is going to hold his feet to
the fire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  