-- 
Christchurch's Tallest Building Teeters; City Braces for Quake Aftershocks

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-23T20:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/christchurch-braces-for-aftershocks-as-shaken-buildings-teeter.html
Christchurch  residents are bracing
for more aftershocks threatening to topple buildings already
weakened by  New Zealand ’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years as
the search for survivors enters a second full day.  The South Island city, New Zealand’s second largest, has
been jolted by 38 aftershocks since Tuesday’s 6.3-magnitude
temblor that killed at least 71 people, according to the  Civil
Defense Department  website. While searches resumed overnight in
the remains of the Canterbury Television building after safety
concerns forced workers to suspend efforts, survivors aren’t
expected on that site, police said. The city’s tallest building,
the Grand Chancellor Hotel, is unstable and may be moving.  “The rate of aftershock activity will decrease over the
coming weeks but the magnitudes of the earthquakes don’t,” John
Townend, associate professor of earth sciences at Wellington’s
 Victoria University , said in a telephone interview. “It’s going
to be a question of many weeks and could be several months.”  Seventy-one victims have been confirmed and that number is
expected to rise, according to Civil Defense. Hospital emergency
departments in the Christchurch region have admitted 430 people,
with seven in intensive care, Civil Defense spokesperson Iain
Maclean said in a phone interview today.  Digging Through Wreckage  Rescuers are digging through wreckage, and have progressed
through about 60 percent of the central business district, Jim
Stuart-Black from Urban Search and Rescue told  Television New
Zealand .  They weren’t “getting a huge number of positive
responses from the buildings where we would expect there to be
more people trapped alive,” Prime Minister John Key told
reporters in Wellington today.  Key has arranged a conference call with about 40 chief
executive officers from New Zealand’s largest companies to
discuss a financial package, he said. New Zealand declared a
national state of emergency yesterday to coordinate help from
outside the Christchurch region, according to Civil Defense.  Police imposed a nighttime curfew in some areas of
Christchurch yesterday amid concerns that more buildings may
collapse. Members of the public within the center’s four main
avenues after 6:30 p.m. local time faced arrest, police said.  Trapped Alive  About 300 people are unaccounted for with some possibly
trapped in buildings, while the Grand Chancellor has been
evacuated, New Zealand Police said. Television images show one
side of the 26-story  Chancellor  cracking and sagging. More than
100 people may have died in the Canterbury TV building, the New
Zealand Herald reported, citing police.  Twenty-three Japanese students enrolled at an education
college in the city of about 400,000 are among the missing,
Japan’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said yesterday. One
Australian is among the dead, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.    Australia  is sending 300 police and 140 rescuers to join
the relief efforts. Japan will send a 70-person emergency relief
team, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  told parliament yesterday.  The death toll from the quake, the strongest since
September when the city was shaken by a 7.0 magnitude temblor,
is the worst since the  Napier earthquake  in 1931 killed 256.  Damage to central city buildings was greater than the
September temblor because it was shallower and centered just 10
kilometers southeast of Christchurch, according to geonet.org.nz.
The Sept. 4 quake was focused 55 kilometers northwest of the
city and was also deeper.  City Counts Damage  Tuesday’s temblor struck at 12:51 p.m. local time during
the lunchtime break, whereas the September temblor hit at 4:35
a.m. and claimed no lives.  Yesterday, an army helicopter circled a nearly silent city
center almost 24 hours after the quake. At cordons, people
talked to army and police staff as they tried to access homes or
hotels. Others wheeled suitcases along deserted streets.  Cracks several meters long run along some streets. Other
main roads swell with sandy mud and surface flooding stretching
across footpaths and much of the roads.  On the corner of Gloucester Street and Oxford Terrace in
the center, the 10-level  Brannigans building’s  windows have been
shattered. Helmeted inspectors began the task of checking
buildings individually for survivors.  Some 80 percent of the city is without water, according to
the  New Zealand police website .  The quake may be the costliest natural disaster for
insurers since 2008. Insured losses from the temblor may be $12
billion, Michael Huttner, an analyst at JPMorgan, said in a note
to clients. That would be the most expensive calamity since the
$19.9 billion loss from Hurricane Ike, which struck the U.S. in
2008, according to the  Insurance Information Institute , a New
York-based trade group.  Tuesday’s quake served as a reminder of the jolt in
Christchurch on Sept. 4 that shook consumer confidence and
contributed to a 0.2 percent drop in gross domestic product in
the third quarter. The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand estimates the
September temblor caused NZ$5 billion ($3.7 billion) of damage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Christchurch at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  