-- 
Commerzbank Beats Estimates With Fourth-Quarter Profit, Plans to Repay Aid

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-02-23T13:17:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/commerzbank-posts-352-million-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-2010-forecast.html
  Commerzbank AG ,  Germany ’s second-
largest lender, reported a fourth consecutive quarterly profit,
exceeding analysts’ projections, and said it plans to start
repaying state aid this year.  Net income in the three months ended December was 257
million euros ($352 million), compared with a net loss of 1.86
billion euros a year earlier, the bank said in a statement
today. That beat the 169 million-euro average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Within the group we have returned to profitability one
year earlier than expected,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said a press conference in Frankfurt today. “This
pleasing development is in the interest of all stakeholders,
among which ranks the German government.”  Commerzbank, which was forced to tap the country’s Soffin
rescue fund during the global financial crisis, sold shares this
year to buy back debt to boost capital ahead of new regulation
for the industry. The bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, was 10 percent at the end of
December, up from 9.2 percent a year earlier, as it cut total
assets by 11 percent to 754 billion euros.  Commerzbank can pay back a “significant” amount to Soffin
this year, which is “independent” of any potential capital
increase, Chief Financial Officer Eric Strutz said on a
conference call with analysts today.  Trading Income  Fourth-quarter trading income totaled 384 million euros,
compared with the average analyst estimate of 369 million euros
and a year-earlier loss of 574 million euros. Provisions to
cover bad loans fell 55 percent to 595 million euros.  Commerzbank shares slipped 4 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 6.18
euros as of 1:43 p.m. local time, giving the company a market
value of about 8.3 billion euros. The stock climbed as much as
3.6 percent earlier today.  “Overall, Commerzbank beat the expectations due to rather
low earnings quality,” Matthias Duerr, an analyst at DZ Bank AG
in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note to clients today. “We stick to
our sell recommendation as we expect a significant capital hike
this year.”  The Group of 20 nations last year endorsed  rules  proposed
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that would triple
the highest-quality capital banks need to hold, as well as
liquidity requirements for how much cash and easily saleable
assets they need to meet short- and long-term liabilities. The
rules are scheduled for full implementation by 2019.  ‘Considerable Progress’  “Commerzbank made considerable progress in the reduction
of its total assets and risks,” Strutz said in today’s
statement. “Thanks to the reduction in non-core activities we
are gaining leeway for further growth in our core business.”  Operating profit at the lender’s Mittelstandsbank, which
serves corporate clients, more than doubled to 1.6 billion euros
last year. The Private Customer unit reported a decline of 66
percent in operating profit to 48 million euros. The Central &
Eastern Europe division and the Corporates & Markets unit
returned to profitability last year.  Soffin, whose so-called silent participations in
Commerzbank amount to 16.2 billion euros, has a holding of 25
percent plus one share in the lender. Commerzbank said it won’t
pay interest on the state aid because it posted a full-year loss
based on German accounting standards amid a 1.9 billion-euro
writedown tied to its Eurohypo property-finance unit.  Targets for 2012  The lender has to sell Eurohypo by the end of 2014 to meet
European Union requirements for approving the government
bailout. “The strategic reorientation of Eurohypo had to be
stepped up further in 2010,” Commerzbank said. Eurohypo’s
Public Finance unit no longer acquires any new business, and the
Commercial Real Estate division concludes new business “only
selectively,” it said.  Commerzbank is “confident” it can reach its 2012 financial
targets, which includes an operating profit of 4 billion euros,
Strutz said on the analyst call, adding that all units had a
“strong” start this year.  Personnel expenses at Commerzbank accounted for half of the
lender’s 2010 operating costs of 8.8 billion euros, according to
CEO Blessing. The lender is paying staff about 440 million euros
in bonuses for 2010, part of which is locked up for a period of
three years and may be lost depending on the performance of
individuals and the bank.  “Last year’s personnel expenses amounted to some 4.4
billion euros,” Blessing told reporters. “A good 10 percent of
this is accounted for by variable remuneration components.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  