-- 
Computer Viruses, Liffe Review, Saudi Rules: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-02-23T13:16:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/computer-viruses-liffe-review-saudi-regulations-compliance.html
U.S. regulators may ask Internet-
service providers such as  AT&T Inc . and  Comcast Corp . to adopt a
voluntary standard for fighting computer viruses that might cost
millions of dollars in network upgrades.  The Federal Communications Commission set up a working
group last year to provide recommendations for securing
residential broadband systems, and in December the panel  issued
a report  identifying best practices for the industry. The agency
is now weighing whether to ask companies to endorse those
suggestions. The FCC’s authority over Internet access providers
is being debated and hinges on the fate of rules governing Web
access that it issued Dec. 21. House Republicans have said the
private sector is better suited to setting rules for the
Internet.  The debate over industry standards illustrates the tension
between the need to protect against rising cybercrime and the
potential cost for ISPs of bolstering network defenses.  Fifty percent of U.S. personal computers have been infected
with viruses and malicious software, according to  an industry
report  last month. Cybercrime costs large U.S. companies an
average of $3.8 million each annually.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  NYSE Deputy Chief Expects ‘Intense’ Deutsche Boerse Review    NYSE Euronext  expects an “intense” and lengthy European
Union antitrust review of its proposed $9.53 billion takeover by  Deutsche Boerse AG , a deal that would create the largest
equities and derivatives markets owner, the company’s deputy
chief executive officer said.  Dominique Cerutti told reporters in Brussels yesterday that
it could take “maybe 12” months, or until February 2012, to
win EU regulatory approval. U.S. and European financial markets
supervisors aren’t expected to raise problems, he said.  The  European Commission , the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
must rule on the takeover, which would combine NYSE Euronext’s
Liffe and Eurex, the exchange jointly owned by Deutsche Boerse
and the Swiss Stock Exchange. The deal would put more than 90
percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives market in
the hands of one organization.  It is “likely” the commission will open an in-depth
investigation, which usually takes as long as five months,
Cerutti said, and extensions may prolong the review until next
February, he said. The companies said last week they expected to
win approvals from the various regulators by December.  The EU’s review may focus on the impact on derivatives
markets and clearing systems, he said.  Amadeu Altafaj Tardio, a spokesman for the European
Commission, declined to comment because the EU’s antitrust
agency hasn’t yet been asked to examine the deal.  Saudi Arabia Approves Company Regulations Draft, SPA Reports  Saudi Arabia’s Shoura Council passed a draft of new company
regulations outlining rules to start, run and close companies in
the Arab world’s largest economy, the  Saudi Press Agency 
reported.  The draft, which replaces rules issued in 1965, stipulates
that the number of partners in a limited liabilities company
shouldn’t exceed 50, otherwise it should turn into a joint stock
company within a year, the news service said.  A pending article obliging joint stock company boards not
to get more than 10 percent of a company’s net income in bonus
payments will be discussed by officials later, SPA said, citing
the council’s secretary-general Mohammed Bin Abdullah Al Ghamdi.    China  May Force Banks to Set Up Crisis-Handling Procedures  China’s banking regulator plans to require lenders to set
up procedures to allow them to restore their finances in the
event of a crisis, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Banks deemed systemically important, including  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China  Ltd., may have to sell debt convertible
into equity, the person said, declining to be identified because
the regulator’s deliberations are private. Regulators will also
be given  broader powers  to supervise those lenders in an effort
to discover risks early, the person said.  China is seeking to avoid a repeat of its last banking
crisis, when the government spent more than $650 billion over a
decade to bail out banks after years of state-directed lending.
Concerns that a deterioration of lenders’ asset quality could
derail the world’s fastest-growing major economy surfaced after
credit expansion surged to a record 96 percent in 2009,
prompting the banking regulator to tighten capital rules.  Chinese regulators will have the power to decide when a
bank in trouble must activate its self-rescue mechanisms, the
person said. The government may seek revisions to China’s
Commercial Bank Law to accommodate the new requirements,
according to the person.  For more, click here.  Separately, China may allow some retail investors to buy
and sell shares on the nation’s over-the-counter stock market,
the Shanghai Securities News reported Feb. 21, citing an
unidentified person.  The over-the-counter market may be opened to retail
investors with more than two years of trading experience and
more than 500,000 yuan in their trading accounts, the Shanghai-
based newspaper reported. Only institutional investors are
currently allowed to trade on the over-the-counter market,
according to the report.  Compliance Action  Former Deutsche Bank Mortgage Unit Fined on Customer Treatment    Deutsche Bank AG ’s shuttered mortgage unit must pay 2.34
million pounds ($3.78 million) to customers and the U.K. finance
regulator for irresponsible lending and unfair treatment of
customers late on payments.  DB Mortgages was fined 840,000 pounds by the Financial
Services Authority and ordered to pay back 1.5 million pounds to
customers, the regulator said in a statement yesterday. The unit
didn’t tell some customers whether cheaper mortgages were
available and didn’t ensure clients could afford the loans after
they retired, the FSA said. The company also failed to tell
clients who were late on payments about all of their options and
applied unfair charges.  The mortgage unit, which the bank closed in mid-2008, has
established a customer redress program, Deutsche Bank spokesman
Adrian Cox said in an e-mailed statement. The unit commissioned
an external review into its lending and collection processes
after the FSA identified issues in a mortgage-industry review
started in 2008, Cox said.  The U.K.’s financial regulator is increasing its focus on
consumer protection. DB Mortgages qualified for the FSA’s
standard 30 percent discount for cooperating in the probe.  Deutsche Bank Banned From Derivatives Trading in South Korea  Deutsche Bank AG was banned from proprietary stock and
derivatives trading for six months in South Korea after
regulators blamed the firm for triggering a stocks rout that
wiped out $26 billion in market value.  The Financial Services Commission will ask prosecutors to
investigate five Deutsche Bank employees, Choi Kyu Yun, standing
commissioner of the regulator, told reporters in Seoul today.
Deutsche Bank is “disappointed” by the recommendations, and
will cooperate with Korean authorities, it said in an e-mailed
statement. The ban starts in April.  The slump in the benchmark Kospi index during the last
minutes of trading on Nov. 11 prompted regulators to limit the
number of equity derivative contracts investors can hold. The
penalty against the local unit comes amid heightened scrutiny
globally of equity-market swings since a 20-minute drop in U.S.
equities on May 6 briefly erased $862 billion of market value.  “Penalties are quite natural if trades were made
intentionally to distort markets,” said Im Jeong Jae, a fund
manager in Seoul at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co.,
which oversees $29 billion of assets. “As trading gets more
complex, it’s almost impossible to have perfect rules and
systems in place to regulate it.”  The regulator said it didn’t file a complaint with South
Korean prosecutors against the Deutsche Bank parent company.
Still, the FSC has notified South Korean prosecutors and the
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority of Germany about
potential misconduct by the parent company, it said.  The regulator didn’t name the five employees.  For more, click here.  Swedish Financial Firms Ignore EU Bonus Guidelines, FSA Says  Swedish financial-services companies are ignoring European
Union guidelines on awarding bonuses, the country’s financial
regulator said.  Most of the 41 companies surveyed failed to comply with
guidelines effective since Jan. 1 last year requiring them to
adopt EU recommendations, the  Swedish Financial Supervisory
Authority  said in a statement published on its website.  The  FSA  will now start individual investigations into each
of the companies that “displayed shortcomings,” it said.  The FSA said it will publish clearer rules on March 1 in an
effort to prevent financial companies from finding loopholes.  Cantor Fitzgerald Fined $100,000 for Gasoline Wash Trades  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said it fined
Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. $100,000 for engaging in wash sales and
non-competitive trades on gasoline futures.  “On one or more occasions from March through April 2007, a
then-employee of Cantor simultaneously entered orders with
certain floor brokers from two different floor brokerage
operations to buy and sell” gasoline futures for the same
quantity, price and contract month, the Washington-based CFTC
said yesterday in a statement.  Cantor neither admitted nor denied the commission’s
findings, according to the CFTC order. Robert Hubbell, a
spokesman for the New York-based firm, declined to comment.  LCH.Clearnet U.S. Rate-Swap Clearing to Begin March 8  LCH.Clearnet Ltd. , owner of the world’s largest interest-
rate-swap clearinghouse, said its service for U.S. customers
will begin March 8 to compete with  CME Group Inc . in the $348
trillion market.  The London-based company had to configure its clearing
service to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act by segregating
customer money in separate accounts that will remain in the
U.S., known as a futures commission merchant system, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. The segregation protects money
managers’ cash in case the bank they use to access the
clearinghouse goes bankrupt.  Clearinghouses worldwide may earn about $1 billion in
annual revenue from clearing over-the-counter trades starting
next year, according to a Feb. 16 joint report by Morgan Stanley
and  Oliver Wyman . Interest-rate swaps account for the largest
over-the-counter derivatives market, with $348 trillion in
notional value outstanding as of June, according to the Bank for
International Settlements.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission are writing rules to govern processing swaps
through clearinghouses. They have until July to finish
developing regulations, after which there will be a period to
implement them. CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said earlier this
month that implementation may be staggered to allow a smooth
transition.  For more, click here.  South Korea FSC to Suspend Domin Mutual Savings for 6 Months  South Korea’s  Financial Services Commission  will suspend
the operations of Domin Mutual Savings Bank for six months
starting today because of a potential liquidity crunch resulting
from excessive deposit withdrawals, the country’s financial
regulator said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The savings bank earlier in the day yesterday notified
customers it will voluntarily halt business for the time being,
the FSC said.  Credit Suisse Employees Investigated by Dusseldorf Prosecutor  A local prosecutor in Dusseldorf, Germany is investigating
four employees of  Credit Suisse Group AG  for allegedly assisting
in  tax evasion , bringing the total number of people under
inquiry to nine.  “Offices and private rooms of the four employees have been
searched by the police yesterday,” prosecutor Ralf Moellmann
said by telephone today. The searches took place in the German
cities of Hamburg, Hanover, Cologne and Frankfurt, as well as
two other small towns he declined to identify.  This doubles the number of current Credit Suisse workers
under investigation by the Dusseldorf prosecutor. A former
employee of the bank is also under review, according to
Moellmann. They are suspected of having helped German taxpayers
avoid taxes by opening accounts outside the country.  Bjoern Korschinowski, a Credit Suisse spokesman, confirmed
the searches and declined to make further comments on the
inquiry in a telephone interview today.  The investigation began last year after German authorities
obtained a disk whose data prompted probes against customers of
the Zurich-based bank.  Zimbabwe’s Royal Bank Reopens After Six Years, Newsday Reports  Royal Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd. reopened yesterday after a six-
year closure,  Newsday  reported, citing Chief Executive Officer
Jeff Mzwimbi.  The closely held lender was closed by Zimbabwe’s central
bank after failing to meet minimum  capital requirements  amid
Zimbabwe’s decade-long economic crisis, the Harare-based
newspaper said. Royal plans to lend primarily to farmers,
Newsday reported.  Courts  Barclays Need Not Pay ‘Windfall’ to Lehman, U.S. Judge Says    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . lost a bid to recover an
alleged $11 billion “windfall” from  Barclays Plc ’s purchase of
its defunct brokerage unit when a judge ruled the transaction
was fair.  Barclays stands to get at least $800 million of the $3
billion it wanted, and may get a similar amount later, according
to a ruling yesterday by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in
Manhattan and previous court filings.  “In this very high-stakes dispute, Barclays was sure
enough of its position that it was willing to bet the house on
prevailing rather than entertaining settlement,” said George
Kuney, a professor at the University of Tennessee College of Law
in Knoxville who teaches bankruptcy and contract law.  The trustee liquidating the remnant of Lehman’s brokerage
claimed London-based Barclays owed $7 billion. His claim also
was denied by Peck.  The bankruptcy fight pitted the U.K.’s third-biggest bank
against Lehman, whose creditors the company has said will get an
average of 18.6 cents on the dollar, without lawsuit proceeds.  Peck said it was “especially” important that emergency
sales in bankruptcy court should be final.  “The court concludes that the lapses in disclosure at the
sale hearing did not affect the fairness or alter the outcome of
the hearing and were not characterized by either the deliberate
withholding of material information or willful misconduct,” as
Lehman and the trustee had alleged, Peck wrote.  For more, click here.  Vivendi Wins Ruling Limiting Class-Action Fraud Verdict    Vivendi SA  won a court ruling that limits an earlier class-
action securities fraud verdict against the company to holders
of its American depositary receipts.  A Manhattan jury in January 2010 found that Paris-based
Vivendi misled shareholders about its financial health 57 times
from 2000 to 2002, artificially inflating the value of its
shares. Lawyers for the investors claimed that damages to the
entire shareholders’ class totaled $9.3 billion.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  in a 122-page ruling
released yesterday dismissed claims by holders of Vivendi’s
ordinary shares from the suit. He applied a U.S. Supreme Court
decision saying that U.S. securities laws don’t protect
investors who buy foreign stocks on overseas exchanges.  The ruling eliminates more than 80 percent of the claimed
damages in the case, according to Flavie Lemarchand-Wood, a
spokeswoman for Vivendi, owner of the world’s biggest music and
video-game companies.  “Vivendi will now analyze Judge Holwell’s decision in
detail to determine its next steps,” Lemarchand-Wood said in a
telephone interview.  Holwell relied on the Supreme Court’s 2010 decision in
Morrison v. National Australia Bank, which barred the U.S. court
claims of a group of Australian citizens who bought shares of an
Australian bank on foreign exchanges.  “Going forward, the class shall consist of all persons
from the United States, France, England and the Netherlands who
purchased or otherwise acquired American depositary shares of
Vivendi between Oct. 30, 2000, and Aug. 14, 2002,” Holwell said
in the written opinion, which was dated Feb. 17.  “While we are of course disappointed at the court’s
application of the Morrison decision to this case, we are
pleased that the court soundly rejected Vivendi’s many arguments
challenging the jury verdict, and we will proceed vigorously to
expedite procedures to allow class members to collect their
damages,” Dan Fleshler, a spokesman for Milberg LLP, said in a
statement.  Milberg is one of the law firms representing Vivendi
investors in the case.  The case is In Re Vivendi Universal SA Securities
Litigation, 02-cv-5571, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  Citigroup Unit Sued Over Mortgage Modification Program  A class-action lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in
New York claims that a  Citigroup Inc . mortgage unit didn’t honor
agreements with borrowers to modify mortgages and prevent
foreclosures as required by federal law.  CitiMortgage is accused of breaching a contract with
homeowners after they “prequalified” for a program that
reduced their mortgage payments, according to a filing yesterday
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  “We cannot discuss the specifics of the case at this point
other than to say it is under review,” Sean Kevelighan, a
spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Daniel and Brenda Seller of Mahopac, New York, who filed
the complaint, seek to represent at least 100 members of the
class. They said in the complaint that they qualified for a
trial loan modification, which reduced their monthly payments.
The bank has delayed making the modification permanent, the
plaintiffs charge.  The case is Seller v. CitiMortgage Inc., 11-1196, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Alberto-Culver Wins Judge’s Approval to Settle Investor Suit  Alberto-Culver won a Delaware Chancery Court judge’s
permission to settle a shareholder lawsuit challenging the
beauty-products company’s planned $3.7 billion takeover by
Unilever in exchange for more information on the buyout and $3
million in legal fees, according to court papers.  Interviews/Speeches  Warren Says Consumer Bureau’s Card Rules Cut Rates, Fees  Elizabeth Warren, the White House adviser in charge of
setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, spoke about
the impact of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and
Disclosure Act of 2009, known as the Credit Card Act, which
became effective a year ago. Warren discussed the goal of
assessing which steps taken by the credit card industry in
reforming its practices have been successful, and which require
further study and work.  She spoke at a conference in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.K. FSA’s Ross Wins European Union Market Regulator Post  European regulators voted to make Verena Ross,
international director of the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, the executive director of the European Securities and
Markets Authority.  The  European Parliament  must confirm the appointment, ESMA
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Ross faced competition
from  European Commission  official Maria Velentza for the top
administrator job, three people familiar with the selection
process said before the vote.  EU nations and the parliament agreed last year to establish
ESMA as one of three authorities in London, Paris and Frankfurt
to regulate the banking, securities and insurance industries
respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 