-- 
Copper Drops to Four-Week Low as Middle East Turmoil May Derail Economies

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-02-23T15:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/copper-drops-for-a-third-day-on-concern-mideast-unrest-may-derail-recovery.html
Copper fell to a four-week low on
speculation that unrest in North Africa and the Middle East will
derail recovering economies as  oil prices  jump.  Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi vowed to fight a growing
rebellion until his “last drop of blood” as bodies were left
in the streets of Tripoli, the capital. Protests toppled
presidents this year in Tunisia and Egypt. Oil jumped to the
highest since October 2008 on supply concerns. The  MSCI World 
Index of shares retreated for a third day.  “We’ve seen that every time we get a big jump in oil
prices, it seems to manifest itself in poor economic activity
and a slowdown,” said Wayne Atwell, a managing director at
Casimir Capital LP in  New York . “There are a lot of reasons to
be anxious right now.”  Copper futures for May delivery dropped 8.5 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $4.278 a pound at 10:16 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Earlier, the price touched $4.265, the lowest since Jan.
26.  “It’s still the unrest in North Africa and the Middle East
and the uncertainty it is causing,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “That’s dampening the
sentiment of market players, reflected in weak equity markets
for the most part.”  Crude-oil futures for April delivery gained as much as 4.7
percent to $97.97 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest since Oct. 2, 2008. Libya is Africa’s third-biggest
supplier of the commodity.  Copper for three-month delivery dropped $175, or 1.8
percent, to $9,405 a metric ton ($4.27 a pound) on the  London 
Metal Exchange. Nickel, lead, tin, zinc and aluminum also fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  