-- 
Deere Plans to Almost Double Sales Via Global Expansion

-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 
2011-02-23T19:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/deere-sets-goal-to-reach-50-billion-in-sales-by-2018-ceo-says.html
  Deere & Co ., the world’s largest
manufacturer of agriculture equipment, said it plans to almost
double sales to $50 billion by 2018 by expanding operations
outside the U.S.  The company has a goal of achieving a 12 percent operating
margin by 2014, Chief Executive Officer Sam Allen said today at
Deere’s annual shareholder meeting at its Moline, Illinois,
headquarters. Deere will intensify its focus on its agriculture
business, which will continue to be the company’s biggest unit,
and the construction unit, Allen said. The company will also
make “major investments” in construction to enhance its global
presence, he said.  “The revised strategy also lays out some challenging
aspirations or goals,” he said. “By hitting these marks, the
company would grow to about twice its present size and deliver
about three times as much economic profit at normal volumes.”  Deere raised its fiscal 2011 profit forecast last week
after advancing crop prices boosted North American sales of
combines and tractors. The company got 35 percent its sales from
outside the U.S. and  Canada  in the fiscal year ended Oct. 31.  “It’s a realistic goal that’s attainable at an earlier
date,” said  Eli Lustgarten , an analyst for Longbow Research in
Independence,  Ohio , who has a “buy” rating on the shares, said
in a telephone interview.  The plan represents the first revision in the company’s
strategy in a decade, Allen said. Deere has been working on it
over the past two years and will roll out the plan in fiscal
2011, Ken Golden, a company spokesman, said in an interview.  Deere’s sales rose 13 percent to $26 billion in fiscal
2010. Its operating margin -- calculated as operating income
divided by net sales -- was 10.6 percent in fiscal 2010,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  