-- 
Delta, US Airways LaGuardia Slot Talks Moving at `Slow Pace'

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-02-23T14:11:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/delta-us-airways-laguardia-slot-talks-moving-at-slow-pace-.html
  Delta Air Lines Inc .’s talks with  US
Airways Group Inc . over a proposed trade of takeoff and landing
slots in New York and Washington are moving slowly because of
regulatory concerns, an executive said today.  “There are some issues that have been flagged by the
government,” Perry Cantarutti, Delta’s senior vice president
for Europe, Middle East and Africa, said at a briefing in  London 
today. “It’s moving at a fairly slow pace.”  He declined to elaborate on issues the government raised
and didn’t have a time frame for reaching an agreement.  Delta and US Airways told a U.S. appeals court last month
that they may be able to resolve a dispute over the slots,
allowing Delta to boost its domestic service at  New York ’s
LaGuardia airport, where it is already the biggest airline.  Last March, Atlanta-based Delta proposed getting 110 slots
at LaGuardia in exchange for giving US Airways 37 of its slots
at Washington’s Reagan National along with routes to Tokyo and
Sao Paulo.  Southwest Airlines Co ., the fourth-largest U.S.
carrier, objected to the trade and said it would hurt
competition.  The U.S. government ordered the carriers to surrender 34
slot pairs to competitors with little or no presence at the two
airports, and later rejected a compromise proposed by Delta and
US Airways that would have allowed them to keep more of the
slots, prompting an appeal by the carriers.  Delta and Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways last year
asked the government to reconsider after Southwest announced
plans to buy  AirTran Holdings Inc ., which already has slots at
LaGuardia and National.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  