-- 
Congress Struggles to Avert Shutdown as Parties Disagree on Spending Cuts

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-23T21:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/democrats-republicans-in-standoff-on-u-s-spending-cuts-as-shutdown-looms.html
Congressional Republicans and
Democrats are preparing dueling plans to avert a U.S. government
shutdown early next month as both sides have refused so far to
budge in their standoff over spending cuts.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
he will bring up a temporary spending measure next week to keep
the government operating at current levels into early April and
buy time for talks on a longer-term plan.  Democrats oppose the House Republicans’ spending plan,
passed Feb. 19, saying its $61 billion in cuts will harm the
economy and the nation’s security. The White House has said that
President  Barack Obama  would veto the measure, which would fund
the government through Sept. 30.  “We want them to come to the table with us, work out a
responsible path forward,” Reid told reporters in a conference
call yesterday. “We’re proposing a short-term solution that
will give us time to negotiate.”  There isn’t much time. Current spending authority expires
March 4; if a new plan is not enacted by then, the government
will shut down. Congress is in recess this week.  House Speaker  John Boehner , a Ohio Republican, rejected
Reid’s proposal for a stopgap measure without additional cuts,
insisting -- as he has previously -- that any new funding bill
contain more spending reductions. If Reid refuses to act on the
Republicans’ measure, the House will act next week on a
temporary one “that also cuts spending,” Boehner said
yesterday.  ‘Willing to Cut?’  “The American people want Congress and President Obama to
enact legislation that keeps the government running while
cutting spending,” Boehner said in a statement today. “I ask  Senator Reid , with all due respect: What are you willing to
cut?”  Boehner accused Democrats of working with lobbyists to
prevent spending cuts. He said the Republicans’ goal “is to cut
spending to create a better environment for  job creation  -- not
to shut down the government,” he said.  The two leaders’ public posturing set the stage for behind-
the-scenes talks in which Democrats and Republicans will haggle
over how much, and where, to slash federal spending. Reid said
he was sending his top aide to start private discussions with a
counterpart in Boehner’s office about a longer-term deal.  Avoiding a Shutdown  The White House is “certainly participating” in
discussions with congressional leaders aimed at averting a
government shutdown, press secretary Jay Carney said today,
declining to give details.  “A government shutdown would have harmful effects on our
economy. It would set back our economic recovery. It would
potentially reduce our growth and reduce our job creation
efforts,” Carney told reporters. “We obviously, like the
leaders of Congress, want to avoid that, and we believe we
can.”  A Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysis released yesterday said
the House-passed plan to cut $61 billion in spending would shave
between 1.5 and 2 percentage points off U.S. economic growth
during the second and third quarters of this year.  Reducing spending by a smaller amount, such as $25 billion
to $50 billion, would cut almost 1 percentage point off the
annualized rate of GDP growth in the second quarter, though it
would have a “negligible” effect on growth by the end of the
year, according to the analysis. A shutdown of the federal
government would reduce U.S. spending by about $8 billion per
week, according to the research note.  ‘Cut-and-Grow Fantasy’  Democrats seized on the analysis, saying it disproved
Republican arguments that slashing the deficit would create
jobs. “This analysis puts a dagger through the heart of their
‘cut-and-grow’ fantasy,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New
York Democrat.  Both sides have indicated openness to a deal. The chairman
of the Senate Budget Committee, Democrat  Kent Conrad  of  North
Dakota , said Feb. 19 that the Democratic-controlled chamber
would accept about half of the spending cuts Republicans are
demanding for this year.  “I think virtually everybody understands we’ve got to cut
spending,” Conrad said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  said he
would consider supporting reductions far smaller than the House
recently approved as part of a stopgap bill.  ‘A Practical Guy’  “We ought to take every opportunity to reduce spending, so
I’d like to cut spending even for two weeks,” Graham said Feb.
18. “I’m a practical guy -- but I don’t want to play this game
much longer.”  Each side is accusing the other of risking the consequences
of a government shutdown.  “It is time to drop the threats and ultimatums, and work
together on a path forward,” Reid said in his statement.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
made his own push for bipartisan talks.  “A government shutdown is not an acceptable outcome, and I
call upon Leader Reid to commit to a good-faith effort to work
with us and take that threat off the table,” Cantor said in a
statement.  In addition, a half-dozen Republican and Democratic
senators are meeting privately in an effort to reach a broader
bargain to reduce the deficit, projected to reach $1.6 trillion
this year.  Those talks are also being prodded by another deadline: The
Treasury Department projects that the  U.S. debt  will reach its
authorized ceiling of $14.3 trillion within a few months, and
Republicans have said they want deeper spending cuts as a
condition of voting to raise it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  