-- 
Democratic Senators Object to Bid to Stop Internet-Access Rules

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-02-23T22:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/democratic-senators-object-to-bid-to-stop-internet-access-rules.html
Four Democratic senators today asked
Senate leaders to object to attempts to block rules barring
telecommunications companies led by  AT&T Inc . from interfering
with subscribers’ Web traffic.  A measure passed by the Republican-controlled House would
bar the Federal Communications Commission from spending money to
implement so-called net-neutrality rules that the agency
approved in December. House Republicans say they may use a
separate legislative instrument as well.  “Such action aims to strip the FCC of its legal
authority,” the senators including  John Kerry , of
Massachusetts, chairman of the communications, technology and
the Internet subcommittee, said in a letter to Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader.  “They claim to stand for freedom,” the senators said in
their letter. “But the only freedom they are providing for is
the freedom of telephone and cable companies to determine the
future of the Internet, where you can go on it, what you can
attach to it, and which services will win or lose on it.”  The FCC’s rules prohibit Internet-service providers from
blocking or slowing Web content sent to homes and businesses,
while allowing mobile-phone companies to put limits on traffic.  The FCC’s rules “would harm innovation and the economy”
and the agency exceeded its authority in passing them,
Representative Greg Walden, the  Oregon  Republican who chairs the
House subcommittee on communications and technology, said Feb.
17 as he introduced the measure to bar spending.  The House adopted Walden’s amendment Feb. 17 on a 244-
to-181 vote, with all but 10 votes in favor coming from
Republicans. Democrats cast all but four of the “no” votes.  Also signing today’s letter were senators Ron Wyden, of
Oregon;  Maria Cantwell , of  Washington ; Al Franken, of Minnesota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  