-- 
Deutsche Bank Gets Six-Month Trading Ban in South Korea

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-02-24T07:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/deutsche-bank-gets-six-month-korean-proprietary-trade-ban-over-stock-rout.html
  Deutsche Bank AG  was given the
heaviest penalty ever levied on any securities firm in  South
Korea  for triggering a Nov. 11 stock market rout that erased $26
billion of value.  Deutsche Bank will be banned from trading shares and
derivatives for its own account in the country for six months,
the Financial Services Commission said yesterday. The regulator
will ask prosecutors to investigate five employees at the
Frankfurt-based firm.  The slump in the benchmark  Kospi index  during the last
minutes of trading on Nov. 11 prompted regulators to limit the
number of equity derivative contracts investors can hold. The
penalty against the local unit comes amid heightened scrutiny
globally of equity-market swings since a 20-minute drop in U.S.
equities on May 6 briefly erased $862 billion of market value.  “Regardless of how much money Deutsche Bank might lose
from the business suspension, the damage to its reputation is
humiliating,” said Namgil Nam, a research fellow and head of
derivatives at  Korea  Capital Market Institute in Seoul. “The
severe penalty will show the market that South Korean
authorities are determined to clamp down on irregularities.”  Deutsche Bank said it was “disappointed” by the
recommendations and will cooperate with Korean authorities,
according to a statement from the firm yesterday.  Michael West ,
a Hong Kong-based spokesman for the bank, declined to comment on
any revenue loss estimates from the trading restriction.  Korean Prosecutors  Seoul prosecutors have begun an investigation into Deutsche
Bank’s Korean operations at the request of the regulators,
television broadcaster YTN reported today, citing prosecutors.  The FSC said yesterday that it didn’t file a complaint with
prosecutors against Deutsche Securities Korea Co.’s parent
company. Still, the commission has notified Korean prosecutors
and the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority of  Germany  about
potential misconduct by the parent company, it said.  Deutsche Bank said it will hold an independent review of
systems and controls at its Asian Equities Absolute Strategies
Group. The regulator didn’t identify the five employees.  Regulators began investigating Deutsche Bank units in Seoul
and  Hong Kong  after the  Financial Supervisory Service  said about
1.6 trillion won ($1.4 billion) of sell orders were made through
the company’s Korean brokerage unit.  ‘Program’ Selling  Korea Exchange Inc.  said the Kospi’s tumble on Nov. 11,
when options expired, was caused by “program” selling.
Deutsche Bank breached stock exchange rules governing the
disclosure of computer-driven trades by filing a report one
minute late that day, the bourse said on Nov. 15.  The Kospi fell 0.6 percent to 1,949.88 at the 3 p.m. close
in  Seoul . It has gained 1.8 percent since the incident.  Korea Exchange will hold a meeting Feb. 25 to discuss
penalties for the local brokerage unit, Lee Cheol Jae, an
executive director at the bourse operator’s market oversight
division, said by telephone.  The five Deutsche Bank staff conspired to manipulate the
market by selling 2.44 trillion won worth of shares in the last
minutes of trading on Nov. 11, with the “purpose” of making
gains from “speculative” derivatives positions built in
advance, the FSC said yesterday. The German lender’s units made
45 billion won of “unfair” trading profit that day, according
to the regulator.  The government will take decisive steps on any violation of
rules to ensure the financial market is transparent and
trustworthy, FSC Chairman Kim Seok Dong told reporters today in
Seoul.  Crossing Line  “I’m confident that the measures we took against Deutsche
Bank this time are acceptable anywhere,” Kim said. “No market
player should fall under the illusion that they can do anything.
Once they cross that line, we’ll make sure they pay for it.”  The six-month ban was the first business suspension handed
down to any foreign broker in Korea since the FSS was set up in
1999, according to its data. The supervisory service is a non-
governmental body that helps the FSC and the stock exchange
police South Korean financial markets.  Under the tightened rules on South Korean derivatives
holdings announced by the Financial Services Commission on Jan.
11, institutional investors will be allowed a maximum 10,000
futures and options contracts in any “speculative” transaction.  While institutions are now limited to 7,500 futures
contracts and individuals can hold 5,000 futures contracts,
there are no limits on options. The nation’s bourse operator
said on Jan. 31 that the new rule would start from March 7.  Deutsche Securities Korea accounted for 1.8 percent of the
total trading value of Kospi-listed shares last year, according
to Koscom Corp., which provides financial data from  Korea
Exchange Inc.   The unit had 118 employees as of Dec. 31 and posted nine-
month profit of 26.9 billion won through December, according to
the company’s  filing  to the FSS on Feb. 14. The brokerage earned
annual profit of 32.2 billion won in the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  