-- 
Dexia Profit Misses Estimates on Legacy Loss, Funding Cost

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-02-23T20:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/dexia-fourth-quarter-profit-declines-72-on-lower-revenue.html
  Dexia SA , the lender to local
governments that was rescued by  France  and  Belgium , reported
profit that missed estimates because of mounting provisions for
losses on asset-backed securities and declining interest income.  Fourth-quarter net income dropped to 56 million euros ($77
million) from 202 million euros a year earlier, the Paris- and
Brussels-based bank said today in a statement. That missed the
148 million-euro average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue fell 18 percent to 1.21 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Mariani, who set a goal of
doubling pretax profit to 1.8 billion euros in 2014, shuffled
the bank’s management board in December by doubling its size and
giving Alexandre Joly the oversight of a unit that manages bond
and loan portfolios being wound down. The so-called legacy
division posted a pretax loss of 246 million euros as Dexia
increased its forecast for losses on a pool of mostly U.S.
residential-mortgage-backed securities by $588 million.  “We have taken tougher assumptions about the duration of
the crisis on the real-estate market. Our base scenario now is
seven years,” Mariani told analysts and investors on a
conference call. “We know that, because of the structure of
these securities, most losses will appear post 2015.”  Writedowns on the U.S. asset-backed securities increased
$336 million in the quarter to $2.25 billion, exceeding Dexia’s
own forecast for losses by $456 million. Dexia said it doesn’t
expect default rates in the U.S. mortgage market to improve in
the coming three years. Losses so far amount to $624 million.  Basel III Effect  Dexia’s core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of a bank’s
ability to absorb losses, increased to 12.1 percent from 11.8
percent at the end of September. The lender said it expects
Basel III capital rules to inflate risk-weighted assets by 25
billion euros, cutting its estimate from 50 billion euros in
October.  Fourth-quarter net interest income, the difference between
what the bank pays for funds and what it charges for loans,
dropped 8.5 percent to 958 million. Competition among banks on
the French market for public-finance loans is easing, according
to Mariani.  “A few competitors have finally understood that liquidity
has a cost.” Mariani said on the call. “There’s no competition
on price in this market, at least in France.”  The bank raised 44.4 billion euros last year selling
medium- and long-term debt, including government-guaranteed
notes and covered bonds, and cut its short-term funding by 48
billion euros to 119 billion euros at the end of December.  Dexia also said it reduced central-bank borrowings to about
18 billion euros, from a peak of 122 billion euros in February
2009. The lender has about 42 billion euros of assets left it
could pledge as collateral with the  European Central Bank  in
return for additional funds.  Sovereign bond holdings in the banking unit amount to about
50 billion euros, a 13 percent cut from last year’s stress
tests, Mariani said on the call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 