-- 
Diageo Is Likely Buyer of Fortune Brands’ Beam, Liberum Says

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-02-23T15:37:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/diageo-most-likely-buyer-of-fortune-brands-beam-liberum-says.html
  Diageo Plc  is the most probable
buyer of most of  Fortune Brands Inc .’s Jim Beam spirits
business, with Bacardi Ltd. as a bidding partner for the
remainder, Liberum Capital analysts said.  “We expect Diageo to buy as much as 70 percent of the Beam
Global Spirits business,” paying 3.5 billion pounds ($5.7
billion) to 4 billion pounds, Liberum’s  Pablo Zuanic  and Lisa Hau wrote in a note today. Diageo would need a partner as it
couldn’t buy Fortune’s cognac and tequila businesses because of
agreements with other spirits makers, they said.  Diageo, the owner of Smirnoff vodka, has said it aims to
make purchases in markets where growth is the fastest. An
acquisition of parts of the Jim Beam business would strengthen
the London-based company’s global franchise and add to earnings
from the start, the analysts said.  Fortune Brands plans to split into three separate
businesses and focus on distilled spirits after activist
investor  William Ackman  built up a stake, the company said in
December. The company’s plan includes the continuation of
“Fortune Brands as an independent public company focused solely
on our Beam Global distilled spirits business,” Clarkson Hine,
a spokesman for Fortune Brands, said by e-mail today.  Diageo, which said Feb. 21 it agreed to acquire Mey Icki in
a transaction that values  Turkey ’s largest maker of Raki, an
aniseed-flavored spirit, at 3.3 billion Turkish lira ($2.1
billion), had 6.95 billion pounds in total current assets as of
June 30, according to Bloomberg data.  Bacardi would be the most likely co-bidder with Diageo
because of its size compared with other potential buyers,
including Davide Campari - Milano SpA, according to the
analysts. Another potential bidder, Pernod Ricard SA, may be
constrained by its debt ratios, they added.  Fortune, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , said in December it
planned to dispose of its home-and-security and golf-products
units to focus on distilled spirits. Since then, Liberum said,
news reports have indicated Fortune may seek to sell the spirits
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorft ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 