-- 
DirecTV Profit Beats Estimates on Premium-Service Demand

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-02-23T21:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/directv-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-video-high-definition-demand.html
  DirecTV , the largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, posted fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates on rising demand for high-definition and
digital-video recording services. The stock advanced.  Net income was $618 million, or 74 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $32 million, or 3 cents, a year earlier, El
Segundo, California-based DirecTV said today in a statement.
Analysts predicted 63 cents, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 11 percent, also exceeding projections.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael White  is trying to fend off
rivals such as  Verizon Communications Inc . and  Comcast Corp .,
which offer  Internet service , phone calls and TV programming in
one package. DirecTV is highlighting its premium HD channels,
exclusive sports programming like the “NFL Sunday Ticket” and
a digital-video recorder that broadcasts recorded shows to
multiple rooms at once to win new customers.  “DirecTV’s U.S. business has successfully targeted the
high end of the market, with premium content offerings, tight
credit screenings, and effective targeted marketing,” said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New
York , who has an “overweight” rating on the stock. The
company’s actions “have kept churn under control and allowed
continued subscriber growth, even given minimal pay-TV market
growth.”  DirecTV’s average monthly revenue per U.S. customer, or
ARPU, rose 4.6 percent to $96.64. The boost was driven by price
increases, and higher sales of advanced products like digital-
video recorders, pay-per-view and premium movies.  Stock Buyback  DirecTV climbed 80 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $45.03 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has
gained 13 percent this year.  The company said its board approved a new $6 billion stock-
buyback program. Last year, DirecTV bought back about 136
million shares for $5.11 billion.  Revenue increased to $6.62 billion, beating the $6.52
billion analysts predicted. The company added 289,000 net new
U.S. subscribers in the quarter, compared with the 174,000 it
gained in the previous period. New York-based Verizon added
182,000 subscribers for its FiOS television product in the
fourth quarter, while Philadelphia-based Comcast lost 135,000
basic cable subscribers.  “Satellite revenue growth depends on two factors:
subscriber growth, which DirecTV has sustained at an uncannily
steady level, and ARPU growth, where they have excelled as
well,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York. Moffett rates the shares market perform.  White said on the company’s conference call today that he
expects the U.S. business to retain its market share this year,
while subscriber growth may moderate. Rising programming costs
will pressure profit margins in the second half, he said.  Smaller rival  Dish Network Corp . is scheduled to report
earnings tomorrow.  (DirecTV held a conference call today. To listen to a
replay, visit  http://www.directv.com/investor .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  