-- 
Dollar Tumbles on Wagers ECB, BOE to Increase Rates Before Fed

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-02-23T14:35:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/dollar-falls-versus-major-peers-on-bets-ecb-boe-to-boost-rates-before-fed.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts on speculation central banks in  Europe  and
the U.K. will seek to combat inflation from rising fuel costs by
increasing  interest rates  before the Federal Reserve.  The euro climbed to a two week-high versus the greenback
and gained versus the yen and Swiss franc. The pound
strengthened versus the dollar as minutes of the Bank of
England’s Feb. 10 meeting showed an additional policy maker
voted for an increase in rates. Crude  oil prices  in  New York 
touched a 28-month high amid intensifying violence in Libya.  “You’re still seeing euro and sterling who have more
people on their central banks talking hawkish; it’s beneficial
for their currencies against the dollar at this stage,” said
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,
Connecticut. Libyan and Mideast turmoil “pushes oil higher, and
that feeds in to commodity prices pushing short-term inflation,
reinforcing perceptions those central banks may do something.”  The dollar fell 0.5 percent to $1.3719 per euro at 9:30
a.m. in New York, after touching $1.3744, the weakest level
since Feb. 9. The euro advanced 0.5 percent to 113.51 yen. The
dollar was little changed at 82.74 yen, compared with 82.77 yen
yesterday, when it reached 82.53, its weakest since Feb. 10.  European Central Bank policy makers will make the decisions
necessary to maintain price stability, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in Frankfurt today. The ECB will “inevitably”
have to “rebalance our monetary policy stance,” with the 17-
nation euro-area economy strengthening and inflation in breach
of the central bank’s 2 percent limit, council member Yves Mersch said yesterday, without giving a time frame.  Rate Prospects  “The market is focusing more on prospects for higher
interest rates and this speculation should offer further relief
for the European unit,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “The  Federal Reserve ’s
position is very clear; the U.S. outlook is still uncertain and
they don’t want to raise rates too soon.”  Futures show traders added to bets for higher borrowing
costs. The implied yield on the three-month Euribor futures
contract for December rose to 2 percent today from 1.96 percent
yesterday and 1.88 percent on Feb. 16. Futures on the CME Group
Inc. exchange show a 38 percent chance Fed policy makers will
boost their main rate in December, versus 50 percent a week ago.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, fell for the first time in three days. It
lost 0.3 percent to 77.538.  House Purchases  U.S. existing-home purchases decreased in January 1.1
percent from December to a 5.22 million annual rate, according
to the median forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. A 13-year-low 4.91 million existing houses sold in 2010.
The National Association of Realtors’ data is due at 10 a.m. in  Washington .  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled yesterday that
European Union leaders may be ready to renegotiate the terms of
Greece’s bailout as part of a broader package to shore up
confidence in the euro.  “There certainly is a discussion about whether to consider
extending the running time of the Greek program,” Merkel said,
noting that last year’s aid plan for Greece was limited to three
years while Ireland’s bailout package, agreed last November,
runs for seven years. “It’s one point that’s on the table.’  Spreading Revolt  Governments rushed to evacuate thousands of expatriates
from  Libya  as army units defected and a former aide to the
leader Muammar Qaddafi warned that the spreading revolt may
topple the regime within days.  Continued protests “will lead to civil war,” Qaddafi said
yesterday in Tripoli. The nation holds Africa’s largest crude
reserves. Qaddafi’s crackdown on a week-long uprising has
already left more than 200 dead, according to  Human Rights
Watch .  Crude for April delivery rose as much as 3.6 percent to
$96.89 a barrel in New York, the highest since October 2008.  Sterling gained 0.6 percent to $1.6224 and was little
changed at 84.54 pence per euro, from 84.60 pence yesterday.  Spencer Dale joined  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale  in
voting for higher rates as a growing number of officials said
the case for tightening policy had “grown in strength,”
minutes released in  London  today showed.  The pound may strengthen to $1.65 during the next few weeks
as speculation mounts that the  Bank of England  will raise its
main rate from a record low 0.5 percent, before weakening on
concern that higher borrowing costs will crimp economic growth,
according to Hans-Guenter Redeker, head of global currency
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  