-- 
Earthquake Puts Christchurch World Cup Games in Doubt, Rugby Official Says

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-02-23T12:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/earthquake-puts-christchurch-world-cup-games-in-doubt-rugby-official-says.html
Christchurch may not be able to host
its 2011 Rugby  World Cup  matches following yesterday’s
earthquake that killed at least 75 people, the region’s leading
rugby official said.  “Right now it doesn’t feel like we could host very much at
all,” Hamish Riach, chief executive officer of the  Canterbury
Rugby Football Union , told  Television New Zealand . He said it
was too early to be sure of the impact on the tournament because
“everyone is in the immediacy of this traumatic event.”  New Zealand’s second-largest city is scheduled to stage
seven games at AMI Stadium during the Sept. 9-Oct. 23 event,
including two quarterfinals. Only Auckland, with nine, is
scheduled to host more matches.  Liquefaction caused by the quake has damaged the stadium’s
playing surface, with bubbles up to half a meter high (1.5 feet)
appearing all over the pitch, TVNZ  reported , without saying
where it got the information. It could take at least 5 1/2
months before it’s ready for rugby again, the broadcaster said.  Local organizer Rugby  New Zealand  2011 said it would allow
rescue efforts to take priority before assessing the city’s
ability to host the games following the 6.3 magnitude quake, the
nation’s deadliest in 80 years. The assessment will encompass
infrastructure including the stadium, hotels, training
facilities and the transport network.  Under Pressure  “A detailed evaluation of this nature will take place as
soon as is reasonably possible,” Rugby New Zealand 2011 CEO
Martin Snedden said in an e-mailed statement. “We are mindful
of the pressure the people of Christchurch are under right now
and do not want to place any more demands on them.”  Speculation that the entire event is in jeopardy or that
matches will be shifted to  Australia  is wrong, Snedden added.  “Rest assured, RWC 2011 will proceed and all matches will
take place in New Zealand,” he said.  The International Rugby Board, which owns the four-yearly
world championship through its Rugby World Cup Ltd. subsidiary,
said in a statement that its “thoughts and deepest sympathies”
were with the people of Christchurch.  The Dublin-based governing body said it would be
“inappropriate” to comment on the status of infrastructure or
operations and the “focus at this point must be on the
emergency response.”  Seven Matches  AMI Stadium, home to the Canterbury Crusaders Super Rugby
team, is scheduled to host five World Cup pool matches:
Argentina-England; Australia-Italy; England-Georgia; Argentina-  Scotland ; and Australia-Russia. The two quarterfinals there are
slated Oct. 8 and 9.  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key said that there had
been no formal discussions on shifting the games from
Christchurch, which also was shaken by a 7.0 magnitude temblor
in September. One of the issues may be accommodation, with
hotels in the city suffering “substantial damage,” Key said.  “If we could host the  Rugby World Cup  as we intended to in
Christchurch, I’d like to do that,” Key told reporters in
Wellington. “It’s some way into the future. It’s a very
important city to New Zealand and it would be a demonstration
that Christchurch is back up on its feet.”  The Crusaders withdrew from their Feb. 26 Super Rugby match
against the Hurricanes in Wellington, tournament organizer
SANZAR said in a statement. SANZAR’s executive committee agreed
to declare the match a draw and the competition points will be
shared evenly between the two franchises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  