-- 
Eaton Vance’s Page Likes Bank Loans as Bonds Decline

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-02-23T15:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/eaton-vance-s-page-likes-bank-loans-as-bonds-decline-correct-.html
Scott Page, who manages the top-
performing bank-loan fund over the past five years, said the
debt is still attractive after a two-year rally. Investors
pouring record amounts into funds like his should just temper
their expectations.  “This is a dull, 4 to 6 percent a year asset class and it
probably always will be,” said Page, 51, who runs the $1.5
billion Eaton Vance Floating-Rate Advantage Fund. “Loans aren’t
as outrageously attractive as they were a year ago, but they are
still pretty attractive.”  Bank-loan funds attracted $5.62 billion net new money in
January, a monthly record, according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , as investors sought protection from the
possibility that a stronger economy and accelerating global
inflation will force up U.S. interest rates. Unlike bonds, which
lose value when rates climb, bank loans have coupon rates that
float with short-term interest rates, minimizing declines.  The funds, which buy loans made to companies with non-
investment grade credit, gained 9.4 percent in 2010 and 42
percent in 2009, data from  Morningstar  show, part of a broad
rebound in debt markets following the financial crisis. Those
returns won’t be matched this year, said Page and other
managers, who predict gains more in line with those before the
crisis hit.  ‘People Get Hurt’  Investor interest in bank loans has grown since long-term  interest rates  began rising in October, depressing bond prices.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed to 3.46 percent
yesterday from 2.6 percent on Oct. 31. Bonds prices have
declined 2.2 percent since October, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & Government Master Index.  “People can get hurt in bonds,” Page said.  Eaton Vance’s Floating-Rate Advantage Fund returned an
average of 5 percent annually in the five years ended Feb. 18,
topping all rivals, according to Morningstar data. The fund uses
leverage to enhance its returns. A similar Eaton Vance fund that
doesn’t employ leverage gained 4.2 percent annually over the
same period.  The funds typically buy five- to seven-year loans made to
companies with debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. The loans provide a fixed
spread over a benchmark, usually the London interbank offered
rate, and reset about every 40 to 50 days. Since 2009, loans
have been pegged to benchmarks other than Libor because short-
term interest rates have been so low, Page said.  Beating Treasuries  Loans should outperform Treasuries this year, unless the
“economy falls back into a double-dip recession,”  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank ,
said in a telephone interview. Ablin, who helps manage $55
billion, said bank loans represent about 5 percent of his fixed-
income portfolio.  From 1997 through 2007, bank loans returned about 5 percent
a year, Otis Casey, a credit analyst at New York-based Markit
Group Ltd., said in an e-mail. The default rate has averaged 3.9
percent, with a 70 percent recovery rate on defaulted loans,
according to an April report by Boston-based Eaton Vance.  “These funds are not without risks but if companies are
generally cleaning up their balance sheets that risk looks
smaller every day,” Jeff Tjornehoj, an analyst with Denver-
based Lipper, said in an e-mail.  Enter Pimco  The billions flowing into the funds are attracting notice.
Chicago-based Nuveen Investments Co., Pacific Investment
Management Co. of  Newport Beach ,  California , and  Newark , New
Jersey-based  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  plan to introduce
floating-rate funds this year, according to regulatory filings.  Eaton Vance managed $22.7 billion in bank loans at the end
of 2010, Robyn Tice, a spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail.  The “steady” returns associated with bank loans
disappeared in 2008, said Paul Scanlon, 46, manager of the $456
million Putnam Floating Rate Income fund.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index fell from about
90 cents on the dollar in August 2008 to less than 60 cents four
months later, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank-loan investors, including  hedge funds , relied heavily
on borrowed money, Scanlon said. When markets froze in 2008, and
loan prices fell, those leveraged investors were forced to sell,
driving prices even lower. An increase in defaults by companies
with too much debt contributed to the decline, Scanlon said.  ‘They Got Slaughtered’  “They got slaughtered,” Scanlon said.  In a December 2008 interview with Morningstar, Eaton
Vance’s Page said the selling was overdone and that loans
represented “a significant opportunity” for investors.  Prices soon rallied as credit markets returned to normal
and the  U.S. economy  recovered. The loan index now stands at
96.42 cents compared with an all-time high of 101.32 in 2005.  Bank-loan investors hoping to take advantage of an increase
in short-term interest rates this year may be disappointed.
Returns on new loans may shrink because companies have been able
to refinance at lower rates, said Craig Russ, co-manager on the
Eaton Vance Floating Rate Advantage Fund.  Burger King Holdings Inc., one of the loans his fund owns,
borrowed money in October and is already looking to refinace,
Russ said. Burger King, based in Miami, paid 4.5 percentage
points above a benchmark for its October loan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The new loan, Russ said, would be 3
percentage points above a slightly lower benchmark.  8% Return  Interest rates on new loans have dropped for six straight
months to 4.32 percentage points more than benchmarks, according
to S&P’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Putnam’s Scanlon said loans could return 7 percent this
year as an asset class. Jonathan Blau, head of global leveraged
finance strategy at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in  New York , looks
for gains of 5 percent to 8 percent, he wrote in an e-mail.  Margie Patel, who manages more than $1 billion for  Wells
Fargo & Co ., isn’t putting bank loans into her two mutual funds.
High-yield bonds and stocks will both beat loans this year, she
said.  “I don’t think loans are going to blow up, but in a market
where risk takers will be rewarded, other opportunities are more
compelling,” Boston-based Patel said in a telephone interview.  Record Earnings  Still, bank loans probably will benefit from an improving
economy, said Elizabeth MacLean, portfolio manager of the $3.4
billion Lord Abbett Floating Rate Fund.  “This is an attractive time to be taking credit risk,”
she said in a telephone interview.  Forecasters at  Standard & Poor’s  expect record earnings for
the companies in the  S&P 500 Index  in 2011,  Howard Silverblatt ,
an index analyst for S&P in New York said in a telephone
interview.  Three-month U.S. Libor rates will climb to 63 basis points
by the fourth quarter, up from 31 basis points today, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A basis point is equal to
0.01 percentage points.  “When short-term rates do rise they will snap up
quickly,” John Bell, who manages $2.5 billion in bank loan
products at Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co., said in a
telephone interview. Bell did not lay out a timetable for rate
increases.  ‘Stupid Stuff’  In the leveraged-loan market, the trailing 12-month default
rate among U.S. issuers fell to 2.5 percent in January, down
from 11.5 percent in January 2010, according to a February
report from Moody’s.  “This isn’t rocket science,” said Page, adding he doesn’t
predict the growth rate of the U.S. economy or the trajectory of
interest rates when selecting investments. “What we want to
know is will a given company stay out of trouble and be able to
pay us back.”  Risk will creep back into the market as spreads shrink and
lower-quality companies seek loans, he said.  “We will see credit excesses some day. It’s human
nature,” Page said.   Wall Street  will always provide people
with an opportunity to do stupid stuff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  