-- 
Ecowas Is `Marshaling Forces' to Remove Ivory Coast's Gbagbo From Power

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-02-23T12:21:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/ecowas-is-marshalling-forces-to-remove-ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-from-power.html
The  Economic Community of West
African States  is holding planning meetings and “marshaling
forces” to remove  Ivory Coast  leader  Laurent Gbagbo  from power
if sanctions and talks fail to convince him to step down, said
Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga .  “If all these measures don’t result in a change of regime,
force will be used,” Odinga told reporters today in Nairobi,
the Kenyan capital. “As to when, I cannot say.”  An African Union-sponsored mission to Ivory Coast,
including the presidents of  South Africa , Tanzania, Mauritania
and  Chad , completed a two-day visit to the country yesterday.
The mission could be the “final attempt” by the regional bloc
for a peaceful resolution to the crisis, Odinga said. The
international community has recognized  Alassane Ouattara  as the
winner of a presidential election on Nov. 28.  Gbagbo remains “oblivious” to international and domestic
calls for him to quit, Odinga said. “We have said the use of
force will be the very last option after all the peaceful
attempts have failed,” he said.  Gbagbo refuses to cede power in the world’s top cocoa
producer, alleging electoral fraud in parts of the country’s
north. The  United Nations , the European Union and the U.S. have
all recognized Ouattara as the winner.  Sunny Ugoh, spokesman for Ecowas, didn’t answer four calls
to his mobile phone today.  Police Killed  The latest round of African Union talks follows at least
two unsuccessful attempts by Odinga to broker a resolution.
Gbagbo rejected Odinga as a mediator, saying he was biased.  Charles Ble Goude, youth minister for Gbagbo, has also
rejected Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore as part of the
latest African Union panel. Compaore refused to go to Ivory
Coast this week, citing security concerns.  Unidentified gunmen in Ivory Coast’s commercial capital,
Abidjan, killed at least 10 policemen yesterday and seized one
military vehicle, according to l’Intelligent d’Abidjan. Gunfire
was heard in the neighborhood of Abobo throughout the night, the
Abidjan-based newspaper reported today. The suburb is a
stronghold of Ouattara.  At least 300 people have been killed in clashes since the
political struggle began almost three months ago, according to
the UN. In the west of the country,  Amnesty International 
estimates 70,000 people have fled their homes amid ethnic
tensions that have been exacerbated by the impasse.  Financial Closure  The closure of the branches of least 10 lenders, including  Standard Chartered Plc , Citigroup Inc., BNP Paribas SA and
Societe Generale SA, over the past week has brought the
financial system to a halt.  The  Central Bank of West African States  has ordered lenders
in the region to halt all transactions with its agencies in
Ivory Coast after Gbagbo seized their offices.  The European Union last month froze assets of Ivory Coast’s
key cocoa- and coffee-exporting ports, along with those of
companies including the national broadcaster.  The sanctions amounted to a “de facto export ban” on  cocoa beans  and products from the country, the  European Cocoa
Association  and Federation of Cocoa Commerce Ltd. said Feb. 4.  Ouattara, who on Jan. 23 told cocoa and coffee shippers to
halt exports for a month, extended that ban yesterday until
March 15. May-delivery cocoa fell for the first day in four day,
dropping 12 pounds, or 0.5 percent, to 2,326 pounds per metric
ton by 11:47 a.m. in  London .  In the 14 days to Feb. 17, cocoa beans and processed cocoa
products fell to 8,645 tons, according to an official with
access to the data. In the two weeks previous, shipments were
71,457 tons.  The election was meant to unify Ivory Coast, which has been
split into a government-controlled south and rebel-held north
since a military uprising in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 