-- 
Rahm Emanuel Makes History With Win Succeeding Daley as Mayor of Chicago

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-23T15:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/emanuel-to-succeed-richard-daley-as-chicago-s-mayor-after-first-round-win.html
A new era of Chicago politics dawned
today as  Rahm Emanuel , the former White House chief of staff and
the city’s mayor-elect, hugged, shook hands and high-fived
surprised rush-hour commuters on the South Side.  Emanuel, elected yesterday with 55 percent of the vote,
greeted residents during a brief visit to a train station on a
subfreezing Chicago morning.  “I am very energized by the support we received last night
throughout the city and the opportunity to turn the page and
start anew with a fresh beginning,” said Emanuel, who in May
will replace  Richard M. Daley , retiring from leading the
nation’s third-largest city for the past 22 years.  Emanuel beat a field of six. Chicago’s first Jewish chief
executive faces a declining population, city pension shortfalls
and a 2012  budget deficit  forecast at more than $600 million.  The mayor-elect, 51, is the first former top aide to
President  Barack Obama  elected to office. He overcame a legal
challenge to his residency and questions about his Chicago
pedigree, and by getting more than 50 percent of the vote,
avoided a runoff.  “The test of victory will be whether the children we see
today are going to school thinking of their studies rather than
their safety and whether their parents are thinking about their
jobs rather than struggling to try to figure out how to find a
job,” Emanuel said this morning.  The vote marked the approaching end of rule by Daley, 68,
who is retiring in May. He and his father,  Richard J. Daley , ran
Chicago for 43 of the past 55 years.  Broad Support  Emanuel’s campaign drew support from each of the city’s
main racial and ethnic groups -- blacks, whites and Hispanics --
and that will benefit him, said Dick Simpson, a political
science professor at the  University of Illinois  at Chicago.  “He will still have big challenges working with the city
council and dealing with the structural deficit,” Simpson said.  Repeated use of reserve funds to balance budgets led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Chicago’s credit rating on Nov. 5 by
one level to A+, the fifth highest grade.  Threatening Deficits  “We need to confront a budget deficit that threatens our
future, not by burdening Chicagoans and Chicago families with
more taxes they cannot afford, but by reinventing city
government so city government works for the taxpayers,” said
Emanuel, a former aide to President  Bill Clinton  who worked as
an investment banker before serving in Congress.  In a Feb. 8 speech, he called for a spending freeze and $75
million in cuts to tackle Chicago’s financial challenges. He
released a six-page  plan  that outlined $500 million in potential
 savings  through “efficiencies and better use of existing
resources.”  The city also must take immediate action to control pension
costs, said Emanuel, who will face tense labor relations. His
White House role in helping Clinton win passage of the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  and comments he made about unions
as Obama’s top aide left lingering resentment.  “They are particularly unhappy with his call for a more
vigorous debate of the number of employees and residency
requirements,” Simpson said. “There are going to be battles
between him and the unions.”  ‘Shared Sacrifice’  During the campaign, Emanuel was more vocal than other
candidates in his calls for “shared sacrifice” by those who
work for the city of 2.7 million people.  “As a Chicagoan and a friend, I couldn’t be prouder,”
Obama said in a statement last night. “Rahm will be a terrific
mayor for all the people of  Chicago .” In his victory speech,
Emanuel said he had spoken by phone with both Daley and Obama
before taking the stage.  Emanuel beat a field that included Gery Chico, a former
Daley chief of staff and one-time Chicago school board
president; City Clerk Miguel del Valle; and former U.S. Senator
Carol Moseley Braun. Chico, 54, was Emanuel’s nearest rival with
about one-quarter of the vote.  “He knows less about the details of city government than,
say, Gery Chico or Miguel del Valle,” Simpson said. “He will
have a learning curve, although he understands how government
and the executive branch work.”  Council Challenge  Emanuel is likely to face a City Council that’s more
autonomous than Daley dealt with in the latter part of his two-
decade tenure.  “I want to reach out tonight to the members of the next
City Council,” he said. “We have a chance for a new
partnership that will serve our city and its taxpayers well.”  That partnership could be immediately strained, said  Alan
Gitelson , a political science professor at Loyola University
Chicago.  “He’s going to have problems starting on Wednesday
morning,” Gitelson said.  In a televised debate last week, Emanuel said Alderman
Edward M. Burke, a Chico supporter and chairman of the finance
committee, could lose his police bodyguards, driver and
potentially his chairmanship.  His relationship with Burke will be a “major problem” for
Emanuel, said Gitelson, who noted that Burke is the council’s
longest-serving member.  Daley Control  About a third of the current aldermen have Daley to thank
for appointing them to their posts as he filled spots triggered
by resignation or corruption convictions, Simpson said.  There will be at least 20 new members of the 50-alderman
City Council after the April 5 runoff election, Gitelson said,
an influx that has the potential to be a “counterforce to the
mayor.”  Emanuel raised $10.6 million through Jan. 19, four times as
much as Chico, campaign disclosure  records show . Since then,
Emanuel has raised at least an additional $1.4 million.  The new mayor could use any of his remaining campaign
resources to win aldermanic allies by helping them in their own
potential runoffs, Gitelson said.  “He’s going to have a fair bit of money left over from his
war chest,” he said. “That solidifies allegiance to the
mayor.”  A fight over Emanuel’s residency dominated the campaign in
December and January. A week before early voting began Jan. 31,
Emanuel’s name was off the ballot after an appellate court ruled
that he didn’t meet a residency requirement.  The Illinois Supreme Court put him back on by unanimously
ruling Jan. 27 that Emanuel, who had moved to  Washington  in 2009
to work for Obama, satisfied the law.  Staying Cool  Emanuel remained composed in public before the election,
not showing what he has acknowledged to be a sometimes
expletive-laced, explosive personal style.  In 1989, the last time there was a competitive mayoral
election, 68 percent of registered voters cast a ballot, records
from the  Chicago Board of Election Commissioners  show. In
yesterday’s contest, fewer than half the city’s 1.4 million
registered voters cast ballots.  Daley didn’t formally endorse any of the candidates, though
he has a long relationship with Emanuel, who worked as a
fundraiser on Daley’s first successful mayoral campaign in 1989.  The current mayor is on a sailing vacation this week in the
British Virgin Islands, the  Chicago Sun-Times   reported . Jodi
Kawada, a spokeswoman, said she didn’t know his whereabouts.  “I expect the way Emanuel will govern will very much be a
continuation of the way that Daley governed,” said  John Brehm ,
a political scientist at the  University of Chicago .  Emanuel celebrated Daley’s leadership in his remarks last
night.  “This city bears his imprint,” Emanuel said, “and he has
earned a special place in our hearts and our history.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  