-- 
Lachlan Murdoch Named Acting Chief of Australia’s Ten Network

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-02-23T07:01:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/ten-appoints-lachlan-murdoch-acting-chief-executive-after-firing-blackley.html
Lachlan Murdoch was named acting
chief executive officer of  Ten Network Holdings Ltd . in his most
senior role since leaving his father Rupert’s  News Corp . in
2005.  The appointment is effective immediately, after the firing
of Grant Blackley, while the board seeks a permanent
replacement, Sydney-based Ten said in a statement today.
Blackley headed Ten for 10 weeks after replacing Nick Falloon at
the least watched of Australia’s three commercial broadcasters.  Ten’s ratings have slid this year as it expanded prime-time
news and current affairs programming to appeal to older viewers
and moved youth-oriented shows such as “The Simpsons” and
“Neighbours” to a new digital channel. The younger Murdoch and
billionaire  James Packer  joined the board in December after
acquiring 18 percent of Ten, as did  Australia ’s richest woman
Gina Rinehart, who bought a 10 percent stake.  “The ratings performance of the new lineup has been
disappointing and Blackley looks rather like the fall guy for
it,” said Mark McDonnell, an analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney, who
has a “hold” rating on the stock. “The new directors clearly
aren’t as wedded to the strategy as Blackley.”  Ten fell 3.4 percent to A$1.285 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney, giving it a market value of A$1.34 billion
($1.34 billion). The stock has dropped 9.2 percent this year,
lagging behind the 2.1 percent gain for Australia’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will fall to A$103 million in the six months ending
Feb. 28, from A$117 million a year earlier, Ten said today. The
broadcaster is scheduled to report earnings on April 7.  Murdoch-Packer Team  Packer, son of the late media tycoon Kerry Packer, teamed
with  Lachlan Murdoch  in October to buy the stake in Ten before
they both accepted board roles. Rinehart, who is worth $9
billion according to Forbes  Asia , acquired a 10 percent holding
in November, according to regulatory filings.  Lachlan Murdoch, who remains a director of News, quit as
the New York-based company’s deputy chief operating officer in
July 2005 to move to Australia with his family.  His sister Elisabeth Murdoch is expected to join the News
board upon completion of its purchase of her U.K.-based
television production company  Shine Group Ltd.  for 415 million
pounds ($672 million), an agreement announced this week.  In 2009, Lachlan Murdoch’s private company Illyria Pty.
acquired a 50 percent stake in  Daily Mail  and General Trust
Plc’s radio network in Australia.  Jeannette McLoughlin, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Ten,
said Blackley wasn’t available for an interview and has left the
company.  Strategic Direction  “The board continues to be responsible for all decisions
regarding the strategic direction of the company, and has
decided to conduct an immediate strategic review of the
company’s operations,” Ten Chairman Brian Long said in the
statement.  Ten, which airs “Hawaii Five-O” in Australia, had 14.4
percent of viewership in Australia’s five largest cities in the
week ending Feb. 5, according to market researcher Oztam Pty.
which compiles television ratings in the nation. Seven Media
Group had 19.2 percent of viewers, and Nine Entertainment Co.
had 16.3 percent.  Seven this week agreed to be bought by  West Australian
Newspapers Holdings Ltd . for A$1.98 billion and A$2.1 billion of
assumed debt. Nine, controlled by buyout firm CVC Asia Pacific,
may seek an initial share sale this year, Reuters reported Jan.
11, citing an unidentified person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  