-- 
EPA Overhauls Boiler Rules After Complaints About Cost

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-02-23T19:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/epa-overhauls-u-s-boiler-rules-cuts-costs-50-after-industry-protests.html
The Obama administration said it
issued pollution rules for industrial boilers that are 50
percent less expensive than regulations proposed last year that
drew industry opposition.  The Environmental Protection Agency’s final rules for
boilers and incinerators will provide health benefits comparable
to the previous standards while cutting costs, EPA Assistant
Administrator Gina McCarthy said today on a conference call with
reporters.  The EPA had estimated the earlier rules would cost
$9.5 billion, while the  Council of Industrial Boiler Owners  set
the cost at $20 billion and as many as 300,000 lost jobs. The
agency’s revamping of the rules followed President  Barack Obama ’s pledge to review regulations that companies call
excessive and a court order to act by this week.  “We’ve done a great job,” and the agency is “pretty
comfortable” with the revised rules, McCarthy said.  The regulations remain too costly to business, according to
the  National Association of Manufacturers .  The rules will have an “immediate, negative impact on
manufacturers’ bottom lines at a time when they are trying to
rebound economically and create jobs,” Aric Newhouse, senior
vice president for policy and government relations for the
Washington-based trade association, said in a statement.  The requirements to cut air pollutants such as mercury and
dioxin would set emission limits for boilers used in paper pulp
mills, refineries and chemical and manufacturing plants.
Existing boilers that exceeded the limits would have to be
upgraded or replaced.  Federal Judge  The administration lost a bid last month to postpone the
rules by 15 months when a federal judge ordered action within
30 days. The EPA will reconsider parts of the rules issued
today, enabling companies to give feedback to the agency,
according to McCarthy.  The regulations aimed at cutting toxic air emissions such
as mercury and soot will create 2,200 new jobs, not including
making or installing pollution controls, according to McCarthy.
The reduced emissions will prevent 2,600 to 6,600 premature
deaths, the EPA said today in a statement.  For every dollar spent to cut pollutants, the public will
get $10 to $24 in health benefits, according to the agency.  U.S. Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  praised the EPA for
revising the rule to ease requirements for biomass alternative-
fuel producers.  The EPA is “retaining important energy choices such as
biomass that provide heat and power to rural hospitals and
schools,” Vilsack said in a statement.  Oil Industry  The  American Petroleum Institute , the biggest U.S. lobbying
group for the oil and gas industry and a critic of the rules
proposed last year, said it welcomed the EPA’s efforts to change
the regulations.  “API is committed to work with the agency during its
reconsideration period to ensure that the final rule protects
the environment while allowing businesses to create jobs and get
Americans back to work,” Howard Feldman, director of science
and regulatory policy at the Washington-based group, said in a
statement today before release of the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  