-- 
Merkel Tells Germans to Use Faster Internet to Boost Economy

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-23T17:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/merkel-tells-germans-to-use-faster-internet-to-boost-economy.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
urged people to use broadband Internet, if its available to
their homes, to bolster the economy and push the development of
new technologies.  “Use what is offered to you,” Merkel said at a  Deutsche
Telekom AG  event in Friedrichshafen, Germany, today.   Germany 
could have major economic benefits from the Internet.”  Under the name  T-City , Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom is
running pilot projects in Friedrichshafen that include  smart
metering  to help utility companies measure and control energy
consumption and delivery; and health projects such as instant
communication of insulin readings to physicians. Other projects
involve  home networks  where users can access and operate
electrical appliances from anywhere.  About 98 percent of German households have Internet speeds
of 1 megabit per second, Merkel said. That compares to the 50
megabit per second speed of almost all households in T-City. The
German state has a 32 percent stake in Deutsche Telekom,  Europe ’s biggest phone company, according to Bloomberg data.  To counter declining sales from traditional telephone
operations, Deutsche Telekom is betting on sales from services
such as smart metering, mobile data, Internet-connected homes,
services and utilities. These services contributed 15.8 billion
euros in revenue to Deutsche Telekom’s sales in 2009 and should
contribute nearly 30 billion euros in 2015, according to a
company  presentation  from March last year.  Other pilot  projects  running in Friedrichshafen include the
secure e-mail system  DE-mail  that can be used for legally
binding electronic correspondence once the German parliament
passes a law to that effect. The lower house of parliament will
vote on the bill on Feb. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  