-- 
Merkel’s Defense Minister Stripped of University Doctor Title

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-02-23T23:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/merkel-s-defense-minister-stripped-of-university-doctor-title.html
German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, the country’s most popular politician, was
stripped of his doctorate in law after he admitted to making
“grave” mistakes in his thesis.  The University of Bayreuth president, Ruediger Bormann,
announcing the findings of an initial investigation of the 2006
work, said that Guttenberg had failed to mark parts of his
doctoral thesis which had been taken from other sources. The
university didn’t examine whether Guttenberg had resorted to
“deception” in writing his paper, Bormann said.  “The commission is convinced that Herr zu Guttenberg
violated scientific principles to a considerable extent,”
Bormann told reporters in Bayreuth, southern  Germany , in
comments broadcast live on N-TV television late yesterday.  The findings place more pressure on Guttenberg, an ally of
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  mooted in German media as her potential
successor, as he fights allegations of plagiarism that are now
in their second week. Having voluntarily relinquished his title
on Feb. 21, he was forced to account for discrepancies in his
thesis yesterday during a debate in parliament’s lower house.  “I think the defense minister had asked Bayreuth
University to strip him of his doctorate, so if his title has
been revoked, that’s in line with what he had requested,”
Merkel said in Freiburg, southwestern Germany, when asked about
the university’s findings.  Guttenberg, a member of the CSU Bavarian sister party to
Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , faced down calls by opposition
lawmakers to resign, saying that while he was “a man of
mistakes and weaknesses,” he hadn’t used conscious deception.  “I was certainly so arrogant as to believe that I could
square the circle by trying to coordinate political passion and
work, as well as academic and intellectual challenges, with
being a young father,” Guttenberg told lawmakers in Berlin
yesterday, to jeers from the opposition. “For me this was
overload, and today I regret to say that I couldn’t manage it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at   acrawford6@bloomberg.net  