-- 
MERS Can Foreclose in California, State Appeals Court Rules

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-02-23T21:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/merscorp-can-foreclose-in-california-state-appeals-court-rules.html
Merscorp Inc., operator of the
electronic-registration system that contains about half of all
U.S. home mortgages, has the right to foreclose on defaulted
borrowers in  California , a state appeals court ruled.  U.S. courts have differed in recent years on whether
Merscorp’s Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, or MERS,
unit has the right to bring a foreclosure action.  “Under California law MERS may initiate a foreclosure as
the nominee, or agent, of the noteholder,” California Court of
Appeal Justice  Joan K. Irion  in San Diego wrote in a Feb. 18
ruling.  Merscorp, based in Reston,  Virginia , and owned by  Fannie
Mae ,  Freddie Mac ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and other mortgage-
industry companies, said in a Feb. 16 announcement that it will
propose a rule change to stop members from foreclosing in its
name.  “It’s incorrect,” Ehud Gersten, the  San Diego  lawyer who
brought the suit on behalf of the borrower, Jose Gomes, said of
the ruling in a phone interview today. “I disagree with it
completely.”  Gersten said he will appeal the decision.  Flood of Transfers  Merscorp was created in 1995 to improve servicing after
county offices couldn’t deal with the flood of mortgage
transfers, Karmela Lejarde, a MERS spokeswoman, said in an
interview last year. MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership
interests in  mortgage loans  on its electronic registry, allowing
banks to buy and sell the loans without having to record the
transfer with the county.  “The California decision validates the MERS process and
procedures that we’ve used in nonjudicial states for many
years,” Lejarde said in a statement today, referring to states
such as California that don’t require court intervention to
conduct foreclosures.  John L. O’Brien, the register of deeds for the southern
part of  Massachusetts ’s Essex County, said in a  statement 
yesterday that MERS has cost his district $22 million in
recording fees, based on 148,663 MERS mortgages since 1998.
O’Brien said he would forward that information to state Attorney
General Martha Coakley. Coakley is investigating MERS, according
to the  Boston Globe  in December. Amie Breton, a spokeswoman for
Coakley, declined to comment.  Upheld Ruling  The California appeals court upheld a ruling that went
against Gomes, who sued in 2009 to have the court declare that
MERS couldn’t foreclose because the noteholder didn’t authorize
it to. Gomes borrowed $331,000 in 2004 and was sent a notice of
default in 2009, according to Irion’s decision.  The court, which heard arguments on the Gomes case the same
day it released its decision, said that under the state’s
“nonjudicial scheme” Gomes can’t bring such a lawsuit.  “Nowhere does the statute provide for a judicial action to
determine whether the person initiating the foreclosure process
is indeed authorized, and we see no ground for implying such an
action,” wrote Irion, who was joined in her decision by the two
other judges on the panel.  Asking MERS to demonstrate it has the right to foreclose
“would be inconsistent with the policy behind nonjudicial
foreclosure of providing a quick, inexpensive and efficient
remedy” and would allow lawsuits to delay foreclosures, the
judge wrote.  ‘Speculative Suit’  Gomes didn’t allege any facts to suggest MERS lacked the
right to foreclose, Irion said, calling his case “a speculative
suit.” The state legislature would have to act to allow such
litigation, she said.  Gomes also agreed, by signing the deed of trust securing
the promissory note for the loan, that MERS had the authority to
foreclose, the court said.  “Essentially, the Court of Appeal is saying that once
somebody starts to foreclose,” borrowers “can’t seek any right
from or question that person,” Gersten said in the interview.
“The beneficiary under the deed of trust can authorize MERS to
foreclose but they never did that. We don’t know who the
beneficiary is.”  On Feb. 15, the appeals court ruled for MERS in a similar
case brought by borrower Nancy G. Jimenez. Gersten, who also
represents Jimenez, said he will appeal that decision.  MERS members have moved away from closing in MERS’s name
because of confusion over its standing, Christopher L. Peterson,
a law professor at the University of Utah in  Salt Lake City  who
has written several articles on MERS, said in an interview last
week.  ‘Created Confusion’  MERS halted foreclosures in its name in  Florida  in 2006,
according to rules on its  website . Violation of the rule, which
remains in effect, costs $10,000. Former Merscorp Chief
Executive Officer R.K. Arnold said in a September 2009
deposition in an Alabama foreclosure case that MERS made that
change because of a Florida court decision that “created
confusion about whether we could” foreclose.  Merscorp announced Arnold’s retirement on Jan. 22.  The case is Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc., D057005,
California Court of Appeal (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 