-- 
Swiss Franc, Yen Climb as Deepening Violence in Libya Fuels Safety Demand

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-02-24T22:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/euro-trades-near-three-week-high-on-bets-ecb-to-increase-rates-before-fed.html
The  Swiss franc  climbed to a record
against the dollar and the yen gained to the strongest level in
almost three weeks as the uprising in Libya drove oil to a 29-
month high, spurring demand for the safest assets.  The dollar reached the lowest level in three weeks versus
the euro amid speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise
interest rates before the  Federal Reserve . The yen breached 82
per dollar for the first time since Feb. 8 as U.S. Treasury
yields traded near three-week lows, dimming the attraction of
dollar-denominated assets. Currencies of commodity exporters
such as  Australia  and Canada climbed.  “We’ve had strength of yen and Swiss, particularly against
the dollar,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency
research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc. “We’ve seen
pricing out of any potential for a quick Fed exit on the back of
the oil move, so it’s logical that the dollar has some weakness
against those low-yielding currencies.”  The franc strengthened to a record 92.34 centimes per
dollar before trading at 92.64 at 5 p.m. in New York, up 0.7
percent from 93.30 yesterday. The euro rose 0.4 percent to
$1.3800, after climbing to $1.3821, the strongest since Feb. 3.  The yen appreciated 0.8 percent to 81.89 per dollar, its
seventh straight day of gains, the longest run this year. It
touched 81.63, the strongest level since Feb. 4. The Japanese
currency was 0.4 percent stronger at 113.02 per euro.  Libya’s  Muammar Qaddafi , who has lost control of much of
his country’s oil-rich east, appealed on state television to
citizens to end violence as his forces stepped up a crackdown on
opponents and moved tanks into positions defending the capital,
Tripoli. Libya holds Africa’s largest crude oil reserves.  Crude Surges  Crude for April delivery topped $103 per barrel in New
York, the highest level since September 2008, on concern
supplies will be disrupted. It later slipped to $95.62 a barrel.  Asian currencies slid on speculation the global economy
will slow as oil prices surge. Taiwan’s dollar dropped 0.8
percent to NT$29.80, the worst performance among the dollar’s 16
most-traded counterparts.  South Korea ’s won  was the second-
worst performer, dropping 0.6 percent to 1,131.05 per dollar.  The euro briefly extended gains as a member of the ECB
Governing Council, outgoing Bundesbank President  Axel Weber ,
said  interest rates  can only rise in the future.  “Interest rates know only one direction, and that is
north,” Weber said in a panel discussion in  Frankfurt  today.  ECB policy makers will make the decisions necessary to
maintain  price stability , President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told
reporters yesterday in Frankfurt. The bank, which meets March 3,
has kept its benchmark rate at 1 percent since May 2009.  ECB Versus Fed  The Fed has kept its key rate at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 to support the economic recovery. It repeated in
January the rate will stay low for “an extended period.”  “The ECB monetary policy authority will look at oil as an
inflationary pressure, where  North America , particularly the
Fed, will look at it as a deflationary issue,” said Dean Popplewell, an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading
firm Oanda Corp.  The euro reached a 2011 high of $1.3862 on Feb. 2, three
weeks after Trichet signaled he wouldn’t hesitate to raise rates
if needed to contain accelerating inflation. The currency fell
after he said Feb. 3 following a policy meeting that inflation
risks were balanced and the 1 percent rate was “appropriate.”  The dollar declined versus most major peers as U.S.
Commerce Department data showed sales of new homes fell 13
percent last month to a 284,000 annual pace. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decline to 305,000.  Pound Drops  The pound slid as much as 1 percent to 85.66 pence per
euro, the weakest level since Feb. 2, before trading at 85.52
pence. It fell 0.5 percent to $1.6138.  The franc rose the most over the past week among 10
developed-nation currencies in the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, gaining 2.2 percent. The yen advanced
1.2 percent, while the dollar fell 0.7 percent.  Treasuries rose as Libyan turmoil spurred demand for the
safety of U.S. government debt, pushing down benchmark 10-year
yields as low as 3.41 percent, the least since Feb. 2. Two-year
yields reached 0.70 percent, almost the lowest since Feb. 3.  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.7 percent to 98.31 cents
per  U.S. dollar .  Canada ’s biggest export is oil.  Australia’s dollar gained for a second day versus its U.S.
counterpart as a report showed business investment climbed in
the fourth quarter. The Aussie rose 0.7 percent to $1.0089.  Poised for Slide  The South Pacific currency may be poised for a slide
against the dollar as futures traders start to exit their
biggest bet on a rise in almost a year after the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia signaled it may pause interest-rate increases.  So-called net longs surged to the highest in more than 10
months in the five days ended Feb. 8, before declining the
following week, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  “The market is very, very long the Aussie dollar, which
adds to the risks for a decline,” said Chris Walker, a foreign-
exchange strategist at UBS AG in  London . A long position is a
bet a currency will strengthen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  