-- 
Euro Gets Cold Shoulder at Ballot Box of Anger: Jens Bastian

-- B y   J e n s   B a s t i a n
-- 
2011-02-23T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/euro-gets-cold-shoulder-at-ballot-box-of-anger-commentary-by-jens-bastian.html
The result in Hamburg couldn’t have
been more punishing for the  Christian Democratic Union  and for  Chancellor Angela Merkel . The first of seven regional elections
in  Germany  this year left no doubt about where German voters
stand on a much larger issue: the euro crisis.  The race for mayor of the city-state, the equivalent of the
premier in other German states, was won by the candidate from
the opposition  Social Democratic Party , which achieved something
that is rare in Germany: an outright majority that can govern
without a coalition partner. The CDU’s share of the vote was
halved to 21 percent, while the SPD snared more than 48 percent.  The  Christian Democrats  in Hamburg and Berlin were quick to
blame local issues for the astonishing protest vote. Education
and port operations were supposed to have played a role. The
first-time coalition between the CDU and the Greens in Hamburg
was also considered an unusual political experiment. In short,
there were enough local reasons to register a protest vote. But
the electoral tsunami had deeper causes.  Voters are also taxpayers and cast ballots accordingly.
Like any other citizen in the euro area, Germans in Hamburg,
Berlin or Stuttgart want to know what lies ahead for their
personal finances. While the German economy is the euro area’s
main growth engine and unemployment is declining, the electorate
is uneasy about the government’s loan guarantees for bailouts in  Greece  and Ireland. For months, they have been waiting to find
out how Merkel intends to solve the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The answer so far has been unconvincing.  Lost Message  Merkel has tried to position herself as heading a
government capable of defending Germany’s interests inside the
euro area. The Franco-German proposition for a “competitiveness
pact” to coordinate economic and fiscal policy making is an
attempt in that direction. But the voters in Hamburg didn’t get
her message in the least.  For Merkel to survive politically, German taxpayers need to
be reassured that the bailouts of Greece and Ireland won’t
become permanent features of euro-area policy making. They want
their government in Berlin to focus on the essentials. That
means every country in the single-currency area must be held
accountable for its own financial affairs. The establishment of
permanent rescue mechanisms for profligate spenders and
irresponsible financial institutions is overwhelmingly opposed
by taxpayers and voters across Germany.  Bad Bank  European monetary union is a limited-liability arrangement.
So Germans don’t want to see the  European Central Bank  gradually
converted into a bad bank buying up distressed sovereign debt
from Greece, Ireland and Portugal. The resignation of Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  this month was a reminder of this deeply
held opinion in Germany.  When the governing CDU loses so much of the electorate, it
is obvious that local politics alone can’t explain the result.
Voting with their feet and abandoning the party headed by Merkel
in such high numbers is a reminder for the chancellor that she
has yet to convince her constituency about larger issues on the
agenda of German politics.  Since the Greek bailout in May 2010, Merkel has lost two
regional elections in Germany -- the other CDU-led government to
fall was in North Rhine-Westphalia. After another defeat,
Merkel’s minority position in the  Bundesrat , the upper house of
parliament, makes the passage of federal legislation more
cumbersome and deal-making with opposition parties necessary.  Merkel will need German taxpayers on her side when
continuing to provide loan guarantees to Greece, Ireland and
possibly  Portugal  in the near future. So far, she has failed to
win their support as voters. If she doesn’t convince German
citizens soon, she will be punished at the ballot box and her
position on the European stage may be damaged permanently.  Next month, a key regional election will take place in the
southern state of  Baden-Wuerttemberg , where Merkel’s CDU is in
coalition with her junior partner in Berlin, the Free Democratic
Party. A defeat in that election may well mean Merkel’s time in
the Chancellery will soon be up.  (Jens Bastian is a visiting fellow for Southeast Europe at
the University of Oxford’s St. Antony’s College. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jens Bastian at  jensbastian04@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  