-- 
European Industrial Orders Unexpectedly Rise on Capital Goods

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-23T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/european-industrial-orders-unexpectedly-rise-on-capital-goods.html
European industrial orders
unexpectedly rose in December as surging demand for capital
goods such as machines helped offset a slump in  Germany .  Orders in the euro area increased 2.1 percent from
November, when they gained a revised 2.2 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast a drop of 1 percent, the median of 16 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey showed. From a year earlier, December
orders jumped 19 percent.  The euro-region economy may gather strength as booming
Asian demand prompts companies to step up output and hiring.
German business confidence rose to a record in February and
growth in Europe’s manufacturing and service industries
accelerated.  Daimler AG , the world’s second-largest maker of
luxury cars, on Feb. 16 forecast higher full-year earnings.  “Global demand and manufacturers are driving euro-region
growth,” said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “There’s still a catching-up potential and
we’re still far from capacity limits. Growth probably
accelerated in the first quarter, followed by moderate
expansion” afterward.  The euro-region economy expanded less than economists
forecast in the fourth quarter as French growth stalled and
unusually cold temperatures sparked a slump in German
construction output. Germany, Europe’s largest economy, had the
coldest December since 1969, according to the country’s weather
service.  French Orders  Industrial orders in Germany dropped 2.9 percent in
December from the previous month, when they rose 5.2 percent,
today’s report showed. French orders jumped 7.5 percent in that
period and Italy reported a gain of 9.1 percent. In Ireland,  Greece  and  Spain , which are struggling to lower budget deficits,
orders declined in December, the statistics office said.  Companies may have to rely on faster-growing economies to
bolster sales as euro-area nations toughen austerity measures
and cut spending. The  International Monetary Fund  last month
forecast the euro-region economy will expand 1.5 percent this
year, with  China  seen growing 9.6 percent and  India  8.4 percent.  Euro-area orders for capital goods jumped 3.7 percent in
December from the previous month, when they rose 2 percent,
today’s report showed. Orders for durable  consumer goods  dropped
2.3 percent from November and those for intermediate goods
advanced 2.4 percent. Orders excluding heavy transport equipment
such as ships and trains rose 1.3 percent.  Record Deliveries  The statistics office had previously reported an overall
gain in November orders of 2.1 percent. In the European Union,
orders jumped 2.5 percent in December from the previous month,
when they rose 1.7 percent, today’s report showed. Estonia
joined the region this year.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart, Germany, said on Feb. 16 that
operating profit this year will “significantly” exceed the
2010 level on record deliveries for Mercedes-Benz vehicles. PSA
Peugeot Citroen,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, said earlier
this month it plans to expand into India to boost earnings.  European economic confidence probably rose in February,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The European Commission in
Brussels will release the report tomorrow. A gauge measuring
consumer optimism increased more than economists forecast this
month.  “The euro area is currently in a process of recovering
economic activity, which has gained momentum and recently
surprised to the upside,” European Central Bank Executive Board
member Juergen Stark said at an event in Frankfurt on Feb. 21.
Its strong momentum is in part driven by robust growth abroad.
But it also reflects improved domestic growth dynamics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  