-- 
Ex-Goldmanite Moyo Sees U.S. Default, Chimerica Suicide: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-02-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/ex-goldman-economist-moyo-sees-chimerica-hara-kiri-u-s-default-books.html
Dambisa Moyo, a former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . analyst with a doctorate from Oxford, has a
history of taking provocative stands.  In “Dead Aid,” the Zambian-born economist argued that
foreign aid had made millions of Africans poorer, deepening
their misery instead of alleviating it.  Her new book, “How the West Was Lost,” offers up a
well-reasoned look at how the world’s most-advanced nations
are squandering their economic lead -- and how they might
survive by fighting Chinese fire with fire.  Some of Moyo’s proposals are, by her own admission,
drastic. The U.S. could, she says, opt for “nuclear
options,” protectionist measures including a debt default.  “Default sounds like a cataclysmic option” yet
shouldn’t be casually dismissed, she says. “The attraction
would be for America to wipe its slate clean and for the
government to reset its financial statement.”  A U.S. default would amount to a “murder-suicide in
Chimerica,” a lethal blow to Sino-American co-dependency that
would damage Chinese interests. China not only counts on
Yankees to buy its goods; it also has up to 82 percent of its
foreign reserves in dollars according to calculations by  Standard Chartered Plc .  If the Chinese have tilted the playing field, the
argument goes, why shouldn’t the U.S. resort to brinkmanship?
Economics is, as Moyo says, a form of warfare, “one country
seeking dominance over another.”  Turning Tide  The tide in this conflict is, by some measures, turning.
In 1950, the U.S. and  Europe  together accounted for 60 percent
of the world’s gross domestic product, Moyo says, citing data
compiled by economist Angus Maddison. The U.S. alone had
almost 30 percent, compared with 5.2 percent for China. By
2000, China’s share of the (now much bigger) pie had more than
doubled to 12 percent, while the U.S. slice had shrunk to 22
percent.  Moyo doesn’t lay all the blame on  China . Far from it. The
backbone of this book, and the best reason for reading it, is
her examination of how the U.S. has lost economic ground by
grossly misallocating capital, labor and technology. Each
misallocation flowed from flawed public policies, she argues.  Start with capital. Government incentives from the days
of  Herbert Hoover  to those of  George W. Bush  have spurred
Americans to overinvest, Moyo says, in housing -- an asset
that, when you live in it, doesn’t generate income (unless you
take in a boarder, of course). The homeownership obsession
also encouraged people to live beyond their means. A chicken
in every pot became a McMansion on every plot and a Hummer in
every driveway.  Labored Policies  As for labor, postwar governments hid pension costs by
postponing them into the future, making workers look cheaper
than they were. The U.S. also has taken to denying work visas
to foreigners who have earned doctorates in computer sciences,
engineering and mathematics at American universities. Heaven
forbid they should stay and create companies that would, as in
the past, employ thousands of Americans.  Then there’s all that Western technology, from software
to pharmaceuticals, that has been stolen, misappropriated or
just handed to emerging markets on a silicon platter.
Inventions are what drove the Industrial Revolution -- what
gave the West an upper hand, from James Watt’s steam engine to
Tim Berners-Lee’s World Wide Web. So the West is, in effect,
swapping its comparative advantage for cheap toys and shoes.  Troubling Evidence  Moyo walks the reader through the troubling evidence of
America’s slide and China’s ascent, from the collapse of  Minnesota ’s busiest bridge to  Shanghai ’s speedy Maglev train.
She pauses to teach the reader some basic formulas for
calculating enterprise value and GDP. She even throws in a
visit to the  U.S. debt clock , now ticking above $14 trillion.  The book offers Western politicians a prescription for
stopping the rot. Yet something tells me that they’ll just
keep temporizing until the next financial crisis boils up.
Perhaps we needed a second Great Depression after all.  “How the West Was Lost: Fifty Years of Economic Folly --
and the Stark Choices Ahead” is from  Allen Lane  in the U.K.
and from Farrar, Straus & Giroux in the U.S. (226 pages, 14.99
pounds, $25). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 