-- 
Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Probably Declined in February

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-21T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/existing-home-sales-in-u-s-probably-fell-in-january-from-seven-month-high.html
Sales of U.S. previously owned
homes probably dropped in February to a three-month low,
indicating a sustained housing market recovery has yet to
develop, economists said before a report today.  Purchases decreased 4.7 percent last month to a 5.11
million annual rate, according to the median forecast of 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Sales in January rose to
the highest in eight months as investors used all-cash
transactions to buy distressed properties.  Foreclosures are adding to the glut of distressed
properties and pressuring prices, leaving some Americans with
bigger mortgages than their homes are worth as joblessness
hovers near 9 percent. The figures underscore the  Federal
Reserve ’s view that the housing market “continues to be
depressed” even as the rest of the economy improves.  The labor market is “improving but not rapidly enough to
fuel a sharper rebound in the housing sector,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “You’re still seeing prices drifting
lower, which is a big problem.” Existing-home sales are being
“inflated by the amount of short sales and foreclosure sales
going on,” he said.  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from 4.8
million to 5.3 million following January’s 5.36 million pace.  Housing, the industry that precipitated the recent
recession, is having trouble gaining strength after the
government’s homebuyer tax credit expired and caused sales to
plunge to a 3.86 million rate in July.  Housing ‘Depressed’  Fed officials, in their statement following their March 15
monetary policy meeting, said that while the “economic recovery
is on a firmer footing,” residential real estate is still
“depressed.”  “Many potential home buyers are finding mortgages
difficult to obtain and are also worried about additional
declines in  house prices ,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers during March 2 testimony. “There’s no demand for
construction to build houses” until more people want homes, he
said.    Home prices  dropped in the 12 months to December by the
most in a year, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of home
values. In 20 cities, prices fell 2.4 percent, the biggest year-
over-year decrease since December 2009, the group said Feb. 22.  In addition to an  unemployment rate  lingering near 9
percent, some underlying home values are less than the
mortgages. That indicates foreclosure filings may climb about 20
percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing crisis,
RealtyTrac said earlier this year.  Home Builders  Cheaper homes and distressed properties are making it
difficult for homebuilders as well. Housing starts fell in
February to the slowest pace since April 2009 and building
permits slumped to a record low, Commerce Department figures
showed March 16.  Homebuilder shares have underperformed the broader stock
market since the middle of last year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of 12 builders has declined 9.7
percent in the 12 months ended March 18, compared with a 9.7
percent increase for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  For housing, employment “is the most important part today
or biggest impediment,” said Larry T. Nicholson, chief
executive officer of  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , a Calabasas, California-
based homebuilder catering to first-time buyers.  Whether potential buyers “have a job and they’re going to
keep their job or whether their hopes of employment are out
there is still the biggest challenge for us today,” Nicholson
said at an investor conference March 8 in  Orlando , Florida.  Recent Data  The NAR’s sales tallies in recent years may have been
overstated because the consolidation of listing services could
have led to data distortions,  Lawrence Yun , chief economist at
the Realtors’ association, told reporters after last month’s
release.  Yun said the agents’ group is hoping to issue its benchmark
revisions by the middle of the year. The updates are usually
based on census questions relating to homeownership that weren’t
included in last year’s decennial population count. He said the
group’s figures over the past few years may be showing a slight
“upward drift” that will be corrected with the new data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  