-- 
Fed's Plosser Says Bank May Need to End Purchases Early to Limit Inflation

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-02-23T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/fed-s-plosser-says-bank-may-need-to-end-purchases-early-to-limit-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said an early end to the central
bank’s plan to purchase $600 billion in U.S. Treasury securities
may be required to help limit inflation pressures.  “Should economic prospects continue to strengthen, I would
not rule out changing the policy stance to bring QE2 to an early
close,” Plosser said in a speech in Birmingham,  Alabama . “If
the growth rates of employment and output begin to accelerate or
if inflation or inflation expectations begin to rise, then it
may be time to begin taking our foot off the accelerator.”  Plosser and Richmond Federal Reserve President Jeffrey Lacker have urged the central bank to review its plan to
purchase $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries by June in light of a
strengthening economy and concern over potential inflation.
Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  has said he may oppose any
additional easing after the purchases conclude in June.  Fed policy makers raised their estimates for growth at
their meeting last month, while continuing to “express
disappointment” in improvements in the labor market, according
to minutes of the Jan. 25-26 meeting released Feb. 16. The Fed
was divided over whether further evidence of a strengthening
recovery would warrant slowing or reducing the purchases.  The Fed “said that it would review its planned purchase
program on a regular basis, and I take that promise to review
seriously,” Plosser, a voting member on monetary policy this
year, said to the Rotary Club of Birmingham.  The head of the Philadelphia Fed said that while inflation
has been less than the central bank’s target of 1.5 percent to 2
percent, there are indications pressures are building.  Price Pressures  “My forecast is that inflation will accelerate toward 2
percent over the course of the next year,” he said. “Indeed,
we are beginning to see some increasing price pressures.”  While rising oil and commodities prices don’t necessarily
cause broader inflation, they can when central banks keep policy
very accommodative, he said.  “My sense is that as the recovery continues to pick up
steam and firms become more convinced that demand increases will
be sustained, they will feel more confident that they can put
through price increases and have them stick,” Plosser said.  The Fed official forecast the  U.S. economy  will expand at
about 3.5 percent annually this year and next, bringing the  unemployment rate  to 7 percent to 8 percent at end of 2012.  Consumer spending  has picked up and business purchases are
strengthening, while housing remains weak, he said.  The central bank’s most closely watched inflation gauge,
the Commerce Department’s core personal consumption expenditures
price index excluding food and energy, rose 0.7 percent in
December from a year earlier, the smallest advance since records
began in 1959.  Plosser, 62, a former professor and business-school dean at
the University of Rochester in  New York , joined the Philadelphia
Fed as its chief in 2006. Plosser is a native of Birmingham.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  