-- 
Fed's Hoenig Says U.S. Should Break Up Largest Financial Firms

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-23T18:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/fed-s-hoenig-says-top-financial-firms-should-be-broken-up-to-avert-crises.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said U.S. regulators should avert
another crisis by breaking up large financial institutions that
pose a threat “to our capitalistic system.”  “I am convinced that the existence of too-big-to-fail
financial institutions poses the greatest risk to the  U.S.
economy ,” Hoenig said today in a speech in  Washington . “They
must be broken up. We must not allow organizations operating
under the safety net to pursue high-risk activities and we
cannot let large organizations put our financial system at
risk.”  Hoenig, the lone dissenter from every Fed meeting in 2010,
has argued that the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial
regulation since the Great Depression won’t prevent the largest
banks from taking excessive risks and increasing market share.
Regulators, including the Fed, are implementing the law.  “In my view, it is even worse than before the crisis,”
Hoenig said at a luncheon for Women in Housing and Finance. “As
well-intentioned as the Dodd-Frank Act may be, it will not
improve outcomes,” he said.  The Dodd-Frank Act, named after its chief sponsors
Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank  and former Connecticut
Senator Chris Dodd, both Democrats, created a resolution
authority to unwind the largest financial institutions. It also
adopted the Volcker rule, which aims at reducing the odds that
banks will make risky investments and put their federally
insured deposits at risk.  ‘Public Purse’  “Protected institutions must be limited in their risk
activities because there is no end to their appetite for risk
and no perceived end to the public purse that protects them,”
Hoenig said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, established
under the legislation, is working to flesh out the Volcker rule.  “We must break up the largest banks, and could do so by
expanding the Volcker rule and significantly narrowing the scope
of institutions that are now more powerful and more of a threat
to our capitalistic system than prior to the crisis,” Hoenig
said.  The Kansas City Fed chief cited research from the regional
bank indicating that large banks enjoyed savings of 1.6
percentage points on debt with a two-year maturity and over 3.6
percentage points for seven-year debt.  “In a competitive marketplace, where just a few basis
points make a difference, these funding advantages are huge and
represent a highly distorting influence within financial
markets,” he said.  Economic Outlook  In response to audience questions, Hoenig said the Fed’s
monetary policy “invites speculation” with its current pledge
to keep  interest rates  low for an “extended period.”  Hoenig cited the case of rising farmland values. The
Chicago Federal Reserve reported last week that the price of
such land rose 12 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 from a
year earlier. In Congressional testimony last week, Hoenig said
the Kansas City Fed has recorded farmland prices nearly 20
percent above year-earlier levels in Kansas and  Nebraska .  The Fed’s policy is “encouraging asset buildups,” Hoenig
said. “My point is monetary policy isn’t just about
inflation,” he said, it’s also “about asset values.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy and Hoenig,
64, will not vote this year. He joined the Kansas City Fed in
1973 as an economist in banking supervision after earning his
doctorate at  Iowa State University . Hoenig became president of
the Kansas City Fed in 1991.  “The substantial incentives that large organizations have
to take on more risk, with the government expected to pick up
the losses should they incur, unfailingly lead to undue risks
throughout the balance sheet,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  