-- 
For-Profit Colleges Get Boost From Change in Veterans' Benefits

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/for-profit-colleges-get-boost-from-change-in-veterans-benefits.html
For-profit colleges, whose
recruitment practices have been probed by Congress and the
Department of  Veterans Affairs , got a boost from changes to a
veterans’ benefits bill approved in December.  The law will let veterans receive $673 a month for housing
while taking college courses online, about half the average
allowance for students attending classes on campuses. Passed by
Congress Dec. 16 and signed by President  Barack Obama  last
month, it also adds money for veterans in training and non-
degree programs that are offered by many for-profit colleges.  The new benefit may entice more veterans to take online
courses at for-profit colleges, even as the schools draw
scrutiny from the U.S. government, said Derek Blumke, co-founder
of the  Student Veterans of America , a Washington-based advocacy
and support group. The Department of Veterans Affairs began
collecting data on the industry’s “questionable” recruiting in
October and cut some companies from its benefits programs,
according to a Feb. 10 letter VA Secretary Eric Shinseki sent to
Democratic Senator  Richard Durbin , who has held hearings on for-
profit colleges in his home state of  Illinois .  “Students are finding themselves in schools that are
worthless, with teachers that are without credentials and
programs that don’t lead to jobs,” Durbin said in a telephone
interview about veterans’ education benefits. “This is a
national scandal.”  Twenty for-profit colleges received $521 million from
veterans’ and military educational programs last year, according
to a Dec. 9 report by Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and
chairman of the Senate education committee.  Kline’s Measure  The housing stipend for online students, included in the
 Post-9/11 Veterans Education Assistance Improvements Act  of
2010, was sought by supporters of for-profit colleges, who say
it increases access to education for rural and disabled
students. The benefit broadens educational choices that veterans
had been seeking since the original Post-9/11 GI Bill took
effect in 2009, said  Harris Miller , president of the  Association
of Private Sector Colleges and Universities , a Washington-based
for-profit-college trade group. Most of the changes in the law
take effect in August.  “We’re saying they should have the choice, and we’re glad
that Congress agrees,” said Miller, whose group lobbied for the
bill, in a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t want to tell
someone who was willing to fight and die for our country in Iraq
or Afghanistan how they should get their education.”  Some advocacy groups say taking online courses at home
isolates veterans who need to socialize after returning from a
tour of duty.  Social Support  “For the vet, it’s not about sitting at a computer and
trying to graduate,” said John Schupp, founder and national
director of Supportive Education for Returning Veterans, which
helps establish veterans-only courses on college campuses. “In
the military, you rely on people to support you through
situations. You’re not going to get that online; I don’t care if
you have an online chat room.”  The housing stipend represents a shift for the Post-9/11 GI
Bill, an expansion in veterans’ educational benefits that Obama
co-sponsored as a senator. Housing stipends for online students
were left out of the original bill, probably to encourage
students to attend classes in person and contain costs, said
Blumke, 30, of the student veterans’ group.  ‘Less Than Ethical’  For-profit colleges embed advertising in benefits
information websites that appear otherwise official and
impartial, Blumke, a  U.S. Air Force  veteran who served in  Afghanistan , said in a telephone interview. Students who click
on links offering more information are invariably steered to
for-profit colleges rather than non-profit ones, he said.  “The recruiting techniques of some of these schools have
been less than ethical,” Blumke said. “When you’re paying the
high costs for some of these schools and drop out, as many
attending the online for-profit colleges do, you’re worse off
than when you started.”  Eight of the top 10 colleges providing education for VA-
funded students in 2009 were for-profit institutions, led by  Apollo Group Inc .’s University of Phoenix, the largest for-
profit college, according to the agency. The  average drop-out
rate  at 16 for-profit colleges in 2008-2009 was 57 percent,
Harkin said in a report published Sept. 30 that didn’t give the
names of the institutions.  Blocking Move  The U.S. House of Representatives voted Feb. 18 to block
proposed Education Department regulations of for-profit colleges
that would tie their eligibility for federal government student
aid to graduates’ incomes and loan repayment rates.
Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican and the
measure’s chief sponsor, said the regulations would deny low-
income students access to job training. The measure, part of a
spending bill, must be approved by the Senate to take effect.  For-profit colleges have tried to recruit veterans because
their benefits don’t count against a government cap on education
companies’ annual revenue from federal grants and loans. The
rule limits such revenue to 90 percent. Apollo Group has said it
may violate the cap this year.  The benefits law approved in December received support from
the  Veterans of Foreign Wars , the  American Legion , the  National
Guard Association , and other military and nonmilitary groups,
said Tim Embree, legislative associate for the  Iraq and
Afghanistan Veterans of America  which backed the bill. It passed
unanimously in the Senate and with only three opposing votes in
the  House of Representatives .  ‘Flexible’ Approach  “Students choose institutions with online modalities, such
as University of Phoenix, because they seek a flexible and
balanced approach to higher education,” said  Manny Rivera , a
spokesman for Apollo Group, in an e-mail. “At University of
Phoenix we provide veteran and military students with dedicated
and comprehensive support services through our Military Division
-- a team of just under 1,000 individuals, many of whom are
veterans themselves -- to help military students attain their
academic goals every step of the way.”  The  Congressional Budget Office , which analyzed the bill,
didn’t estimate the cost of the new housing stipend for online
study. Overall housing expenses in the bill were expected to
decline $1 billion over the next 10 years because of cuts in
allowances for students attending physical campuses, the CBO
said.  Job Training  The law also expands benefits for veterans taking job-
training courses, a specialty of for-profit colleges, and is
expected to cost the Veterans Administration about $475 million
in tuition, books, and housing stipends, the CBO said.  “Some of this money will surely make its way to the for-
profit colleges,” said Bradley Safalow, an analyst with  PAA
Research  in  New York . For-profit colleges got about $32 billion
in government student grants and guaranteed loans last year,
according to the U.S. Education Department.  The Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index of 13
companies has fallen 22 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday.  About 71 percent of education benefits for active-duty
military personnel went to online programs in fiscal 2009,
according to the Defense Department. While soldiers may need the
flexibility of Internet courses during deployment, the
advantages shrink when veterans return home, said Donald
Overton, executive director of  Veterans of Modern Warfare , a
Washington-based advocacy group.  ‘Roped Into Programs’  “Our concern is that veterans may be getting roped into
programs that won’t meet their needs,” said Overton, who
testified before Congress in September about the law, in a
telephone interview. “We believe that distance learning can
help promote access to education, but we know a typical bricks-
and-mortar education is going to be looked on better by
employers than an online degree.”  Harkin has been investigating misleading student
recruitment practices, use of government funds and the
effectiveness of job placement at for-profit colleges. Since he
began his probe, state prosecutors in Florida, Iowa and  Kentucky 
have opened investigations of the companies.  The VA is compiling a list of companies that have lost
eligibility for funds, said Katie Roberts, a spokeswoman, in an
e-mail. Durbin said he has asked for a copy of the list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 