-- 
U.S. Indicts Four Swiss Bankers in Tax Conspiracy Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-02-24T17:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/four-swiss-bankers-indicted-by-u-s-in-tax-conspiracy-case.html
Four bankers who worked at  Credit
Suisse Group AG  were charged with conspiring to help clients in
the U.S. evade taxes through secret bank accounts, according to
an indictment and people familiar with the matter.  Marco Parenti Adami, Emanuel Agustoni, Michele Bergantino
and Roger Schaerer conspired with clients at “one of the
biggest banks in  Switzerland ,” according to an indictment
yesterday in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich and the second-biggest bank
in Switzerland, is the bank, according to the people who
requested anonymity because they aren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the indictment.  The bank’s managers in its cross-border business “knew and
should have known that they were aiding and abetting U.S.
customers in evading their U.S. income taxes,” according to the
indictment. In the fall of 2008, the bank had “thousands” of
accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, according to the indictment.  The scheme included setting up undeclared accounts
protected by Swiss bank secrecy, providing banking and
investment services in  New York  to holders of those accounts,
and having bankers provide unlicensed banking services to
customers they visited in the U.S., according to the indictment.  “The conspiracy dates back to 1953 and involved two
generations of U.S. tax evaders including U.S. customers who
inherited secret accounts,” according to a Justice Department
statement.  ‘We Are Cooperating’  “We are cooperating with the authorities in their
investigation against these four individuals,” Marc Dosch, a
bank spokesman in Zurich, said in a statement.  “Credit Suisse is not a target of the investigation,”
David Walker, a spokesman for Credit Suisse Securities in New
York, said in an e-mail.  None of the four defendants are in custody, said  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman.  The bank began closing its cross-border business in the
fall of 2008, according to the indictment.  The charges extend a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion 
that included the arrest last month of a Credit Suisse banker,
Christos Bagios, on a conspiracy charge.  UBS AG , Switzerland’s
biggest bank, avoided prosecution in 2009 by paying $780 million
and admitting it helped thousands of Americans evade taxes. UBS
disclosed data to the IRS on more than 4,000 accounts, prompting
18,000 Americans to avoid prosecution by revealing their secret
accounts to the IRS.  Criminal Charges  “I would be shocked if the U.S. Justice Department were
not considering criminal charges against Credit Suisse,” said
William M. Sharp, a tax attorney at Sharp Kemm in Tampa,  Florida . “These were key officers and representatives of the
bank, conducting what appears to be illegal conduct on U.S.
soil.”  Taxpayers who made voluntary disclosures may have told U.S.
authorities about their interactions with Bagios and the bankers
indicted yesterday, said tax attorney  Charles P. Rettig  in an e-
mail.  “The U.S. government has been relentlessly data mining
this information and continues to interview participating
taxpayers” in the voluntary disclosure program, said Rettig, of
Hochman Salkin Rettig Toscher & Perez PC in  Beverly Hills ,  California .  Adami, who lived in Switzerland, began work at the bank in
1994 and recently “represented” that he was a senior manager
at the bank, according to the indictment.  Swiss Citizens  Agustoni left Credit Suisse to work at a private Swiss
bank. Bergantino worked at the bank from 1982 until 2009, and
Schaerer worked in the New York office, according to the
indictment. All are Swiss citizens except Adami, who is Italian.  Agustoni and Bergantino traveled to the U.S. to help
clients evade their taxes, while Agustoni continued the scheme
at two other private Swiss banks, prosecutors charged. The
defendants discouraged clients from declaring their accounts to
the IRS, according to the indictment.  The indictment cites examples of the defendants’ conspiring
with 17 U.S. clients, including residents of Beverly Hills, Palm
Desert and  La Jolla , California;  Miami Beach  and  Palm Beach ,
Florida; Norwood, Elizabeth and Oakland,  New Jersey ; Ossining
and New York, New York; Charlottesville,  Virginia ; and
Pittsburgh.  The defendants helped transfer their accounts to two
private Swiss banks, an Israeli bank, and a Hong Kong bank,
where they continued to conceal their assets, according to the
indictment.  Banks Identified  The Israeli bank is Bank Leumi Le  Israel  Ltd. and the Swiss
banks are Bank Frey & Co. AG and Maerki Baumann & Co. AG,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  “Credit Suisse is getting swept within the net of
prosecutions,” said tax attorney Bryan Skarlatos of Kostelanetz
& Fink LLP in New York. “The government is aware of the need to
portray the whole bank secrecy and tax evasion problem as not
just a Swiss and UBS problem, but a worldwide problem.”  The indictment shows “the government is moving to other
large banks in Switzerland, such as Credit Suisse,” Skarlatos
said. “It’s moving to smaller banks that many people thought
were immune from U.S. prosecution, and it’s moving to banks from
other countries, such as Israel.”  In the past two years, the U.S. criminally charged at least
24 UBS clients, as well as four ex-UBS bankers and two advisers.
A New Jersey businessman was charged last month with conspiring
with five bankers at  HSBC Holdings Plc  to hide  Indian bank 
accounts from the IRS, according to an indictment and people
familiar with the matter.  The case is U.S. v. Adami, 1:11-cr-00095, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 