-- 
Galliford Try Profit Climbs as Demand for New Homes Recovers

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-02-23T16:44:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/galliford-try-profit-climbs-as-demand-for-new-homes-recovers.html
  Galliford Try Plc , the builder that
upgraded Wimbledon’s Centre Court tennis stadium, said first-
half profit climbed as it sold more homes for higher prices.  Profit from continuing operations for the six months ended
Dec. 31 rose to 12.1 million pounds ($19.6 million), or 14.8
pence a share, from 2 million pounds, or 3 pence a share, a year
ago, the Middlesex, England-based company said in a statement
today. Group revenue increased to 575.9 million pounds.  U.K. house prices have fluctuated over the past year. While
the  Bank of England  kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low this month, banks are still curbing lending to the majority
of potential buyers. Still, Galliford said sales in the first
few weeks of this year are “encouraging.”  “We don’t want to get carried away but we were surprised
by the level of demand, we think people who couldn’t get out of
their doorstep in December because of the weather bought in
January.” Chief Executive Officer Greg Fitzgerald said in a
conference call today. “We haven’t seen any major evidence that
banks are lending more money.”  Galliford said average prices achieved for private housing
sales in the first half were at, or slightly above, its
forecasts, climbing 4 percent at 204,000 pounds.  House building sales in the first half grew 29 percent to
152.9 million pounds, while construction revenue slipped 5
percent to 442.5 million pounds.  “Overall our view is that we don’t see turnover levels on
construction improving for a couple of years,” Fitzgerald said.
The construction order book is 1.75 billion pounds as of Dec.
31, down from 1.8 billion pounds a year.  “Galliford’s interim results indicate both a resilience in
construction and the first signs that the strategic growth of
housing is having a positive impact on volumes and gross
margins,” Howard Seymour, an analyst at Numis Securities, wrote
in an e-mailed note to investors today. Seymour has a buy
recommendation on the stock.  The shares rose 10 pence, or 2.9 percent, to 360 pence a
share at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , giving the company a
market value of 294.7 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  