-- 
Gamesa Takeover Talk Makes Wind-Turbine Maker Most Expensive in Industry

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-02-24T15:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/gamesa-becomes-most-expensive-wind-turbine-maker-on-buyout-bets.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA is the
most expensive wind-turbine maker based on price-earnings ratios
after takeover speculation boosted its shares 22 percent since
October, creating a risk for investors should no offer appear.  “The share price has been supported by speculation about
either a bid for Gamesa from a Chinese competitor or a huge
conglomerate,” said Julien Desmaretz, an analyst at Bryan,
Garnier & Co. in Paris. He recommends selling the stock because
a takeover is not certain, saying Gamesa has “a weak product
portfolio” and will underperform competitors.  The Spanish company, which reports earnings today, trades
at 27 times estimated profit, Bloomberg data show. Investors are
paying 17 times estimated earnings for Vestas Wind Systems A/S
of Denmark, the world’s largest wind-turbine maker, and
multiples of 26 for Sinovel Wind Group and 12 for Xinjiang
Goldwind Science & Technology Co., both based in  China .  Gamesa surged after UBS AG analyst Daniel Stillit
identified it as a potential target for Shanghai Electric Group
Co. in an October research note. Wind-turbine makers are braced
for consolidation after installations slipped last year just as
companies ramped up investment in new factories.  Global turbine demand slid for the first time in six years
in 2010, falling 5 percent to 35.9 gigawatts, as banks curbed
loans to developers, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said. Turbine
manufacturing capacity exceeded demand by 37 percent and next
year will overshoot by 58 percent, even as installations gain,
the London-based researcher said.  Consolidation Period  “We are heading into a period of consolidation in the
turbine-supply industry,” said Eduardo Tabbush, a wind analyst
at London-based New Energy Finance. “We are tracking more than
60 turbine suppliers. A lot of them will fade and a lot them
will be acquired.”  A Gamesa spokeswoman said company officials don’t comment
on market rumors. The company’s stock rose for the first time in
four days, climbing 0.4 percent to 5.69 euros in  Madrid  as of
4:38 p.m. local time.  Zamudio-based Gamesa may report 2010 net income of 50.1
million euros ($68.9 million), the median of eight analyst
estimates on Bloomberg. That’s the least profit compared with
market capitalization among its six closest publicly traded
rivals, according to Bloomberg data.  Gamesa was ranked the No. 6 turbine maker with a market
share of 6.7 percent in 2009 in a study by Ringkoebing, Denmark-
based BTM Consult.  The company’s current enterprise value of 1.8 billion
euros, a measure of a buyout value, is about 5.9 times its
estimated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization. That compares with ratio of 6 for Vestas.  Sales Forecast  Gamesa aims to boost sales to 4 gigawatts a year by 2013
from about 2.4 gigawatts last year by selling a new range of
turbines to the U.S., China and  Brazil , Chief Executive Officer
Jorge Calvet told investors in October. The generators will cost
900 million euros to develop over four years and will depress
its operating margin to about 4.5 percent next year.    Iberdrola SA , the company’s biggest shareholder, has
increased its stake to about 20 percent from 15 percent since
the plan was announced. The move should be interpreted as a vote
of confidence in Gamesa’s strategy, according to a Madrid-based
spokesman for Iberdrola who asked not to be identified in line
with company policy.  Analysts are divided over the outlook for Gamesa, which
hasn’t sold a turbine in  Spain  for about two years.  Rupesh Madlani from  Barclays Capital  in  London  rates the
company among his top picks judging that its inroads to faster-
growing developing markets such as China and Brazil and cost
controls will allow the stock to outperform. Desmaretz said he’s
negative on the company because its turbines are not good enough
to compete with Vestas.  “Gamesa is turning to be a low-cost manufacturer, turning
to  Asia ,” he said. “It’s increasing its sales in China and  India  due to a lower quality and lower price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 