-- 
Gasoline, Heating Oil Surge as Libya Revolt Threatens Supplies

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-02-23T22:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/gasoline-heating-oil-surge-as-libya-revolt-threatens-supplies.html
Gasoline and heating oil surged to
28-month highs as escalating violence in Libya caused five
companies to reduce production and threatened to disrupt exports
from Africa’s third-biggest oil supplier.  Futures rose as  Total SA  and  OMV AG  became the latest
energy producers to scale back their Libyan operations amid
increasing violence following six weeks of popular uprising
across North Africa and the Middle East. Libya has Africa’s
largest crude reserves, accounting for about 10 percent of  Europe ’s oil imports, according to the Schork Group Inc.  “A supply disruption out of Libya impacts the refining
industry in Europe, which supplies gasoline to the East Coast of
the U.S. while importing distillate fuel from the  Gulf Coast ,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  Gasoline for March delivery gained 11.28 cents, or 4.3
percent, to settle at $2.7149 a gallon on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. That’s the highest settlement for the
front-month contract since Sept. 12, 2008, and the biggest one-
day gain since Feb. 2, 2010.  Gasoline was the day’s biggest gainer, followed by heating
oil and crude oil, on the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
19 raw materials. The price touched $2.7322 after Nomura
Holdings Inc. said  oil prices  may surge to $220 a barrel if
political unrest halts exports from Libya and Algeria.  “We have to soldier through the crisis, riding the ebbs
and flows the headlines bring us, until we get some sort of a
resolution,” Ed Meir, senior commodity analyst at MF Global
Inc. in New York, said in a research note today.  Ports Reported Closed  Three Libyan cargo ports are reported to have closed and
shipping lines will divert containers of goods to Italy,
according to Tuscor Lloyds, which sends about 50 shipments a
month to the country.  Governments rushed to evacuate thousands of expatriates
from  Libya  as army units defected and a former aide to Muammar Qaddafi said the spreading revolt may topple the regime in days.  “The longer this persists the greater the concern that the
antigovernment movement will spread to other countries in the
region,” said Tom Knight, vice president of trading and supply
at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas . “If Qaddafi did
leave the country it could spur a retracement across the oil
complex.”  Unrest Spreading  Libya is the latest nation rocked by protests ignited by
last month’s ouster of Tunisia’s president and the Feb. 11 fall
of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Violent unrest has also
spread to Iran, Yemen and Bahrain.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
largest oil exporter, is spending more on social programs as
political unrest roils the region.  April-delivery Brent on  London ’s ICE Futures exchange rose
$5.47 to $111.25 a barrel, the highest settlement price since
August 2008. The April contract for West Texas Intermediate
crude increased $2.68 to a 28-month high of $98.10 a barrel. WTI
touched $100 for the first time since Oct. 1, 2008.  “This is about Libya to a degree, but where does regime
change stop?” said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount Options
Inc. in New York and a trader at the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . “What the market is fearful of is regime change
spreading to the kingdom” of Saudi Arabia.  Heating oil for March delivery rose 11.25 cents, or 4
percent, to settle at $2.9049 a gallon, the highest level for
the front-month contract since Oct. 1, 2008. It was the largest
one-day gain since Aug. 2.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 2.3
cents to $3.194 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 