-- 
GE's F-35 Engine `Miscast' as Wasteful Earmark, Immelt Tells Employees

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-02-23T21:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/ge-to-press-u-s-to-keep-jsf-alternate-engine-immelt-says.html
  General Electric Co . said it will
seek to restore funding for its alternate Joint Strike Fighter
engine, which was labeled a waste of money when the U.S. House
of Representatives voted to kill the program.  Having a competitor to the primary engine made by  United
Technologies Corp .’s Pratt & Whitney unit would save $20 billion
over time, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said today in
a memo to employees, repeating an estimate from the Government
Accountability Office.  The vote to eliminate $450 million in engine funds for the
fiscal year through Sept. 30 occurred in “the midst of an
important fiscal debate,” Immelt wrote. “The JSF funding
decision received significant scrutiny and was miscast as an
‘earmark’ on wasteful spending.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has sought to
cancel the  engine for the F-35, the stealth fighter made by  Lockheed Martin Corp . Last week’s vote was the first by the
House in more than four years against the engine, which is being
developed by GE and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc .  The F-35 is the Defense Department’s most-expensive
program, with a cost surging to about $382 billion from an
estimated $250 billion for development and other expenses a
decade ago.  Pratt’s Response  A spokeswoman for Pratt & Whitney, Stephanie Duvall,
disputed figures in Immelt’s letter, including the $20 billion.
The unit of Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies has
sided with the Pentagon in deeming the GE-Rolls engine a waste.  The  Pratt & Whitney  engine “is performing flawlessly and
we are keeping costs down,” Duvall said. “This is why the
Department of Defense has said they only need one engine for the
F-35 program.”  Immelt that while he is “completely respectful” of the
budget debate and deficit-reduction efforts, the Pentagon’s
acquisition process hasn’t received the scrutiny it deserves in
the current round of spending cuts.  “The budget debate has completely skipped a critical
policy element -- Pentagon acquisition reform,” Immelt said.
The JSF program “is the largest procurement in U.S. military
history and has been one of the toughest to execute.”  GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , has developed 80
percent of the engine over the past 15 years and will “press
our case in the  U.S. Senate  and elsewhere” to restore funding,
Immelt wrote.  The F-35 is about four years behind most of its initial
schedule. The estimated cost of an individual jet has increased
about 84 percent, to $92 million in 2002 dollars. GE has said
that killing the alternate engine cedes a market of as much as
$100 billion over the life of the program to Pratt & Whitney.  GE fell 45 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $20.37 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while United
Technologies fell 77 cents to $82.79.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  