-- 
Geithner Says World in Better Position to Handle Oil-Price Jump

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-02-23T16:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/geithner-says-world-is-in-a-better-position-to-handle-surge-in-oil-prices.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the economic recovery has put the world on a
better footing to withstand the increase in oil prices caused by
turmoil in the Middle East.  “The economy is in a much stronger position to handle”
rising oil prices, Geithner said today during a Bloomberg
Breakfast in Washington. “Central banks have a lot of
experience in managing these things.”  Political turmoil in Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil
reserves, will add “stagflationary winds” to the global
economy, according to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer
at Pacific Investment Management Co. Protests in Libya pose more
“systemic” risk to the global economy than the upheaval in
Egypt and Tunisia, El-Erian said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday.  Geithner also said the U.S. financial system is in better
shape than before the recession and is able to provide the
funding needed for the expansion.  “The core of the American financial system is in a much
stronger position than it was before the crisis,” he said.
“We’re way ahead of any other major economy.”    Oil prices  rose for a fifth day, approaching $100 a barrel
in  New York , as Libya’s uprising threatened to disrupt crude
exports. Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi vowed yesterday to keep
fighting the rebellion with a crackdown that Human Rights Watch
says has left almost 300 people dead.  Stocks, Oil  Crude for April delivery climbed 2.6 percent to $97.86 a
barrel at 11:25 a.m. in New York, and gasoline and heating oil
surged. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent
after tumbling 2.1 percent yesterday, the most in six months.  The risk of higher fuel prices is that they may leave
consumers less to spend on other goods, hurt corporate profits
and force central banks to raise borrowing costs to curb price
increases.  Analysts at Morgan Stanley say sharp increases in oil
prices pose the biggest threat to growth because consumers
suffer a sudden hit to purchasing power. They note a 85 percent
to 90 percent increase in the price of oil over a year was
followed by U.S. recessions in 1975, 1980, 1990, 2000 and 2008.  Political unrest that has swept from  Tunisia  to  Yemen ,  Algeria , Bahrain and  Iran  in the past four weeks is fanning
oil’s advance at a time when the global economy is emerging from
the deepest recession in more than 50 years.  Growth Outlook  The  U.S. economy  is projected to grow 3.2 percent in 2011,
the most in seven years, according to the median forecast of 61
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Feb. 2 to Feb. 8.  “The economy is gradually getting stronger,” Geithner
said today, adding “I wouldn’t get carried away with it.”  U.S. consumer confidence rose to its highest level in three
years this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in  Washington  
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  