-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Financial System Now Stronger Than Before Recession Hit

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-02-23T21:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/geithner-says-u-s-financial-system-now-stronger-than-before-recession-hit.html
The U.S. financial system is in
better shape than it was before the recession and is well placed
to provide the funding needed for the economic expansion,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said.  “The core of the American financial system is in a much
stronger position than it was before the crisis,” Geithner said
today during a Bloomberg Breakfast with reporters in Washington.  U.S. banks had net income of $87.5 billion in 2010, the
highest since 2007, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said
today. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index has jumped 64 percent
since March 2009, and corporate bond spreads have narrowed.  “We can say with much more confidence now that the U.S.
banking system and the U.S. capital market are much more likely
to be in a position to finance the capital needs that come with
a recovery,” Geithner said.  The world’s largest economy is projected to grow 3.2
percent in 2011, the most since 2004, according to the median
forecast of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Feb. 2 to
Feb. 8.  Two weak spots remain, Geithner added. Housing finance is
still “overwhelmingly dependent” on government support, while
smaller community banks are working their way through soured
commercial real-estate loans.  The Treasury Department this month put forward a series of
proposals for attracting private capital back into the $11
trillion mortgage market while shrinking the role played by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored enterprises
that have been sustained by U.S. aid since September 2008.  ‘Very Encouraged’  “I’m very encouraged by the reaction so far” to the
Treasury’s proposals, Geithner said, while adding that it will
take a couple of years to reach a consensus with Congress on the
needed changes.  Commenting on the standoff in Congress over spending for
the current fiscal year ending Sept. 30, Geithner said that
“both sides have an interest in working to avoid” a government
shutdown.  Congress needs to enact a new spending plan by March 4 to
avoid a government shutdown, and congressional Republicans and
Democrats are preparing competing plans to prevent that outcome.
Congress is in recess this week.  The Treasury secretary defended the President Barack Obama’s budget for the coming fiscal year against Republican
criticism that it doesn’t do enough to cut the deficit. He
argued that the budget plan puts government finances on a
sturdier footing over the next 10 years.  Energy Cuts  Obama’s budget aims to reduce budget shortfalls by $1.1
trillion over a decade. The plan, his first since Republicans
took control of the  House of Representatives , includes cuts to
energy, transportation, housing and other programs popular with
Democrats.  Republicans have said the president’s budget doesn’t go far
enough to address long-term deficits because it fails to tackle
spending on entitlement programs such as Social Security and
Medicare.  Geithner played down concerns that the surge in  oil prices 
will derail the U.S. recovery. “By almost any measure you look
at, the economy is gradually getting stronger,” he said.  Crude for April delivery traded up 2.8 percent to settle at
$98.10 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as  Libya ’s
uprising threatened to disrupt oil exports. Earlier, it touched
$100, the highest level since Oct. 2, 2008. Futures are up 24
percent from a year ago.  Stocks Decline  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index slid 0.6 percent to
1,307.40 at the 4 p.m. close of trading after tumbling 2.1
percent yesterday, the most in six months.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed yesterday to keep
fighting the rebellion with a crackdown that  Human Rights Watch 
says has left almost 300 people dead.  The increase in oil prices comes at a time when the global
economy is emerging from the deepest recession in more than 50
years. U.S. consumer confidence rose to its highest level in
three years this month.  Geithner said that the U.S. is ready to help Egypt and  Tunisia  overhaul their economies after the ouster of their
leaders in popular uprisings.  “There is going to be a very difficult and important
economic reform challenge in those countries,” he said. “Where
there is a good case for financial assistance, we’ll be very
supportive alongside other countries in providing that.”    Egypt  after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  inherits a legacy
of incomplete attempts at change, including a sale of state
assets and an overhaul of the tax system. The political costs of
needed steps such as shedding state workers or levying new taxes
likely will challenge the country’s next leader.    China ’s Currency  Geithner repeated his call for China to allow its currency
to appreciate faster and said the U.S. has gained backing from
other countries for that campaign over the last six months.
“We’re seeing broader support,” he said, adding, “It is in
China’s interest to move faster.”  China has allowed the yuan to appreciate about 3.8 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  since June, or at a 10 percent annual
rate in real terms, Treasury Assistant Secretary Charles Collyns
said in a speech last night in  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in  Washington  
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  