-- 
Germany Is in No Rush to Resolve EADS Stake, Bruederle Says

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-23T12:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/germany-is-in-no-rush-to-resolve-eads-stake-bruederle-says.html
The German government will take
whatever time is needed to resolve the future of a stake in
European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. owned by  Daimler AG ,
Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle said.  While a German state holding in EADS is a possibility being
brought to the table “by others,” it is only one among many, he
told reporters in Berlin today after ministers discussed the
matter on the sidelines of a meeting of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet. Describing the meeting as “a good initial
talk,” Bruederle reiterated that he would prefer a private
investor to buy the stake in Paris and Munich-based EADS, the
owner of Airbus SAS.  “There’s no time pressure,” Bruederle said. “There are a
series of considerations for restructuring” of ownership. “We
will enter discussions with our partners in all calmness.”  Merkel’s government is deliberating how to maintain its
leverage over EADS at parity with  France  as Daimler seeks to
reduce its 15 percent stake, which has a market value of about
2.6 billion euros ($3.6 billion). German and French institutions
have each held equal stakes in EADS since it was created in 2000
to pool European aerospace interests.  “We want to maintain the balance between France and  Germany , but there are a multitude of scenarios that we have to
talk about,” Bruederle said.  A German state holding is “a possibility being considered
by others,” he said. “It’s no secret that we have a preference
for a private investor.”  A golden share also is “one of many possibilities,” he
said. “We’ve discussed all possibilities in the abstract but
it’s a very early stage so that it can’t be more concrete at the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  