-- 
Germany, France Threaten EU Sanctions Against Qaddafi on Civil-War Comment

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-02-23T18:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/germany-and-france-threaten-libya-qaddafi-with-eu-sanctions.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy led calls for European Union
sanctions against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  as political
unrest continued in the North African nation.  Merkel said that Qaddafi’s televised speech yesterday in
which he threatened his own people with civil war was
“alarming.” Sarkozy said today that France may suspend
economic and commercial relations with  Libya , according to an e-
mailed statement in Paris.  The European Union in Brussels is suspending negotiations
with the Libyan government on an EU-Libya Framework Agreement
and said the 27-nation bloc “is ready to take further
measures.” EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton said
“those responsible for the brutal aggression and violence
against civilians will be held to account.”  Qaddafi has vowed to fight a growing rebellion until his
“last drop of blood,” as army units defected and a former aide
said his regime may crumble within days.  Human Rights Watch  says
300 people have already died in the violence.  Sarkozy said he is asking “European partners to rapidly
adopt concrete sanctions so that those who are implicated in the
violence know that they must bear the consequences of their
actions,” according to  the statement . “These measures should
include the possibility of making people face justice, blocking
access to the European Union, and the surveillance of financial
movements.”  ‘All Avenues’  French government spokesman Francois Baroin called Libya’s
unrest “chaos” and told reporters that France is
“determined” to see  Europe  act against Libya’s leader through
sanctions and the suspension of all trade.  “If the use of violence doesn’t stop,  Germany  will call
for us to use all avenues of pressure and influence on Libya,
including the question of talking about sanctions,” Merkel
said.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  called “for an immediate
end to the use of force” in Libya. “I have seen horrible
crimes that are unacceptable and must not remain without
Consequences,” he said.  European countries have started evacuating the 10,000 EU
citizens in Libya, Olivier Bailly, an EU spokesman, said in
Brussels. France yesterday started repatriating about 750
citizens living in Libya with companies including oil-producer
Total SA sending their French employees back home.  Two German Luftwaffe transport planes and a chartered
Lufthansa AG jet flew out about 350 Germans and Europeans
yesterday, the German Foreign Ministry in Berlin said in a
statement. The German government believes that about 250 Germans
remain in Libya, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Grenoble,  France , at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 