-- 
German Two-Year Government Yield Approaches One-Year High on ECB Rate Bets

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-02-23T17:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/german-two-year-government-yield-approaches-one-year-high-before-note-sale.html
German note yields were eight basis
points from the most in more than a year as investors added to
bets for higher borrowing costs in the euro region and the
government sold a new two-year benchmark.  The yield on the nation’s 10-year bonds reached the lowest
in almost a month as violence in  Libya  stoked demand for the
safest assets. Two-year notes slumped yesterday after  European
Central Bank  council member  Yves Mersch  signaled a readiness to
raise interest rates to contain inflation. ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet and Governing Council member  Guy Quaden  are due
to speak in Liege,  Belgium , at 5 p.m. London time. Irish and
Portuguese bonds fell.  “Speculation about an earlier rate hike from the ECB is
the main driver in the short-term yields,” said Ralf Umlauf,
head of floor research at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
Frankfurt. “The uncertainty around Libyan developments could
bolster” bunds, though it is no longer a key driver, he said.  The yield on the 1 percent government note due December
2012 was three basis points higher at 1.45 percent as of 5:03
p.m. in  London . It fell 0.045, or 45 euro cents per 1,000-euro
($1,375) face amount, to 99.20. The 10-year bund yield was
little changed at 3.14 percent. Earlier it fell as low as 3.125
percent, the lowest since Jan. 25.  Rising two-year yields narrowed the difference with 10-year
yields to 159 basis points, the least since November, flattening
the so-called yield curve.  ‘Comfortable’ Auction    Germany  sold 5.6 billion euros of 1.5 percent notes due
March 2013. It received bids worth 1.8 times the securities
sold, compared with 2.1 at the last sale of two-year notes on
Jan. 19 and an average of 1.7 at the 12 sales in 2010. The notes
were sold at an average yield of 1.53 percent and traded at 1.55
percent after the auction.  The auction’s “been very well bid,” said  Marc Ostwald , a
fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.
“People feel comfortable that the 1.53 percent level that this
note has been sold at adequately discounts the short-term risks
on interest rates.”  Italy issued 2.5 billion euros of zero coupon 2012 notes at
an average yield of 2.55 percent and 9 billion euros of 184-day
bills at 1.307 percent. Italian 10-year yields were four basis
points higher at 4.85 percent.  European stocks declined for a fourth day, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index falling 1 percent, as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a rebellion. Unrest in Libya follows last
month’s ouster of Tunisia’s president and the resignation of
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11.  Rate Bets  ECB policy maker  Juergen Stark , as well as Mersch, this
week signaled that they may support raising  interest rates  in
coming months.  Three-month Euribor futures fell for the fourth-straight
day, with the implied yield on the contract expiring in December
rising three basis points to 1.99 percent, as traders added to
bets that the ECB will boost borrowing costs. The yield was 1.33
percent at the end of 2010.  Euro-region inflation breached the European Central Bank’s
2 percent ceiling for a second month in January, accelerating to
2.4 percent, the fastest since October 2008.  French consumer prices rose 1.9 percent in January from a
year earlier, compared with a 2 percent gain the prior month, a
report today showed. Economists forecast a 2.2 percent increase.  The French 10-year breakeven rate, a market gauge of
inflation expectations derived from the yield difference between
regular and index-linked bonds, fell four basis points to 2.22
percentage points today.  Industrial Orders  Index-linked bonds in Europe have outperformed their
nominal peers this year as demand for inflation protection rose
on concern that soaring energy and food prices will drive up
wages and entrench faster price growth. German inflation-
protected securities handed investors a 0.48 percent gain this
year compared with a 1.16 percent loss from regular debt,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Industrial orders in the euro area unexpectedly increased
in December, expanding 2.1 percent from a month earlier, the
European Union’s statistics office said today. Economists
forecast a 1 percent contraction.  “Nobody is looking at data now,” said  Glenn Marci , a
strategist at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , who noted that several
strong data releases this week hadn’t affected markets, which,
he said, are being driven by political events in the Middle East
and domestic interest rate policy.  Greek Extension  Portuguese 10-year yields gained two basis points to 7.47
percent, while Ireland’s 10-year yields added six basis points
to 9.14 percent.  Greek 10-year yields were little changed at 11.76 percent
after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled European Union
leaders may be ready to renegotiate the terms of  Greece ’s
bailout deal as part of a broader package to shore up confidence
in the euro.  “Merkel is now discussing several alternatives for Greece
and that should be good for the peripherals,” Marci said,
referring to bonds from the euro region’s most indebted nations.  German  government bonds  handed investors a loss of 1.2
percent this year, compared with a 1.6 percent gain for Spanish
bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. U.S.
Treasuries have lost 0.4 percent and U.K. gilts 1.6 percent,
over the same period, the indexes show.  The losses compare with gains made in 2010 as the euro-
region’s sovereign-debt crisis fueled investor demand for the
safest fixed-income assets. German bunds returned 6.3 percent in
2010, the indexes show. Treasuries gained 6 percent, while U.K.
gilts returned investors 7.6 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 