-- 
GM Profit May Be ‘Pinched’ by New-Model Costs That Stung Ford

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-02-23T06:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/gm-profit-may-be-pinched-by-new-model-costs-that-stung-ford.html
  General Motors Co ., the largest U.S.
automaker, may report its smallest quarterly profit in a year as
costs for developing and introducing new vehicles rise.  Fourth-quarter net income may be $1.06 billion, the average
of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The profit
would be GM’s second-weakest quarter since emerging from
bankruptcy in July 2009, better than only its $3.22 billion loss
a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is demanding speedier
introductions of new models as the automaker revamps a lineup
that is older than rivals such as  Ford Motor Co . GM’s spending
on cars including the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid and future
products may lead to higher costs similar to those that
restrained profits at Ford and  Daimler AG .  “Both Daimler and Ford got pinched quite a bit in their
fourth quarter due to higher launch costs,” David Whiston, an
equity analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “I suspect we’re going to see something
similar at GM.”  The quarter still may be enough for GM’s largest annual
profit, excluding gains recorded when it emerged from bankruptcy
in 2009, since its predecessor earned $6 billion in 1999. Net
income in 2010 may be $5.38 billion, the average of five
analysts’ estimates.  Fourth-quarter earnings will be lower than in earlier
periods last year partly because of higher engineering spending,
Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said in an interview last
month. The Chevrolet Cruze small car began sales in the quarter,
and Akerson has said he wants the Volt’s gasoline-electric drive
system used in more models.  Higher Costs  Automakers are paying more for materials such as steel and
are struggling to pass the costs to consumers amid a “somewhat
weak” economy, said Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at
BNY ConvergEx Group in New York.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, said last month
that fourth-quarter profit tumbled as new models drove higher
costs, sending the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s shares
down the most in more than 20 months. The profit margin for
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz unit narrowed
to 8.3 percent in the fourth quarter from 9.5 percent in the
previous three months as development spending rose 15 percent.  GM’s ability to generate cash and its presence in  China 
should offset those costs over time, said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Palisade Capital Management LLC in  Fort
Lee , New Jersey. GM has said its  cash flow  could reach as much
as $16 billion annually.  ‘Mindset Has Changed’  “The mindset has changed, and they are investing for the
long run,” said Veru, who helps oversee $3.5 billion, including
GM preferred shares. “There is a universe of investors that is
going to find that quite appealing.”  GM has risen 8.4 percent in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading since it sold $23.1 billion in common and
preferred stock in November. The shares fell 74 cents, or 2
percent, to $35.77 yesterday.  Revenue in 2010 may have climbed 27 percent to $133.3
billion, the average of 12 estimates. Sales were $104.6 billion
in 2009, down from $205.6 billion in 2006, when GM had twice as
many U.S. brands.  GM lost 0.7 percentage point of U.S. market share from
2009, when it closed Hummer, Pontiac and Saturn and sold Saab,
according to Autodata Corp. in Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .
Filling the void are the Chevrolet Equinox, Cadillac SRX and GMC
Acadia sport-utility vehicles, and the Buick Lacrosse sedan.  GM Incentives  GM updated models representing 14 percent of sales in
2010, trailing the 26 percent rate for Ford, Chris Ceraso, an
analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report last year.
GM’s refresh rate will fall to 12 percent this year, compared
with 19 percent for Ford, according to Credit Suisse.  The shortage of new models coming to the U.S. this year may
require GM to spend more on discounts and sales incentives than
rivals, said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at Edmunds.com, a  Santa Monica , California-based consumer auto-pricing website.  “That’s something you’re going to have to do when you have
old product and you’re selling in the face of competitors coming
out with new product,” Caldwell said.  GM increased spending on incentives by 16 percent in
January, while Ford, Chrysler Group LLC and Nissan Motor Co.
reduced them, according to researcher Autodata Corp. in  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey.  GM started a promotion this month offering to waive
payments on existing leases if holders buy a new car, and the
automaker is offering cash of as much as $7,000 on some Cadillac
models this month, according to Edmunds.  GM’s incentives in 2010 fell 5.5 percent to $3,393 per
vehicle sold, a bigger drop than the industry’s 2.1 percent
decline, according to Autodata.    Europe  Restructuring  GM’s operations in Europe, its only unprofitable region,
are expected to lose money through 2011, Akerson, 62, has said.
The automaker needs a turnaround there similar to what was
achieved in the U.S., said Stephen Girsky, GM’s vice chairman.  “It’s a little tougher to do over there, given the excess
capacity across Europe, but it can be done,” Girsky said during
a Feb. 15 conference with analysts in  New York .  GM had $82 billion in losses from 2005 to 2008 before
tumbling into bankruptcy in 2009. The company had a $127.1
billion net income in the third quarter of 2009, when it
accounted for its recapitalization after bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  