-- 
Gold Cheap Versus Oil Signals Bullion to Rally: Chart of Day

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-02-23T01:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/gold-cheap-versus-oil-signals-bullion-to-rally-chart-of-the-day.html
Gold, trading near a record high,
will outperform oil as surging inflation underscores the metal’s
role as an investment hedge, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows prices of gold for immediate
delivery and New York-traded crude since 2008. The lower panel
tracks the ratio of gold to oil, which shows an ounce of bullion
buys about 15 barrels of the fuel now, compared with 26 barrels
two years ago.  “We see potential for gold to outperform oil over the
coming months,” Stefan Graber, Zurich-based analyst with Credit
Suisse, said in an e-mailed interview yesterday. “We think an
ounce of gold could potentially buy a few additional barrels of
oil. This assessment is based on our positive view on gold
versus a neutral view on the oil market.”  Gold’s role as an inflation hedge will grow as consumer
prices increase worldwide, he said.  China , in its latest step to
curb inflation, ordered banks on Feb. 18 to increase  reserve
requirements  after raising  interest rates  earlier this month for
the third time since mid-October.  For crude oil, spare production capacity among OPEC members
is more than five million barrels a day, which should provide a
cushion against unforeseen supply disruptions, including
political events in the Middle East, Graber said. “Oil markets
are now pricing in a considerable risk premium,” he said. “If
the situation eases, the  risk premium  could fade and prices drop
again considering the still comfortable supply situation.”  Gold for immediate delivery has fallen 1.6 percent this
year to $1,398.03 an ounce after rallying 30 percent in 2010 and
touching an all-time high of $1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7. Crude
oil in  New York  traded at $95.70 a barrel and has advanced 4.7
percent this year after a 15 percent jump in 2010.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  