-- 
Goldman Sachs Boosts Web Wager With $70 Million AppSense Stake

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-02-23T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/goldman-sachs-boosts-web-wager-with-70-million-appsense-stake.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., following
its investment in Facebook Inc., paid $70 million for a minority
stake in AppSense Ltd., bolstering a bet on growth at private
Internet companies.  The funding is the first outside capital  AppSense  has
received in its 12-year history, Darron Antill, chief executive
officer of the  software company , said in an interview.
AppSense’s technology lets users access their corporate
computers remotely from laptops, tablets and smartphones.  Goldman Sachs invested $450 million in Facebook at a $50
billion valuation last month. The firm joins Morgan Stanley, T.
Rowe Price Group Inc. and Tiger Global Management LLC in
mimicking late-stage venture capitalists by taking stakes in Web
companies before their initial public offerings. Antill said
AppSense is three to four years away from an IPO.  “In terms of the financial strength and depth of Goldman,
they’re unrivaled by traditional VCs,” said Antill, 44, who
joined AppSense last year and was promoted to CEO in January.
“The market is just taking off, and Goldman sees that.”  AppSense, based in  London  and  New York , plans to expand
from 300 employees to between 450 and 500 over the next year,
Antill said. The company is investing in the  Europe , Middle East
and Africa region and accelerating product development, for what
it expects to be a $2 billion market by 2015, according to a
statement released today.  Revenue increased 60 percent to $47 million in the fiscal
year ended June 2010 and is on track to rise another 60 percent
this year, according to Antill.  ‘Customer Traction’  AppSense has 4,000 customers, including the U.K.’s BT Group
Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and United Airlines.  “AppSense’s strong customer traction, history of
innovative solutions in desktop computing and the record growth
it has experienced over the past two years further solidified
our decision to invest in the company,” said Pete Perrone,
managing director at New York-based Goldman Sachs. Perrone is
joining the AppSense board.  Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of games for Facebook, is in
talks to raise funding from firms such as T. Rowe Price and  Fidelity Investments  at a valuation near $10 billion, two people
familiar with the matter said last week. Groupon Inc., the
largest daily-deal coupon site, raised $950 million at about a
$4.75 billion valuation from  Morgan Stanley  and other backers.  In addition to expecting a return on their investments,
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are vying to win mandates to
handle initial share sales when the companies go public, said
Ira Cohen, managing director of Signal Hill Capital, a  New York- 
based investment bank. Both firms have held talks with Groupon
about an IPO that would value the Chicago-based company at $15
billion, a person familiar with the matter said in January.  “Presumably some of these investment banks will have a
good chunk of the underwriting,” Cohen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  