-- 
Gordhan Unexpectedly Delays Plans to Reduce South Africa's Budget Deficit

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-23T17:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/gordhan-unexpectedly-delays-plans-to-reduce-south-africa-s-budget-deficit.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  unexpectedly postponed plans to narrow the  budget
deficit  as he stepped up spending to create jobs and revenue
from corporate taxes was slow to recover from recession.  The shortfall will be unchanged at 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2012, compared with
an October forecast of 4.6 percent, and estimates for the
following two years are also higher, according to a copy of
Gordhan’s budget speech in  Cape Town  today. The median forecast
of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a shortfall of
4.7 percent.  “Meeting the seemingly conflicting objectives of job
creation and fiscal consolidation was always going to be
difficult, and South Africa has clearly opted to focus on the
former,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a note to clients.
“The key will be whether South Africa actually succeeds in
driving faster growth through its fiscal stance.”  President  Jacob Zuma , who came to office in May 2009 with
the support of labor unions, is under pressure to create more
jobs as he tries to bolster support ahead of municipal elections
due by midyear. He has pledged to create 5 million new jobs in
the next decade. Africa’s biggest economy hasn’t recovered fast
enough from a recession that ended in 2009, with company profits
lagging targets, giving Gordhan less room to trim the deficit.  Economic Growth  The economy will expand 3.4 percent this year, compared
with the 3.5 percent forecast in October, Gordhan said. It grew
by 2.8 percent last year.  Gordhan gave details of plans for a 9 billion rand ($1.3
billion) jobs fund, 5 billion rand to subsidize wages for young
people, and 73 billion rand that will be spent by departments on
state building projects. An increase in public sector wages,
which was agreed to last year, adds 39.4 billion rand to the
budget over the next three years.    Job creation  is our number one priority,” Gordhan said.
“This budget outlines what government’s capabilities and
finances can do to support the delivery of jobs.”  Rising spending will force the government to borrow more
and push debt to 39 percent of GDP in the year through March
2014 from 31 percent this year. The ratio is low compared with
the country’s peers and “well within” the government’s
acceptable limit of about 50 percent, according to the National
Treasury.  Job Losses  South Africa has shed more than 1 million jobs since
slipping into recession in the fourth quarter of 2008,
distancing the government from its target of slashing the
jobless rate to 15 percent in the next decade. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 24 percent in the fourth quarter from 25.3 percent
in the previous three months, mainly due to an increase in jobs
in the public sector.  “We have declared 2011 a year of job creation through
meaningful economic transformation and inclusive growth,” Zuma
said in his state-of-the-nation speech on Feb. 10. “While
looking to the private sector in particular to help us create
most of the jobs, government will certainly play its part.”  Gordhan aims for a fiscal deficit of 4.8 percent of GDP in
2012/13, up from the 3.9 percent estimated in October, and of
3.8 percent in 2013/14, compared with a previous forecast of 3.2
percent.    Bond Market   The higher deficit doesn’t signal a change in the
government’s fiscal stance and the long term goal is for a  budget surplus , Gordhan said in an interview.  “We’ve said we’ll engage in growth-friendly fiscal
consolidation and won’t impose austerity measures on the South
African population,” he said.  Recent economic indicators, such as economic growth of 4.4
percent for the fourth quarter of last year, are signs that the
recovery is gaining momentum, Gordhan said.  “Ultimately we’ll come back to 3.8 percent if not better,''
he said. ‘‘These are just estimates. If economy grows better,
revenue will flow better.’’  Revenue will reach 824.5 billion rand in the next fiscal
year, 18.5 billion rand less than estimated in October, while
expenditure will climb to 979.3 billion rand, 2.1 billion rand
more than projected, the  National Treasury  said in its Budget
Review.  New Risks  Bonds have dropped in the past six months, with the yield
on the R157 security, due 2015, rising 50 basis points, or 0.5
of a percentage point, to 7.8 percent as of yesterday. The yield
was at 7.8 percent by 7 p.m. in Johannesburg from 7.76 before
Gordhan’s speech.  The rand has slumped 7 percent against the dollar this
year, after gaining about 40 percent since the end of 2008, as
investors pulled money out of riskier, emerging-market assets
and the central bank stepped up purchases of foreign currency to
add to reserves. That may add to price pressures, with inflation
forecast to average 4.9 percent this year and 5.2 percent in
2012, the Treasury said.  ‘‘Overly rapid  currency depreciation  carries risks to
macroeconomic stability,’’ Gordhan said. ‘‘We expect the
governor of the  Reserve Bank  to be vigilant in monitoring
inflationary pressures and ensuring that monetary policy is
effective in meeting our inflation targets.’’    South Africa  is facing the ‘‘specter’’ of higher food and
oil prices, and given those new risks, the rand is at a more
comfortable level, he said. The currency gained to a four-week
high against the dollar, advancing as much as 1.4 percent to
7.0592 per dollar, and was 0.4 percent stronger at 7.1311 at 7
p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  