-- 
Gordhan Commits to Curb South African Budget Deficit After Targets Widened

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-24T06:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/gordhan-reaffirms-commitment-to-curb-south-african-budget-gap.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  pledged to curb the budget gap, moving to a
surplus over time, allaying concerns that wider than expected
deficits in yesterday’s budget signaled a shift in policy.  “Ultimately, the benchmark is to go to a surplus again,”
Gordhan said in an interview in Cape Town yesterday. “We
achieved that a few years ago and should head back there again
if we can get a stable economic environment.”  Gordhan unveiled deficit targets for the next three years
that were higher than estimated in his mid-term budget in
October because corporate tax has been slow to recover from a
2009 recession. The shortfall is expected to be 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product in the fiscal year through March 2012,
unchanged from this year, and higher than a previous projection
of 4.6 percent.  South Africa will maintain spending goals ahead of
municipal elections due by midyear, even as revenue disappoints,
Gordhan said. President  Jacob Zuma , who came to office in May
2009 on promises to slash unemployment, has pledged to create 5
million new jobs in the next decade and boost health-care
services for the poor.  “It doesn’t signal any change in the fiscal stance,”
Gordhan said.  “It’s a little bit higher, but it’s extremely
manageable,” he said in an interview on SAFM radio today.
“There was another option, of cutting from 7.3 percent to 1
percent, and that means cutting massive expenditure on our side.
We have not resorted to austerity measures.”  The rand gained as much as 0.3 percent to 7.106 against the
dollar today and was trading at 7.1095 as of 8:01 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  Tax Shortfall  Gordhan has less room to trim the deficit as the economy
recovers slower than previously expected, resulting in estimated
tax earnings of 824.5 billion rand ($116 billion) in the next
fiscal year, 18.5 billion rand less than estimated in October.
Economic growth will probably reach 3.4 percent in 2011, down
from an October forecast of 3.5 percent, and accelerate to 4.1
percent in 2012.  “Meeting the seemingly conflicting objectives of  job
creation  and fiscal consolidation was always going to be
difficult, and South Africa has clearly opted to focus on the
former,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a note to clients.
“The key will be whether South Africa actually succeeds in
driving faster growth through its fiscal stance.”  Recent economic indicators, such as the purchasing
managers’ index, retail sales and economic growth at a 4.4
percent annualized pace for the fourth quarter of last year, are
signs that the recovery is gaining momentum, Gordhan said.  “Ultimately we’ll come back to 3.8 percent if not
better,” he said. “These are just estimates. If the economy
grows better, revenue will flow better.”  Fiscal Deficit  Gordhan is aiming to narrow the fiscal deficit to 4.8
percent of GDP in the 2012-13 fiscal year, up from the 3.9
percent estimated in October, and bring it down to 3.8 percent
in 2013-14, compared with a previous forecast of 3.2 percent.  “Debt service costs are a huge drain on taxpayers,”
Gordhan said. “We don’t want that money to be allocated to
paying interest, we want it to be allocated to schooling or
health or anything else in  South Africa .”  Gordhan gave details of plans for a 9 billion rand jobs
fund, 5 billion rand to subsidize wages for young people, and 73
billion rand that will be spent by departments on state building
projects. An increase in public sector wages, which was agreed
to last year, adds 39.4 billion rand to the budget over the next
three years.  “Job creation is our number one priority,” Gordhan said
in his budget speech yesterday. “This budget outlines what
government’s capabilities and finances can do to support the
delivery of jobs.”  Jobless Rate  South Africa has shed more than 1 million jobs since
slipping into recession in the fourth quarter of 2008,
distancing the government from its target of slashing the
jobless rate to 15 percent in the next decade. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 24 percent in the fourth quarter from 25.3 percent
in the previous three months, mainly due to an increase in jobs
in the public sector.  The government’s net debt is forecast to surge to 1.4
trillion rand, or 39 percent of GDP, in the year through March
2014, up from 822.4 billion rand, or 31 percent this year,
according to the budget. Interest costs on the debt will rise to
2.9 percent of GDP from 2.5 percent in the same period.  “We are somewhat concerned that, although the minister
mentioned that the debt service costs are rising faster than any
other category of spending, he failed to effectively reduce the
budget deficit in the coming fiscal year,” said Dave Mohr,
chief economist at Citadel Investment Services in  Cape Town .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  