-- 
Food-Price Threat Worsened by Government Mistrust of Business, Olam Says

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-02-24T08:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/government-wariness-of-business-blocks-food-solution-olam-says.html
Governments need to overcome their
suspicion of food companies to tackle record prices that are
fueling global instability,  Olam International Ltd . Chief
Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said.  “They basically see us as people that are likely to take
advantage of the situation,” said Verghese, whose Singapore-
listed company is one of the world’s three biggest rice traders.
Governments need to tap food-industry participants “who have
more practical insights into what needs to be done.”  The unrest fueled by food inflation has toppled regimes in
Egypt and  Tunisia , pushed  Libya  toward civil war and may send
the cost of staples such as wheat and corn higher still. The
 United Nations’ Food and Agricultural Organization  in January
warned against export bans, price controls and tariffs that it
said disrupt global markets and act as a disincentive to farmers
to plant more crops.  The  World Bank  said this month that 44 million people have
been pushed into extreme poverty since June as food shortages
sent a UN gauge of global prices to a record high.  The increases come less than three years since concerns
about supplies of rice and other grains sent prices soaring,
sparking riots in Latin America,  Africa  and  Asia . After peaking
at a record in June 2008, the FAO’s Food Price Index slumped 37
percent in eight months. The gauge hit a new high last month.  ‘Warning Sign’  Governments should have taken 2008 “as a warning sign,”
Verghese said in the Feb. 21 interview in Singapore. “Because
the prices then dramatically eased off, everyone took their foot
off the pedal.”  Global wheat production jumped 12 percent a year after the
2008 food crisis, before declining for two straight years, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. Higher corn harvests since
the last crisis haven’t met surging demand, putting the ratio of
stockpiles to demand at a 37-year low of 15 percent this year.  Food inflation underlines “the structural nature of the
problems in agriculture,” said Jeffrey Currie, London-based
head of commodities research at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  After the financial crisis spread across the world in
October 2008, “we forgot about many of these problems over the
following two years,” Currie said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Feb. 22.  Agricultural prices rallied before those of energy and
other commodities because the recession had less impact on
demand for foods, he said. “You eat about the same amount
during a recession as you do during an expansion, which is why
problems resurfaced here before elsewhere.”  Demand is accelerating because of urbanization, growing
wealth in emerging markets and a shift in diet to more protein.  ‘Upward Pressure’  “This can only go on for a period of time before you have
an acreage battle with continuous upward pressure on agriculture
prices,” Currie said at a conference in  Hong Kong  yesterday.
“That’s pretty much where we are right now.”  Like in 2008, when former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  said the “boundless greed of a few” had
“spawned the anguish of entire peoples,” governments have
focused on combating speculation, hoarding and profiteering by
investors and food traders.  In  India , where at least two national administrations were
toppled by rising prices in the past two years, the government
last month raided traders to stop hoarding.  China  last year
doubled the entry barrier for bidders in state auctions to
prevent speculators taking part.    France , as head of the Group of 20 nations this year,
proposes “structural” measures to improve  food security  and
reduce price swings, including more regulation of commodity
markets and exchange of information on production and stocks,
Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire said Feb. 4.  The Corn in Your Cornflakes  Cargill Inc., the grain distributor that’s the largest
closely held company in the U.S., opposes France’s proposal to
require deposits equal to part of the value of a trade because
it would probably increase working-capital requirements, Roger
Janson, Cargill Inc.’s head of European grain and oilseed
trading, said earlier this month.  “It’s very important for companies like Cargill, which is
a food company, that we can continue to use these  futures
markets  to hedge our purchase of grain,” Janson said. The role
of financial investors is often “seen through a negative
lens,” while they are “very important” in providing liquidity
in commodity markets, he said.  Food inflation by itself isn’t normally enough to spark
riots, according to Evan Fraser and Andrew Rimas, authors of
“Empires of Food: Feast and Famine and the Rise and Fall of
Civilization.” In past riots, a key condition has been a sense
of injustice or that profiteers are to blame.  Suffered in Silence  “Feelings of being cheated were more important than actual
food prices,” the two wrote on the website of Foreign Affairs
journal. “For the most part, the planet’s 700 million-900
million hungry people have suffered in silence.”  While tensions in the Middle East are likely to push
agricultural prices higher, any short-term gains are no
substitute for stability,  Wilmar International Ltd . CEO Kuok Khoon Hong said in an interview yesterday.  “A peaceful environment is always good for business,” he
said. Singapore-based Wilmar is the world’s biggest palm-oil
processor.  Companies lack a forum where they can take part
meaningfully in the decision-making process, Verghese said.
Governments need to coordinate their response to tackle the
supply constraints, rather than acting according to individual
national interests, he said.  China and India  China and India between them control 65 percent of global
rice reserves and 42 percent of wheat, according to USDA data.  “If India sees China building buffer stocks, they too want
to build buffer stocks,” Verghese said. “If one country bans
exports, every other country will want to ban exports.”  While the Group of 20 nations had “made a lot of great
noises” about food security in their last three communiqués,
the intent “tends to melt away by the time they all go back to
their countries.”  With the global population expected to grow by 75 million
people a year through 2050 and about 0.5 percent of the world’s
arable land being lost annually due to salt and alkali leaks,
leaching and over-tillage, time is running out to find a
solution, Verghese said.  “Unless there is real commitment and real intent, and real
global coordinated response, we are not going to solve this
problem,” he said. “If we can fight a war over oil, we will
fight bigger wars over food and water.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Singapore at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  