-- 
Slim's Grupo Carso Buys 70% of Tabasco Oil to Gain Foothold in Colombia

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-02-23T21:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/grupo-carso-attracted-by-colombian-oil-agrees-to-buy-70-of-tabasco-oil.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Grupo
Carso SAB agreed to acquire a 70 percent stake in Geoprocesados
SA’s Tabasco Oil Co., gaining access to the Colombian oil market
as the country seeks to boost crude and natural-gas output.  Tabasco has a contract to explore and produce oil in a
field in eastern  Colombia  called LLA 56, according to a
statement released late yesterday by Mexico City-based Grupo
Carso. No financial details of the transaction were given.  Slim is seeking to boost oil investments in Colombia
because of the country’s open policies on exploration, he said
earlier this month in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in
New York.  Ecopetrol SA , the Colombian state-owned oil company,
aims to double output by 2020, and the nation is also seeking to
attract overseas producers to develop  oil deposits .  “Investors see there is greater safety,” Natalia Agudelo,
a Medellin-based analyst at Celfin Capital SA, said in a
telephone interview. “The government also has made the rules of
the game very clear. Colombia is consolidating its exploration
phase so it can be a player in the oil market.”  Investors are being drawn to Colombia because of improved
security as well as a clear government regulatory framework for
drilling, Agudelo said today. Military offenses reduced attacks
on pipelines, roadways and bridges to 76 in 2009 from more than
800 in 2002, according to government figures.  Oil Exploration  Tabasco is in the exploration stage of drilling in LLA 56,
Carso said. The company won rights in a state-run auction last
year by pledging to invest $5.8 million in exploration at the
site near the Venezuelan border and cede ownership of 1 percent
of eventual production to the government, according to the
state-run National Hydrocarbons Agency.  Carso, a Mexico City-based holding company that also owns
retail stores and industrial manufacturers, rose 1.29 pesos, or
3.6 percent, to 37.21 pesos at 4:10 p.m.  New York  time in Mexico
City trading, the biggest gain since Jan. 27. Slim holds 79
percent of Carso. The group’s construction unit supplies
drilling and oil-platform services to  Petroleos Mexicanos , Latin
America’s largest oil producer.  Closely held Geoprocesados, based in Villahermosa, Mexico,
has offices in Houston and  Buenos Aires  and will open one
shortly in Bogota, according to its  website . A representative of
the company wasn’t immediately available today to comment.  Slim, 71, also has invested in U.S. oil-services companies
Bronco Drilling Co. and Allis-Chalmers Energy Inc. His America
Movil SAB had 29.4 million mobile-phone subscribers in its unit
serving Colombia and  Panama  at the end of last year.  Pemex Delays  Carso’s oil services unit reported sales in the third
quarter of 611 million pesos ($50.4 million), down 38 percent
from the same period in 2009, because of delays in Pemex
contract awards and lower sales volume for pipes. The division
is part of Carso’s construction unit, Carso Infraestructura y
Construccion SAB, or Cicsa, which also has its own shares listed
on  Mexico ’s stock market.  Oil services represented 18 percent of Cicsa’s total sales
in the third quarter. The company is scheduled to report fourth-
quarter results on Feb. 25.  The Colombia investment is Carso’s first oil project
outside of Mexico. In 2009, Cicsa paid $30 million to buy a 60
percent stake in Bronco Drilling’s Mexican unit, creating a
joint venture to sell oil and gas drilling services.  Increased Stake  Slim controls a 15 percent stake in Bronco, with warrants
that could boost the stake to 20 percent. He also has a 2.9
percent stake in Allis-Chalmers, based in Houston. The company
said Feb. 21 that it expects to close its planned sale to
Seawell Ltd. today, pending shareholder approval.  Tabasco’s block is in an area known as Los Llanos, where
companies including Ecopetrol, Colombia’s largest  oil company ,
already produce crude. Companies set to search for crude in
nearby blocks include a unit of  France ’s Perenco SA, Ecopetrol,
Stetson Oil and Gas Ltd. Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA also won exploration rights
in last year’s government auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  