-- 
MIDEAST DAYBOOK: Libya Unrest, Credit Rating; Egypt Stock Market

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 
2011-02-23T04:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/mideast-daybook-libya-unrest-credit-rating-egypt-stock-market.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed
to fight a growing rebellion until his “last drop of blood,” as
parts of the capital of Tripoli resembled a war zone and some of
his followers and troops defected to the opposition.  Libya’s sovereign credit rating was cut by one level at
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, which noted that it may be
reduced further as violence escalated.  Libya’s escalating violence represents the biggest threat
to global oil supply since the invasion of Iraq eight years ago
as the unrest in the Middle East centers on an OPEC exporter.  Egypt’s stock exchange extended its trading suspension
through this week as it moves to implement changes aimed at
limiting possible losses upon resumption.  Islamic banks in Yemen said they will buy the local
currency sukuk the government plans to sell in March because
rates as high as 21 percent outweigh the risks amid escalating
unrest in the Middle East’s poorest country.  WHAT TO WATCH:
* Saudi Arabian Oil Co. has established a unit that will begin
trading oil products by the end of 2011.
*  Egypt ’s new Cabinet was sworn in and for the first time in
decades included members of opposition parties as dissent
continued over the makeup of the government.
* Kuwait’s M1 money supply growth, an indicator of future
inflation, slowed to 11.3 percent in January from 16.3 percent
the previous month.
* Citigroup Inc.’s Global Subsidiaries Group, which serves
multinational in more than 170 markets, set up a dedicated Japan
Desk covering the Middle East based in Dubai. The desk will be
led Osamu Okada, it said.  CONFERENCES:
* International Defence Exhibition in Abu Dhabi.  MARKETS:
*  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 1.4 percent.
* Crude oil futures for April delivery rose 0.3 percent to
  $95.72 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
  Exchange at 8:05 a.m. Dubai time.
* Gold for April delivery fell 0.1 percent to $1,400.3 an ounce.
*  QE Index  slumped 3.6 percent, Dubai Financial Market General
  Index dropped 2.4 percent,  ADX General Index  declined 1.6
  percent, Muscat Securities Market fell 1.5 percent, Saudi
  Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  dropped 0.4 percent and
  Kuwait Stock Exchange Index fell 0.1 percent. Bahrain All
  Share Index rose 0.2 percent.  EQUITY MOVERS:
*  Arab National Bank  (ARNB AB), Saudi Arabia’s sixth-largest
  publicly traded lender, reported an 18 percent increase in
  provisions for bad loans in the fourth quarter.
*  Al Abdullatif Industrial Investment Co ., (ALABDUL AB) a Saudi
  carpet manufacturer, plans to invest 54.8 million riyals
  expanding five units.  FINANCIAL RESULTS:
*  Barwa Real Estate Co . (BRES QD) said full-year profit rose to
  1.4 billion riyals from 766 million riyals a year earlier.
* National Mobile Telecommunications Co. (NMTC KK), the Kuwaiti
  phone company controlled by Qatar Telecom, said fourth-quarter
  profit rose to 24.3 million dinars from 11 million dinars in
  the year-earlier period.
*  Jazeera Airways  KSC (JAZEERA KK), a Kuwaiti low- cost airline,
  reported a profit of 2 million dinars after a loss 6.7 million
  dinars a year earlier.
* United Gulf Bank (UGB BI) posted a fourth-quarter loss of $2.8
  million after a profit of $1.9 million.
* Commercial Bank of  Kuwait  (CBK KK) posted a 2010 profit of
  40.5 million dinars after 146,000 dinars in 2009.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  