-- 
Mideast Impact on Korea Builders Limited, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-02-23T04:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/mideast-impact-on-korea-builders-limited-credit-suisse-says.html
South Korean builders’ plunge on
concern Middle Eastern protests will imperil new orders in the
region may be excessive given the "limited" impact of the unrest
to ongoing projects, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  "The sector’s recent sharp correction may offer a cheaper
entry opportunity for investors who believe the situation is
unlikely to spread" to the bigger markets of  United Arab
Emirates , Saudi Arabia and  Kuwait , analysts Minseok Sinn and
Hayoung Chung wrote in a report today. "We estimate limited
direct fundamental impact of protests on most tier-one
contractors’ ongoing work."  The 36-member Korea Construction Index tumbled 24 percent
from its Jan. 17 peak through yesterday, when it sank 6.6
percent, as grassroots uprisings in Tunisia and  Egypt  ousted
those countries’ leaders and spread to Libya, Bahrain and Yemen.
The Middle East/North Africa region is the “biggest customer”
for Korean builders overseas, UBS AG said yesterday. The
construction gauge rose 0.2 percent from a five-month low at
1:18 p.m. in  Seoul .  Credit Suisse joins UBS in saying the recent declines may
be a “buying opportunity,” provided protests don’t spread to
the largest Middle East oil and gas producers. The U.A.E.,  Saudi
Arabia  and Kuwait accounted for a total 46 percent of Korean
contractors’ overseas new orders in 2007-2010, compared with 8
percent for Libya, Bahrain and Egypt, according to Credit
Suisse’s note today.  War Zone  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a growing
rebellion until his “last drop of blood,” as parts of the
capital, Tripoli, resembled a war zone and some of his followers
defected to the opposition. In Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s
Fifth Fleet, opposition groups, mostly Shiite Muslims, yesterday
held their largest demonstrations so far, with tens of thousands
marching peacefully in the capital, Manama, to call for more
democracy.  Credit Suisse said in the note it doesn’t have “any solid
view” on how political protests in the Middle East may develop.  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. has the “most
exposure” to  Libya  among Korean builders at 7 percent of its
order backlog in the third quarter, comprising five power-
related projects worth 2 trillion won ($1.8 billion), according
to UBS’s report. Samsung Engineering has the biggest exposure to
the Middle East/North Africa region at 79 percent of its third-
quarter backlog, UBS said.  Mideast Orders  South Korean builders won $47.25 billion of orders from the
Middle East last year, according to the Seoul-based  Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency.  The nation’s contractors may be
awarded more than $70 billion worth of overseas orders this year
as higher  oil prices  and economic growth boosts demand for more
refineries and infrastructure projects, the land ministry said
on Dec. 30.  Hyundai Engineering sank 2.6 percent to 70,400 won, its
11th decline in 12 days. Samsung Engineering was little changed
at 177,500 won.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp . added 0.9
percent to 99,900 won, while Daewoo Engineering & Construction
Co. gained 1.4 percent to 11,150 won, rising from yesterday’s
6.8 percent retreat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  