-- 
Imperial Holdings Seeking Acquisitions in Logistics Business, Chief Says

-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-23T10:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/imperial-seeks-south-african-european-purchases-to-bolster-logistics-unit.html
  Imperial Holdings Ltd ., the largest
owner of  car dealerships  in  South Africa , plans acquisitions in
the country and  Europe  to add to logistics units.  A newly created African unit may contribute as much as 250
million rand ($35 million) in operating profit in the next year,
Chief Executive Officer Hubert Brody said today in a phone
interview. Acquisitions will be on the same scale as purchases
completed in the past 15 months, and the Johannesburg-based
company will also seek to buy businesses such as vehicle-
servicing and parts suppliers Brody said.  Imperial Holdings has spent 2 billion rand on companies,
such as Namibian consumer-goods distributor CIC Holdings Ltd.,
since December 2009, Brody said. The new units added more than
10 percent to the company’s annual sales, which in the fiscal
year through June 2010 totaled 53 billion rand.  “The scale of the company has been significantly
enhanced,” Brody said.  Net income in the six months ended Dec. 31 rose 36 percent
to 1.38 billion rand while sales jumped 22 percent to 31.4
billion rand, the company said today in a statement.  Imperial Holdings fell as much as 1.7 percent to 112.26
rand as of 12:53 p.m. in Johannesburg trading. The stock has
declined 12 percent this year.  German, Polish Targets  The attractiveness of seeking growth at Imperial Holdings’
existing operations was equal to that of pursuing “bolt-on”
transactions, Tak Hiemstra, the head of strategy, said in the
joint interview with the CEO. Germany and  Poland  are markets it
may conclude transactions in, he said.  “We’re always in the process of acquiring,’” Brody said.
“There will definitely be more over the next year. The tourism
area is very interesting to us. We hope to make some
acquisitions there as well,” Brody said.  The company will seek to increase logistics services to
corporate customers such as South African-based food producers
and retailers that have expanded elsewhere in  Africa , Brody
said. The 723.7 million-rand acquisition of CIC in July allows
Imperial to offer wholesaling, warehousing and merchandising in
countries where it already has clients, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  