-- 
India Farm Minister Says Time Right for Rice, Wheat Exports

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 
2011-02-23T11:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/india-farm-minister-says-time-right-for-rice-wheat-exports-1-.html
India’s Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar 
said it’s the “right time” for the world’s second-biggest
grower of rice and wheat to export a limited quantity of the
food grains, potentially cooling global prices.  “This is the right time to give serious thought over
allowing exports of certain quantities of rice and wheat as we
have ample stocks,” Pawar told reporters in  New Delhi  today.
“World prices are very good.”  Wheat, which surged 53 percent in the past year, climbed to
$9.1675 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade on Feb. 14, the
highest price since August 2008. The grain, harvested from March,
makes up 70 percent of India’s winter grain output.  Production may reach 84 million metric tons in the year
ending June 30, up from a Feb. 9 farm ministry estimate of a
record 81.5 million tons, Pawar said on Feb. 21. The crop output
projection was based on current weather conditions prevailing,
he said. The harvest was 80.8 million tons in the previous
season.  India banned exports of non-basmati rice in April 2008 and
wheat in early 2007 to bolster domestic supplies. Record
harvests in the ensuing years and purchases from farmers had
swollen stockpiles of rice, wheat and other grains to 47.3
million tons in state warehouses as on Feb. 1, according to Food
Corp. of  India .  India is considering allowing wheat exports as the country
may harvest a record crop,  Press Trust of India  reported, citing
Food Minister K.V. Thomas.  The government will also look into allowing sugar exports
and reducing the minimum export price of onions, the agency
cited Thomas as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  