-- 
India’s Coal Supply Shortfall May Triple in 5-7 Years, ICRA Says

-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-02-23T06:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/india-s-coal-supply-shortfall-may-triple-in-5-7-years-moody-s-unit-says.html
  India ’s coal deficit may
triple over the next five to seven years, cutting profits at
utilities as they boost imports, a local unit of Moody’s
Investors Service said.  An increase in coal imports may push up prices and
“seriously affect” the ability of power companies to pay debt,
ICRA Ltd. said in an e-mailed note yesterday. Production
was 67 million metric tons lower than demand in the
fiscal year ended March 2010, according to the report.  “Shortfalls in the supply of domestic coal could expose
independent power producers to fuel-price and supply-related
risks, given the challenges involved in securing coal at
competitive rates from alternative sources,” Mumbai-based
Anjan Ghosh and Kolkata-based Jayanta Roy said in the note.  Power-station coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, 
an Asian benchmark, rose 46 percent last year.  Tata Power Co., India's largest non-state power producer,
has 50.1 billion rupees ($1.1 billion) of debt maturing in the
next five years, while billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Power
has $2 billion to pay over three years, according to data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian utilities are adding capacity to plug a deficit of
10.5 percent of peak power demand and cut blackouts that
threaten to slow the world’s second fastest-growing major
economy. The government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012.  Political Unrest  The installed capacity of coal-based  power plants  may jump
70 percent from the current 90 gigawatts in the next five to
seven years, the ICRA analysts estimated. Capacity may be 113
gigawatts by March 2012, they said.  India needs to increase the installed capacity of all types
of power plant to 200 gigawatts to sustain economic growth of 8
percent, according to the power ministry.  Domestic coal output won't be able to meet the needs of
power producers, ICRA said. Production growth has been slowed
by delays in obtaining regulatory approval for coal-mining
projects, disputes over land acquisition and resettlement
of people affected by developments, Ghosh and Roy said.  “Political unrest in remote locations that have large coal
deposits has also added to the challenges in commissioning coal
projects,” the analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  