-- 
Indian Trading Begins for Renewable-Energy Credits, Attracting 136 Bids

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-23T14:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/india-s-first-renewable-credit-trading-day-attracts-136-bids-1-.html
  India ’s largest power exchange began
trading the country’s first renewable-energy credits, saying the
new commodity may develop a liquid market by year-end.  The first trading session today on the  Indian Energy
Exchange  received 11 buy bids seeking certificates from solar
plants and 125 bids for certificates for renewable energy from
wind, hydropower or biomass projects, according to Jayant Deo,
chief executive of the exchange.  “We should see some liquidity roughly in 10 months,” Deo
said by telephone from  New Delhi .  A certificate represents one megawatt-hour of renewable
electricity fed into the transmission grid. Regulated power
distributors and large industrial consumers, which are required
to get as much as 14 percent of their supplies from renewable
sources, are expected to be the buyers of the certificates.  Clean-power producers such as wind farms and biomass plant
owners won’t begin to supply certificates until later this year,
Deo said.  Wind farms produce the most power from May to September
during the monsoons and will begin accumulating certificates to
sell during that season, he said.  Most of the country’s biomass projects are located at sugar
mills and run on bagasse, he said. Those plants will start
earning certificates during their peak season from October to
March, he said.  “Probably in the first quarter of next year we should
start to see a buzz in the market,” Deo said.  Trading of renewable energy certificates, or RECs, will be
through closed double-side auctions on the last Wednesday of
every month and bids will be accepted on the day from 1 p.m. to
3 p.m. local time, the exchange said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  