-- 
International Paper Focusing on Cash Flow to Lift Dividend

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-02-23T21:12:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/international-paper-focusing-on-cash-flow-to-lift-dividend.html
  International Paper Co ., the world’s
largest paper and pulp producer, said it’s focusing on improving
cash flow to lift the company’s dividend and help fund expansion
outside North America.  “Our highest priority is not growth, it’s sustainable and
improving cash flow,” Chief Executive Officer John Faraci said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .
“We’ve got more cash flow runway ahead of us.”  International Paper, which is based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
is seeing demand and prices for its corrugated packaging and
office paper in North America rebound after they collapsed
during the financial crisis.  “The way we generate more cash is we build and run
businesses that have healthy margins,” said Faraci, 61. “The
way you do that in our businesses in  North America  is you manage
supply and demand very well, very aggressively, so you don’t
overproduce.”  International Paper fell 43 cents to $27.24 at 4:02 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 13 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 26
percent advance in the  S&P 500 Materials Index .  The board will consider this year whether to boost the
company’s dividend, he said. International Paper has raised its
quarterly payout twice since April, to 18.75 cents. The dividend
was cut to 2.5 cents in 2009 from 25 cents as the global
economic crisis unfolded.  ‘Slow Recovery’  “It’s a priority to get our dividend back to a sustainable
level,” he said.  The U.S. accounted for 79 percent of International Paper’s
sales in 2009. The  U.S. economy  is “recovering, but it is not
recovered,” Faraci said.  “I’m pretty positive on the U.S. economy, I just think
it’s going to be slow, and not as fast as we’d like,” he said.
“That’s probably good news for inflation, with the exception of
oil going over $100 a barrel.”  The price of linerboard, one of two types of paper used to
make corrugated-cardboard containers, has climbed 19 percent in
the past 12 months, according to data from Pulp and Paper
Network LLC. The price of office paper has advanced 9 percent.  While U.S. demand for corrugated packaging recovers, it
isn’t likely to return to levels seen in the late 1990s anytime
soon because of the amount of manufacturing capacity that has
moved to other countries, Faraci said.  Chinese Acquisition  “If you think about the business’s 1 to 2 percent growth,
in 15 years from now it may be a market the same size it was in
1999,” he said. ‘That’s a long time.’’  International Paper owns and operates plants outside the
U.S. in countries including Russia, Morocco and  Turkey . It paid
$200 million in June for Svenska Cellulosa AB’s Asian packaging
business. It may consider opportunities to expand in Eastern
Europe,  China  and  India  where it sees greater profitability,
Faraci said.  Rock-Tenn Co., a Norcross, Georgia-based maker of
packaging, agreed last month to pay $3.5 billion for Smurfit-
Stone Container Corp. to become North America’s second-biggest
containerboard producer.  International Paper, which paid $6 billion for Weyerhaeuser
Co.’s industrial packaging and recycling business in 2008, sees
further North American containerboard acquisitions as “possible
but not essential,” Faraci said.  International Paper’s net income dropped 2.9 percent to
$644 million, or $1.48 a share, in 2010 while sales increased
7.8 percent to $25.2 billion. It had $2.07 billion of cash and
equivalents at the year-end. Free  cash flow , its cash from
operating activities minus  capital expenditures , was $726
million in the fourth quarter, compared with a negative $397 in
the preceding three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in New York at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  