-- 
Turkey Rushes to Evacuate Libya Workers as Italy Sees a Flood of Refugees

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-02-23T14:37:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/italy-warns-350-000-workers-may-seek-to-flee-libya-amid-mass-evacuations.html
As nations from  Turkey  to the U.S.
rush to evacuate their citizens from Libya,  Italy  warned that as
many as 350,000 migrant workers fleeing “civil war” may cross
the  Mediterranean Sea  and seek refuge in Europe.  Governments are working round the clock to pull their
citizens from Libya after leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight
a growing rebellion until his “last drop of blood” amid
reports of more than 1,000 people slain. Turkey, for one, has
embarked on the biggest evacuation effort in its history, flying
5,099 people out of Tripoli in the last 72 hours, Foreign
Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said.  The U.S. announced plans to evacuate its citizens from
Libya after Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said their safety
was the “highest priority.” The U.K. government chartered an
airplane to leave  London ’s Gatwick Airport for Tripoli at 12:30
p.m. to evacuate 200 Britons from Libya, the Foreign Office said
in an e-mailed statement.  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini told parliament
today that between 250,000 and 350,000 workers, or about 15
percent of the total foreign workforce in Libya, may be pushed
to escape to the closest entry points to Europe -- Italy,  Malta ,
Cyprus and  Greece .  U.S. Evacuation  The U.S. embassy in Tripoli announced yesterday that a
government-chartered ferry would take Americans from the Libyan
capital to Malta. People will be taken on a first-come, first-
served basis, although those with severe medical conditions will
get priority, the embassy said.  Several thousand U.S. citizens live in Libya, many of them
dual nationals, according to State Department spokesman Philip J. Crowley. A large number of those with only U.S. citizenship
work for energy companies and are “shutting down their
operations and making their way out of the country.”  “We are not asking Europe to distribute the immigrants
across its territory, but we are asking for a serious mechanism
on how to split the economic and social burden of an immigration
wave,” Frattini said in Rome.   Europe  needs to assume its
duties.”  Italy has accepted requests by the U.K and Serbia to use
its  air force  bases to land airplanes carrying citizens.  EU Operations  Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the European Commission,
said about 10,000 European Union citizens live in Libya.  “The operations of evacuation have started with the
member states, and the commission stands ready to support member
states through the Monitoring and Information Center, so-called
MIC, in pulling transport capacities and identifying additional
evacuation means, in particular by sea, in the next hours and
days,” Bailly told reporters in Brussels.  Frattini said he feared a “bloodbath” would follow
Qaddafi’s comments yesterday, describing a possible “civil war
between areas and provinces in which groups and gangs fight with
death squads that carry out raids.” He said Qaddafi had accused
Italy and the U.S. of arming the rebels during a phone call late
yesterday with Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . Frattini denied
the allegation.  The evacuation efforts come as countries nearest to  Libya 
face the prospect of a “biblical exodus,” as anti-immigration
Italian Interior Minister Roberto Maroni phrased it.  In the past month, more than 5,000 North Africans have
crossed 110 kilometers (70 miles) in boats to reach the Italian
island of Lampedusa, a speck of desert land in the Mediterranean
inhabited by less than 6,000 people, the  Interior Ministry  said.  Warsaw-based Frontex, the EU agency that pools resources to
patrol the 27-nation bloc’s external borders, dispatched 30
experts to the island and vowed to stay “as long as necessary”
to handle the emergency.  Italy, with a population of 60 million people, has almost 1
million illegal aliens, according to Caritas, a  Rome  charity.  The number of legally registered foreign residents rose to
4.6 million in 2010 from 4.2 million in 2009, an increase of 7.7
percent, according to Istat, the national statistics agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  