-- 
Ivory Coast Military Ambushed by Rebel Group, at Least One Soldier Killed

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-02-23T16:56:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/ivory-coast-military-ambushed-by-rebel-group-at-least-one-soldier-killed.html
An armed rebel group ambushed
security forces in  Ivory Coast ’s commercial capital, Abidjan,
last night killing one soldier, according to the West African
nation’s army.  Two other soldiers were missing following the attack, which
also resulted in the death of seven rebels, Hilaire Babri
Gouhourou, a military spokesman, said in a statement read on
state television today.  A group calling itself the Liberation Movement of the
Population of Abobo-Anyama, or MLP2A, claimed responsibility for
the assault in an e-mailed statement that which could not be
independently verified. It said 27 people died in the attack,
three paramilitary police kidnapped and that it seized weapons
including four grenade launchers. Anyama and Abobo are
neighborhoods in Abidjan.  The attack represents an escalation in violence that has
scarred  Ivory Coast  since a disputed election on Nov. 28 left
the country with two rival administrations. While the
international community recognizes  Alassane Ouattara  as the
winner of the vote, incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  refused
to resign, citing alleged voter fraud.  Security forces used live ammunition and hand grenades to
prevent Ouattara’s supporters from protesting on Feb. 21, an
opposition group said in a statement yesterday. At least 12
people were killed, it said.  Residents of Abobo said gunfire and heavy artillery was
heard through the night and many streets in the neighborhood
were barricaded today with wooden tables and bricks.  “The noise was so scary and loud we were hiding under our
beds,” said Angenor Kassi, a resident, by phone.  Yves Doumbia, a spokesman for the mayor of Abobo, said at
least 10 were killed in the fighting. “The clashes began
yesterday morning and again in the evening,” he said by phone
today. “The situation was really bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baudelaire Mieu, Olivier Monnier and Pauline Bax in Abidjan via
Accra at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 