-- 
Abbott Wins Reversal of J&J’s $1.67 Billion Patent Victory

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-02-23T21:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/j-j-s-1-67-billion-patent-ruling-against-abbott-reversed-by-appeals-court.html
Abbott Laboratories, maker of the
arthritis drug Humira, succeeded in a bid to overturn a $1.67
billion patent-infringement verdict won by  Johnson & Johnson .  The 2009 verdict, the largest patent-related damages award
in U.S. history, was  reversed today  by the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit in  Washington , according to the court’s
website. The three-judge panel ruled the patent, co-issued to  New York University  and J&J’s Centocor unit, is invalid.  J&J, which sells the competing arthritis medicine Remicade,
had convinced a jury that Abbott infringed the patent, which J&J
said covered the human antibodies used in Humira. The appeals
court ruled that J&J’s patent application never described fully
human antibodies and said at most the claims “constitute a wish
list of properties” that such an antibody would have.  “The opinion confirms that you can’t claim what you didn’t
invent,” said William Lee of WilmerHale in  Boston , who
represented Abbott in the case.  Rob Bazemore, president of the Centocor unit, said in a
statement the company is considering whether to ask the panel to
reconsider its decision or request that the case be heard by all
active judges of the court.  Humira is Abbott’s biggest drug with $6.55 billion in sales
worldwide last year, or about 18 percent of the  Abbott Park ,
Illinois-based company’s total revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Remicade is J&J’s largest drug product,
accounting for about 7.5 percent of the  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based company’s business, or $4.61 billion in sales.  J&J fell 26 cents to $60.39 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Abbott declined 50 cents to $46.47.  Healthy Tissue  Humira blocks action of tumor necrosis factor, or TNF. When
the body produces too much TNF, it can cause the immune system
to attack healthy tissue and leads to inflammation.  J&J sued in 2007, seeking royalties and compensation for
what it said was unauthorized use of the patent. Abbott argued
that J&J’s patent doesn’t cover the human antibodies that are
used in Humira, and they are invalid because scientists couldn’t
make fully human antibodies against TNF in a laboratory in 1994,
the date set by the trial court as the time of the invention.  J&J’s Remicade is made with a combination of mouse and
human antibodies. J&J and NYU argued the patent covers both the
combination and fully human antibodies against TNF.  A federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , agreed and in June 2009
said Abbott owed $504 million in patent royalties to J&J based
on sales of Abbott’s Humira arthritis drug, plus $1.17 billion
to compensate J&J for decreased sales of its competing
treatments. The trial judge later added $175.6 million in
interest, bringing the total to $1.84 billion.  First to Invent  The Federal Circuit today ruled that J&J failed to show it
described fully human antibodies in 1994, when it sought patent
protection. The elements of the patent asserted against Abbott
are therefore invalid because they don’t adequately describe the
invention, the court said. Inventors are required to provide
descriptions so others may emulate or build on the work.  “The evidence clearly showed that Abbott was first to
invent a fully human anti-TNF antibody, Humira,” said  Scott Stoffel , a spokesman for Abbott.  Abbott has filed its own lawsuit against the Centocor unit,
claiming J&J’s arthritis drug Simponi, made with human
antibodies, is infringing an Abbott patent. It also claims a J&J
psoriasis medicine, Stelara, violates two other patents. Those
cases are pending in federal court in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  Arthritis, which involves the breakdown of the cartilage
protecting joints,  affects  one out of seven Americans, or 37
million people, according to the  National Institutes of Health .
Three of the largest drugs used to treat arthritis are Humira,
Remicade and Enbrel, which generated $3.53 billion in sales last
year for  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen Inc.  The case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, 10-1144,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Centocor Inc. v.  Abbott Laboratories ,
07cv139, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  