-- 
Japanese Bonds Advance for Second Day on Slowing Exports, Libya Tensions

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-02-23T04:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/japanese-bonds-advance-for-second-day-on-slowing-exports-libya-tensions.html
Japanese bonds rose for a second day
after a government report showed exports grew less than
economists forecast, boosting demand for the safety of debt.  Benchmark 10-year yields dropped to a three-week low after
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a escalating
rebellion in his country as some of his followers defected to
the opposition. Traders added to bets that deflation in Japan
will deepen, helping increase the value of the fixed payments
from  government securities .  “The weaker-than-expected exports data added to the
favorable environment for bonds,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who
helps oversee about $17 billion in Tokyo as chief strategist at
Toyota Asset Management Co. “The markets remain risk aversive
mainly on increasing tensions throughout the Middle East.”  The 10-year yield dropped 3.5 basis points to 1.235 percent
as of 1:23 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.2 percent security due
December 2020 added 0.304 yen to 99.693 yen. The yield is at the
lowest level since Feb. 3.  Ten-year bond futures for March delivery advanced 0.35 to
139.75 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japan’s export growth slowed to 1.4 percent in January from
a year earlier, down from 12.9 percent in December, the  Finance
Ministry  said today in Tokyo. Economist surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast an increase of 7.4 percent.  Deflation Outlook  The five-year breakeven rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the spread between nominal and
inflation-linked bonds, declined to minus 0.524 percentage point,
the lowest since Jan. 28.  “Japan’s economy appears to be getting out of the pause
for the time being, and on the price front, the deflationary
situation is improving,” Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said today in a speech to business leaders in Aomori
in northern Japan. Still, “there will be twists and turns until
overcoming deflation is in sight.”  Bonds were also boosted before a U.S. report that
economists said will show the housing market is weakening.  Purchases of new houses in the U.S. fell to 304,000 annual
pace in January from 329,000 the previous month, a Bloomberg
surveyed showed before tomorrow’s Commerce Department data.  Japanese bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.4 percent
this month, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. That compares with a 0.6 percent drop in January.  In Libya, bodies were left in the streets of Tripoli after
an attack on protesters by pro-Qaddafi gunmen, the opposition
National Front for the Salvation of  Libya  said.  “A swift resolution of the Libya situation is hard to
expect and the market will continue to evaluate its impact on
the economy,” Shunsuke Doi, a market analyst at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. in Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients today.
“The environment is positive for the  bond market .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 