-- 
Japan’s Export Growth Slows on Lunar New Year Holiday

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-02-23T00:05:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/japan-s-export-growth-slows-more-than-estimated-on-lunar-new-year-holiday.html
Japan’s exports increased less than
expected in January and the nation swung to a trade deficit, as
a Lunar New Year holiday in the nation’s largest Asian markets
disrupted demand.  Overseas shipments rose 1.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, from December’s 12.9 percent gain, the  Finance Ministry 
said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 7.4 percent increase.  The slowdown in export growth may be temporary, with the
government raising its economic assessment for the second
straight month on Feb. 21 as overseas demand and industrial
production help the economy emerge from a lull. Asian nations,
including China and  South Korea  that observe the holiday break,
buy about 60 percent of Japan’s exports.  “The Lunar New Year holidays tend to hold back exports, so
we should look at the overall trend by averaging out trades in
January and February,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Exports are in
a recovery trend as the global economy is picking up.”  The nation reported a trade deficit of 471.4 billion yen
($5.7 billion), the first since March 2009, according to the
ministry.  Japanese companies are tapping demand in  China  and other
emerging nations. Kobe Steel Ltd., Japan’s fourth-largest
steelmaker, said this month that third-quarter profit more than
doubled on rising Asian demand. Suzuki Motor Corp., the Japanese
automaker 20 percent owned by Volkswagen AG, said this month
that third-quarter net income quadrupled amid growing sales in  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  