-- 
JSE to Continue Push for Change to Inward Listing Rules

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-02-23T17:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/jse-to-continue-push-for-change-to-inward-listing-rules-ceo-loubser-says.html
  JSE Ltd ., which manages  South
Africa ’s stock exchange, said it will continue to push for
foreign companies listed on the bourse to be traded without
local investors reaching prudential limits.  South Africa’s exchange-control rules curb the amount of
foreign assets local investors may own, known as prudential
limits. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan today released a
discussion paper aimed at changing prudential limits for
institutional investors with a pledge to consult with
stakeholders on “over the coming months.”    British American Tobacco Plc , which listed in 2008 when  Remgro Ltd . and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA spun off their
combined 30 percent stake, is among 32 shares classified as an
inward listing, or foreign company trading on the JSE. This
means the stock and others such as Platmin Ltd., Net 1 UEPS
Technologies Inc. and Aquarius Platinum Plc can’t be added to
indexes as local investors would reach prudential limits.  “We would like to see inward listings treated in such a
manner that South African investors don’t hit their limits,”
JSE Deputy Chief Executive Officer Nicky Newton-King said in a
telephone interview. The bourse wants inward listings included
in benchmarks in a way that makes sense for investors and
National Treasury, she said.  “National Treasury’s classification of listed companies --
as domestic or foreign inward listings -- is important as it
determines the manner in which South African investors,
particularly institutions, are able to invest in listed
companies,” JSE CEO Russell Loubser said in an e-mailed
statement from Johannesburg today.  ‘Other Ways’  The National Treasury discussion paper suggests that all
future foreign listings be subject to prudential limits while
exempting prior listings and African companies. A second
proposal suggests creating a non-resident classification, where
companies that have substantial operations in South Africa or
the rest of the continent could be exempted, according to the
paper.  “There are other ways of handing this,” Newton-King said,
declining to elaborate until these have been discussed with
Treasury. She said the JSE welcomed moves by Treasury to treat
African companies as domestic listings.  The “London Five” of  Anglo American Plc ,  BHP Billiton
Plc , SAB Miller Plc,  Old Mutual Plc  and  Investec Plc , whose
shares trade in both South Africa and the U.K., will still be
treated as domestic listings, Loubser said. “It’s important
that finality is reached, so that South Africa is able to
attract more foreign listings” and local investors can use the
bourse to diversify investments internationally.  The companies accounted for 9 percent of all shares traded
during 2010, 11 percent of the total number of trades and 24
percent of all value traded on the stock market, the JSE said.
The companies make up 34 percent of the weightings in the
FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  