-- 
Juniper Introduces QFabric in Data-Center Challenge to Cisco

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-02-23T02:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/juniper-introduces-qfabric-in-data-center-challenge-to-cisco.html
  Juniper Networks Inc ., the second-
largest maker of networking gear, introduced the first in a new
family of data-center products, stepping up competition with
larger rival  Cisco Systems Inc .  The initial component will connect servers to a network and
will cost $34,000, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said.
It’s part of a project that Juniper has poured more than $100
million into in the past three years.  Juniper, which traditionally has drawn most of its business
from selling gear to phone and Internet-service providers, is
going after Cisco in the market for corporate data centers. The
new QFabric products require less networking equipment, run more
quickly and provide more value than rival products, the company
said.  “Juniper’s heritage is one of innovating and disrupting
the competition,” Chief Executive Officer Kevin Johnson said in
an interview. “What customers are looking for is new ways to
solve the problems of these massive data centers and in ways
that are faster and more cost-effective.”  Juniper will begin selling the additional products in the
QFabric suite in the third quarter. The company’s shares have
risen 15 percent this year following the release of new
security, routing and switching products, which direct the flow
of  Internet traffic .  Customer Tests  The company is testing the QFabric products with financial-
services companies, health-care and education firms.  NYSE
Euronext , which has seen a steady surge in trading as the market
gets more fragmented and new securities such as derivatives are
introduced, turned to Juniper to help it keep up with the
demands on its network.  “All of the large major companies have good offerings,”
said Andrew Bach, a senior vice president at NYSE Euronext.
“When you put together the combination of the architectural
vision, competitive pricing and the overall support model,
that’s what brought us to Juniper.”  Cisco said in a statement that its products are widely
deployed in data centers and that customers have chosen to vote
with their wallets.  Juniper will host an event in  San Francisco  tomorrow with
partners to unveil the QFabric products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  