-- 
Kairos Society Helps Student Entrepreneurs Test Best Ideas for Startups

-- B y   R e b e c c a   L .   M c C l a y
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/kairos-society-helps-student-entrepreneurs-test-best-ideas-for-startups.html
Hemant Sahal, a 22-year-old college
student, said his idea for a business began with a bike ride
through impoverished villages in his native northern  India .  There he met slum residents with skin-pigment disorders
caused by metal pollutants in their drinking water. When he
learned about metal absorption in a college chemistry course
several years later, he said he envisioned mass-producing a
small, sponge-like product to cheaply purify water.  Sahal, a senior at  Vellore Institute of Technology  in
Vellore, India, is among 350 student entrepreneurs who will get
the chance to run their business plans past top executives when
the  Kairos Society  hosts its third Global Summit networking
event Feb. 25 and Feb. 26 in  New York City .  “The desire to do well and change the world is prevalent
among our generation,” said Ankur Jain, the group’s 21-year-old
founder, who’s a senior at the Wharton School of the  University
of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia. “It has a lot to do with how
connected we are. Our generation seems to look at these problems
as opportunities.”  Most of Kairos members, like Sahal, have ideas for
improving global  living conditions  and the environment such as
electric motorcycles for city residents or portable solar panels
for farmers. The event will include sessions on the floor of the
New York Stock Exchange and the United Nations headquarters
where students from the U.S.,  China ,  Europe , India,  Mexico  and  Saudi Arabia  will mingle with about 50 business leaders.  Executive Mentors  Among the executives scheduled to attend are: Peter Diamandis, chief executive officer and founder of the X Prize
Foundation, a Playa Vista, California-based company that hosts
competitions for entrepreneurs;  Duncan Niederauer , chief
executive officer of  NYSE Euronext , owner of the New York Stock
Exchange; and Bruce Mosler, chairman of global brokerage for New
York-based Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the world’s largest
privately held commercial real estate broker.  Mosler said he wanted to mentor Kairos Society
entrepreneurs because their technology-focused, humanitarian
businesses ideas have good potential to succeed and may create
jobs.  “More and more young people are leaving college with
viable businesses in hand,” Mosler said. “The more we can
create successful entrepreneurs, the more we combat unemployment
down the road.”  The U.S. unemployment rate among 16-to-24-year-olds was
18.9 percent in January, compared with 19.8 percent the year
before, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Problem Solvers  Diamandis of X Prize said he wanted to attend the summit to
help students use networking to build their businesses. “When I
was in college, I would have killed for that kind of guidance,”
he said.  Young entrepreneurs are not necessarily aiming to create
jobs, said Doan Winkel, assistant professor of entrepreneurship
at Illinois State University and a member of the Nashville,
Tennessee-based U.S. Association for Small Business and
Entrepreneurship. They want to solve social problems and make
money as well, he said.  “They’re recognizing there are ways to address social
needs and still be profitable,” Winkel said. “There’s a
movement to do both. They have the energy. They haven’t been
beaten down by corporate life.”  Jain’s father is Naveen Jain, chief executive officer and
co-founder of Intelius Inc., a public records business based in
Bellevue,  Washington , and previously was a program manager for  Microsoft Corp . and founder of  InfoSpace Inc ., a Bellevue-based
Internet search service. Naveen Jain grew up in  New Delhi .  ‘Not About Luck’  “He came from a world I don’t understand,” Jain said of
his father’s childhood poverty. “He taught me it’s not about
luck. It’s about a lot of hard work that ends up creating
luck.”  The younger Jain, who started Kairos in 2008 to provide
business mentoring to would-be student entrepreneurs, declined
to disclose membership numbers or the group’s budget, which he
said is supported by donations from sponsors such as the  Ewing
Marion Kauffman Foundation  based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . Carl Schramm, president and chief executive officer of the
foundation, which supports entrepreneurship, said his group
donated $50,000 last year.  “These kids are very serious,” Schramm said. “They are
self-starters. They know they can do good and do well at the
same time. We’re always interested in what’s moving the train of
entrepreneurship.”  Working Businesses  Several Kairos members have been able transform their ideas
into businesses, Jain said.  Levant Power Corp. , a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company founded by former  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  student Shakeel Avadhany, makes a
vehicle shock absorber that converts the bumps in the road into
energy, according to the company’s website.  MobilEdu is an iPhone application developed by former
Stanford students Kayvon Beykpour and Joe Bernstein that
universities can customize to let students look up information
such as class schedules, events and maps. Their San Francisco-
based company, Terriblyclever Design LLC, was acquired in 2009
by  Blackboard Inc ., a Washington-based company that makes
software for colleges, according to a  press release .  Jain said the organization subsidizes food and travel for
some students to attend, while the majority of those in Kairos,
which means “decisive moment” in ancient Greek, will pay their
own way to New York. The group is registered in Bellevue,
Washington, and has no official ties to colleges and
universities. There are no membership dues.  Center for Startups  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a business federation based
in Washington, said on Feb. 3 it would contribute a portion of a
$1 million grant through its Campaign for Free Enterprise
program to Kairos, without disclosing a specific amount. The
effort is part of the White House’s Startup America Partnership
announced Jan. 31 to encourage startups.  The Chamber also will announce plans to form a new Center
for Entrepreneurship during the Kairos event, said Stan Anderson, managing director for the chamber’s Campaign for Free
Enterprise. He said the center, which will lobby on behalf of
entrepreneurs, wants to hear from Kairos members about what
issues are affecting their ability to launch businesses.  “I find enormous opportunity among young people in
entrepreneurism,” Anderson said. “Part of it is that they
realize that there may not be that job available like there was
for their mother or father. It motivates these young people to
start their own companies.”  Sahal, the biotechnology engineering student who’s dubbed
his water-purifying idea CALLMAT, said he hopes the conference
will help him proceed.  “I’ll need more time to bring it to market,” Sahal said.
“What I’m looking for is more advice on how to go forward on
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca McClay in  New York  at 
 rmcclay@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 