-- 
Kenya Shilling Advances for First Day in Five as Political Tensions Ease

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-02-23T10:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/kenya-s-shilling-strengthens-for-first-day-in-5-as-political-tensions-ease.html
  Kenya ’s shilling gained for the
first day in five against the dollar as tensions eased after
President  Mwai Kibaki  recalled nominations for senior posts that
sparked differences with the Prime Minister  Raila Odinga .  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy strengthened
0.1 percent to 81.8 per dollar by 1:16 p.m. in Nairobi from a
close of 81.9 yesterday.  Kibaki yesterday backed down in a dispute with Odinga over
the appointment of four key state officials, including public
prosecutions director, chief justice and budget controller, that
has delayed implementation of the country’s new constitution.
The president said he would hold further talks with Odinga about
the naming of a new attorney general.  “The easing of the political tension has given the
shilling reprieve and it’s expected to hold within the 81.75 to
81.85 range in the coming days even as businesses seek more
dollars to settle their month-end obligations,” John Muli, a
dealer at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said in a phone
interview today.  The appointments are among changes to the judiciary planned
by Kenya to show it has the ability to try suspects linked to
the post-election violence in 2008 that left 1,500 people dead
and displaced another 300,000. The Hague-based  International
Criminal Court  is considering cases against six Kenyans for
alleged crimes against humanity. Kibaki has said the cases
should be prosecuted in Kenya.  The central bank bought 4 million euros ($5.48 million) in
the domestic foreign-exchange market at 112.15 shillings each, a
central bank official said by phone today from Nairobi.  “The purchase is likely to halt any further strengthening
of the shilling against the greenback and inflows will meet the
growing demand for dollars, stabilizing the local unit in the
coming days,” Muli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 