-- 
Saudi King Boosts Housing, Job Spending Amid Mideast Unrest

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-02-23T15:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/king-abdullah-pours-money-into-saudi-housing-welfare-amid-regional-unrest.html
Saudi Arabia ’s  King Abdullah  boosted
spending on housing by 40 billion riyals ($10.7 billion), and
earmarked more funds for education and social welfare amid
popular uprisings sweeping the Arab world.  The social security budget was raised by 1 billion riyals,
according to a statement read on state-run television. King
Abdullah also ordered the creation of 1,200 jobs in supervision
programs and made permanent a 15 percent cost-of-living
allowance for government employees, according to the statement.  “They are trying to enlarge the pool of benefits for
society given what is happening in the broader  Middle East ,”
John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi, said
in a phone interview from Riyadh.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier, is spending
more on social programs as political unrest roils the region.
Governments in  Bahrain , Yemen and Libya have cracked down on
activists calling for greater job opportunities and political
openness after uprisings toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.  Oil rose to its highest in more than two years as unrest
threatened to disrupt exports from the Middle East’s main crude
producing countries. Crude for April delivery gained as much as
97 cents to $96.39 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the highest since Oct. 2, 2008. It was
at $95.97 at 1:47 p.m. in  London . Futures are up 22 percent from
a year ago.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell for the ninth
consecutive day, dropping 0.2 percent to 6,263.79 at the 3:30
p.m. close in  Riyadh .  Abdullah Returns  King Abdullah returned to Riyadh today after three months
abroad for medical treatment, state television said. The 86-
year-old monarch traveled to the U.S. in November for treatment
of a back injury and went to  Morocco  on Jan. 22 for physical
therapy and to recuperate, the Saudi Press Agency reported.  The king also pardoned some jailed debtors and announced
that unemployed Saudis are to get financial aid for up to one
year, according to state television.  Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf oil producers are
spending petrodollars to create jobs and attract investment in
contrast to the strained government resources in Egypt, Jordan
and Yemen.  “The Gulf oil producers have a lot more money to spend
than their other Arab counterparts,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank , said in a
telephone interview. “The political situation is unstable in
the world and the region. The government wants to underscore its
commitment to the population.”  Spending Plan  The Saudi government announced in August a $385 billion,
five-year spending plan as the kingdom tries to reduce a jobless
rate of about 40 percent for Saudis between the ages of 20 and
24. The overall rate was 10.5 percent in 2009, according to data
from the Central Department of Statistics and Information.  Inflation in Saudi Arabia may accelerate in the first
quarter as global food prices increase further, the kingdom’s
central bank said in a quarterly report on its website. Average
inflation in the fourth quarter was 5.7 percent, the central
bank said.  Protests in  Egypt  led to the resignation of PresidentHosni Mubarak on Feb. 11, less than a month after Tunisian leader Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was forced into exile.  Bahraini Unrest  Unrest in Bahrain, which is linked to Saudi Arabia by a 26-
kilometer (16-mile) causeway and whose capital, Manama, is only
a four-hour-drive from its Saudi counterpart, Riyadh, has in the
past spread across the border. In 1995, the Saudi government
arrested a large number of Shiite Muslims on suspicion of
involvement in protests taking place in Bahrain, according to
 Human Rights Watch .  Shiites make up between 60 and 70 percent of the Bahraini
population and are a significant minority in Saudi Arabia’s
Eastern Province, where most of the country’s oil is produced.  In  Libya , another member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, hundreds of people have been killed in the
past week in an uprising against the four-decade rule of  Muammar Qaddafi . There have also been demonstrations in Algeria, Jordan,
Iraq and Morocco.  Saudi Arabia, the birthplace of Islam, wants to develop its
housing and infrastructure as it tries to diversify its economy
away from oil. The kingdom produced 8.4 million barrels of oil a
day in January, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters responsible for the story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 Zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Manama at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 