-- 
Barclays, Kissel, NYSE, Deutsche Bank in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-02-23T13:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/kissel-bgc-nyse-u-k-libel-law-deutsche-bank-in-court-news.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. lost a
bid to recover an alleged $11 billion “windfall” from  Barclays
Plc ’s purchase of its defunct brokerage unit when a judge ruled
the transaction was fair.  Barclays stands to get at least $800 million of the $3
billion it wanted, and may get a similar amount later, according
to a ruling yesterday by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in
Manhattan and previous court filings.  “In this very high-stakes dispute, Barclays was sure
enough of its position that it was willing to bet the house on
prevailing rather than entertaining settlement,” said George
Kuney, a professor at the University of Tennessee College of Law
in Knoxville who teaches bankruptcy and contract law.  The trustee liquidating the remnant of Lehman’s brokerage
claimed London-based Barclays owed $7 billion. His claim also
was denied by Peck.  The bankruptcy fight pitted the U.K.’s third-biggest bank
against Lehman, whose creditors the company has said will get an
average of 18.6 cents on the dollar, without lawsuit proceeds.  Peck said it was “especially” important that emergency
sales in bankruptcy court should be final.  “The court concludes that the lapses in disclosure at the
sale hearing did not affect the fairness or alter the outcome of
the hearing and were not characterized by either the deliberate
withholding of material information or willful misconduct,” as
Lehman and the trustee had alleged, Peck wrote.  Barclays bought the brokerage in the 2008 financial crisis
after Lehman went bankrupt, as regulators urged approval of the
deal to prevent a panic. The sale took a week. Barclays has said
it was the sole bidder, taking 10,000 employees and giving
72,000 customers access to $40 billion in assets frozen in the
September 2008 bankruptcy. Lehman’s lead bankruptcy lawyer,
Harvey Miller of Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, testified in April
that the sale “was of enormous benefit to the nation.”  Kimberly Macleod, a spokeswoman for New York-based Lehman,
said she couldn’t immediately comment yesterday.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Kissel Testifies Her Husband Was Sexually Abusive, Absent    Nancy Kissel , who has admitted killing her Merrill Lynch &
Co. banker husband, told Hong Kong’s High Court Feb. 22 that he
was an absent spouse who physically and sexually abused her.  “The more involved he got with investment banking, the
more forceful he was with me sexually,” Kissel, 46, told the
nine-member jury in her retrial for murder.  Kissel’s lawyer Edward Fitzgerald said earlier the
Michigan-born mother of three was provoked by Robert Kissel on
the night of his Nov. 2, 2003, death. Fitzgerald said he will
call specialists in depression and post-traumatic stress
disorder to show that her mental condition at the time makes her
less culpable for the killing, he said.  Nancy Kissel was convicted of murder in 2005 and sentenced
to life in prison. Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal ruled in
February 2010 the conviction was unfair and ordered a new trial.
Kissel’s application for a halt to the criminal proceedings was
rejected by Judge Andrew Macrae in November. The retrial began
Jan. 11.  Prosecutors rejected Kissel’s guilty plea to manslaughter
and argued that she drugged her husband Robert, bludgeoned him
to death in their bedroom and hid the body in a storeroom. She
was the main beneficiary of his $18 million estate and was
having an affair at the time of the killing.  A manslaughter conviction may mean a sentence of eight to
12 years, her lawyers have said. She has already served more
than six years in prison. The retrial is scheduled for 50 days.  The case is HKSAR v. Nancy Ann Kissel, HCCC55/2010 in Hong
Kong’s High Court of First Instance.  For more, click here.  BGC Loses U.K. Appeal of Tullett Broker-Poaching Ruling    BGC Partners Inc . lost its appeal of a ruling that the firm
was part of an unlawful conspiracy to poach brokers from
competitor Tullett Prebon Plc.  A three-judge panel at the Court of Appeal in London
yesterday ruled that the trial judge’s original ruling in March
was correct, dismissing BGC’s appeal on all grounds.  Tullett, the London-based inter-dealer broker, sued BGC in
2009 claiming Anthony Verrier, BGC’s executive managing
director, spent tens of millions of pounds to convince the heads
of various Tullett trading desks to breach their contracts by
getting colleagues to defect.  In March, Judge Raymond Jack ruled in Tullett’s favor and
said the damages BGC should pay would be decided at a trial
scheduled for later this year. During the litigation BGC was
blocked by the court from hiring anybody from Tullett. The order
was in force for around a year, according to court documents.  “Tullett Prebon welcomes today’s judgment in the Court of
Appeal which rejected all the appeals lodged by BGC,” the
broker said in an e-mailed statement.  BGC spokesman Richard Oldworth declined to comment.  The U.K. case is  Tullett Prebon Plc  v. BGC Brokers LP,
HQ09X01241, High Court (London).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Sued by Big Board Investor Over Sale  NYSE Euronext, the parent company of the New York Stock
Exchange, and  Deutsche Boerse AG  were sued by a Big Board
shareholder who hopes to stop its planned $9.53 billion sale to
the German company.  The proposed deal, which would create the largest owner of
equities and derivatives markets, undervalues NYSE and is
structured to discourage competing bids, the shareholder, James
Benson, said in a complaint filed Feb. 18 in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan.  “The proposed sale is wrongful, unfair and harmful to NYSE
public shareholders, and represents an effort by defendants to
aggrandize their own financial position and interests at the
expense of” investors, Benson’s lawyers wrote.  Under the planned sale, Deutsche Boerse, which runs the
Eurex futures platform and Frankfurt Stock Exchange, will swap
one share of its own stock for one share in the new company,
while every  NYSE Euronext  share will be converted into 0.47 of a
share. Shareholders have filed other lawsuits over the deal in
Delaware and New York.  Eric Ryan, a spokesman for NYSE, declined to comment. Naomi
Kim, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Benson v. NYSE Euronext, 650446-2011, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Citigroup Executive Knew of Madoff Fraud, Trustee Suit Says    Citigroup Inc .’s Citibank ignored warning signs of Bernard
L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, and a bank executive knew the con
man’s stated trading strategy couldn’t generate the reported
returns, the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm said in a
lawsuit.  The unidentified Citibank executive, who was responsible
for making recommendations to clients on derivatives,
“concluded” by June 2007 that returns reported by a Madoff
feeder fund, Fairfield Sentry Ltd., couldn’t have come from the
strategy, trustee  Irving Picard  said in a complaint unsealed
yesterday. The executive reached his conclusion after meeting
with analyst  Harry Markopolos , a whistleblower who also alerted
U.S. regulators to the fraud, Picard said.  The Citibank official later communicated with Markopolos
orally and in writing, specifically discussing the fraud before
the Ponzi scheme was exposed in December 2008, Picard alleged.  “Citi knew, and was on notice of, irregularities and
problems concerning the trades reported by BLMIS, and
strategically chose to ignore these concerns in order to
continue to enrich themselves,” Picard said in the complaint,
referring to Madoff’s firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  Picard laid out in the complaint details of a lawsuit he
filed under seal in December against New York-based Citigroup
and other banks. He is demanding $425 million from Citigroup--
money it received “in connection with” a loan to a Madoff
feeder fund and a swap transaction with a Swiss hedge fund
linked to a second feeder fund, Picard said.  “Citi will vigorously defend against these claims by the
trustee as they are entirely without merit and completely
false,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the bank,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence in federal prison in
Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty to orchestrating
the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, and the
Citigroup case is Picard v. Citibank, 10-05345, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Mets Owners Seek Information Underlying Madoff Trustee Claim  Sterling Equities Inc., which owns the Mets Major League
Baseball team, asked a court to order the trustee liquidating
con man Bernard Madoff’s firm to turn over documents supporting
a $1 billion claim against Sterling.  In documents filed yesterday in the case before U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland in Manhattan, Sterling demands
documents and transcripts underlying what the trustee claims are
“good faith” allegations “based upon a serious
investigation,” according to the filing.  “Instead, the trustee, who acts as a fiduciary to all
Madoff victims, including the Sterling defendants, seeks to
delay the disclosure of this critical information” and
dismisses Sterling’s request as “frivolous,” according to the
filing.  The $1 billion legal fight, in which trustee Irving Picard
wants to recover $300 million in alleged phony profit from
Madoff’s scheme made by Sterling and as much as $700 million in
principal, is being mediated by former New York Governor Mario
Cuomo. The mediation has started and “will be impossible if the
Sterling defendants do not have access to all of the trustee’s
pre-complaint discovery,” according to the filing.  Picard’s lawyer, David Sheehan, didn’t return a call
seeking comment after regular business hours.  In court filings, Picard claims the Mets owners used $90
million in Madoff profits for day-to-day operations, blinding
them to “red flags” signaling that Madoff was a fraud.  Mets Chairman Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, the team’s
president, have called the claims “abusive, unfair and
untrue.”  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-05287, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Billionaires May Lose From Attack on U.K. Libel Tourism  A Saudi Arabian sheikh and a Ukrainian businessman may be
among the last of the so-called libel tourists in the U.K.  The government  may rewrite defamation laws that currently
allow a non-citizen to sue a foreign media outlet for
reputational damage claims in the U.K. That would close the door
for people who have sometimes used London courts to silence
critics. U.S. film director Roman Polanski, former California
Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Russian billionaire Boris
Berezovsky have won lawsuits filed under the statute.  Labeling the law a “laughing stock,” Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg vowed to publish a draft bill this spring,
targeting libel tourism and the high costs of bringing suit. The
law, whose critics say it’s only accessible to the rich, dates
back to Victorian times and is plaintiff-friendly, placing the
burden of proof on the defendant, contrary to laws in the U.S.
and most of continental Europe.  Advocates of the current law say the debate is overblown,
pointing out that few libel cases make it to trial.  “Unlike in the U.S., we balance the right to reputation
with freedom of speech,” said Nigel Tait, a partner at British
libel law firm Carter-Ruck, who has represented Elton John and
Simon Cowell. “Our laws and procedures are fair all around.”  The changes will only drive fees up with claimants having
to prove more and lawyers racking up more hours, he said.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Vivendi Wins Ruling Limiting Class-Action Fraud Verdict    Vivendi SA  won a court ruling that limits an earlier class-
action securities fraud verdict against the company to holders
of its American depositary receipts.  A Manhattan jury in January 2010 found that Paris-based
Vivendi misled shareholders about its financial health 57 times
from 2000 to 2002, artificially inflating the value of its
shares. Lawyers for the investors claimed that damages to the
entire shareholders’ class totaled $9.3 billion.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  in a 122-page ruling
released yesterday dismissed claims by holders of Vivendi’s
ordinary shares from the suit. He applied a U.S. Supreme Court
decision saying that U.S. securities laws don’t protect
investors who buy foreign stocks on overseas exchanges.  The ruling eliminates more than 80 percent of the claimed
damages in the case, according to Flavie Lemarchand-Wood, a
spokeswoman for Vivendi, owner of the world’s biggest music and
video-game companies.  “Vivendi will now analyze Judge Holwell’s decision in
detail to determine its next steps,” Lemarchand-Wood said in a
telephone interview.  Holwell relied on the Supreme Court’s 2010 decision in
Morrison v. National Australia Bank, which barred the U.S. court
claims of a group of Australian citizens who bought shares of an
Australian bank on foreign exchanges.  “While we are of course disappointed at the court’s
application of the Morrison decision to this case, we are
pleased that the court soundly rejected Vivendi’s many arguments
challenging the jury verdict, and we will proceed vigorously to
expedite procedures to allow class members to collect their
damages,” Dan Fleshler, a spokesman for Milberg LLP, said in a
statement.  Milberg is one of the law firms representing Vivendi
investors in the case.  The case is In Re Vivendi Universal SA Securities
Litigation, 02-cv-5571, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Obama Health-Care Law Challenge Dismissed by Washington Judge  The Obama administration’s health-care reform law survived
a constitutional challenge in federal court in Washington,
marking the third U.S. victory against cases seeking to block
the measure.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler yesterday dismissed a
lawsuit brought in June by five individuals who claimed the
provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
requiring people to procure minimum insurance coverage starting
in 2014 is unconstitutional.  In a 64-page opinion, Kessler said Congress was acting
“within the bounds” of its constitutional Commerce Clause
power when it imposed the insurance requirement.  “The individual decision to forgo health insurance, when
considered in the aggregate, leads to substantially higher
insurance premiums for those other individuals who do obtain
coverage,” Kessler wrote. “Thus, the aggregate effect on
interstate commerce of the decisions of individuals to forgo
insurance is very substantial.”  Kessler, like judges in Michigan and Virginia who concluded
the mandate is constitutional, was appointed by President Bill
Clinton. The two federal judges who have invalidated all or part
of the measure were each appointed by a Republican president.  Edward White, a lawyer in Ann Arbor, Michigan, who
represents the plaintiffs, said he was disappointed with the
ruling and that his clients would file an appeal.  The case is Mead v. Holder, 10-cv-00950, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank, Breuer Get $1.8 Billion Kirch Suit Dismissed    Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, won dismissal of
a 1.3 billion-euro ($1.8 billion) damage lawsuit by businessman  Leo Kirch  over claims the lender caused his media group’s 2002
bankruptcy.  The Munich Regional Court yesterday rejected the case
against the bank and Rolf Breuer, its former chief executive
officer. Kirch claimed his media group couldn’t restructure
after Breuer questioned its creditworthiness and that, as a
result, Kirch had to surrender his 40 percent stake in publisher  Axel Springer AG  that he had used as collateral for a loan which
the lender terminated in April 2002.  Deutsche Bank “could have terminated that loan and made
use of the collateral in the summer of 2002, because the share
price had dropped below 55 euros,” presiding Judge Brigitte
Pecher said after delivering the ruling. “The bank had the
right to do that under the loan terms and it seems reasonable
that it would have done so. So Kirch would have suffered the
same loss.”  Kirch’s dispute with the Frankfurt-based bank stems from a
February 2002 Bloomberg television interview in which Breuer
said “everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch.  In the following months, the units of Kirch’s company filed
what would be the country’s biggest bankruptcy case since World
War II. The company’s assets included the largest film library
outside the U.S., rights to broadcast World Cup soccer matches
and a majority stake in ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, Germany’s
biggest private broadcaster.  “The ruling is no surprise and we take it quite relaxed,”
a spokesman for Kirch said. Kirch will wait for the written
judgment and then take the necessary steps, he said.  Kirch was seeking about 900 million euros because his
Printbeteiligungs unit was forced to sell the Axel Springer
shares. The court also rejected an additional claim for 400
million euros for a separate loss, saying Kirch didn’t show that
the loss actually existed.  “We are happy that the court backed our position and fully
rejected the suit,” Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert
told reporters after the ruling.  Yesterday’s case is LG Muenchen, 33 O 9550/07.  For more, click here.  CSX, Railroads Win at U.S. Supreme Court in State Tax Case  The U.S. Supreme Court broadened the ability of railroads
to challenge state taxes as illegally favoring other types of
carriers, ruling in favor of  CSX Corp . in an Alabama case.  The justices, voting 7-2, said CSX can press claims that
the state is violating a federal law that protects railroads
from discrimination by forcing the company to pay higher fuel
taxes than motor and water carriers.  A lower court has said that the federal law, known as the
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act, doesn’t
permit lawsuits over generally applicable sales and use taxes.  CSX says that in some parts of the state it pays diesel
fuel taxes of as much as 10 percent -- or 30 cents per gallon on
fuel costing $3. Motor carriers pay a flat rate of 19 cents per
gallon, while water carriers are exempt from sales and use taxes
if they travel in interstate or foreign commerce, CSX says.  Justice Elena Kagan wrote the majority opinion in the case,
issuing her second decision since joining the court in August.
She said the justices were ruling only that CSX could put its
case before a federal court and not that the railroad should win
on its claim of discrimination.  Justices Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented.  The case is CSX Transportation v. Alabama Department of
Revenue, 09-520.  Suits Against Vaccine Makers Curbed by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court reinforced the shield that protects
drugmakers from lawsuits over vaccines,  ruling  against two
parents who blame  Pfizer Inc .’s Wyeth unit for their teen-age
daughter’s seizure disorder.  The justices, voting 6-2, said a 1986 federal law preempts
claims that a drugmaker should have sold a safer formulation of
a vaccine. The law, designed to encourage vaccine production by
limiting patient suits, channels most complaints into a company-
financed no-fault system that offers limited but guaranteed
payments for injuries shown to be caused by a product.  “The vaccine manufacturers fund from their sales an
informal, efficient compensation program for vaccine injuries,”
Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the majority. “In exchange
they avoid costly tort litigation and the occasional
disproportionate jury verdict.”  The ruling is a victory for the four companies that supply
vaccines for the U.S. market -- Wyeth,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,
Merck & Co. and  Sanofi-Aventis SA . A ruling letting the parents
sue Wyeth might have allowed suits by thousands of families that
say vaccines caused autism in their children. Since 1988, the
no-fault process has  led to  almost $2 billion in compensation to
more than 2,500 families.  The issue for the Supreme Court was whether the 1986 law
leaves open the possibility that patients can sue manufacturers
when the side effects were avoidable. The Obama administration
joined Wyeth, acquired in 2009 by New York-based Pfizer, in
urging the justices to bar those types of suits.  Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented.
Sotomayor said the ruling “leaves a regulatory vacuum in which
no one ensures that vaccine manufacturers adequately take
account of scientific and technological advancements when
designing or distributing their products.”  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in the ruling.  The case is Bruesewitz v. Wyeth, 09-152, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Pfizer Reaches Global Settlement on Nigerian Trovan Suits  Pfizer Inc., the world’s biggest drugmaker, reached a final
settlement in lawsuits over tests of an antibiotic on Nigerian
children.  Two suits claimed Pfizer used the unproven antibiotic,
Trovan, in 1996 without warning patients’ parents of risks. The
New York-based company will join a meningitis trust fund managed
by an independent board in Kano, Nigeria, according to an e-mail
yesterday in which Pfizer and the plaintiffs announced the
agreement. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  The suits stemmed from an outbreak of bacterial meningitis
in northern Nigeria. Pfizer worked with Nigerian officials to
recruit 200 sick children for a study of Trovan to treat the
illness. Eleven of the patients died, and others were left
paralyzed, deaf or blind, according to the suits.  “The settlement will bring an end to all litigation
pertaining to Trovan in the U.S. and Nigeria and allow for joint
compensation for participants in the study and their families,”
Pfizer and the plaintiffs said in the statement.  Pfizer settled with the state government of Kano and the
federal government of Nigeria in 2009. The financial terms of
the settlement are confidential, Chris Loder, a spokesman for
Pfizer, said in a telephone interview.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 