-- 
KKR Profit Rises 39% as Market Rebound Lifts Investments

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-02-23T22:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/kkr-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-39-as-market-rebound-lifts-assets-fees.html
KKR & Co. LP, the private-equity
firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , said fourth-quarter
profit rose 39 percent as the stock market rally allowed it to
mark up investments.  Economic net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs, rose to $714.6 million from $515.3 million a year
earlier, New York-based KKR said in a statement today. Analysts
had expected a profit of $356.5 million, according to the median
of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. Investment income
rose 45 percent to $621.1 million, while fee-related earnings
increased 8.7 percent to $95.1 million.D  KKR is seeking to raise its 11th North American-focused
buyout fund this year after a rally in leveraged loans revived
dealmaking and the stock market rebound allowed firms to exit
investments and return money to investors. KKR raised about $5
billion for non-private equity funds last year.  “The North American fund raise will show how KKR stacks up
relative to the industry,” said  Michael Kim , an analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York . “Private equity
firms with strong performance and strong track records should be
better positioned to raise capital even if the overall
environment is challenging.”  He rates the shares “buy” and has a 12-month price target
of $20 a share.  Shares Rise  KKR rose as much as 5.1 percent and gained 19 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $16.37 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock has gained 15 percent this year,
buoyed by the firm’s ability to make deals and an IPO market
that’s become more amenable to private-equity backed offerings.  KKR’s economic net income excludes some expenses tied to a
combination with its public fund that allowed the firm to gain a
listing in New York last year. The measure doesn’t comply with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under those
rules, the KKR reported net income of $180.6 million, or 86
cents a share, compared with a loss of $78.2 million, or 38
cents, a year earlier.  Larger rival  Blackstone Group LP  earlier this month
reported a net loss of $11 million for the fourth quarter, down
from $143.3 million a year earlier. The figure includes costs
tied to its 2007 initial public offering that the firm says will
cause losses for several years. Excluding those costs, profit
rose 56 percent to $512.7 million. Blackstone shares have risen
20 percent since Dec. 31.  Nielsen  Nielsen Holdings NV, the television ratings company KKR
owns along with three other buyout firms, went public last
month, and its shares have since gained 16 percent. Other KKR-
owned companies, such as HCA Inc. and Toys R Us Inc., have
registered for public offerings.  KKR participated in deals worth a combined $9.64 billion
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
agreement to buy Del Monte Foods Co. for $5.1 billion was last
year’s biggest private-equity purchase.  The firm has about $4.7 billion available to deploy in its
2006 buyout fund before the investment period expires in
September of 2012. Scott Nuttall, KKR’s head of global capital,
said the firm will seek opportunities to put the money to work
this year.  Private-equity firms pool investors’ money to take over
companies, financing the purchase with mostly debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  Kravis and Roberts, like competitors at New York-based
Blackstone Group LP and  Carlyle Group , have sought to expand
KKR’s business beyond buyouts. KKR has a group that underwrites
stock and bond offerings of companies it owns.  The firm last year hired members of New York-based  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc .’s principal strategies unit to invest in so-
called liquid equities, which may include creating its own  hedge
funds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  