-- 
Knicks Fans Grab Carmelo Anthony No. 7 Jerseys Ahead of His New York Debut

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-23T21:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/knicks-fans-grab-carmelo-anthony-no-7-jerseys-ahead-of-his-new-york-debut.html
  New York  Knicks fan Justinn Bucano
stood in line for more than three hours to buy a No. 7  Carmelo Anthony  jersey ahead of the All-Star forward’s debut with the
team tonight.  Bucano, a 26-year-old student from the Bronx, said it was
nothing compared with the time it took the Knicks to land
Anthony in a National Basketball Association trade that was
months in the making.  “I followed the reports all the way through and it was a
long wait,” Bucano, a self-described lifelong Knicks fan, said
in an interview at  Modell’s Sporting Goods  store in  Manhattan ’s
Times Square. “When they finally got him I was psyched. I came
here right after I got out of class and I’ll be in front of a TV
tonight wearing my jersey.”  Bucano ultimately got his jersey with Anthony’s name and
number from a nearby  Champs Sports Store , which got its shipment
of replica shirts in before Modell’s and sold out in about 10
minutes. He returned to Modell’s wearing his prized gear.  Daniel Salinas, a 20-year-old student at Queensboro
Community College, proudly held his $44.99 Anthony jersey in the
air and said it was a “dream come true” after waiting about
five hours to be the first in line at Modell’s.  “Interest is unbelievable,” Modell’s owner Mitchell Modell said in a telephone interview. “Phones were ringing off
the hook and customers expected us to have it yesterday at 3
o’clock.”  Modell said his three Manhattan stores got a total of about
150 replica jerseys today and they sold out in minutes.  Players, Picks  The Knicks officially acquired Anthony from the Denver
Nuggets yesterday, completing a three-team swap that involved 13
players, three draft picks and $3 million in cash.  A four-time All-Star, Anthony will be wearing his new
Knicks jersey tonight against the  Milwaukee Bucks  at Madison
Square Garden. He had to switch from the No. 15 he wore with the
Nuggets because the Knicks have retired that number, worn by
Hall of Fame members Earl Monroe and Dick McGuire.  The Knicks have a 28-26 record and are pursuing their first
winning season since 2000-01.  “It means there’s hope,” Richard Nurse, a 41-year-old
Brooklyn resident, said of Anthony’s arrival as he waited to buy
a pair of No. 7 jerseys at Modell’s. “All in all, the Knicks
will be much better in the next few years.”  The Knicks have compiled a 173-319 record over the past six
complete seasons, yet are still worth an NBA-high $655 million,
according to Forbes magazine. The Knicks are owned by Madison
Square Garden Inc., which was spun off from New York-area cable
television provider Cablevision Systems Corp. last year.  Bear, Headbands  Knicks spokeswoman Stacey Escudero said the team will have
Anthony jerseys available for sale online and at the arena
tonight in addition to other Anthony gear, including a plush
bear and the official headbands he wears in every game.  Some fans, seeing the lines stretching along the back wall
at Modell’s, weren’t willing to wait and others who were in line
gave up when the expected noon arrival time pushed beyond 1:30
p.m.  Fans who showed up at the store early in the morning
seeking Anthony jerseys before the afternoon shipment also left
disappointed.  There was little interest in Knicks jerseys bearing the
name of leading scorer Amar’e Stoudemire or other players,
including some who were part of the trade to bring Anthony to
New York. There were plenty of copies of the jersey worn by  Wilson Chandler , one of four Knicks traded to Denver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  