-- 
Koch Funneled $1.2 Million to Governors Battling Unions

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-02-23T22:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/koch-funneled-1-2-million-to-elect-governors-battling-unions.html
Koch Industries Inc. and its
employees and subsidiaries spent $1.2 million in the last
election helping to elect Republican governors who are now
trying to take away bargaining rights of state workers.  Republicans  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin and John Kasich of
Ohio, who won election last November with Koch support, are
pushing to limit the ability of public-employee unions to
negotiate for salaries and benefits. Senate Democrats in
Wisconsin walked out in protest, preventing a quorum in the
Republican-controlled chamber.  The Koch-backed advocacy group  Americans for Prosperity 
helped organize a rally on Feb. 19, set up a website and today
announced a $342,200 ad campaign in support of Walker.  “This is a very well-financed, well-coordinated assault on
labor unions,” said  Craig Holman , a lobbyist for the
Washington-based advocacy group  Public Citizen . “If they can
break the backs of organized labor, they will have accomplished
a great deal toward deregulating the American society.”  Protests in Ohio and  Wisconsin  spread yesterday as
organized labor planned rallies, vigils and press conferences in
at least 27 states. Workers in  Indiana  protested a proposal by
Governor Mitch Daniels, a Republican elected in 2008, to curb
collective bargaining and House Democrats stayed away from the
chamber, blocking action.  Public-employee unions contributed $20.5 million to federal
campaigns for the 2010 elections, more than 80 percent of it to
Democrats, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a
Washington research organization. In Wisconsin, the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees made $83,888
in donations, all to Democrats, according to the  National
Institute on Money in State Politics, a Helena, Montana-based
research group .  Koch Backing  Koch, a closely held energy and chemical company based in
Wichita,  Kansas , is controlled by the billionaire brothers David
and Charles Koch. Along with other corporations, Koch Industries
has often opposed organized labor on regulation and free trade,
Holman said. Now they see a chance to cripple unions in the name
of balancing budgets, Holman said.  The $1.2 million in Koch support for Republican governors
includes $1.1 million given to the Republican Governors
Association, which spent more than $3.4 million in support of
Walker, according to  Common Cause , a Washington-based advocacy
group that opposes the governor’s proposal.  The RGA  yesterday  set up a  website  endorsing Scott and its
chairman, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , posted a statement calling
the Wisconsin chief executive’s actions “a defining moment for
our country and the conservative movement.” Perry received
$76,000 from Koch for his re-election campaign last year, more
than any other candidate, according to the National Institute on
Money in State Politics.  Mark Miner, a spokesman for Perry, said Koch backs the
governor’s policies. “Governor Perry is a pro-business,  job
creation  governor who believes in low taxes and limited
government,” Miner said.  In addition, Koch gave $43,000 directly to Walker, his
single largest corporate source; $11,000 to the Wisconsin
Republican party; $22,000 to Kasich; and $34,000 to the  Ohio 
Republicans.  Koch also supported the 2008 campaign of Indiana’s Daniels,
according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics.
The RGA received $25,000 from Koch that year and was the biggest
source of campaign cash for Daniels, institute records show.  Wal-Mart Spending  In addition, Americans for Prosperity spent $1.2 million in
support of Republican candidates for Congress last year,  Federal
Election Commission  records show. Koch Industries’ federal
political action committee contributed $1.3 million to
candidates for the 2010 elections, 90 percent of it to
Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.    Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the Bentonville, Arkansas,  subject of
a campaign  by the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, also
contributed to the campaigns of Walker and Daniels, and donated
more than $340,000 to the  Republican Governors Association  for
the 2010 elections, according to the  Internal Revenue Service 
and the National Institute on Money in State Politics.  “We have a long history of supporting elected officials on
both sides of the aisle,” said Lorenzo Lopez, a spokesman for
Wal-Mart. “We contribute to candidates who are supportive of
issues important to our customers, associates and
shareholders.”  Koch Comments  As for Koch Industries, the company “never had discussions
with either of these elected officials related to the
legislation now under consideration,” said Philip Ellender,
president of government and public affairs for Koch Cos. Public
Sector LLC, which says it provides legal, government and public
affairs services for Koch Industries.  “Koch Industries is pleased to see elected officials take
up initiatives that might avert looming fiscal crises at both
the state and national level with the aim of spurring job
creation and reducing public debt,” Ellender said.  Democratic and Republican governors alike have discussed
reducing employee pay and benefits as they address deficits.
Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, proposed cutting the
number of state employees and making them contribute to their
pensions. At the same time, he said he didn’t support taking
away collective bargaining rights, guaranteed under his state
constitution.  ‘Eliminate Collective Bargaining’  “Walker is trying to eliminate collective bargaining,”
Scott said yesterday in a radio interview in Tallahassee. “As
long as people know what they’re doing, collective bargaining is
fine.”  The Florida Republican Party, which received $40,000 from
Koch, gave $5.2 million to Scott’s campaign. The RGA gave
$130,000.  “New governors got elected promising to focus on jobs, and
instead they are settling political scores,” said Lee Saunders,
secretary-treasurer of the AFSCME, based in  Washington .  Ohio lost more than 600,000 jobs in the last decade, said
Rob Nichols, a spokesman for Ohio Governor Kasich.  “We need to reduce the cost of government and make the
state economically competitive if we are going to be able create
jobs and save Ohio,” Nichols said.  “Simply put, this is about fixing a broken system,” said
Mark Jefferson, executive director of the Wisconsin Republican
Party. “When the left tries to throw the campaign donations out
there, it’s because they know they’ve got a problem on the
merits.”  Eddie Vale, a spokesman for the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S.
labor federation, said the Wisconsin governor was trying to
break unions, not solve a fiscal crisis.  “Taking away your right to belong and bargain with your
union, and how you fund your union, is meant to eliminate
them,” Vale said. “The workers agreed to all of his
concessions on pay and benefits but he’s still insisting on
taking away their rights.”  Wisconsin Power Plants  Walker’s proposal also would allow Wisconsin to sell power
plants without seeking bids.  “His efforts look suspiciously like payback to his
corporate benefactors,” said  Common Cause  President Bob Edgar,
a former Democratic U.S. representative from  Pennsylvania .  “The main point of the heating plant provision was to
allow the state to start the process of looking at selling off
the heating plants,” said Cullen Werwie, a spokesman for
Walker. “We have no idea who is going to buy these heating
plants, so any speculation as to who will operate these plants,
if indeed they are sold, is premature.”  Koch’s businesses in Wisconsin include Flint Hills
Resources, a refining and chemical company; Koch Pipeline, which
operates a pipeline system in the state; C. Reiss Coal, a
supplier of coal used to generate power; and Georgia-Pacific, a
tissue maker, according to the company’s website.  Office for Lobbyists  Since 2003, Koch companies have completed more than $32
billion in acquisitions and investments and almost $11 billion
in  capital expenditures , according to the Koch website.  “We have no interest in purchasing any of the state-owned
power plants in Wisconsin,” said Ellender, the Koch Cos. Public
Sector president, in an e-mailed statement. “This is a dispute
between public-sector unions and democratically elected
officials over how best to serve the public interest.”  The company opened an office for its lobbyists in Madison,
Wisconsin, near the state capitol, the Capital Times reported
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 