-- 
Korean Won Gains as Rate-Rise Bets Offset Foreign Stock Investment Outflow

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-02-23T01:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/korean-won-gains-as-rate-rise-bets-offset-foreign-stock-investment-outflow.html
South  Korea ’s won rose for the first
time in three days on speculation the central bank will raise  interest rates  to curb inflation, outweighing concerns over
escalating tensions in the Middle East.  The won earlier fell to its weakest level this year as
foreign investors sold more Korean stocks than they bought for
the second day and the  Kospi index  slumped to its lowest in more
than two months on concern surging oil costs will slow global
economic growth. Inflationary pressure is rising worldwide as
fuel costs jump and accelerating inflation can become a
“threat” to peoples’ livelihood,  South Korea ’s Finance
Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said today.  “The road is clear for another rate hike at the next
central bank meeting,” said Cliff Tan, head of emerging-markets
currency research at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “This
would normally be consistent with a slightly stronger currency
as well, though this isn’t always the case with Korea.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,125.90 per dollar as of 9:57
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier reached 1,135.40, the weakest level since Dec. 30.  Oil rose for a fifth day in  New York  as intensifying
violence in Libya stoked concerns that supplies will be
disrupted should the turmoil spread to other crude-producing
countries in the Middle East and North Africa.  South Korea needs to make contingency plans for rising
prices, Yoon said today in an e-mailed statement from the
finance ministry. The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly left benchmark
policy rates unchanged at 2.75 percent this month even as
inflation accelerated to 4.1 percent in January from a year ago,
breaching the central bank’s ceiling of 4 percent.  Benchmark five-year bonds rose as investors sought safety
in government debt. The yield on the 4 percent note due
September 2015 slid two basis points to 4.31 percent, the lowest
level since Jan. 18, according to Korea Stock Exchange. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  