-- 
Natixis Climbs After Net Beats Estimates, Dividend Payment

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-02-23T17:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/natixis-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-48-on-lower-revenue.html
Natixis SA, the investment-banking
unit of  France ’s second-largest bank by branches, rose the most
in five months in Paris trading after posting a less-than-
estimated drop in fourth-quarter profit.  Net income dropped to 442 million euros ($605 million) from
844 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based bank said in a
statement today. That beat the 353 million-euro average estimate
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company plans to
resume paying a dividend.  “These results are encouraging,” said  Pierre Flabbee , a
Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who has a “buy”
rating on the stock. “All the businesses are stronger than
expected and the contribution from retail networks is much
stronger.”  Natixis, which recorded the biggest net losses of any
French bank from the financial crisis, returned to profit in the
second half of 2009 after cutting more than 10 percent of its
investment-banking jobs and receiving a guarantee from its
parent, Groupe BPCE, on risky assets.    Natixis  gained 18 cents, or 4.3 percent, to 4.30 euros, the
most since Nov. 9. That gives the company a market value of 12.5
billion euros.  Aid Repayment  The French bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Laurent Mignon, said it will have a common equity ratio of more than 8
percent by 2013, enabling the company to comply with new Basel
III capital rules without selling new shares. Natixis plans to
pay a 2010 dividend of 23 cents a share.  Pretax profit at Natixis’s corporate- and investment-
banking unit rose 86 percent to 269 million in the quarter,
helped by higher capital-markets and financing revenue.  Natixis cut the amount of assets it’s winding down to 7.4
billion euros at the end of December, compared with 29.7 billion
euros at end of June 2009.  BPCE, which received about 7 billion euros of funds from
the French government after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
collapse, plans to repay all of the aid by the end of the first
quarter, the Paris-based bank said in a separate statement. BPCE
will reimburse 1.2 billion euros of preferred shares and 1
billion euros of super-subordinated debt, it said.  Pioneer Interest  BPCE’s annual profit in 2010 rose sevenfold to 3.64 billion
euros from 537 million euros a year earlier, the company said.  “We can look with confidence at the future given our
solvency situation that improved sharply and the level of
profitability of our businesses,” BPCE Chairman Francois Perol
told reporters in Paris.  Natixis’s “interest in principle” for a partnership with  UniCredit SpA ’s Pioneer Global Asset Management unit has not
changed, Mignon said, declining to give further details. The
French bank has no timetable for an “exit’ of its Coface SA
credit-insurance unit, he said.  Separately, BPCE has hired Rothschild to study “different
options” for its Foncia real-estate unit, Perol said. The
division has attracted “true” interest from industrial and
financial firms, he said, declining to give any further details
nor a timeline for the asset disposal.  Preliminary bids for Foncia are expected by mid-March, La
Tribune reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Private-equity firms including Eurazeo SA, LBO
France,  Carlyle Group , KKR & Co., Cinven Ltd. and Bridgepoint
Capital Ltd. may be candidates to bid between 600 million euros
and 700 million euros, the newspaper said. French real-estate
companies Citya and Credit Immobilier de France as well as
Credit Agricole SA may also bid, it reported.  BPCE, which generates 2 percent of its retail banking
revenue outside of France, has plans for “greenfield or
acquisition” growth outside of  Europe , Perol said. The group,
which may seek international expansion “in a prudent and
opportunistic way,” still has a “fundamental” interest in  Africa  in the medium term, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;  Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 