-- 
Netflix Hires Former Telecom Regulators as Canadian Lobbyists

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-23T18:02:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/netflix-hires-former-telecom-regulators-as-canadian-lobbyists.html
  Netflix Inc ., the U.S. movie-rental
service that began operating in  Canada  last year, hired two
former regulators to help smooth its first international
expansion as an Internet billing debate grows.  Leonard St-Aubin and Jan Skora, both former director-
generals with Canada’s federal department that oversees the
telecommunications industry, will advise Netflix, the registry
of the  Office of the Commissioner of Lobbying of Canada  shows.  Netflix began offering Canadians unlimited movie downloads
for C$7.99 ($8.05) a month in September, adding to a debate on
how heavy Internet users should be charged for downloads.
Canada’s main telecommunications regulator and the federal
government disagree over whether large cable and phone companies
can charge smaller  Internet service providers  on the basis of
usage-based Internet billing.    Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, confirmed the
appointments and declined to comment on the specific work
St-Aubin and Skora will be doing for the  Los Gatos , California-
based company.  “It’s an evolving market and Netflix is new in Canada,”
said Swasey. He said the company’s staff and infrastructure are
based in the U.S. “We want to have the right people on the
ground in the discussions.”  Industry Minister Tony Clement has rebuffed efforts by  BCE
Inc . and  Rogers Communications Inc . to impose per-use billing on
smaller service providers such as Primus and TekSavvy Solutions
Inc., which purchase bandwidth then resold to consumers. Sales
of Internet services account for C$6.6 billion of the country’s
C$41 billion telecommunications industry, according to  data  from
the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission.  Canadian Growth  Clement said this month he would overrule a January
decision by the regulator that would have forced usage-based
billing on the smaller Internet service providers. Montreal-
based BCE and other telecom companies already have usage-based
billing for their Internet customers, and sought to impose the
same pricing system on service providers on their networks.  While Netflix’s growth in Canada outpaces that in the U.S.,
the imposition of per-use billing would threaten to slow the
expansion and is something “we’re definitely worried about,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings told analysts
last month. He said Canadians who have  Internet service  with
download limits may not understand how their plans work and
their reaction after receiving a couple of bills “is
potentially a significant negative for Netflix.”  Subrata Bhattacharjee, a Toronto-based competition lawyer
with Heenan Blaikie LLP, and Lynne Hamilton of GCI Group Inc.
have also been hired to lobby for Netflix, Swasey said.
Telephone messages left for Hamilton and Karyn McLean, a Heenan
Blaikie spokeswoman, weren’t immediately returned.  Jan Skora’s clients include TekSavvy, for which he is
lobbying on usage-based billing, the registry shows. Skora
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Leonard St-
Aubin deferred comments to Netflix when reached by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net 
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  