-- 
Quake Adds to Pressure for Higher Reinsurance Prices After Australia Flood

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-02-24T05:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/new-zealand-earthquake-may-boost-asia-pacific-reinsurance-prices.html
  New Zealand ’s deadliest earthquake
in eight decades, which toppled buildings and trapped workers in
Christchurch, the country’s second-largest city, may lead to
higher prices for reinsurance in the Asia-Pacific region.  Rates may climb as companies including  Munich Re  and Swiss
Reinsurance Co. take losses, compounding costs from last month’s
flooding in Queensland,  Australia ,  Credit Suisse Group AG  wrote
in a note to clients on Feb. 22. Reinsurance rates in other
regions probably won’t be affected, Credit Suisse said.  “Losses are building in the reinsurance industry in the
first quarter,” Credit Suisse wrote in the note. “With
continued high levels of excess capital in the global
reinsurance industry, the losses suffered to date are unlikely
to be sufficient to cause a turn in global pricing, although we
would expect pricing in the Asia-Pacific region to increase.”  The 6.3-magnitude quake struck Feb. 22, killing 98 people.
Some 226 remain missing, Christchurch police said. The quake and
almost 40 aftershocks have toppled buildings in Christchurch’s
central business district. The city’s tallest building, the
Grand Chancellor Hotel, is unstable and may be moving, police
said.  Reinsurers sell coverage to providers of primary insurance
such as Allianz SE and  American International Group Inc . to help
protect against the cost of major claims. Reinsurance prices on
policies renewed Jan. 1 worldwide declined 7.5 percent,
according to the Guy Carpenter Global Property Catastrophe Rate
on Line Index. Rates fell 6 percent a year earlier.  Market Turn  A “sustained turn” in the market may follow a disaster or
series of catastrophes causing more than $100 billion of insured
losses, David Flandro, global head of business intelligence at
Guy Carpenter & Co., said in an interview. Guy Carpenter is the
reinsurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos.  The Christchurch quake may cost insurers $3.5 billion to $8
billion, catastrophe modeler AIR Worldwide said in an e-mailed
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated insured losses of as
much as $12 billion, double the losses from a 7.0-magnitude
temblor that struck Christchurch in September. Last month’s
flooding in Australia may cost as much as $4 billion, according
to AIR.  The reinsurance industry typically absorbs about $30
billion in annual losses from catastrophes, said  Mark Dwelle , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “The glass starts the year full, and it’s already a third
gone,” he said in an interview. “Every event that drinks it
down, the sooner you get to the bottom.”  Costly Disaster  A $12 billion loss from this week’s earthquake would make
it the seventh-most costly natural disaster for insurers since
1970, according to the  Insurance Information Institute , a New
York-based trade group. The most expensive catastrophe was
2005’s Hurricane Katrina, which cost insurers $71.2 billion.  “It’s far too early for us to speculate on what might
happen to our premiums, but I do acknowledge with these series
of events that reinsurance costs will rise,” said Mike Wilkins,
chief executive officer of  Insurance Australia Group Ltd ., which
today announced a 51 percent drop in first-half profit and
lowered its full-year insurance margin forecast following the
earthquake.  IAG’s reinsurance cover means the maximum impact on the
company from the New Zealand quake will be A$40 million.  Chris Ryan, CEO of Insurance Council of New Zealand said
while it’s too early to determine the size of claims, “the  insurance industry  will be able to cope with this event, even
though it is quite large.”  Chile Quake  Reinsurers provided “ample” protection for the Chile
quake in February, which cost insurers $8.5 billion and was the
most costly disaster last year, Aon Benfield Analytics Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Mildenhall said in a statement on Dec.
16. The catastrophe wasn’t included in the ranking, which ran
through 2009 and adjusted losses for inflation.  Some Christchurch buildings still standing may have to be
demolished because of structural damage, Dwelle said. That can
take time and may contribute to rate increases when insurers
renew reinsurance contracts in the next year, he said.  “The primary insurers will inevitably raise their rates on
the local constituency,” he said. “The reinsurers will charge
more for the coverage as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  