-- 
Noble Leases Deep-Water Rig, Boosts Rates, in Shell Agreement

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-02-23T23:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/noble-leases-deep-water-rig-boosts-rates-in-shell-agreement.html
  Noble Corp ., the world’s third-
largest deep-water drilling contractor, said it has an agreement
to rent one of its idled rigs to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The Geneva-based owner of 73 drilling rigs also has an
agreement to boost the so-called standby rates on three other
rigs leased to Shell, Noble said today in a statement. Drilling
contractors and operators are negotiating standby rates as a
discounted daily rent for rigs that await a U.S. drilling permit
in the Gulf of Mexico.  The Jim Day rig, which is capable of operating in water
12,000 feet deep, will earn $156,000 a day through the end of
May and will get $242,000 a day until July 31, Noble said. If
Shell still doesn’t receive a permit by Aug. 1, the rig would
earn a regular rent of $485,000 per day. The rig, which will be
contracted through the end of January 2012, may also earn a 15
percent performance bonus.  Noble said Jan. 3 it was “disappointed” that  Marathon Oil
Corp . canceled a $752 million, four-year contract for the same
rig.  “This is an extremely high-quality rig and there was
significant customer interest,” Noble Chief Executive Officer
David Williams, said in the statement. “Other opportunities
that would have required a mobilization out of the U.S. Gulf
would have precluded us from being able to begin recognizing
revenue until much later in the year.”  No exploration well has been drilled in U.S. waters deeper
than 500 feet (152 meters) since BP’s Macondo well erupted in
April, killing 11 rig workers and fouling the Gulf of Mexico
with crude for 87 days.  Permit Delays  In October, the Obama administration ended a moratorium on
new deep-water drilling put in place after the spill in the
Gulf. The government has said it won’t issue new permits for
exploration until companies show they can comply with new
standards.  Shell said it is working through the new permitting
requirements with the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement.  “We are confident that we’ll secure the necessary permits
to return to work,” Kelly op de Weegh, a spokeswoman for Shell
in Houston, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  