-- 
Northeast U.S. Faces Storm With Rain, Winds That May Disrupt Air Traffic

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-02-23T20:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/northeast-u-s-faces-storm-with-rain-winds-that-may-disrupt-air-traffic.html
  New York  City and the Northeast will
receive heavy rain and winds that may be strong enough to cause
air traffic delays as a storm sweeps in late tomorrow, according
to the  National Weather Service .  Rain may start to fall by 8 p.m. New York time with the
heaviest precipitation coming overnight and just before dawn the
next day, said Tim Morrin, a weather service meteorologist in
 Upton, New York .  “The confidence is there for a fairly significant rain
event,” Morrin said. “It doesn’t look like a threat for any
type of snow.”  Flooding is possible because frozen ground won’t be able to
absorb rain or runoff from any  melting snow , he said.  Rob Carolan, a meteorologist with  Hometown Forecast
Services  in Nashua,  New Hampshire , said New York may receive as
much as 0.75 inch (2 centimeters) of rain and Boston more than 1
inch.  “The ground is like a brick, and none of this is going to
percolate down into the soil,” he said. “It’s just going to
run off.”  Wind Forecasts Differ  Carolan said he doesn’t think the system, which is sweeping
in from the Midwest, will produce much wind in the Northeast,
while the weather service said conditions may be blustery enough
to delay some air traffic.  “It is the type of wind that could impact travel,” Morrin
said. He said the Upton office hadn’t calculated possible wind
speeds yet.  Washington, Philadelphia and Baltimore are all expected to
receive rain starting tomorrow. Flood warnings and watches
stretch from western  Pennsylvania  through eastern  Arkansas ,
according to the weather service.  The center of the storm is forecast to pass over southern  New England . Boston may see snow changing to rain, the weather
service said.  “We might have some periods of moderate to heavy rain,”
said Eleanor Vallier-Talbot, a weather service meteorologist in
 Taunton, Massachusetts , outside Boston.  Gusts of more than 40 mph (64 kph) may plague Boston’s
Logan International Airport and roads such as Storrow Drive,
which runs along the  Charles River , may flood, she said.  Morrin said he expects any flooding in the New York area to
be more of a nuisance than a major threat.  Ski Area Snow  Ski areas in northern New York and in  Vermont  and New
Hampshire may receive 6 to 12 inches of snow, Carolan said.  “School vacation week is kicking off in New Hampshire next
week, so they will be happy about that,” Carolan said.  The high temperature in Central Park tomorrow will be about
43 degrees Fahrenheit (6 Celsius), reaching 46 degrees the next
day, according to the weather service.  Since Dec. 1, 60.9 inches of snow have fallen in Central
Park, 43.4 inches more than average, according to the weather
service. This year is the  third-snowiest on record , edging out
1922-23, which had 60.4 inches.  The season record for snow in Central Park is 75.6 inches
set in 1995-96, according to weather service records that go
back to 1869.    Manhattan  has posted a  heating degree days  value of 2,738,
or 201 above normal, since Dec. 1.  The value, calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees, is designed to show
energy demand. The higher the value, the cooler the weather, and
thus the more energy probably being used to heat homes and
business.  In  Boston , the value from Dec. 1 through yesterday was
2,912, or 115 above normal, according to the weather service. In
Philadelphia, it was 2,723, or 158 above normal.  Carolan said tomorrow’s storm will be the first of three
moving through the Northeast in the next week. A system may
bring a mix of rain and snow to the region over the weekend, and
another system will follow at the end of next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  