-- 
Norway Government Seeks Common Agreement on Lofoten Oil Future

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-02-23T15:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/norway-government-seeks-common-agreement-on-lofoten-oil-future.html
  Norway ’s coalition government said
it is striving to reach an agreement on whether to start a study
of opening up the environmentally sensitive Lofoten and
Vesteraalen area to the oil exploration.  “What’s important now is that we reach a common
agreement,” Stoltenberg said today in Oslo after meeting with
representatives of groups opposed to drilling. “I’m concerned
with listening to the different arguments and finding a solution
that takes into consideration the various issues at stake:
fishing, environment and also petroleum activities.”  Norway’s three-party coalition government will decide in
March whether to start a study of the consequences of oil and
gas exploration in the protected area in the  Norwegian Sea . The
smaller Center and Socialist Left parties are against starting
the study, which is seen as a first step in opening the area,
while Stoltenberg’s  Labor Party  is in favor.  “Our responsibility is to manage one of the most sensitive
areas in the world, while at the same time ensuring that there’s
business activity there,” Kristin Halvorsen, the head of the
Socialist Left, said at the press conference. She declined to
say whether her party would resign from government, should the
Labor Party push through with an assessment study.  Norway, the world’s seventh-biggest oil exporter, found oil
40 years ago and its fields are being depleted. Crude output
peaked in 2000 and is forecast to drop 6 percent this year,
according to  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate . Producers such as  Statoil ASA  are urging the authorities to open the areas around
the picturesque and environmentally sensitive islands, which are
estimated to hold as much as 3.5 billion barrels in oil and gas.  An assessment “is the start of a process to” open up the
areas, Halvorsen said today. Stoltenberg said that while a study
is required under law before drilling is allowed “it’s not as
if an area that has been assessed has to be opened.”  Environment groups including the WWF say the area is too
sensitive for petroleum production. The Lofoten archipelago
harbors cold-water reefs, killer whales, sperm whales and 28
different species of seabirds. It’s also the spawning ground for
the Northeast Arctic cod, the largest remaining cod stock in the
world, according to the WWF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset at   mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  