-- 
Nude With Dog: Freud Model Is Still Posing, 2 1/2 Years Later

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-02-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/nude-with-dog-freud-model-still-posing-2-1-2-years-later-martin-gayford.html
David Dawson starts work at 8
a.m., sitting naked on the floor with his whippet, Eli.  For the past two and a half years he has been posing for
a large, still unfinished painting by  Lucian Freud . Dawson
holds the same position, seven days a week. There are moments,
he says, “when you think it’s just not going to end.”  At around 12:30 Dawson, 50, goes off duty, drives home,
has a nap, and begins the day all over again. This time, he
paints his own pictures. An exhibition of them is on view at a
private gallery (only through Feb. 25, by appointment). Large,
powerful landscapes of the view from his house in northwest
London, they reveal a new side to Dawson’s activity.  So far he has been visible as an increasingly important
figure in Freud’s painting of the past decade and a half.
Dawson -- or bits of him -- have appeared in seven works by
Freud since the mid-1990s. They first met after Dawson
graduated from the  Royal College of Art , where he once shared
a studio with Tracey Emin. He began to help Freud as an
assistant, and then as model.  “My work commitment with Lucian has grown organically,
along with our friendship, we always maneuvered it around so
it suits both him and me,” Dawson says. “Predominately, it
suits him more, but I’ve managed to make it work for me too.”  In one Freud painting, just Dawson’s feet appear, beside
his dog. In another, only his hand is visible, comforting
Freud’s own late pet Pluto. In several more, the whole of
Dawson can be seen, with or without clothes. It all amounts to
a marathon of sitting.  Stoic Model  Always a slow worker, Freud -- now 88 -- hasn’t speeded
up with the passing years. Dawson is stoical about the length
of time the current work is taking.  “It’s coming on,” he says. “That’s the way Lucian
works, he keeps pushing a bit more every day and it slowly
becomes more accomplished. Of course, there are days when you
just feel: Good God! Move on a bit faster! For the most part I
enjoy the process, being around painting, and watching someone
else doing it.”  Dawson has taken many beautiful photographs of Freud at
work. One of these, showing the painter engaged in his
portrait of  Queen Elizabeth II , is owned by the  U.K.
Government Art Collection , and was chosen as an office
decoration by  Peter Mandelson , whose last post was business
secretary.  Nick Clegg  now has it on his office wall.  The deputy prime minister is “intrigued by the encounter
between two great survivors of modern British life,”
according to a report in the  Guardian newspaper . Whether
Clegg, or any member of the present administration, will
endure as long as Freud or the monarch remains to be seen.  Interesting Moments  Dawson’s photographs have the lucid structure that
reveals an artist’s eye at work. Many of the best
photographers -- Henri Cartier-Bresson, for example -- were
trained as painters. Dawson is modest about his work with a
camera. “I just think, that’s an interesting moment, point
and shoot. That’s the joy of it.”  His oils -- all suburban landscapes -- are superficially
very different from Freud’s, yet the two painters share a
belief that painting is a supremely difficult business,
requiring immense time and concentration.  “If you are struggling every day with how to compose a
painting,” says Dawson, “taking a photograph is so easy!”  David Dawson’s paintings are on show at 61a Cadogan
Square, SW1 (by appointment only, e-mail:
 pilarordovas@gmail.com ).  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 