-- 
NYSE Arbitragers See Higher Bid Amid Record Options: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-02-23T04:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/nyse-arbitragers-see-higher-bid-as-bullish-options-reach-record-real-m-a.html
Traders who profit from mergers and
acquisitions are more convinced than ever that  Deutsche Boerse
AG ’s $9.5 billion takeover of NYSE Euronext will get trumped by
a competing offer.  The 219-year-old owner of the New York Stock Exchange
traded as much as 97 cents higher than  Deutsche Boerse ’s offer
price yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the biggest “negative premium,” which occurs when merger
arbitragers anticipate a higher bid, in the hours both were
trading since the all-stock deal was announced on Feb. 15. At
the same time, options dealers are charging a record premium for
bullish contracts on NYSE Euronext, the data show.  While Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said
Deutsche Boerse is his “preferred partner,”  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc . has discussed a joint offer with  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc . to counter the Frankfurt-based exchange, a person with
knowledge of the matter said. A bidding contest would intensify
consolidation in an industry where  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc  agreed to buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc . this month and  Singapore Exchange Ltd . offered $8.3 billion in October to
acquire  ASX Ltd . of Sydney.  “The dynamics are so perfectly aligned that literally
anybody could team up and counterbid for NYSE,” said Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special situations trading
at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC.   Nasdaq  doesn’t want
to be left out in the cold. The odds are pretty good that
somebody else could come into the fray.”  Preliminary Stage  The discussions held between Nasdaq OMX and ICE are at a
preliminary stage and aren’t likely to lead to an offer, the
person familiar said, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the talks are private.  Frank De Maria, a spokesman at Nasdaq OMX in New York,
declined to comment, as did Atlanta-based ICE’s Kelly Loeffler.
Richard Adamonis, a spokesman at New York-based  NYSE Euronext ,
and Deutsche Boerse’s Ruediger Assion also declined to comment.  Deutsche Boerse, which traces its roots back to the
Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the  medieval fairs  of the 11th
century, on Feb. 15 announced the NYSE Euronext deal that will
give its shareholders 60 percent of the combined company. NYSE
Euronext’s owners will get 0.47 shares in the merged entity for
each share they own.  NYSE Euronext traded as high as $37.52 yesterday, 97 cents
more than the implied takeover price of $36.55 a share based on
the value of Deutsche Boerse’s stock in Xetra trading at the
same time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Takeover Premium  The price difference resulted in a takeover premium for
NYSE Euronext of about minus 2.6 percent. Before yesterday, the
premium had never exceeded minus 2.1 percent, the data show.  While NYSE Euronext fell 3 percent yesterday as violence in
Libya spurred the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s biggest decline
since August, options traders are paying a record premium on
speculation shares of the exchange will climb.  Options that are 10 percent above the stock price have
soared relative to contracts 10 percent below the share level,
pushing implied volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for
calls to buy the stock to a record 1.10 times the level for puts
to sell, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market believes that the outcome will be a higher
bid,” said Bouhari Arouna, an equity derivatives strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in  New York . “It’s definitely off the charts.
When people buy a lot of upside calls you see this type of thing
happen where the upside volatility gets jacked up significantly
higher than downside volatility. Usually it’s the other way
around.”  Options Trading  The three-month NYSE calls have an implied volatility of
32.23, compared with 29.35 for puts that expire at the same
time. The level for calls hasn’t exceeded puts since July 2007,
when NYSE Euronext shares went on to rally 19 percent in the
next three months.  Traders are making more bullish wagers than any time in the
past two years, while the fastest growing bet is on a 12 percent
gain to $41 next month. The number of outstanding calls to buy
the stock has risen faster than the number of puts to sell since
the deal was announced, pushing the ratio of calls to puts to
1.64, the highest since January 2009.  Open interest for March $41 calls has jumped by 2,975
contracts to 5,634 outstanding options since Feb. 17 for the
largest net gain among all NYSE options, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares haven’t closed above $41 since
September 2008.  Three Equity Markets  A Nasdaq OMX bid for NYSE Euronext would create a combined
company that would be home to all stock and exchange-traded fund
listings in the U.S. It would gain control of NYSE Euronext’s
three equity markets where companies and ETFs raise money. The
combination would deliver almost 45 percent of U.S. trading
volume, according to data compiled by London-based Barclays Plc.  In a takeover, Nasdaq OMX would also get almost half of
U.S. equity options trading, which has higher margins than  stock
trading , data from Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp. show.  “I’m not banking on another bid,” said Peter Lobravico,
vice president of merger arbitrage trading and sales at Wall
Street Access in New York. He said that Nasdaq OMX, which a
market capitalization of $4.9 billion, was too small to come up
with an offer on its own.  ICE, which has a market value of $9 billion, is similar in
size to NYSE Euronext’s $9.6 billion capitalization and one of
two U.S.-traded exchanges that could make an offer, according to
Bill Kavaler, a special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son
Inc. in New York.    CME Group Inc ., the world’s largest futures market, is the
other possibility, although both bids are unlikely, he said.  CME, Nasdaq  While Chicago-based CME said on Feb. 15 that it is aiming
to grow its business organically, it may bid for NYSE Euronext
to gain the derivatives business, leaving Nasdaq OMX the stock
trading operations, according to WallachBeth Capital’s Oshodi.  Michael Shore, a spokesman for CME, declined to comment.  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Zurich Financial
Services AG , Switzerland’s largest insurer, agreed to buy 51
percent of  Banco Santander SA ’s insurance business in  Brazil ,  Mexico , Chile, Argentina and Uruguay for as much as $2.1
billion. The Zurich-based company will make an initial payment
of $1.67 billion.  Santander will receive as much as $420 million over the
next 25 years depending on the performance of the unit, Zurich
Financial  said  yesterday.    Forest Laboratories Inc . agreed to buy Newton,
Massachusetts-based  Clinical Data Inc . for $966 million,
including net debt, to gain the new antidepressant Viibryd.
Forest Laboratories of New York will pay $30 a share in cash and
as much as an additional $6 a share if the drug meets certain
sales goals, the companies said yesterday in a statement.  There have been 3,372 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $330.5 billion, a 35 percent increase from the $244.8
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 