-- 
Obama Said Likely to Name NSC's Dan Shapiro as U.S. Ambassador to Israel

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/obama-said-likely-to-name-nsc-s-dan-shapiro-as-u-s-ambassador-to-israel.html
President  Barack Obama  is likely to
nominate Dan Shapiro, one of his top foreign policy advisers on
the Middle East, as the next U.S. ambassador to Israel,
according to a person with knowledge of the discussions who
requested anonymity because the nomination hasn’t been
announced.  Shapiro, who has advised Obama since his 2008 presidential
campaign and speaks Hebrew, is the senior director for the
Middle East and North Africa on the National  Security Council .
He has regularly traveled to the Middle East with Obama’s envoy
to the region, George Mitchell.  Shapiro previously served on former President  Bill Clinton ’s NSC and was a staff member for the House Foreign
Affairs Committee.  The current  ambassador , James B. Cunningham, has been the
top U.S. diplomat in  Israel  since Aug. 18, 2008. He previously
served as consul general in  Hong Kong .  Shapiro’s possible nomination was reported earlier by
Politico.  “Dan has had a longstanding relationship with the pro-
Israel community,” said Josh Block, a former Clinton
administration official who is a senior fellow at the
 Progressive Policy Institute , a research organization in
Washington. “He’s well acquainted with the issues and well
thought of.”  “He’s served the president and the administration quite
well, and obviously, he’s someone who will be an excellent
ambassador if nominated,” he said.  Peace Talks  The Obama administration has been seeking to restart peace
talks between Israel and the Palestinians, which broke down in
September after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
refused to extend a 10-month partial construction freeze in the  West Bank .  The U.S. on Feb. 19 vetoed a draft resolution in the  United
Nations  Security Council that would have declared Israel’s
settlement construction in the West Bank and East Jerusalem to
be illegal. While the U.S. regards the settlements to be
illegitimate, UN Ambassador  Susan Rice  said the resolution would
have hardened the positions on both sides in the peace
negotiations.  The U.S. was alone on the 15-member Security Council in
opposing the measure.  Obama last year offered Israel a package of incentives to
halt settlements that included a pledge to block such proposed
resolutions in the Security Council, and then abandoned attempts
in December to broker a freeze on construction after Israel
refused to halt building.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  