-- 
Obama Conflict Minerals Ban Threatens African Mineral Trade

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-02-23T17:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/obama-s-conflict-minerals-rules-threaten-to-cut-african-trade-rwanda-says.html
U.S. rules aimed at stopping mineral
sales from funding war in central Africa, and signed into law by
President  Barack Obama , will amount to a trade embargo on the
region unless nations get more time to adapt, a Rwandan official
said.  Guidelines for mineral smelters set by Electronic Industry
Citizenship Coalition Inc., grouping companies including Apple
Inc., IBM Corp. and  Intel Corp ., become effective April 1 after
the new U.S. law required companies to confirm their purchases
of gold, coltan, tungsten and tin ore from 10 African countries
aren’t funding armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  “It was not the intention of the U.S. government to impose
a trade embargo but unfortunately this may be the outcome if we
don’t come to a workable solution,” Michael Biryabarema,
director of  Rwanda ’s Geology and Mines Authority, said in a
letter to the EICC that he e-mailed to Bloomberg News yesterday.  Congo, economically exhausted from more than a decade of
war, has failed to stamp out fighting in its mineral-rich
eastern region bordering Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. Industry
programs to tag and trace coltan and tin from Congo and Rwanda
began last year as armed groups and some members of the
Congolese army support themselves and buy arms through illicit
sales of minerals.  Rwanda, producer of about 5 percent of the world’s coltan
and 4 percent of its tungsten, has asked the EICC for at least
another year to prepare before the guidelines go into effect.  ‘Negative Consequences’  “Rwanda’s mineral exporters have been informed by all the
large buyers that they are unable to take untagged, untraceable
material after the end of March,” Biryabarema wrote in the
letter. The reduction in purchases would affect 30,000 small
miners and damage Rwanda’s mineral trade, which accounts for
about 30 percent of the country’s exports, he said.  The EICC is reviewing the letter, spokeswoman Wendy Dittmer
said by e-mail yesterday. Its timeline is based on requirements
of the U.S. law on so-called conflict minerals, she said.  The law, signed by Obama in July, gave the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission 270 days, or by mid-April, to set up
regulations governing the minerals. The SEC is seeking comments
on the proposed regulations on its  website  through March 2. A
commission spokeswoman declined to comment by phone yesterday.  Tin Industry  ITRI Ltd., a tin industry group, has also asked for a
transition period before the rules take full effect.  “The timelines of the SEC rules, the requirements of
smelter auditing systems, and the feasibility of the
implementation on the ground in Africa need to align in order to
avoid the negative consequences that will otherwise result,”
Kay Nimmo, manager of ITRI’s Sustainability and Regulatory
Affairs, said by e-mail yesterday.  “An SEC delay sends the wrong signals to armed commanders
and the traders whom they work with,” Sasha Lezhnev, policy
consultant with the Washington-based Enough Project, which
lobbied for the conflict minerals law, said today in an e-mail.
“Developing a legitimate minerals trade from central  Africa  is
important, but the conflict traders must first be cut out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 