-- 
Obama's Economic Report to Congress Says 2010 Marked Year of U.S. Recovery

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-02-24T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/obama-economic-report-says-u-s-recovery-taking-hold-following-recession.html
The  U.S. economy  last year continued
to recover from the worst economic crisis in more than 70 years,
according to an annual White House report to Congress.  Though the economy still faces obstacles of high
unemployment and uneven global growth, the report said the
current recovery is expected to continue and gain stronger
footing after the loss of millions of jobs during the recession.  “The economy has shifted out of rescue mode into the
growth phase where we’re trying to get the growth-rate up and
hiring-rate up,”  Austan Goolsbee , the chairman of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers, said in a conference call
with reporters yesterday.  Although the economy still faces “multiple pressures,”
including continued weakness in the housing market and depleted
state and local government budgets, it has been able to overcome
these obstacles and expand, the report said.  “The economy must show faster growth, but certainly this
is movement in the right direction,” according to the report.  While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen more than
60 percent since Obama took office, growth in the world’s
largest economy will need to accelerate to make up for the
almost 9 million jobs lost during the recession. The  unemployment rate  fell to 9 percent in January from 9.4 percent
in December. Still, it has been at 9 percent or higher since May
2009, the longest period of elevated joblessness since monthly
records began in 1948.  Policy Impact  Tax policy, credit policy and public investments will
contribute to a turnaround, the report said, including the $858
billion tax-cut extension enacted in December, the report said.  A major element of administration plans to ensure faster
growth is Obama’s goal of doubling exports from $1.57 trillion
in 2009 to $3.14 trillion a year by the end of 2014, the report
said.  In the first three quarter of 2010, the report said,
exports surged by 17 percent compared with the same year-ago
period, representing “a significant step toward that goal,”
according to the report.  The U.S. expects growth in emerging markets will help the
U.S. reach its export target. Trade globally has recovered more
quickly than GDP growth, according to the report, which is sent
annually to Congress.  The global economy must “shift away from its pre-crisis
pattern of growth that was too dependent on U.S. consumption,”
the report says. While imbalances have “narrowed
significantly,” the challenge is to avoid a return to old
patterns of demand, it said.  Uneven Growth  The report said that while average growth emerging from the
recession worldwide has been rapid, it’s been unevenly
distributed. Many nations face combinations of slow growth, debt,
inflation or increased capital flows.  World GDP ‘remains considerably below the output trend it
was on before the crisis struck,” it said.  Goolsbee said the greatest threats to the U.S. recovery
would come from abroad, either economic instability in  Europe  or
ripple effects from the popular uprisings in Arab countries that
could lead to higher fuel prices.  The annual report reinforced the themes that Obama has
emphasized: focusing on innovation, education and research to
bring down the unemployment rate. The report also puts a fresh
emphasis on federal policies affecting small businesses, which
create about 2 of every 3 jobs since 1993.  ‘Startup America’  Since taking office, Obama has signed into law 17 tax cuts
targeted to small businesses, the report said. The focus this
year is a “Startup America” program aimed at targeting federal
help to software, semiconductor, life-science and energy
companies.  “The primary goal is to increase the number of high-growth
startups that create broad-based economic growth and jobs,”
according to the report, by focusing on access to capital,
entrepreneurship education and mentoring, commercialization of
university and federal laboratory research, and reductions of
barriers to growth for new ventures.  The report maintains an outlook reflected in the economic
assumptions contained in the fiscal 2012 budget released on Feb.
14. The administration forecasts economic growth this year of
3.1 percent, as measured from fourth quarter to fourth quarter.
It projects growth rising to an average rate of 4.1 percent
during the next four years.  Outside economists project the economy to grow 3.2 percent
in 2011, the most in seven years, according to the median
forecast of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Feb. 2 to
Feb. 8.  Obama also said as part of the budget that the unemployment
rate would average 9.3 percent this year, an assessment
completed in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  