-- 
Obama Names Chenault, Parsons to Jobs, Competitiveness Panel

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-02-23T18:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/obama-names-chenault-doerr-trumka-to-council-on-jobs-competitiveness.html
President  Barack Obama  named
representatives from business and labor to his Council on Jobs
and Competitiveness, including Kenneth Chenault, chief executive
officer of  American Express Co ., Richard D. Parsons, chairman of
CitiGroup Inc., and  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO.  Among others Obama named to the panel today were Ellen Kullman, CEO of DuPont Co,  John Doerr , a senior partner with
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a Silicon Valley venture
capital firm; Roger Ferguson, CEO of TIAA-CREF and a former vice
chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Laura D’Andrea Tyson, a
professor of economics at University of California-Berkley and
former President Bill Clinton’s economic adviser.    Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive of  General Electric Co .,
the world biggest maker of jet engines, was named by Obama on
Jan. 21 to head the 23-member advisory body. Paul Otellini, the
chief executive officer of  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, was named by Obama Feb. 17 to the panel,
and  AOL Inc . co-founder Steve Case was added yesterday.  Also named today were: Antonio Perez, chairman and chief
executive of Eastman Kodak Co; Mark Gallogly, managing partner
of Centerbridge Partners; Joseph T. Hansen, president of the
United Food and Commercial Workers Union; Lewis “Lew” Hay
III, chief executive of NextEra Energy Inc.; and Gary Kelly,
board chairman of Southwest Airlines.  Other Members  In addition, Obama appointed A.G. Lafley, former board
chairman, Procter & Gamble; Monica C. Lozano, publisher and
chief executive of La Opinion, the U.S.’s largest Spanish
newspaper; Darlene Miller, chief executive of Permac Industries;
Penny Pritzker, chairman and chief executive of Pritzker Realty
Group; Brian L. Roberts, chief executive of Comcast Corp. and
board chairman of NBCUniversal; Matt Rose, chief executive of
Burlington Northern Santa Fe; Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating
officer of Facebook; and Robert Wolf, Chairman of UBS America.  The panel is scheduled to conduct its first meeting
tomorrow at the White House.  The advisory group replaces the President’s Economic
Recovery Advisory Board, which was given the task of advising
the administration on measures to help the economy recover from
the recession and had been in operation since Obama became
president in January 2009. Its chairman was former  Federal
Reserve  Chairman Paul Volcker and members included economists,
business executives and labor union leaders.  The goals for the advisory group have changed because the
economy “is in a different place,” and growing, the president
said Jan. 21.  Gross Domestic Product  White House economists forecast that the gross domestic
product will increase 2.7 percent this year and expand by 3.6
percent next year, according to economic assumptions in the 2012
budget proposal released Feb. 14.  The  unemployment rate  is forecast to average 9.3 percent
for all of 2011, declining to an average of 8.6 percent next
year, according to budget assumptions.  Obama created the council to offer “non-partisan advice”
on how to strengthen the  U.S. economy  and ensure competitiveness
while creating “jobs, opportunity and prosperity for the
American people,” according to the executive order.  Volcker’s old panel, now defunct, had a maximum of 17
members. The new panel doesn’t list a maximum membership.
Obama’s order says panelists shall come from the “private
sector, employers and workers” and that it may include
“citizens based on their expertise and experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  