-- 
Obama Health-Care Law Survives Constitutional Challenge in Washington Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-02-23T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/obama-health-care-law-survives-constitutional-challenge-in-washington-case.html
The Obama administration’s health-
care reform law survived a constitutional challenge in federal
court in  Washington , marking the third U.S. victory against
cases seeking to block the measure.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler yesterday dismissed a
lawsuit brought in June by five individuals who claimed the
provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
requiring people to procure minimum insurance coverage starting
in 2014 is unconstitutional.  In a 64-page opinion, Kessler said Congress was acting
“within the bounds” of its constitutional Commerce Clause
power when it imposed the insurance requirement.  “The individual decision to forgo health insurance, when
considered in the aggregate, leads to substantially higher
insurance premiums for those other individuals who do obtain
coverage,” Kessler wrote. “Thus, the aggregate effect on
interstate commerce of the decisions of individuals to forgo
insurance is very substantial.”  Kessler, like judges in  Michigan  and Virginia who concluded
the mandate is constitutional, was appointed by President  Bill Clinton . The 42nd U.S. president, a Democrat, nominated Kessler
for the district court seat in 1994. The other judges who upheld
the mandate were George Caram Steeh III in  Detroit , who Clinton
selected in 1997, and Norman K. Moon in Lynchburg, Virginia, who
was nominated the same year.  Two Republican Appointees  The two federal judges who have invalidated all or part of
the measure were each appointed by a Republican president. U.S.
District Judge C. Roger Vinson in Pensacola, Florida, whose Jan.
31 ruling is the only one thus far striking down the act in its
entirety, was nominated by President  Ronald Reagan  in 1983.
Judge Henry E. Hudson in Richmond, Virginia, was selected by
President  George W. Bush  in 2002.  Edward White, a lawyer in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, who
represents the plaintiffs, said he was disappointed with the
ruling and that his clients would file an appeal.  The plaintiffs include one resident of  New York , one from  North Carolina  and three Texans, who argued the financial
penalties imposed on them and their families for failure to
obtain insurance could exceed $27,000. They asked the court to
declare the mandate unconstitutional. They also argued that the
law violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993.  The U.S moved to dismiss the case in August. Kessler heard
argument on that request last month.  ‘Good Health’  The plaintiffs told the court they’re all “generally in
good health,” Kessler said in her ruling. Two of those suing
said they prefer to pay personally for future medical costs,
while the others said they will “continue to refuse medical
services for the remainder of their lives” for religious
reasons, according to the ruling.  The court found “that the minimum coverage provision of
the statute was a reasonable measure for Congress to take in
reforming our health care system,”  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Two federal appeals courts -- one in Richmond and one in
Cincinnati -- are currently examining the law with arguments
scheduled in May.  The federal government, in papers filed with Vinson last
week, asked him to clarify whether his decision relieves the 26
states that sued in his court of their rights and obligations
under the act while the U.S. pursues an appeal.    Virginia  Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli has asked the U.S.
Supreme Court to review the law before an appellate court
decision.  The case is Mead v. Holder, 10-cv-00950, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washingtont ; or
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 