-- 
Odey Says Stocks to Rise If Governments Keep Interest Rates Low

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-02-23T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/odey-says-stocks-to-rise-if-governments-keep-interest-rates-low.html
Crispin Odey, whose Odey European
Inc. hedge fund has gained about 8 percent this year, said the
global economic recovery will drive stock prices higher this
year, as long as central bankers don’t succumb to demands that
they increase  interest rates  to fend off inflation.  Odey, 52, told clients on a conference call last month that
the European fund is “120 percent net long,” according to an
investor, who declined to be identified because the comments
weren’t public. Economic data indicates stock markets will go
higher, and he’s positioned his portfolio to benefit, said Odey,
whose firm manages about $6 billion, according to its  website .  The  MSCI World  Index of global stocks has returned 4.8
percent this year, after most companies’ profits beat analyst
estimates and European leaders pledged to support the region’s
most-indebted countries. Policy makers should keep interest
rates negative, when adjusted for inflation, for as long three
more years to avoid choking off the recovery, London-based Odey
said on the call with investors.  “We have good stock selections and the markets have been
strong,” David Stewart, chief executive officer of Odey Asset
Management LLP, said in an interview. “It’s early days.”  Hedge funds are private pools of capital whose managers buy
or sell assets and bet on rising as well as falling prices. The
Odey European fund gained about 3.4 percent in January, when so-
called long-short equity  hedge funds  increased less than 1
percent on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  19% Return  The Odey fund fell less than 0.1 percent in 2010, when
funds that bet on rising and falling stock prices averaged an 11
percent gain. The European fund increased 34 percent in 2009
when Odey correctly bet that bank stocks hit by the financial
crisis would rebound. His fund has gained 19 percent a year on
average since the start of 2006.    Sky Deutschland AG ,  Germany ’s biggest pay-television
operator controlled by Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp ., has been
among the fund’s best performing stocks this year.  The shares gained 78 percent, as the company last month
said it added subscribers and forecast a narrower loss for 2011.
Odey owns 79.7 million Sky Deutschland shares, making him the
company’s second-biggest holder after News Corp., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Odey owns 33.1 million shares of  Infineon Technologies AG ,  Europe ’s second-largest maker of computer chips, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the Neubiberg, Germany
based company have returned 16 percent this year.  Germany is on the verge of a consumer-driven economic boom,
which will be fueled by record-low interest rates and a high
level of employment, Odey told investors.  Within two years, Germany will switch from having Europe’s
lowest inflation rate to having its highest, he predicted. The
economic growth should also benefit indebted countries such as  Spain , which will likely increase their exports to Germany, Odey
said on the investor call.  Odey, a former  fund manager  at Baring Asset Management,
started Odey Asset Management in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans in London at  at
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  