-- 
Logica Sees Rising Profitability in 2011; Shares Drop on Revamp Expenses

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-02-23T13:28:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/logica-shares-drop-as-full-year-profit-misses-analyst-estimates.html
  Logica Plc  predicts profitability
will increase this year after the Anglo-Dutch computer services
provider posted an increase in 2010 profit helped by the
recovery in the financial services industry.  “We are well positioned for revenue growth and modest
margin improvement as the market recovers through 2011,” Chief
Executive Officer Andy Green said today. “The client- and
people-focused strategy that we established at Logica three
years ago has helped us to weather the downturn well.”  Shares dropped as much as 4.4 percent as the company said
the first-half operating profit margin will be lower than a year
earlier because of a restructuring charge of 30 million pounds
($49 million).  Revenue from outsourcing services grew 10 percent last year
as companies and governments tried to cut costs by handing over
the running and maintenance of some technology systems to
companies such as Logica. The company said today it had major
order wins worth more than 475 million pounds in the first two
months of 2011.  “The demand backdrop is improving, costs appear well
controlled and Logica’s improvement is gathering momentum, but
this first-half outlook feels like it has taken the wind out of
Logica’s sails,” Numis Securities analysts Will Wallis and
David Toms said in note to clients today.  The company’s net income rose to 152.1 million pounds in
2010 from 40.1 million pounds a year earlier, while sales were
little changed at 3.7 billion pounds. The average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey was for profit of 146.2 million
pounds on revenue of 3.7 billion pounds.  Lower  Government Spending   Sales from consulting and professional services declined 5
percent. In the U.K., revenue dropped 5 percent to 709 million
pounds as the new government is slashing spending to reduce a
record deficit.  Logica, based in London, said in August that it aimed to
avoid a sharp fall in revenue from U.K. public-sector contracts.
The company has shifted workers into different areas including
financial services to reduce its focus on government spending in
the short term.  “We expect the impact of 2010 elections and consequent
changes of government to lessen through 2011,” the company said
today.  The shares dropped as much as 6.4 pence to 138.9 pence and
were down 4.1 percent as of 1:25 p.m.  Logica said the longer-term driver of growth “continues to
be outsourcing” and that “the most consistent and marked trend
in all our markets has been the return of demand with financial
services clients as they look to upgrade and refresh their
systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 