-- 
Oil Rises to 28-Month High on Libya, Middle East Supply Concern

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-23T13:48:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/oil-advances-to-29-month-high-as-libya-unrest-fans-mideast-supply-concern.html
Oil rose to its highest in more than
two years as  Libya ’s violent uprising threatened to disrupt
exports from Africa’s third-biggest supplier and spread to other
crude-producing nations in the Middle East.  Futures in New York for April delivery advanced as much as
0.9 percent today after Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to
fight a growing rebellion until his “last drop of blood.”
London-traded Brent is near its highest since September 2008.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will boost
output if there is a supply shortage, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
Ali al-Naimi said yesterday.  “I would estimate there’s a Middle East risk premium of
between $10 and $15 in the price right now,” said  David Wech ,
head of energy research at JBC Energy in Vienna. “The physical
crude market is strong right now, and there would definitely be
a contribution to that from Libya. Everybody’s waiting to see
what will happen next.”  Crude for April delivery gained as much as 97 cents to
$96.39 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest since Oct. 2, 2008. It was at $95.97 at
1:47 p.m. in  London . Futures are up 22 percent from a year ago.
Yesterday the March contract surged 8.6 percent to expire at
$93.57 a barrel.  Brent oil for April settlement climbed as much as $2.64, or
2.5 percent, to $108.42 a barrel, on the ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. Yesterday, it gained 4 cents to $105.78, the highest
settlement since Sept. 22, 2008.    Saudi Arabia   Saudi Arabia, the largest oil exporter and the biggest
producer in OPEC, has 4 million barrels a day of spare capacity,
al-Naimi said at a press conference at the ministerial meeting
of the International Energy Forum in  Riyadh . All the world’s
producers, including Saudi Arabia, could pump an additional 6
million barrels, he said.  Libya, which pumps 1.6 million barrels a day, is the ninth-
largest producer in 12-nation OPEC, exporting most of its crude
and fuels across the Mediterranean to Europe. The nation has the
largest reserves in Africa.  “WTI will probably reach $100 a barrel, and I don’t think
it will exceed $110 at all, unless the unrest spreads to the
Gulf,” Ong Eng Tong, a consultant with Hamburg-based oil trader
Mabanaft GmbH, told Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move” program.  $220 Oil    Oil prices  may surge to $220 if production was halted in
Libya and  Algeria  because of spreading unrest in the region,
Nomura Holdings Inc said in a note today.  “If Libya and Algeria were to halt oil production
together, prices could peak above $220 a barrel and OPEC spare
capacity will be reduced to 2.1 million barrels a day, similar
to levels seen during the Gulf war and when prices hit $147 in
2008,” the Tokyo-based bank said in a note.  The Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said in a
statement yesterday on its website that “the IEA stands ready,
as always, to make oil available to the market in the event of a
major supply disruption if alternative supplies cannot be made
available via normal market mechanisms.”  Oil in  New York  has entered a “buying level” on technical
charts that may trigger a rally to as high as $104 a barrel by
next month, according to Societe Generale SA. Prices will extend
gains if the market settles above $95.80, according to Stephanie Aymes, a cross-commodity technical analyst at Societe Generale
in London.  Oil Inventories  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
stockpiles rose for a sixth week, matching the longest streak of
gains since May, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Supplies
probably increased 1.13 million barrels in the seven days ended
Feb. 18 from 345.9 million a week earlier.  New York crude’s relative strength index, a measure of how
fast prices have risen or fallen, climbed to the highest in two
months as oil rallied. The RSI was 69.33 today, compared with
44.29 on Feb. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
reading of 70 or more signals to some traders that a market is
“overbought” and may drop. Brent’s RSI was 71.11.  Libya is the latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited
by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by
the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  Countries in North  Africa  and the Middle East accounted for
36 percent of global oil output and held 61 percent of proved
reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which publishes its
Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  