-- 
Oil Rises on Libya Disruption; Goldman Sachs Sees ‘Upside Risk’

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-24T08:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/oil-for-april-in-n-y-rises-sixth-day-after-reaching-100-on-libyan-unrest.html
Oil climbed to the highest in 30
months in  London  as  Libya ’s violent uprising reduced supplies
from  Africa ’s third-biggest producer.  Brent rose above $119 a barrel on estimates the revolt
caused Libya to lose as much as two-thirds of its oil output.
Futures for April delivery in  New York  gained for a sixth day,
after climbing above $100 a barrel. The cuts create
“significant upside risk” to prices by reducing OPEC’s ability
to offfset any escalation of supply disruptions in the Middle
East, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “The events in Libya and North Africa have brought
geopolitical risk back onto the radar,” Soozhana Choi, head of
Asian commodities research at Deutsche Bank AG in Singapore,
told Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move”.
“How much higher prices can go really depends on the spread of
protests in the region.”  Brent oil for April settlement rose as much as $8.54, or
7.7 percent, to $119.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, the highest since Aug. 21, 2008. The contract
traded at $117.10 at 3:59 p.m. Singapore time. It has rallied 15
percent this week.  Crude for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  gained as much as $5.31, or 5.4 percent, to $103.41 a
barrel in electronic trading. Yesterday, it added $2.68 at
$98.10, the highest settlement since Oct. 1, 2008.  Libya, which pumps 1.6 million barrels a day of oil, is the
ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, shipping most of its crude and
fuels across the Mediterranean to Europe. The country has the
largest reserves in Africa.  Output Halt  As much as 1 million barrels of Libya’s daily oil
production may have been shut,  Barclays Capital  said in a report
yesterday. Goldman Sachs estimated disruptions at 500,000
barrels a day. Total SA and OMV AG became the latest energy
producers to scale back Libyan operations, following Eni SpA,
RWE AG and BASF SE’s Wintershall unit. China National Petroleum
Corp. said it relocated 47 of its Libyan-based workforce.  New York futures retreated from an intraday high of $100 a
barrel yesterday after Saudi Arabia and other countries said
they might not wait for an emergency meeting of OPEC to increase
output, according to a person with knowledge of producer-nation
policy. Any extra supply would be conditional on requests for
more crude, the person said.  “One reason we haven’t seen a far more aggressive rally is
because from an OPEC spare capacity perspective they are far
healthier now,” Choi said. “Beyond spare capacity, if you look
at commercial inventories, they are quite healthy as well.”  U.S. Inventories  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil user,
climbed 163,000 barrels last week, the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute  said yesterday. An Energy Department report
today may show supplies increased 1.1 million barrels in the
seven days ended Feb. 18 from 345.9 million, according to the
median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Libya is the latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited
by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by
the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
Disturbances have spread to  Iran ,  Bahrain , Yemen and  Algeria .  Unrest in Bahrain, which is linked to Saudi Arabia by a 26-
kilometer (16-mile) causeway and whose capital, Manama, is a
four-hour drive from its Saudi counterpart,  Riyadh , has in the
past spread across the border. In 1995, the Saudi government
arrested a large number of Shiite Muslims on suspicion of
involvement in protests taking place in Bahrain, according to
New York-based Human Rights Watch.  $220 Oil  Shiites make up between 60 and 70 percent of the Bahraini
population and are a significant minority in  Saudi Arabia ’s
Eastern Province, where most of the country’s oil is produced.  Prices may surge to $220 a barrel if more production is
halted in Libya and Algeria, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
led by Michael Lo in  Hong Kong , said yesterday in a note.
Algeria is also an OPEC member.  “There is room for spikes, possibly to $175,” Carl Larry,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston, told Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.” “Something like that
would have to take an extreme situation, more unrest in the
Middle East, particularly Saudi Arabia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in  Singapore  at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  