-- 
Oil Prices Need Sustained Rise Before Hurting U.S., Matus Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-02-23T20:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/oil-prices-need-sustained-rise-before-hurting-u-s-matus-says-tom-keene.html
  Oil prices  must remain elevated for
three months before they would affect the U.S. economic outlook,
said  Drew Matus , senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC.  “For now at least we have a very short spike higher,”
Matus said today in a television interview on “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene. “Unless it’s a sustained spike higher,
we don’t really have to do anything. You need to see it feed
through into higher gasoline prices. Then people have to deal
with it long enough for it to actually enter their psychology.”  Oil rose to the highest since October 2008 as violence in
Libya threatened to disrupt exports from Africa’s third-biggest
supplier and spread to other crude-producing nations in the
Middle East.  Crude for April delivery closed up $2.59, or 2.7 percent,
at $98.01 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after
earlier touching $100 a barrel as heavy gunfire broke out in
Tripoli, army units defected and a former aide to  Muammar Qaddafi  said the revolt may topple the regime within days.  If the high price of oil makes gasoline more expensive,
inflation expectations could rise, according to Matus. Consumers
typically buy the same amount of gasoline every week, so they
notice price movements, he said. Consumer expectations that
prices will remain high then play into Federal Reserve policy
makers’ concerns about whether inflation is accelerating.  “Inflation expectations are a great determinant of what’s
going to happen with inflation,” Matus said. “One of the great
misperceptions is that the Fed doesn’t focus on total inflation,
that they only focus on the core. They focus on total but
through a little bit of a roundabout way and how it feeds into
core.”  ‘Benign’ Inflation Outlook  UBS has a “benign outlook” for inflation, forecasting
prices to increase “a percentage point and a half,” Matus said
without citing a timeframe. Fed policy makers project that
prices, excluding food and energy costs, will rise 1.3 percent
in 2011.  Matus, based in Stamford,  Connecticut , said the economy
could be in a position similar to 2003, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said inflation couldn’t pick up with unemployment
around 6 percent.  “The same issue is occurring again today where we could
see a moderate pickup in inflation with a high  unemployment
rate ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  