-- 
Oil Touches $100 a Barrel for First Time in Two Years on Libya

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-23T21:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/oil-advances-to-28-month-high-as-libya-unrest-fans-mideast-supply-concern.html
Oil surged to $100 a barrel in New
York for the first time in two years as Libya’s violent uprising
threatened to disrupt exports from  Africa ’s third-biggest
supplier and spread to other Middle East oil producers.  Futures climbed as much as 4.8 percent after heavy gunfire
broke out in Tripoli again today, army units defected and a
former aide to Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi warned the
spreading revolt may topple the regime within days. Oil pared
gains on signals that Saudi Arabia and some other producers are
willing to put more oil on the market if buyers demand it.  “We’re crossing $100 because with the cut in Libyan
output, the unrest in the Middle East is actually having an
impact on oil supply,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “There’s concern that unrest
will spread further, threatening  Saudi Arabia  and other
producers.”  Crude for April delivery increased $2.68, or 2.8 percent,
to settle at $98.10 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Earlier, it touched $100, the highest level since Oct.
2, 2008. Futures are up 24 percent from a year ago.  Prices rose from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles gained 163,000 barrels to 345.8 million. April oil
advanced $3.32, or 3.5 percent, to $98.74 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:32 p.m.  Libya, which pumps 1.6 million barrels a day of oil, is the
ninth-largest producer among the 12 members of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, sending most of its crude and
fuels across the Mediterranean to  Europe . The country has the
largest reserves in Africa.  Oil Supply  Companies including  Total SA ,  OMV AG ,  Eni SpA , and RWE AG
said they have scaled back their Libyan operations.  “Prices are moving above $100 because of worries Libyan
supplies will be cut off,” said Sarah Emerson, managing
director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts.  The tanker Seabravery picked up oil at the Libyan ports of
Zawia and Es Sider and sailed at 1 a.m. local time, suggesting
supply is still flowing, according to Dimitris Tsahalis,
chartering manager at Athens-based Thenamaris Ships Management
Inc., which owns the vessel.  Oil retreated from $100 after a person with knowledge of
producer-nation policy indicated Saudi Arabia and other
countries might not wait for an emergency OPEC meeting to
increase output. Any extra supply would be conditional on
requests for more crude from  oil companies , the person said.  Regional Unrest    Libya  is the latest nation to be rocked by protests ignited
by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and fanned by
the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.  “We’re going to see continued support until we see a
resolution in Libya,” said Matt Smith, a commodities analyst
for Summit Energy in Louisville,  Kentucky . “While there’s a
risk of contagion, of this spreading to Iran or Saudi Arabia,
we’re going to see prices elevated from these levels.”  Qaddafi vowed yesterday to fight the growing rebellion
until his “last drop of blood.”  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah boosted spending today on
housing by 40 billion riyals ($10.7 billion) and allocated more
funds for education and social welfare after protests reached
neighboring  Bahrain . The kingdom is the world’s largest crude
exporter.  The Bahraini and Saudi kings met in  Riyadh  today after more
than a week of protests in Bahrain. The island nation is linked
to Saudi Arabia by a 26-kilometer (16-mile) causeway, and unrest
there has in the past spread across the border.  Oasis in Sandstorm  “People are waiting for the next shoe to drop,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron
Hanover Inc. in New Canaan,  Connecticut . “Saudi Arabia is an
oasis in the middle of a sandstorm.”  Brent oil for April settlement rose $5.47, or 5.2 percent,
to $111.25 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, the
highest close since August 29, 2008.  The global economy is in a much stronger position to handle
rising oil prices than it was in 2008, when crude shot up to a
record $147.27 a barrel in  New York , U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner said today during a Bloomberg Breakfast in  Washington . “Central banks have a lot of experience in managing
these things.”  Oil prices may surge to $220 if production is halted in
Libya and Algeria because of spreading unrest in the region,
Nomura Holdings Inc. said today in a note.  Algeria  is also a
member of OPEC.  Options Trading  April call options betting futures would rise above $100,
$105, $110, $120 and $150 a barrel were the most-active options
contracts in electronic trading on the Nymex today, together
trading more than 29,000 lots as of 4:33 p.m. in New York.  “The big trade today is June $125 calls being purchased,”
said Ray Carbone, president of Paramount Options Inc. in New
York and a trader at the Nymex. “Yesterday, I did thousands of
the May $125-$150 call spreads.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
stockpiles rose for a sixth week, matching the longest streak of
gains since May. Supplies probably increased 1.1 million barrels
in the seven days ended Feb. 18 from 345.9 million a week
earlier, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 1.2
million contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled
1.44 million contracts yesterday, 91 percent above the average
of the past three months and the highest level since a record
1.47 million Jan. 28. Open interest was 1.51 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net . 