-- 
Olam Extends Drop as Retail Investors Jump on CLSA Report

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-02-23T11:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/olam-international-extends-slump-as-retail-investors-jump-on-clsa-report.html
  Olam International Ltd . extended its
share price decline to a third day with a company statement
failing to stem a plunge that began as CLSA Asia Pacific Markets
raised concerns about its accounting and Nigerian earnings.  Olam fell 2.7 percent to close at S$2.56 in Singapore after
earlier falling as much as 9.5 percent, the most in more than
two years. It closed down 9.3 percent yesterday and 1.7 percent
on Feb. 21, the day the report was issued. The volume of Olam
shares traded today was 166 percent higher than the total for
yesterday and six times that of Feb. 21. The benchmark Straits
Times Index fell 0.6 percent.  The commodities trader, which started its business with
cashew exports out of  Nigeria  in 1989, today dismissed the CLSA
report which estimated it relies on Nigerian state incentives
for between 30 percent and 40 percent of its profits. Chief
Executive Officer Sunny Verghese also denied that discrepancies
between unaudited and audited results had any bearing on Olam’s
profit and loss statements or net asset values.  CLSA analyst Swati Chopra, who in the report said there
were “significant differences” in Olam’s accounting statements,
did not respond to an e-mail or phone call, or return a message
left on her phone. Chopra has issued seven reports on Olam, all
of them with a rating of “sell,” according to the company.  Retail Reaction  “Partly you’re seeing the retail reaction today, that’s
the key reason for this much weakness,” Thilan Wickramasinghe,
an analyst with HSBC Securities Singapore Pte., who rates Olam a
“buy,” said. “What the management has come out with today is
very clear.”  CLSA cut Olam to a “conviction sell” and put the 12-month
price target at S$1.60, one of two “sell” ratings on the
company out of the 21 brokerages that follow its stock. Chopra’s
upgrade of PT Gudang Garam on Aug. 5 pushed  Indonesia ’s second-
largest cigarette maker up 7.4 percent, the highest since August
1991.  PT Bisi International, an Indonesian corn producer, fell to
its lowest in more than three months after Chopra recommended to
investors to sell the stock on March 20, 2010.  Olam said it does not usually respond to company reports.
Still, “the CLSA report has highlighted some examples of
reporting differences which we believe are incorrect,” it said
in a regulatory statement today.  Nigerian incentives accounted for 1 percent of consolidated
revenue in 2009 and 0.8 percent in 2010, Olam said. More than
200 exporters get the incentives and another four or five
companies have the same level of incentives as Olam, the company
said, refuting CLSA’s claim that the trader is the only
beneficiary at a higher level of rates.  Stable Margins  “Based on our experience, we believe that our margins will
remain largely stable even if these export incentives are
withdrawn or changed as procurement prices would locally adjust
to reflect any change in incentives,” Olam said.  Nigeria’s next elections are in April and a new government
may review the incentives scheme, in which Olam and other
traders send the cash received from the state to the farmer to
“incentivize more planting,” Verghese said. That may eat into
Olam’s market share as farmers from whom it buys products plant
less, he said, adding that the scenario is “unlikely” and
would affect all its rivals working in Nigeria.  Olam said that the accounting differences referred to by
CLSA were “ re-classification changes” that didn’t “lead to
any inaccuracy in reported profits.” The company made “some
mistakes” in the accounts relating to how it classified hedges
and will rectify these, Verghese said.  The  Singapore  company tried to clarify the points made by
CLSA before the report was published. It was not able to
contract the analyst, Verghese said.  Olam is the African nation’s largest non-oil exporter and
has “a leadership position” in raw cashew nuts, cocoa, cotton,
sesame and timber, it  says  on its Web site. The company also
plans to set up a $200 million sugar-refining venture at a port
in Nigeria to tap growing demand in the nation.  The issues raised by CLSA are not entirely new, according
to HSBC’s Wickramasinghe.  “We have seen some of those topics come up before,” he
said. “The export issue has come out before. It gets some
reaction, then the company comes out with decent earnings and it
goes away again.”  Olam’s second-quarter profit fell 8 percent following a
goodwill charge on its dairy farm purchase, the company reported
Feb. 14. Excluding the charge, Olam increased income from
operations by 66 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  