-- 
OMV Fourth-Quarter Profit Advances 85%, Misses Estimates

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-02-23T11:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/omv-fourth-quarter-profit-advances-85-misses-estimates-2-.html
  OMV AG , central  Europe ’s biggest oil
company, said fourth-quarter profit rose 85 percent as crude  oil
prices  rose and refining margins improved.  Net income excluding costs of revaluing inventories rose to
216 million euros ($296 million) from 117 million euros a year
earlier, the Vienna-based company said today. That missed an
estimate of 291 million euros, according to the average of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  OMV in October took over  Turkey ’s biggest fuel retailer,
Petrol Ofisi, raising its stake to 96 percent for 1 billion
euros and in January announced that it was buying Pioneer
Natural Resources Co.’s exploration and production assets in  Tunisia  for $866 million. The full consolidation of  Petrol Ofisi 
pushed the gearing ratio, a measure of indebtedness, to 45.7
percent at the end of December, compared with 33 percent a year
earlier. OMV’s goal was 30 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer said in
October that the company is still determining whether it will
issue new stock, convertible bonds or hybrid capital to finance
the deal.  All three possibilities still are valid options and action
will be taken in the first half of this year, Chief Financial
Officer David Davies said in Vienna today. He declined to say
how much a share sale would have to raise to maintain OMV’s
credit rating.  Stock Slumps  The consolidation of Petrol Ofisi AS created a net special
charge of about 170 million euros. OMV also took a 30 million-
euro charge related to restructuring as well as 45 million euros
for hedging, the company said on Feb. 4.  The stock slumped as much as 7.9 percent to 29.4 euros and
was down 5.9 percent at 12:42 p.m. in Vienna trading, the worst
performer on the benchmark Austria Traded Index.  OMV said yesterday that it expects a temporary reduction of
production because of the political unrest in  Libya  and can’t
exclude a complete stop of operations. OMV’s 2010 production in
the North African country was about 33,000 barrels a day, or 10
percent of its output.  “We rather expect that production will come to a
standstill for a certain period of time for safety reasons,”
Ruttenstorfer said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  OMV AG is proposing a dividend of 1 euro a share for 2010,
in line with Bloomberg’s forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  