-- 
Hong Kong Bubble Risk Prompts Tsang to Boost Land Sales, Build More Flats

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 
2011-02-23T08:49:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/hong-kong-to-boost-land-auctions-build-flats-to-avert-bubble-tsang-says.html
  Hong Kong ’s government may auction
52 plots of land this year, boosting supply to build more
residential flats to head off risks of a property bubble.  The city will make available for auction 18 new sites and
34 sites left over from the previous fiscal year in the year
starting April 1, Financial Secretary John Tsang said in his
budget speech today. The land will provide for 16,000 flats, an
almost 80 percent increase from the 9,000 in the previous year.  The government in November intensified a yearlong battle to
curb property prices with additional transaction taxes and a
pledge to increase land supply. The city is the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home, because of a supply shortage,
according to a study released by Savills Plc last month.  “These land supply policies make no big difference; it
looks like it’s doing something, but it doesn’t,” said  Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CLSA Ltd. “The
government has too many issues to deal with in this budget plan,
so it isn’t doing much to tackle property prices.”  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s
seven-biggest builders including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd .
and  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., fell 0.5 percent at the 4 p.m.
close, extending the drop this year to 6.9 percent.  ‘Effective Solution’  Home prices have gained more than 60 percent in the past
two years on record-low  mortgage rates  and an influx of buyers
from mainland  China , according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s largest closely held real-
estate broker.  Tsang said in his speech that he was “concerned” about
property bubbles.  “In the medium to long term, the most effective solution
to the problems of the  property market  lies in the fundamental
issue of ensuring steady and adequate land supply,” he said.
The government will spend HK$300 million ($38 million) to study
ways of increasing land supply, including reclamation off
Victoria Harbour and the use of rock caverns.  The government will also sell by tender five residential
sites to build about 3,000 “small and medium-sized flats,” and
initiate the auction of four sites from the available list
during the year, he said.  “The measures give home buyers confidence that there will
be more supply of flats and this will ease the rising pressure
on flat prices,” said Alvin Lam, an executive director in the
surveyor unit of Midland Holdings Ltd., the city’s biggest
realtor by market value. “The provision of small and medium-
sized flats shows that the government knows what are the flats
required in the market.”  Land Auctions  Hong Kong’s property market “rebounded” in January, Tsang
said.  Home prices  gained 2.1 percent in the week ended Feb. 13
from the previous seven days, according to Centaline. They are
up 5.7 percent this year, according to Centaline’s index.  The Hong Kong government is one of the city’s biggest
landlords and the top land supplier.  Most government land sales in recent years have been
triggered by the so-called application system whereby developers
promise to pay minimum amounts for sites on a list of available
lots, leading to a public auction. That system was put in place
in 2002 to support falling home prices triggered by the Asian
financial crisis of 1998.  Government-initiated auctions were partially resumed last
year as part of price-curbing measures. Four of the 10 plots
sold this fiscal year were at auctions initiated by the
government.  ‘Right Direction’  “The government is moving in the right direction” by
putting more land for regular auctions, Ronnie Chan, chairman of  Hang Lung Properties Ltd ., the city’s third-biggest builder by
market value, said after the new measures were announced today.
“The fundamental reason for the price surge over the past few
years was a shortage of land supply. This should be able to help
alleviate the problem.”  The application system “would only work if the government
set the trigger prices closer to market prices,” Chan said.  The government in November imposed additional stamp duties
and increased deposits for mortgages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  