-- 
Orchard Brands Reaches Creditor Accord, Wins Loan Approval

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-02-23T22:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/orchard-brands-wins-approval-of-financing-reaches-resolution.html
A unit of  Golden Gate  Capital
Corp.’s Orchard Brands won court approval to borrow as much as
$140 million to help finance operations and reached an agreement
with creditors clearing the way to exit bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
today gave the company, Appleseed’s Intermediate Holdings LLC,
permission to borrow the full amount of the $140 million loan
after last month authorizing the company to use $135 million of
the total loan.  The company reached a global resolution that “paves a
clear path to emergence” from  bankruptcy protection , Joshua A.
Sussberg, a lawyer for Appleseed’s, told Gross. The settlement
got unsecured creditors to support the company’s restructuring
proposal by funding a trust to pursue potential litigation,
Sussberg said.  Beverly, Massachusetts-based Orchard Brands, which didn’t
file for bankruptcy, sells clothing and home products to women
and men under 17 brands such as Gold Violin, Haband and  Norm
Thompson . The company also operates stores under its Appleseed’s
and Draper’s & Damon’s brands.  The clothing retailer, whose products target customers aged
55 and older, listed as much $1 billion in debt and as much as
$500 million in assets in Chapter 11 documents. The company has
about $725 million in funded debt.  Trust Funding  The trust would be funded with $2.5 million, with the first
$1 million available for investigations or to distribute among
unsecured creditors, Sussberg told Gross. Unsecured creditors
wouldn’t have received any recovery under the current
reorganization proposal. The recovery plan will be modified
incorporating the accord and the support of the unsecured
creditors’ committee.  The remaining $1.5 million would be used to prosecute any
lawsuits. The trust may investigate and pursue a lawsuit
“against certain parties involved in the acquisition” of the
Blair Corp. in 2007, Sussberg said.  Appleseed’s filed a pre-negotiated reorganization plan that
would cut its debt by more than $420 million, or more than half,
according to a company statement. The plan, which must be
approved by May 21, is supported by more than 80 percent of
lenders with first priority of repayment and unanimously by
lenders with a secondary priority.  Company Deadlines  If the company can’t meet certain deadlines, it would
pursue a sale through a bankruptcy auction, with the lenders
allowed to bid their debt, court papers show. Gross also gave
the company permission to enter into a commitment agreement of
as much as $80 million to finance its exit from bankruptcy. The
company already has a commitment from current lenders, and it’s
seeking proposals with better terms.  Sales fell to $881.5 million last year from $954.3 million
in 2009. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined about 46 percent last year to a projected
$47.5 million, court papers show.  Golden Gate, a San Francisco-based private-equity firm that
manages about $9 billion in capital, acquired Orchard Brands in
2005.  The case is In re Appleseed’s Intermediate Holdings LLC,
11-10160,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  