-- 
Oscar Picks: Portman’s Psycho Ballerina, Bale’s Junkie Fighter

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-23T03:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/oscar-picks-portman-s-psycho-ballerina-bale-s-junkie-boxer-firth-s-king.html
I have one sure-fire prediction for
Sunday night’s Academy Awards telecast: Co-hosts  James Franco 
and Anne Hathaway won’t be cracking jokes about Charlie Sheen’s
substance abuse, Ashton Kutcher’s love life or gay
Scientologists.  British comedian Ricky Gervais got in hot water for doing
that at last month’s Golden Globes ceremony. So expect kinder,
gentler hosts at the Oscars, where the stars expect to be
lauded, not ridiculed.  Here are my other fearless predictions, which were made
without the aid of that new “Jeopardy” computer:  Best Picture  Nominees: “Black Swan,” “The Fighter,” “Inception,”
“The Kids Are All Right,” “The King’s Speech,” “127
Hours,” “The Social Network,” “Toy Story 3,” “True Grit,”
“Winter’s Bone.”  Skinny: A match race between “The King’s Speech” and
“The Social Network.” “The  Social Network ” dominated the
early awards, but “The King’s Speech” has been on a roll
lately and leads all films with 12 Oscar nominations. It’s the
stuttering British king versus the take-no-prisoners Facebook
founder. Royalty rules.  Should Win: “The King’s Speech.”  Will Win: “The King’s Speech.”  Best Actor  Nominees: Javier Bardem (“Biutiful”), Jeff Bridges
(“True Grit”), Jesse Eisenberg (“The Social Network”),  Colin Firth  (“The King’s Speech”), Franco (“127 Hours”).  Skinny: Firth is a lock to win for his performance as King
George VI, who overcame his speech impediment with the help of
an eccentric therapist. Franco will have to settle for co-
hosting the show.  Should Win: Firth.  Will Win: Firth.  Best Actress  Nominees:  Annette Bening  (“The Kids Are All Right”),  Nicole Kidman  (“Rabbit Hole”), Jennifer Lawrence (“Winter’s
Bone”),  Natalie Portman  (“Black Swan”), Michelle Williams
(“Blue Valentine”).  Skinny: Portman is the favorite for her role as a
hallucinating ballerina, but Bening has an outside shot as the
uptight lesbian mother in “The Kids Are All Right.” I prefer
Kidman’s moving performance as a mom paralyzed by grief over her
son’s death.  Should Win: Kidman.  Will Win: Portman.  Best Supporting Actor  Nominees:  Christian Bale  (“The Fighter”), John Hawkes
(“Winter’s Bone”), Jeremy Renner (“The Town”), Mark Ruffalo
(“The Kids Are All Right”),  Geoffrey Rush  (“The King’s
Speech”).  Skinny: Bale’s acceptance speech at the Golden Globes was
cut short on TV, but he’ll get another chance to ramble when he
accepts the Oscar for playing a drug-addicted former boxer in
“The Fighter.” Hawkes, the least-known nominee, gets well-
deserved recognition for his chilling portrayal of a backwoods
meth dealer in “Winter’s Bone.”  Should Win: Rush.  Will Win: Bale.  Best Supporting Actress  Nominees: Amy Adams (“The Fighter”), Helena Bonham Carter
(“The King’s Speech”), Melissa Leo (“The Fighter”), Hailee
Steinfeld (“True Grit”), Jacki Weaver (“Animal Kingdom”).  Skinny: While Leo is terrific as a tough-talking, working-
class mom in “The Fighter,” Steinfeld has a bigger, more
challenging role as the spunky teenager who seeks revenge
against her father’s killer in “True Grit.”  Should Win: Steinfeld.  Will Win: Leo.  Best Director  Nominees: Darren Aronofsky (  Black Swan ”), David O. Russell (“The Fighter”), Tom Hooper (“The King’s Speech”),  David Fincher  (“The Social Network”), Joel and Ethan Coen
(“True Grit”).  Skinny: Best director and best picture usually go hand in
hand, but this year could be an exception. “The King’s Speech”
is an acting showcase, while “The Social Network” is more a
product of Fincher’s imaginative directing and  Aaron Sorkin ’s
clever dialogue.  Should Win: Fincher.  Will Win: Fincher.  Best Documentary  Nominees: “Exit Through the Gift Shop,” “ Gasland ,”
“Inside Job,” “Restrepo,” “ Waste Land .”  Skinny: Always a strong category, this year’s group
includes films about the financial crisis, graffiti artists, the
Afghan war, natural-gas drilling and the world’s largest garbage
dump. Charles Ferguson’s clear-eyed explanation of the economic
meltdown gets the nod.  Should Win: “Inside Job.”  Will Win: “Inside Job.”  The Academy Awards will be broadcast by  Walt Disney Co .’s
ABC on Feb. 27, starting at 8 p.m.  New York  time.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 