-- 
Total, OMV Join Eni in Cutting Back Libyan Production on Growing Violence

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-23T12:08:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/total-omv-join-eni-in-cutting-back-libyan-production-on-growing-violence.html
  Total SA  and  OMV AG  became the
latest energy producers to scale back their Libyan operations as
growing violence resulted in the loss of a fifth of the North
African nation’s oil output.  Total, Europe’s third-largest oil company, started to
reduce oil output in Libya and repatriate staff, following in
the footsteps of  Eni SpA ,  RWE AG  and  BASF SE ’s Wintershall unit.
OMV slumped the most in 20 months in Vienna as central  Europe ’s
biggest energy producer warned it wouldn’t be able to make up
the shortfall from lost Libyan production elsewhere.  “In total, some 300,000 barrels per day are now offline,”
said  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF Global Ltd. in  London .
“The numbers could rise as we still do not have a clear idea
how much oil is being impacted by striking Libyan workers deep
inside the country.”  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a growing
insurrection until his “last drop of blood,” sending New York
oil futures to a 29-month high today. Libya pumped 1.6 million
barrels a day in January, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Repatriating staff remains Total’s priority in Libya, said
Phenelope Semavoine, a spokeswoman for the Paris-based company.
Total’s Libyan operations last year accounted for 55,000 barrels
a day, or about 2.6 percent of the company’s worldwide
production.  OMV plunged as much as 7.9 percent, the steepest intraday
drop since June 2009. The shares were down 6.1 percent at 29.97
euros as of 12:35 p.m. local time.  Staff Evacuated  The company’s output in Libya last year was about 33,000
barrels a day, or 10 percent of its total. Earlier this week, it
evacuated all non-essential staff from the country.  “We rather expect that production will come to a
standstill for a certain period of time for safety reasons” in  Libya , Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  OMV said late last night that due to the political unrest
in Libya it expected a temporary reduction of its production and
couldn’t exclude a complete halt. The company reported fourth-
quarter profit today that missed analysts’ estimates.  “We believe that the market reaction will not only be on
today’s figures, but also to the further developments of the
political situation in Libya,” said Philipp Chladek, an analyst
at Raiffeisen Centrobank in Vienna. He has a “hold” rating on
OMV.  Temporary Suspension  Italy’s Eni, the largest foreign oil producer in Libya,
said yesterday that some oil and gas operations in the country
have been temporarily suspended, while Repsol said it was also
halting exploration and production.  Eni, which drilled in Libya during the whole of Qaddafi’s
41 years of rule, pumps 244,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day,
or 14 percent of the company’s total production in the North
African country.  The Italian producer said yesterday that it has pulled out
most of its staff, leaving only 34 workers in Libya. Other
companies like BP Plc and Royal Shell Dutch Plc have already
suspended exploration, while  Statoil ASA  has closed its office
in Tripoli.  “A peaceful solution in Libya looks unlikely for now as
Qaddafi indicates that he won’t go quietly,”  Richard Griffith ,
a London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd., wrote in an
e-mailed report. “The more significant impact is probably on
Eni.”  Third-Largest  Libya is Africa’s third-largest oil producer after Nigeria
and Angola. In terms of proven oil reserves, Libya’s 44.3
billion barrels is the largest deposit in Africa and 3.3 percent
of the world’s total, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review
of World Energy.  Three Libyan cargo ports are reported to have closed and
shipping lines will divert containers of goods to Italy,
according to Tuscor Lloyds, which sends about 50 shipments a
month to the country.  Tripoli, Benghazi and Misurata have halted operations, Neel
Ratti, shipping manager at Tuscor Lloyds in Manchester, England,
said by phone today.  Eni said yesterday that gas supplies from the north African
country to Italy through its Greenstream pipeline were halted.  Italy  gets about 10 percent of its gas from Libya through the
pipeline to Gela in Sicily.  Italy can replace missing gas with supplies from Algeria,
Azerbaijan,  Russia  and the Gulf countries, Italian Foreign
Minister Franco Frattini told Parliament today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net .
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 