-- 
PetroChina Parent, Inpex Join Total to Evacuate Libya Staff

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-24T05:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/total-omv-join-eni-in-cutting-libyan-output-on-turmoil-1-.html
China National Petroleum Corp. , the
country’s biggest oil producer, and  Inpex Corp . joined  Total SA 
to move staff out of  Libya  as a revolt caused the loss of as
much as two-thirds of the North African nation’s crude output.    China  National Petroleum, which explores for oil off
Libya’s northwestern coast, has relocated 47 of its staff and is
prepared to evacuate all of its 391 employees if necessary,
PetroChina Co.’s parent said in its online newsletter today.
Five Inpex staff are preparing to leave, Tetsuji Yoshimine, a
Tokyo-based spokesman at Japan’s largest explorer, said by phone.
Total yesterday began cutting output and repatriating employees.    Barclays Capital  said about 1 million barrels of daily oil
production in Libya is likely to have been shut in, while
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. put the lost output at 500,000. Libya,
holder of Africa’s biggest reserves, produced 1.6 million
barrels a day last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The country is in a chaotic state, a lot of technical
staff in international  oil companies  have left the country and
more may leave, so further disruption is certainly possible,”
said  Victor Shum , Singapore-based senior principal at Purvin &
Gertz Inc., a consultant.  Oil traded in London surged to the highest in almost two
and half years as supplies from Africa’s third-biggest producer
fell. BP Plc and Royal Shell Dutch Plc have suspended
exploration, while  Statoil ASA  closed its office in Tripoli.
Inpex may halt production at its onshore oil and gas blocks 600
kilometers (372 miles) southeast of Tripoli, Yoshimine said.  Intermittent Contact  Governments evacuated thousands of expatriates from Libya
as army units defected and a former aide to leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said the spreading rebellion may topple the regime
within days. The  second chartered plane  sent by China left
Beijing for Tripoli today, the official Xinhua News Agency said.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest explorer, is
attempting to evacuate its sole official based in Tripoli,
Chairman A.K. Hazarika said. The official was overseeing survey
work at an offshore block wholly owned by ONGC.  “Contact with the officer has been very intermittent,”
Hazarika said by phone from  New Delhi  today. “We’re working
with our external affairs ministry on the best way to do that.
We’re talking to  Air India .”    Oil India Ltd ., the nation’s second-biggest state explorer,
has been unable to contact its two officials at the Libyan
capital since Feb. 22, Chairman N.M. Borah said by phone.  Indian Explorers  “We have authorized them to leave the country as soon as
they can,” Borah said. “They were in Tripoli as of day before
yesterday when we spoke to them last. Communication is becoming
increasingly difficult.”  Oil India owns  stakes  in three oil blocks in Libya in
partnership with Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner.
The state-run companies have decided to relinquish two of the
onshore blocks after tests showed production isn’t economically
viable, Borah said. Oil India is keeping a “skeletal staff” in
Tripoli to complete the relinquishment process, he said.  Oil India also owns 25 percent of Area 95/96 in the
Ghadames Basin in Libya. Sonatrach, Algeria’s state-run oil
company, is the operator and holds a 50 percent stake in the
block, where drilling is yet to start, Borah said.  European Producers  Repatriating staff remains Total’s priority in Libya,
Phenelope Semavoine, a spokeswoman for the Paris-based company,
said yesterday. Total’s Libyan operations last year accounted
for 55,000 barrels a day, or about 2.6 percent of the company’s
global production.  Europe’s third-largest oil company was little changed at 43
euros in Paris trading yesterday.    OMV AG , central Europe’s biggest energy producer, earlier
this week evacuated all non-essential staff from Libya. OMV’s
output in Libya last year was about 33,000 barrels a day, or 10
percent of its total, and the company said it wouldn’t be able
to make up the shortfall elsewhere. The stock fell 5.8 percent
to 30.075 euros in Vienna yesterday.  “We rather expect that production will come to a
standstill for a certain period of time for safety reasons,”
OMV Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Production can be restored “relatively quickly,” said
Jaap Huijskes, who heads exploration and production.  Eni Suspension  Italy’s  Eni SpA , the largest foreign oil producer in Libya,
said on Feb. 22 that some oil and gas operations in the country
have been suspended, while Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA  said it was
also halting exploration and production.  Eni, which drilled in Libya during the whole of Qaddafi’s
41 years of rule, pumps 244,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
in the North African country, or 14 percent of the company’s
total production.  The Italian producer said it has pulled out most of its
staff, leaving only 34 workers in Libya.  Libya is Africa’s largest oil producer after Nigeria and
Angola. In terms of proven reserves, Libya’s 44.3 billion
barrels is the biggest in the continent and 3.3 percent of the
world’s total, according to BP’s Statistical Review of World
Energy.  -  Chua Baizhen , Rakteem Katakey, Alessandra Migliaccio and Zoe Schneeweiss. With assistance from Michio Nakayama in Tokyo,  Wang Ying  in Beijing, Linzie Janis, Brian Swint, Eduard Gismatullin
and Alaric Nightingale in  London , Gregory Viscusi in Paris, and
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels. Editors: Ryan Woo, Amit Prakash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at +49-69-92041-158 or
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 