-- 
HP Plunges After Forecast Misses Estimates, Dragged Down by Consumer Slump

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-02-23T21:19:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/hp-plunges-after-forecast-misses-estimates-dragged-down-by-consumer-slump.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co . fell the most in
more than six years after its forecast missed analysts’ sales
and profit estimates, a shortfall it blamed on sluggish demand
for services and consumer products.  Excluding some costs, second-quarter profit will be as much
as $1.21 a share, the  Palo Alto , California-based company said
yesterday in a statement. That missed the $1.26 predicted by
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales will top out at $31.6
billion, compared with an average estimate of $32.6 billion.  The outlook marred  Leo Apotheker ’s first quarter as chief
executive officer and underscored two main challenges he’ll face
at HP. The company’s reliance on home-computer shoppers, which
generate 40 percent of PC revenue, has left HP vulnerable to a
consumer slump, said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI Group. The
services unit, meanwhile, is looking for ways to better
capitalize on a shift to cloud computing -- the notion of
delivering applications over the Web.  “They will probably remain in the penalty box until we get
more clarity about what’s going on,” Lamba said. The New York-
based analyst has a “buy” rating on HP shares, which he
doesn’t own.  HP, the world’s bigger computer maker, fell $4.64, or 9.6
percent, to $43.59 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have climbed 3.5 percent this
year.  Annual Sales  For the full year, HP cut its sales forecast to $131.5
billion on the high end, down from as much as $133.5 billion.
Analysts had estimated $133.1 billion. Excluding some costs,
earnings will be $5.20 to $5.28 a share, the company said. The
midpoint of that range was in line with projections.  HP, which gets about a third of its sales from Europe, the
Middle East and  Africa , was hurt by a slow recovery in that
region. It’s also working to fix quality problems with its
computers in  China , the company said.  Apotheker, who took over Nov. 1, will present his broader
strategy at an event in San Francisco on March 14. He has vowed
to rely more on research and development to reinvigorate growth.
That contrasts with former CEO  Mark Hurd , who cut costs to boost
profitability and stock performance during his five-year term.  Fiscal first-quarter net income rose 16 percent to $2.6
billion, or $1.17 a share, from $2.25 billion, or 93 cents, a
year earlier, the company said yesterday. Excluding some costs,
profit was $1.36 a share in the period, which ended Jan. 31.  Sales rose 3.8 percent to $32.3 billion. Analysts were
projecting profit of $1.29 and sales of $33 billion on average.  ‘Isolated Areas’  “We have isolated areas we need to improve,” Apotheker
said during a conference call with analysts. Sales of PCs to
consumers declined 12 percent in the first quarter, and total
personal systems group revenue fell 1 percent to $10.4 billion.  Services revenue dropped 2 percent to $8.61 billion.
Apotheker said that division had a “mixed performance” and
that the company would seek more lucrative cloud-computing
contracts.  Corporate PC sales remain strong, as customers replace
aging computers with newer models, Apotheker said. Even as HP
spends more on research and development, the company will keep a
“watchful eye” on expenses, he said.  “We are in the mid-innings, to use the American
expression,” said Apotheker, who worked in  Europe  before
joining HP. “This market still has some legs.”  Gartner Inc., a market research firm, forecasts that
worldwide PC shipments will  increase  almost 16 percent this year
to 409 million units.  Board Shake-Up  To put HP on a new course, Apotheker and Chairman  Ray Lane 
have shuffled the board and turned to acquisitions to expand in
software. They’re also aiming to strengthen HP’s hand in the
burgeoning markets for smartphones and tablet computers.  On Jan. 20, HP replaced four board members and added a new
director. The appointments include former EBay Inc. CEO  Meg Whitman  and former Alcatel-Lucent SA CEO  Patricia Russo .  On the acquisition front, HP purchased business-
intelligence software maker Vertica Feb. 14 for an undisclosed
amount. That followed a decision to discontinue the company’s
own data-analysis program, called NeoView. Vertica’s  customers 
include Twitter Inc., Zynga Inc. and Groupon Inc.  Later this year, HP will introduce a TouchPad tablet
computer based on the WebOS operating system, gained in last
year’s $1.2 billion acquisition of Palm Inc. The company
introduced new smartphones running the software on Feb. 9.  HP also is dealing with a flaw in new chips from  Intel
Corp ., the main supplier of PC processors. Earlier this month,
HP said it had stopped making computers with the chips and put a
hold on shipping affected inventory.  Investors shouldn’t take HP’s results and forecast as a
referendum on Apotheker’s performance after only a single
quarter, said Kaushik Roy, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles .  “It’s too early to point fingers,” said Roy, who has an
“outperform” rating on the shares and doesn’t own them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  