-- 
Pentagon Expands Role of Elite Commando Units in Hunting Terrorist Weapons

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-23T20:12:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/pentagon-boosts-commandos-role-in-hunting-for-weapons-of-mass-destruction.html
The U.S. Defense Department is
increasing funding and expanding the role of elite commando
units assigned to detect and neutralize weapons of mass
destruction, according to budget documents and an official.  The Pentagon proposes spending about $579 million in its
fiscal 2012-2016 plan on commando “counter-terrorism
technologies” to “detect, disable, interdict, neutralize and
destroy chemical, biological and nuclear production, storage and
weaponization facilities,” according to the  Defense Threat
Reduction Agency .  Requested funding is increased from $59.6 million in fiscal
2010 to $102 million this year and $117.7 million by 2016,
according to agency budget documents prepared for fiscal 2012.
The agency provides research and technology to counter weapons
of mass destruction.  Improving commando capabilities is part of a U.S. approach
to address WMD threats “in as many lines of defense as
possible” -- at the source through diplomacy, military
interdiction and destruction and homeland defense, DTRA Director
 Kenneth Myers  said today during a breakfast meeting with
reporters.  “Detection and interdiction in large part is potentially
going to be a Special Operations Command mission,” Myers said
of the Tampa, Florida-based command.  “It is a special relationship and one we take very
seriously,” he said. “They have a very unique operating
environment and thus the tools they need might be different. We
want to provide them more and better tools.”  ‘Tempest Edge’  Myers declined to elaborate on the tools and tactics for
the WMD hunt though the budget documents give some insight into
the classified mission. The documents don’t indicate whether the
technology is being developed to counter WMD programs and
facilities in  North Korea  and  Iran  or potential acquisitions by
terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda.  The fiscal 2012 plan calls for developing and fielding,
under the “Tempest Edge” program, “innovative counter-WMD
tools designed to locate, identify, assess and attack WMD
storage facilities with minimal to no collateral damage or loss
of life.”  It also calls for continuing efforts to assist commandos in
conducting “surreptitious ‘sensitive site’ exploitation of
high-priority WMD facilities through the use of highly effective
tools designed to defeat production systems and enabling
technologies.”  Commandos are being equipped to destroy “key entry points
while collapsing the structure or rendering it unusable.” Other
technologies are designed to locate and disarm “improvised WMD
systems,” according to fiscal 2012 budget documents.  Unreleased Directive  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , in an unreleased Dec. 2009
budget directive obtained by Bloomberg News, called for fully
funding “counter-terrorism research” that includes expanding
capabilities to disarm explosive devices “with a focus on
technologies” to “defeat” ultra-high performance concrete that
may be used to protect some sites.  Robert Martinage, then an analyst with the Washington,
D.C.-based Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, wrote
in a 2008  report  that only “select units” of the Pentagon
Joint Special Operations Command “are equipped and trained in
the requisite tactics, techniques and procedures” for conducting
“render safe” missions.  This command includes the Army First Operational
Detachment-Delta, or Delta Force, and the Navy’s counter-terror
unit, Seal Team Six.  Martinage until recently was principal deputy to the
Pentagon’s assistant secretary for special operations.  Former National Security Council counter-terrorism
strategist Michele Malvesti, in a June 2010  report  for the
Washington-based Center for a New American Security, a
nonpartisan research group, wrote “virtually no other military
component or U.S. department or agency has the ability to
conduct the full range of counter-proliferation missions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  