-- 
Pfizer Teams With India Brewmaster in Return to $14 Billion Insulin Market

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-02-24T10:41:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/pfizer-teams-with-india-brewmaster-in-return-to-14-billion-insulin-market.html
  Biocon Ltd . founder Kiran Mazumdar- Shaw learned the intricacies of enzymes while studying how to
make beer. Now  Pfizer Inc ., the world’s largest drugmaker, is
tapping that knowledge to revive its insulin business.  The biotechnology company that Mazumdar-Shaw started in her
garage in  1978  for about $1,200 is  Asia ’s biggest insulin maker,
with a market value of about $1.35 billion. The Bangalore,
India-based group signed a deal in October to supply Pfizer with
four generic insulin products in emerging markets, including
India and  Brazil , and then the U.S. and other developed nations.  Biocon received $200 million upfront from New York-based
Pfizer, which is re-entering the $14 billion global insulin
market almost four years after it scrapped its Exubera inhaler.  India ’s biggest drug-supply deal will help meet global demand
forecast by market researcher RNCOS to expand 20 percent a year
through 2015 as the number of diabetics tops  285 million .  “This is a perfect match,” said Ranjit Kapadia, vice
president of institutional research at HDFC Securities Ltd. in
Mumbai. “This deal will open up many more avenues for Biocon.
Pfizer gets a low-cost manufacturing base, and they just have to
market the products.”  Doubling Share  Pfizer likely will start selling Biocon’s insulin under its
own brand in the second half of this year, according to the U.S.
company. Biocon, India’s biggest biotechnology firm, posted a 25
percent gain in third-quarter profit to $22 million as sales for
the period ending Dec. 31 rose 15 percent.  The company’s stock soared about 52 percent last year,
beating the 34 percent increase in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
18-member Healthcare index. Biocon is down 27 percent to 306.85
rupees this year, as the benchmark Sensex has lost 14 percent on
concerns government measures to quell inflation will hamper
economic growth.  Some of Biocon’s domestic products are subject to state
price controls. It had 4 percent of India’s $168 million insulin
market last year, according to IMS Health Information and
Consulting Services India Pvt. in Mumbai. The Pfizer deal may
boost that to 10 percent by value by 2015, said Priti Arora, a
pharmaceutical analyst at Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  Biocon’s best-selling  drugs  are statins to reduce
cholesterol. It also makes drugs for  heart disease  and cancer,
with most of its revenue coming from generics.  Malting and Brewing  “Insulin will become their biggest revenue generator after
this deal,” said Siddhant Khandekar, a pharmaceutical analyst
at ICICIdirect in Mumbai.  Biocon, which employs more than 5,300 people, makes insulin
in its factory, Asia’s largest, in Bangalore. Mazumdar-Shaw and
family members control 61 percent of the company, according to
stock exchange filings, and she is India’s fourth-richest woman
with a net worth of $900 million, Forbes magazine reported in
September.  Mazumdar-Shaw, 57, found her inspiration for starting
Biocon in beer. Her father was a brewmaster at India’s  United
Breweries Ltd . and crafted Kingfisher, the nation’s No. 1 beer.  After graduating from Bangalore University with a zoology
degree, Mazumdar-Shaw told her father she wanted to pursue a
career in applied sciences. He suggested making beer.  “I said, my God, why would I want to do brewing?” she
said. “He said, ‘Don’t look down on brewing. Look at it as a
science.’”  She moved to  Australia  in 1974 and enrolled in what is now
the  University of Ballarat , outside  Melbourne , to study malting
and brewing. She was a trainee brewer at Carlton & United
Beverages, which eventually became part of  Foster’s Group Ltd .  ‘Fend for Myself’  Mazumdar-Shaw didn’t drink alcohol before going to
Australia, and she was the only woman in the class. She
graduated in 1975 as the top student and became India’s first
female brewmaster.  “Going to Australia was quite a transformational phase of
my life,” she said. “I’d led a very protected and charmed life
in India, and suddenly I had to fend for myself.”  When she returned home, breweries wouldn’t hire her because
they feared she couldn’t handle the odd shifts and male-
dominated workers’ unions, she said.  Mazumdar-Shaw then met Les Auchincloss of enzyme-maker
Biocon Biochemicals Ltd. of Ireland, and he asked her to help
him start an India subsidiary supplying brewers, packaged-food
companies and fruit-juice makers.  She  incorporated  Biocon India on Nov. 29, 1978, in her
garage in Bangalore and used a rented, 3,000-square-foot shed
nearby as her factory. Her first employee was a car mechanic.  ‘Alarm Bells’  “It was like a kitchen-sink operation,” she said. “I had
a real problem getting people to work for me because I was a
woman.”  The next year, Biocon started exporting enzymes to the  U.S. 
and  Europe , according to its website. Mazumdar-Shaw then
realized that the same processes that make enzymes for beer --
growing microbes in large vats under precise temperatures and
pressures -- could be applied to making medicines. Insulin, a
hormone, can be made synthetically in a similar process.  “I could actually leverage all that I had done for enzymes
and start applying it to biopharmaceuticals,” she said.  By 1996, the company entered the generic statin business.
Mazumdar-Shaw saw an opportunity in India after learning that
most insulin there was made by foreign companies.  “That all sort-of rung a lot of alarm bells in my mind,”
she said. “I said, hey, this is the space I should be in.”  Failed Trial  Biocon introduced  Insugen  in 2004 and now has a  10 percent 
share of the Indian market for insulin made from recombinant
human DNA, the company said.  About 90 percent of diabetics worldwide have the Type 2
variety, in which insulin is unable to regulate sugar in the
blood. Type 1, once known as insulin-dependent or childhood-
onset diabetes, is caused by the body’s failure to produce
enough insulin.  Biocon is developing an insulin pill, called IN-105, which
Mazumdar-Shaw said in 2005 could be a “blockbuster” because of
its convenience over injections. The drug failed in trials to
meet its primary goal for controlling blood-sugar levels, the
company said Jan. 10.  Biocon will continue developing it, Mazumdar-Shaw said.  Pfizer took a $2.8 billion charge in 2007 after
discontinuing sales of its Exubera insulin inhaler amid
complaints about its size and cost. Novo Nordisk A/S,  Eli Lilly
& Co . and  Sanofi-Aventis SA  sell more than 90 percent of insulin
globally by value, said Henrik Simonsen, a pharmaceutical
analyst for SEB Enskilda in Copenhagen.  Kindler Meeting  Pfizer started negotiating with Biocon after former Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Kindler met Mazumdar-Shaw at a San
Francisco conference in January 2010. The deal was announced Oct.
18.  Biocon will supply four generic versions of existing
insulin products, including those made by Novo Nordisk, Eli
Lilly and Sanofi-Aventis. Pfizer has exclusive rights to market
the insulin globally except in India,  Germany  and  Malaysia ,
where Biocon also can sell it.  “It is one of the most significant deals for Biocon and
one of the landmark deals in the Indian generic space,” said
Hemant Bakhru, an analyst with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  