-- 
Philippine Peso Gains on Speculation Drop Overdone; Bonds Fall

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-02-23T08:49:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/philippine-peso-gains-on-speculation-drop-overdone-bonds-fall.html
The Philippine peso rose for the
first time in three days as some investors took advantage of
declines triggered by unrest in the Middle East to buy the
currency.  Government bonds  fell.  The peso has retreated 0.5 percent since Feb. 18 following
a 1.1 percent weekly advance that marked it’s best performance
in five months. Today’s rebound was modest because of concern
instability in countries including Libya, Egypt and Bahrain will
drive up the cost of crude oil imported by the Philippines and
curb remittances from Filipinos living in the region, according
to Marcelo Ayes, a Manila-based senior vice president at Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp.  The dollar is having “a small pullback, a mini
correction,” said Ayes. “The market is still wary. We are
dependent on imported oil. There’s also the threat to
remittances” as workers in the Middle East may have to be
evacuated, he said.  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to close at 43.553 per dollar
in  Manila , according to prices from inter-dealer broker Tullett
Prebon Plc. The currency may trade between 43.50 and 44 this
week, Ayes said.  Filipinos working overseas sent home $1.69 billion in
December, 8.1 percent more than a year earlier, according to
official data this month. Remittances account for about a 10th
of the economy.  The political turmoil in the Middle East is not expected to
have “any serious impact on the peso and remittances at this
point, but we’re monitoring the situation because the bulk of
remittances” are from this region, central bank Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  told reporters in Manila today.  The yield on the 7 percent bond due January 2016 increased
2.5 basis points, or 0.025 percentage point, to 6.125 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 