-- 
Polish Retail Sales Increase More Slowly on Higher VAT Rate, New Holiday

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-02-23T14:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/polish-january-retail-sales-increase-more-slowly-on-higher-value-added-tax.html
Polish retail sales growth slowed in
January after an increase in value-added taxes drove up prices
and a new public holiday kept shoppers away.  Retail sales rose an annual 5.8 percent after a 12 percent
increase in December, the  Central Statistical Office  reported in
Warsaw today. The median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for an increase of 8.5 percent. Sales plunged 28.6
percent on the month.  “This January was really bad,” Dariusz Milek, chief
executive officer of  NG2 SA , Poland’s largest shoe retailer,
said at a Feb. 17 press conference. “Our results are usually
pretty lousy in January and February, but this year we had the
added effect of a new public holiday, which extended the holiday
break by almost a week.”  Slowing consumer demand may fuel the arguments of central
bankers who oppose increasing borrowing costs next week after
raising the benchmark interest rate in January for the first
time since mid-2008.  Narodowy Bank Polski Governor Marek Belka said on Feb. 21
the central bank should be “moderate” in its response to
inflation as long as there are no “clear signals” of increased
pressure on wages. Wage growth slowed to 5 percent in January
from 5.4 percent in December.  Poland’s jobless rate rose to 13 percent in January, the
highest since March, the statistics office said in a separate
release, matching the median estimate of 20 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Economy Minister Waldemar Pawlak blamed the central bank
for boosting unemployment by tightening monetary policy. The
Monetary Policy Council raised the benchmark seven-day rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3.75 percent in January, the
first increase since June 2008, and signaled it was the
beginning of rate increases.  “We’re seeing a well-known correlation here when overly
high interest rates cause higher unemployment,” Pawlak told
reporters in Warsaw today. “Inflation isn’t rising for domestic
reasons and raising interest rates at this point could greatly
complicate matters, also in connection with unemployment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  