-- 
Potbellied Nudes, Venuses Crowd Cranach Show in Paris: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-02-23T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/potbellied-nudes-venuses-crowd-cranach-exhibit-in-paris-jorg-von-uthmann.html
They call him “the Warhol of the
Renaissance.”  Lucas Cranach’s studio in Wittenberg -- where he, his sons
and assistants churned out painting after painting -- was
nothing short of a factory.  The Cranach exhibition at the  Musee du Luxembourg ,
recently on view in Brussels, is the first ever in Paris.  Like many Renaissance artists, Cranach (1472-1553) was
named after his birthplace, Kronach near Bayreuth. His real
name was Mueller or Sunder.  Much of his early career is shrouded in mystery. For a
couple of years, he worked in Vienna, making a name with
powerful biblical scenes. In 1505, Frederick the Wise, elector
of Saxony, appointed him court painter in Wittenberg where he
spent the rest of his life.  The name of the town will ring a bell with Lutherans:
This is where Martin Luther, professor of theology at the
local university, nailed his 95 Theses to the door of the
Castle Church, attacking Rome’s trade in indulgences and
thereby kicking off the Reformation.  The artist befriended the young rebel. Luther was the
godfather of his eldest daughter. When Luther married the
lapsed nun Katharina von Bora, Cranach was his best man.  Cranach became the official painter of the secessionist
movement. He portrayed its leaders and gladly depicted the
pope as the Antichrist.  Art and Business  That didn’t prevent him from also working for Luther’s
archenemy, Cardinal Albrecht von Brandenburg. Cranach was a
shrewd businessman, who never passed up an opportunity to make
money. He ran a printing house and, on the lower floor of his
home, a pub. When the local pharmacy went up for sale, he
bought it. For some time, he was mayor of Wittenberg.  A considerable number of the 80 or so items in the show -
- paintings, drawings and engravings -- were produced for
customers who cared less for the religious quarrels of the
period than for female nudes, biblical or not.  Experts have counted 31 Eves, 32 Venuses and 35 Lucretias
among Cranach’s output. A couple of them are on view in Paris,
some juxtaposed with similar works of contemporary painters.  Cranach’s ideal of female beauty was a highly personal
mix of medieval reserve and Renaissance come-hither
sensuality. Their little bellies, though well below Rubensian
proportions, would no longer be chic today.  Renaissance Fashionistas  When he dressed his ladies, he did it with an exuberance
that made him, in the words of the art historian Kenneth
Clark, “the patron saint of all fashion designers.”  One of the strangest canvases in the show depicts the
wrestling match between Hercules and Antaeus. Not only does
Hercules sport a three-day beard; the defeated giant dies in
the contorted posture of a swastika.  The inscription on Cranach’s tomb in Weimar calls him
“Pictor Celerrimus,” or Fastest of Painters. It’s an elegant
way to say his later work often has an assembly-line feel,
like Warhol’s. Still, there’s much to admire in this show.  “Cranach and His Time” is at the Musee du Luxembourg,
Paris, through May 23. Information:
 http://www.museeduluxembourg.fr  or +33-1-4013-6200.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 