-- 
Pound Climbs as BOE's Dale Joins Sentance, Weale in Seeking Rate Increase

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-23T18:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/pound-climbs-as-boe-s-dale-joins-sentance-weale-in-seeking-rate-increase.html
The pound rallied to an almost
three-week high against the dollar and two-year gilts fell as
minutes of the  Bank of England ’s February meeting showed a third
policy maker voted to raise  interest rates  to curb inflation.  Sterling extended its advance this year against a basket of
nine developed-market peers to 3.1 percent as measured by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, and traders
increased bets that borrowing costs will climb. Central bank
policy maker Spencer Dale joined  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale  in voting to boost rates, according to the minutes of the
Feb. 10 meeting published today in London.  A strong pound “could continue for the next six months to
a year,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a Geneva-based market
strategist at ACM Advanced Currency Markets, which handles about
$150 billion of currency trades a month.  The pound appreciated as much as 0.9 percent to $1.6274,
the highest since Feb. 3, before trading 0.4 percent stronger at
$1.6192 as of 6:18 p.m. in  London . The U.K. currency weakened
0.3 percent to 84.85 pence per euro.  Calls to lift borrowing costs for the first time since July
2007 are intensifying after inflation remained above the central
bank’s 2 percent target for more than a year. Consumer-price
growth accelerated to 4 percent last month, a Feb. 15 report
showed. Dale and Weale voted for a 25 basis-point increase in
the main rate, from a record low 0.5 percent, while Sentance
voted for 50 basis points, today’s minutes showed.  Hawkishness Increasing  “People weren’t really expecting Sentance be so
aggressive,” Gregory said.  Of the five members of the Monetary Policy Committee that
voted for no increase in the benchmark rate “some thought that
the case for an increase had nevertheless grown in strength,”
according to the minutes. Governor  Mervyn King  said at a press
conference last week that market expectations of higher
borrowing costs were overdone.  Two-year notes fell for a second day, lifting yields by
three basis points to 1.53 percent after reaching 1.56 percent,
the highest level in more than a week. The 4.5 percent security
due March 2013 fell 0.06, or 60 pence per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 105.925. Ten-year yields, typically less sensitive to
short-term rate expectations, fell one basis point to 3.68
percent.  Short Sterling  U.K. debt has lost 1.6 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. The German bond index fell 1.2
percent, with  U.S. Treasuries  losing 0.4 percent.  Money markets signal policy makers will probably raise the
key rate by about 75 basis points by year-end, according to the
sterling overnight index average, Tullett Prebon Plc data show.
The so-called Sonia rate indicates an increase of about 25 basis
points in May, another quarter point by August and a third by
November.  The implied yield on the December short-sterling futures
contract jumped three basis points to 1.76 percent. It rose to
1.82 percent, the highest level this year, as traders added to
bets that U.K. borrowing costs will rise. The yield was 1.25
percent at the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  