-- 
Qaddafi's Son Bankrolls `Mafia Killer' Movie While Father Clings to Power

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-02-23T08:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/qaddafi-s-son-bankrolls-mafia-killer-movie-while-father-clings-to-power.html
Al-Saadi Qaddafi, the son of Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi , may manage to keep his Hollywood
investment business going even as his father fights off a
rebellion at home.  Al-Saadi, a 37-year-old former professional soccer player,
has invested in a $100 million Los Angeles-based film production
fund called Natural Selection, founded by Matty Beckerman. He
may be able to continue to push film productions for that fund
as his father struggles to contain a revolt in  Libya  that has
left hundreds dead.  “This son is quiet and legitimate and less political than
his father,” said Wendy Mitchell, head of news at London-based
film trade magazine  Screen International . “It’s hard to get
money to invest in films so I’m not sure people would
necessarily go the other way. They were doing good business
before all this happened.”  Natural Selection is producing “The Ice Man: Confessions
of a Mafia Contract Killer,” with  Mickey Rourke  in the lead.
The fund is also backing “Isolation,” a thriller with Susan Sarandon’s daughter, Eva Amurri. While the Qaddafi connection
raised eyebrows when Al-Saadi announced in 2009 that he was
getting into Hollywood, the crisis in Libya may not sway
investors and actors from taking on films backed by his fund.  The fund is slated to produce 20 films over a five-year
period, Mitchell said.  Low Profile  Al-Saadi has kept a low profile during the recent protests
in Libya. In contrast, his brother Saif al-Islam this week
threatened that “rivers of blood” would flow unless the
uprising ends.  Libya’s Qaddafi vowed yesterday to fight a growing
rebellion until his “last drop of blood” and pledged to deploy
the army and police to impose order. He said he’s the leader of
a revolution that requires “sacrifice until the end of life”
and said rebels had been drugged and the “masterminds” behind
the uprising were abroad.  Qaddafi’s crackdown on a weeklong unrest -- following
similar turmoil in Tunisia and  Egypt , whose leaders were toppled
-- has already left more than 200 dead, according to  Human
Rights Watch .  “I really don’t have a comment on this,” Natural
Selection’s founder Beckerman said when reached by telephone in
L.A. yesterday about the uprising in Libya and its possible
impact on the fund.  Al-Saadi, who played soccer professionally, was suspended
by the Italian Olympic Committee for using steroids in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 