-- 
Qaddafi Is No Mubarak as Regime Overthrow May Trigger a `Descent to Chaos'

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-02-23T22:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/qaddafi-is-no-mubarak-overthrow-may-mean-descent-to-chaos-.html
  Muammar Qaddafi  may leave Libya
without a way of avoiding further bloodshed.  After protesters forced out the leaders of Tunisia and
Egypt, both countries had constitutions that laid out the
transfer of power to caretakers who are now negotiating a path
to greater democracy. Libya, where Qaddafi has ruled since his
coup overthrew the monarchy in 1969, has no constitution and
political parties and unions have been banned for 35 years.  “If Qaddafi goes, there will be an enormous vacuum, not
just politically, but also socially and economically,”
 Diederick Vandewalle , a professor at  Dartmouth College  in  New
Hampshire , said by telephone. “There’s no organization that
could interact between the government and the protesters.”    Libya , home of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, may be set
for a longer and bloodier period of unrest than its neighbors as
Qaddafi, the world’s longest serving non-royal leader, clings to
power and no alternative leader emerges.  Already 300 people have died in the latest wave of
political protests to sweep the Arab world, according to a
Libyan foreign ministry official on state-run television. The
regime used machine guns and air power in an effort to quash
the rebellion.  “A further descent into chaos is a real possibility,”
said  Ettore Greco , director of the International Affairs
Institute in  Rome . “Qaddafi’s repressive regime was of a
totally different scale than that of Tunisia and  Egypt .”  ‘Artificial Creation’  While Qaddafi created a regime that he said gave power to
the people through so-called Popular Committees of ordinary
Libyans, the country lacks a political class or group of army
officers who can take power like in Egypt.  Qaddafi holds no official title and is referred to as
Brother Leader or Guide of the Revolution.  Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11 ceded power to
the military, which suspended the constitution and dissolved
parliament, saying it will rule for six months or until
elections are held.  The lack of a national identity also complicates matters.
In 1934,  Italy  merged three Ottoman provinces it had seized in
1911. The country became independent in 1951 under King Idris,
whose support was mostly in the east. Qaddafi overthrew Idris to
take power almost 42 years ago.  “Libya was a very artificial creation,” Vandewalle said.
“The lack of identity has never been solved.”  Tribal Question  Leaders of Libya’s more than 100 tribes could be the only
way out of the crisis, said Ronald Bruce St. John, an author of
three books about Libya, including  “Libya: Continuity and
Change”  published this month.  “Tribal affiliation has become important because Qaddafi
destroyed civil society in Libya as we know it,” St. John said.
“If this movement continues to gain speed and it overturns the
regime, the tribes will try to create a new political system.”  Tribes, though, are no substitute for a political process,
said Shashank Joshi, associate fellow at London-based  Royal
United Services Institute .  “It’s difficult to have a real democratic process when
people vote along tribal grounds, as we have seen in some
African countries,” Joshi said.  Prison or Death  Freedom House , a Washington-based foundation that tracks
rights around the world, annually divides 194 countries into 13
rankings based on political, media and economic liberties.  In the 2010 rankings, Libya was in the bottom group of nine
countries, along with  North Korea  and  Burma . Tunisia and  Iran 
were ranked two grades above Libya; Egypt, Yemen and  Algeria 
three grades above; and Morocco six.  “Power theoretically lies with a system of people’s
committees and the indirectly elected General People’s Congress,
but in practice those structures are manipulated to ensure the
continued dominance of Muammar al-Qaddafi,” Freedom House said
in its last annual report. “Organizing or joining anything akin
to a political party is punishable by long prison terms and even
the death sentence. There is no independent press. There are no
independent labor unions.”  Libya’s stunted civic society is matched by an
underdeveloped economy. While sanctions imposed in the aftermath
of the 1988 Lockerbie bombing were lifted in 2003, the country
is still overly dependent on energy, says the  International
Monetary Fund .  Libya is “one of the least diversified oil-producing
countries in the Middle East,” the Washington-based lender said
in an October 2010 report. Oil accounts for 90 percent of
government revenue and 95 percent of exports.  Starting in the late 1970s, private companies were taken
over by popular committees, said  Paul Sullivan , a professor at
Washington-based National Defense University. In March 1980,
citizens were given one month to turn in all their cash in a
short-lived campaign to “de-monetize” the economy.  “This and other really whacky policies led to the
destruction of the Libyan economy,” Sullivan said.  With army units defecting and eastern cities slipping out
of Qaddafi’s control, Libya is casting Tunisia and Egypt in a
better light as popular protests swept their leaders from
control.  “It’s a pervasive intrusive regime that left no room for
the sort of civil society that took up the relay in those
countries,” said Greco at the International Affairs Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  