-- 
Rand Gains as Gordhan, Marcus Indicate Appreciation is No Longer a Concern

-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 
2011-02-23T16:04:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/rand-gains-on-bets-investors-will-reward-gordhan-budget-deficit-reduction.html
The rand gained to a four-week high
as central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  and Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  indicated they were no longer worried about the rand’s
gains. Gordan signaled he was more concerned about depreciation.  The rand climbed as much as 1.4 percent to 7.0592 per
dollar, making it today’s best performer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and traded 0.8 percent stronger
at 7.1047 at 5:38 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the euro, the
rand lost 0.2 percent to 9.7918 after earlier rising as much as
0.8 percent.  A sharp depreciation in the rand may undermine the
economy’s stability and boost inflation, Gordhan said. Both
Gordhan and Marcus on Oct. 27 told reporters the rand was
“overvalued” and was hurting the economy. “The objective for us
is to address the volatility of the currency and we do not
target a particular rate of exchange,” Marcus told reporters in
Cape Town today before the release of the National Treasury’s
budget.  “Marcus’s comments imply that it’s business as usual for
the  Reserve Bank ,”  George Glynos , managing director of
Econometrix Treasury Management, said in a telephone interview
today. “It comes down to focusing on reserves.”  The rand rallied 42 percent against the dollar in the two
years through December 2010 as near-zero  interest rates  in
developed nations encouraged investors to borrow in those
nations’ currencies and invest in markets like  South Africa ,
whose 5.5 percent benchmark interest rate compares with deposit
returns as low as 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the
U.S. The rand’s rally prompted manufacturers and the Congress of
South African Trade Unions to call for measures to weaken the
rand, which they say is hurting growth in the economy and jobs.  Rand Risk  The rand slumped 7.6 percent against the dollar in January,
its biggest monthly drop since October 2008, as unrest in North
Africa curbed demand for riskier, emerging-market assets and the
central bank stepped up purchases of foreign currency to add to
reserves.  “Overly rapid  currency depreciation  carries risks to
macroeconomic stability,” Gordhan told lawmakers in Cape Town
today. “Changes in the volume and direction of capital flows
may be significant over the year ahead, and are largely beyond
our control or influence.”  Inflation, which the central bank aims to keep within a
range of 3 percent to 6 percent, reached a six-month high of 3.7
percent in January, and is forecast to average 4.9 percent this
year and 5.2 percent in 2012, the Treasury said.  Deficit Forecasts  Gordhan surprised analysts by projecting a budget deficit
of 5.3 percent for the fiscal year through March 2012, the same
as the ministry’s estimate for the current year. In October,
Gordhan forecast a deficit of 4.6 percent. Deficit estimates for
the following two years are also higher, he told lawmakers in  Cape Town  today. The median forecast of 14 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a shortfall of 4.7 percent in the next
financial year.    Government bonds  declined for a third day, with the 13.5
percent security due September 2015 losing 20 cents to 121.439
rand. The yield climbed 4 basis points to at 7.813 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 