-- 
Rand's Sharp Weakening Risking Economic Stability, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-23T12:02:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/rand-s-sharp-weakening-risks-economic-stability-minister-gordhan-says.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said a sharp depreciation in the rand may
undermine the economy’s stability and boost inflation, departing
from comments last year suggesting the rand was overvalued.  “Overly rapid  currency depreciation  carries risks to
macroeconomic stability,” Gordhan said today in his budget
speech to Parliament in Cape Town. “Changes in the volume and
direction of capital flows may be significant over the year
ahead, and are largely beyond our control or influence.”  The rand has weakened 7 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of this year as political unrest in North  Africa 
roiled international markets, reducing investors’ appetite for
riskier, emerging-market assets. That is adding to price
pressures as food and oil costs climb. Inflation, which the
central bank aims to keep within a range of 3 percent to 6
percent, reached a six-month high of 3.7 percent in January.  “We expect the governor of the  Reserve Bank  to be vigilant
in monitoring inflationary pressures and ensuring that monetary
policy is effective in meeting our inflation targets,” Gordhan
said. “The credibility of monetary policy in achieving our
target inflation range, combined with our commitment to fiscal
discipline, are important foundations for moderating exchange
rate volatility.”  Rand Performance  The rand was the second-best performing currency against
the dollar in the two years since the start of 2009, gaining 42
percent and reducing the competitiveness of exports. Foreign
investors pumped a net 92 billion rand ($12.9 billion) into
South African stocks and bonds last year.  Gordhan and Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  previously
said the rand was overvalued, and the central bank increased
foreign currency purchases last year to curb its gains.  The  National Treasury  forecast that inflation will
accelerate to average 4.9 percent in 2011, 5.2 percent in 2012
and 5.5 percent in the year after that.  Marcus left the benchmark interest rate unchanged at a 30-
year low of 5.5 percent in January, as food and oil prices
increased, after lowering it three times last year. Inflation
may reach the top end of the target sooner than expected if
these prices continue to climb, Marcus said on Feb. 4.  Low interest rates have helped to spur  consumer spending 
and growth in Africa’s biggest economy, which will probably
reach 3.4 percent in 2011, compared with 3.5 percent forecast in
the October mid-term budget. Growth will probably accelerate to
4.1 percent in 2012 and 4.4 percent in 2013, the Treasury said.    Government spending  on infrastructure, such as power plants
and railways, is expected to reach 808.6 billion rand over the
next three years, helping to support economic growth.  The state is also spending 73 billion rand over the next
three years on its expanded public works program, which includes
expenditure on infrastructure and community projects, to help
boost temporary jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 