-- 
RBA’s Stevens Says Mining Boom Challenges Policy Makers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 
2011-02-23T03:54:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/rba-s-stevens-says-mining-boom-challenges-policy-makers-1-.html
  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens said mining investment may rise as much as 2
percent of gross domestic product in the next few years, a
windfall that challenges policy makers to ensure the boom
doesn’t turn to bust.  “With a large boost to income, we need to think about the
balance between saving and spending, because we do not know the
permanent level of the terms of trade,” Stevens said in the
text of a  speech  in  Melbourne  today. “I argue for erring on the
side of saving for the time being, and I think this is by and
large what is happening so far.”  Australia is undergoing its biggest mining investment boom
since the 19th century to meet rising demand for the nation’s  iron ore  and coal. The RBA has boosted its benchmark interest
rate seven times from October 2009 to November 2010 to 4.75
percent to contain inflation as the boom bolsters employment
growth and spurs the local currency.  In his prepared remarks, Stevens said he wasn’t trying to
“convey any messages about monetary policy,” and the speech
focused on the lessons of previous mining expansions. The
governor said today that one difference this time around is that
the country has a flexible  exchange rate .  The RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases have driven
Australia’s currency to parity with the  U.S. dollar . In
contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main interest
rate near zero since December 2008.  Rate Differentials  “Interest differentials have recently strongly favored the
Australian dollar because of the persistence of extremely low
rates in all of the world’s major financial centers,” Stevens
said. “Moreover, the expectation that relatively high returns
will be earned on real capital in Australia -- in mining for
example -- is a powerful factor influencing capital flows.”  For Australia, an exporter of iron ore and coal mined
mostly from states in the country’s north and west, trade is
helping propel growth even as consumers hunker down.  “The main thing we don’t know is how long the boom will
last,” he said.    China  Policy  The governor, responding to questions from the audience
after the speech, said China is tightening policy “with a
little more determination maybe now than we saw last year.”
China has raised rates three times since mid-October and a
report last week showed the nation’s inflation exceeded the
government’s 2011 target for a fourth month, escalating pressure
on the central bank to keep increasing borrowing costs.  “We should expect to see China begin to slow down and we
all have a big stake in them managing that process as smoothly
as possible,” Stevens said.  The RBA this month raised its forecast for 2011 growth to
4.25 percent, from a November prediction of 3.75 percent, when
measured from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the final three
months of this year.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion ($30 billion), are proceeding near the Queensland port
of Gladstone.  Santos Ltd ., Australia’s third-largest oil
producer, and BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas
producer, will start hiring the first of more than 10,000
construction workers needed for the two projects later this
year.  Income Growth  Australia “should not assume that the recent pace of
national income growth is a good estimate of the likely
sustainable pace,” Stevens said. “We should allow a good deal
of the income growth to flow into saving in the near term. We
can always consume some of that income later if income stays
high, but it is harder to cut back absorption that rises in
anticipation of income gains that do not materialize.”  The governor addressed a question on whether  Australia 
should establish a stabilization fund to collect extra revenue
generated during periods of high commodity prices that can be
tapped when they fall.  “My view would be that is an option worth thinking
about,” he said.  Stevens earlier this month held the benchmark rate for a
second straight meeting. In testimony to a parliamentary panel
last week, Stevens signaled little urgency about raising rates
in the near term.  “We’re ahead of the game, which is where you want to be,
and that’s the thing that affords you periods of sitting,
waiting and watching,” he told lawmakers in Canberra on Feb.
11. “Sometimes, they can be reasonably lengthy periods.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  