-- 
Treasury Notes Decline on Concern Refuge Appeal of U.S. Debt May Be Waning

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-23T21:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/treasury-notes-fall-before-u-s-government-s-35-billion-five-year-auction.html
Treasury notes dropped as the
$35 billion government auction of five-year debt drew lower
demand than forecast, raising concern the refuge appeal of U.S.
securities may be waning.  Benchmark 10-year securities rose earlier, pushing the
yield to a three-week low on speculation a jump in crude  oil
prices  over violent protests in Libya will slow the economic
recovery. U.S. notes erased gains as the sale of five-year debt
drew the lowest level of participation since November from a
group of investors including foreign central banks.  “It’s a bit surprising that there wasn’t stronger demand
at the auction when the geopolitical platform indicates you
probably want the safety of Treasuries,” said Bulent Baygun,
head of interest-rate strategy in New York at BNP Paribas SA,
one of the 20 primary dealers obligated to participate in
government debt sales. “It’s perhaps the sentiment shared by a
lot of other people.”  Yields on current five-year notes gained three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.17 percent at 4:13 p.m.
in  New York , according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2 percent
security maturing in January 2016 dropped 5/32, or $1.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 7/32.  At today’s auction, the five-year notes drew a yield of
2.190 percent, compared with the average forecast of 2.170
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 6 primary dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.69,
compared with an average of 2.79 at the previous 10 sales.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 34.2 percent of the notes, the lowest
since November, when they took home 31.5 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 7.7 percent of the
notes, compared with the 10-sale average of 11.2 percent.  “We had a sloppy auction, with the Street ending up with
more paper than they would like,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “There wasn’t much setup because of
the flight-to-quality bid we’ve seen. Without the concession
there was a belief that we would see a strong auction.”  At yesterday’s $35 billion sale of two-year notes, the bid-
to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, was 3.03, the least since May.
The U.S. will sell $29 billion of seven-year debt tomorrow in
the last note sale of the week.  Benchmark Yield  Yields on 10-year notes gained three basis points to 3.49
percent after dropping earlier to 3.43 percent, the lowest level
since Feb. 2. Yesterday the yield slid 13 basis points, the
biggest drop since June 4. The yield rose on Feb. 9 to 3.77
percent, the highest level since April 2010.  Crude oil for April delivery rose 2.8 percent to $98.10 a
barrel in New York trading today after touching $100, the
highest level since October 2008. Futures are up 24 percent from
a year ago.  Oil gained as governments rushed to evacuate thousands of
expatriates from  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-biggest crude supplier.
Army units defected, and a former aide to  Muammar Qaddafi  warned
that the revolt may topple the regime within days. Qaddafi vowed
yesterday to fight a rebellion until his “last drop of blood.”  The two-year break-even rate, the difference in yield
between regular and inflation-indexed securities, reached 2.22
percentage points today, the widest since July 2008.  TIPS Returns  TIPS have returned 0.2 percent this year, versus a 0.4
percent loss for conventional Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The 30-year bond yield dropped two basis points to 4.58
percent after the Fed purchased Treasuries maturing from August
2028 to February 2041 as part of its plan to buy $600 billion in
debt to keep the U.S. recovery on track.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in a
Birmingham, Alabama, speech that an early end to the central
bank’s plan to purchase debt may be required to help limit
inflation pressures.  The world economy can withstand the surge in oil prices
sparked by unrest in the Middle East and North Africa as long as
the increase proves short-lived, said the International Monetary
Fund’s No. 2 official, echoing Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “It’s unlikely it would make a substantial change in the
global economic outlook,”  John Lipsky , the IMF’s first deputy
managing director, told Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.”   Purchases of existing homes unexpectedly rose 2.7 percent
in January to a 5.36 million annual rate after a revised 12.5
percent gain in December. The median forecast of 73 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.1 percent decrease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  