-- 
Treasuries Snap Rally as U.S. Prepares to Auction Five-, Seven-Year Notes

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-23T12:13:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/treasuries-decline-as-u-s-prepares-to-sell-35-billion-of-five-year-notes.html
Treasuries fell following gains
yesterday that pushed the 10-year yield down the most in eight
months as the U.S. prepared to sell $35 billion of five-year
notes today and $29 billion of seven-year debt tomorrow.  The difference in yields on two-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, was the widest in 31 months as oil gained
on concern violence in  Libya  will disrupt supplies. Reports this
week will show improvement in durable-goods orders while home
sales fell, according to Bloomberg surveys.  “With the five-years and the seven-years still coming up,
the market doesn’t really want to break a lot lower than this,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London, referring to yields. “Do Treasuries
offer a return that is attractive to investors? Not yet.”  Ten-year yields increased three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.49 percent at 7:13 a.m. in  New York ,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625 percent security
maturing in February 2021 dropped 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 3/32. The yield slid yesterday 13 basis points,
the most since June 4.  The yield on 10-year securities touched a 10-month high of
3.77 percent on Feb. 9, before escalating political tension in
North Africa and the Middle East boosted demand for safety.  Note Sale  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 2.219 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.041 percent at the
previous offering on Jan. 26. Investors bid for 2.97 times the
amount on sale last month, more than the average of 2.79 for the
past 10 auctions. Indirect bidders, which include foreign
central banks, bought 45 percent, compared with the 10-sale
average of 42.4 percent.  At yesterday’s $35 billion auction of two-year notes, the
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 3.03, the least since
May, compared with an average of 3.40 at the past 10 sales.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed yesterday to fight a
rebellion until his “last drop of blood” as army units
defected and a former aide said his regime may crumble within
days. Oil rose to its highest level in more than two years as
the deadly uprising threatened to disrupt exports.  There will be “higher inflation and lower growth because
of higher  oil prices ,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund. El-Erian, who is based in  Newport
Beach ,  California , spoke yesterday in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Tom Keene  on the “Surveillance Midday” program.  Break-Even Rate  The two-year break-even rate, the difference in yield
between regular and inflation-indexed securities, reached 2.14
percentage points, the widest since July 2008.  “It’s all about energy at the moment, and should the
tensions continue to escalate, we’re likely to continue to see
front-end break-evens rising,” fixed-income strategists at BNP
Paribas SA wrote in an e-mailed report dated today. “The rally
should be used to build strategic short positions, as per our
long-term forecast for higher yields, but in the very near term
we would be wary.” A short position is a bet prices will fall.  Durable-goods bookings increased 2.9 percent last month
after a 2.3 percent decrease in December, according to the
median forecast of 75 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey before
tomorrow’s Commerce Department report.  While growth prospects are improving, the Federal Reserve
shouldn’t hurry to end an eased monetary policy, according to  Charles Evans , the president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  Chicago , the Financial Times reported.  Evans’s View  Evans wouldn’t favor a policy tightening until there is
strong  consumer spending  and business investment as well as
evidence that companies are taking on more staff, the FT
reported, citing an interview.  Sales of existing homes fell 1.1 percent in January to a
5.2 million annual pace, economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast before today’s figures from the National Association of
Realtors.  The Fed is  scheduled  to buy $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion of
Treasuries maturing from August 2028 to February 2041 today as
part of its plan to purchase $600 billion in debt to keep  interest rates  low and spur growth.  TIPS have returned 0.2 percent this year, versus a 0.4
percent loss for conventional Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  