-- 
Resolution Has a ‘High Threshold’ for Future Acquisitions

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-02-23T09:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/resolution-has-a-high-threshold-for-future-acquisitions-2-.html
  Resolution Ltd ., the U.K.’s biggest
insurance buyout firm, said it will have a “high threshold”
for future acquisitions after setting performance targets for
the three businesses it already owns.  Resolution will achieve internal rates of return of at
least 15 percent on new business, the Guernsey, Channel Islands-
based firm said today in a statement. Its key markets will be
individual income protection, corporate pensions and annuities.  Resolution, which is buying and merging U.K. life insurers,
will this year finish the acquisition phase of its project,
which began after Clive Cowdery set up the firm in 2008. The
company, which has bought  Friends Provident , Axa SA’s U.K. life
business and Bupa Health Assurance Ltd., plans to sell the
merged businesses within the next two or three years to a rival
or through an initial public offering.  The company “will not contemplate acquisitions that would
dilute the returns likely to emerge from the three acquisitions
already made,” it said in the statement. “There is therefore a
high threshold for evaluating further acquisitions.”  The stock dropped 0.6 percent to 287.4 pence at 8:28 a.m.
in London trading, valuing the firm at about 4.2 billion pounds
($6.8 billion). Resolution is the best-performing member of the  FTSE ASX Life Insurance  Index in the past month, rising 16
percent as analysts at RBC Capital and  Barclays Capital 
recommended investors buy the shares.  The strategic update “would appear to support the view
that further acquisitions are unlikely,” said Marcus Barnard, a
London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London with a
“buy” recommendation on the stock. “The shares are likely to
re-rate further.”  Cost Savings  Friends Provident Holdings, the merged entity of existing
businesses, will have cost savings of 112 million pounds a year
by the end of 2013, compared with the initial annual target of
75 million pounds, Chief Executive Officer John Tiner said on a
call with reporters. The money will be saved in  information
technology , office rent and job cuts, he said, declining to give
further details.  New products that require less capital to be set aside will
help reduce reinvestment costs by 200 million pounds a year by
2013, Resolution said. Friends Provident’s international units
will generate at least 50 million pounds a year by 2014.  Resolution will consider a range of options for selling
Friends Provident including splitting up the new business unit
and back book, Tiner said on the call.  “We are exploring whether there are structural solutions
that would be beneficial for shareholders in separating those
two books,” he said. “We haven’t reached any conclusions.”  The U.K. life-insurance consolidation project will be kept
separate from other ventures the firm may undertake, Tiner also
said today. Resolution will consider acquisitions in other
markets and countries as it weighs future restructuring
projects, he said.  The firm is due to report full-year results on March 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  