-- 
Wheat Collapsing as Protests Prompt Speculators to Desert Food

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-02-23T17:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/rice-heads-for-biggest-three-day-drop-since-2009-amid-protests-corn-falls.html
Wheat fell for a third day in its
biggest collapse since 2008 and rice fell as traders speculated
that riots in North Africa and the Middle East will curb demand
from regions buying 32 percent of global shipments.  Wheat, rice, corn and soybeans fell by the most allowed by
the  Chicago  Board of Trade yesterday as violence escalated in  Libya . Leaders were already toppled this year in  Tunisia  and in  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat importer. Speculators including  hedge funds  last week cut their bets on higher wheat prices by
20 percent, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Grain prices surged last month as North African and Middle
East nations accelerated purchases, seeking to bolster reserves
and curb unrest partly linked to food prices the  United Nations 
says rose to a record last month. The U.S., the biggest
exporter, is forecasting a 49 percent jump in its shipments in
the 12 months ending in June, the most in 18 years.  “The market assumes the Middle East will stop importing
until the whole situation calms down,” said Jonathan Bouchet,
an analyst at OTCex Group, a commodities brokerage in Geneva.
“The market could easily continue its way down overall because
of what’s happening. The situation in the Middle East region has
the market wondering if they’re going to slow food imports.”  Wheat for May delivery fell 10.75 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
$7.85 a bushel by 11:28 a.m. on the CBOT, after earlier slumping
as much as 4.9 percent. The grain dropped 11 percent in three
trading sessions, the most since March 2008.  Middle East  North  Africa  and Middle East countries are expected to buy
39.3 million metric tons of wheat in the 2010-11 marketing year,
accounting for 32 percent of world purchases, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  Corn for May delivery rose 0.4 percent to $6.9325 a bushel.
Rice for May delivery declined 52.5 cents, or 3.6 percent, to
$14.05 for 100 pounds in Chicago. Prices have dropped 8.8
percent since trading ended on Feb. 17. The exchange raised the
maximum permitted decline for rice to 75 cents after yesterday’s
50-cent slide.  Soybeans for May delivery gained 12 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to $13.23 a bushel, after earlier dropping 1.1 percent. The
oilseed closed 70 cents lower yesterday. The price today reached
$12.9625, the lowest level since Dec. 17.  Speculators may be moving out of agricultural commodities
and into alternatives including oil, said Andrew Dewing, chief
executive officer of Dewing Grain in Aylsham,  England , which
brokers grain for farmers.  Volatile Commodity  “Oil is probably, because of the situation, a more
volatile commodity, and I suspect that’s where the funds are
headed with their money,” Dewing said. “They’re coming out of
grains and going into oil.”  Crude rose 13 percent to $99.60 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  since Feb. 16, on speculation that the
unrest in Libya will disrupt oil exports. The country is
Africa’s third-biggest producer.  Net-long positions, or bets that prices will rise, in
Chicago wheat futures decreased 20 percent to 34,193 contracts
by Feb. 15, according to CFTC data. The position totaled 42,635
on Feb. 8, the highest since Nov. 7, 1997, CFTC data show.  Rainfall in China that is expected to increase output also
may be driving prices lower, said Abah Ofon, an analyst at
Standard Chartered Plc in Dubai. As much as 20 millimeters (0.8
inch) of rain is expected in some growing areas from Feb. 25 to
Feb. 28, “markedly” improving crop conditions, the  China 
Meteorological Administration said.  ‘Bearish Indicators’  “Bearish indicators are beginning to appear in the grains
market, particularly in wheat, as focus turns to the global
supply response and the likelihood of better-than-expected
harvest in China and large plantings in the Northern Hemisphere
in 2011,” Ofon said.  Rising commodity costs have pushed up global food prices,
which jumped 25 percent last year and surged to a record in
January, according to the United Nations. Libyan protests that
have killed as many as 300, according to  Human Rights Watch ,
will boost  oil prices  and may worsen food security in North
Africa, Bouchet said.  Libyan national leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a
growing rebellion until his “last drop of blood” as bodies
were left in Tripoli’s streets.  “The impact on  food security  is difficult” to determine,
Bouchet said. “It’s difficult to obtain information right now.
Very probably, Qaddafi will cut imports. Either he tries to feed
his people to satisfy them, or he uses force and starves them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  