-- 
Trichet Says Governments Must Keep Lid on Public Wage Increases

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-23T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/trichet-says-governments-must-keep-lid-on-public-wage-increases.html
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said governments must set an example for the
whole economy by keeping a lid on public-sector wage increases.  “Wage developments in the public sector are much more
important than is generally realized,” Trichet said in Liege,  Belgium , today. “The public sector must set its compensation
levels with the implications for the whole economy in mind; it
must be aware of its role model.”  Trichet made the comments in a speech on competitiveness in
the 17-nation euro area. They come as ECB policy makers grow
more nervous about inflation, which accelerated to 2.4 percent
last month. Trichet said all euro nations should use the central
bank’s definition of price stability -- inflation of just below
2 percent over the medium term -- as a yardstick.  “Unit labor costs, and therefore wage developments, after
having taken due account of the labor productivity increases,
need to be consistent with this,” he said. “One must not be
misled into price-wage spirals by temporary inflation
differentials.”  Trichet said in the euro area, government wage bills
account, on average, for more than 10 percent of gross domestic
product and more than 20 percent of the total compensation of
employees. “It is already clear from the sheer size of this
sector that public wage increases can have a very important
signaling effect for private sector wage negotiations,” he
said.  Divergences  In a monetary union, it is “of the essence” to avoid
large economic divergences through sound economic and fiscal
policies, Trichet said.  Between 1999 and 2009, public-sector wages in the euro area
grew by close to 40 percent, he said. “In  Germany , they grew by
19 percent; in Ireland and in  Greece , they grew by more than 100
percent, roughly 50 percentage points more than private-sector
wages.”  Over the same period, nominal unit labor costs grew by 24
percent in cumulative terms in the euro area as a whole. “In  Austria  and Germany they grew by 13 percent and 8 percent
respectively; in Greece and Ireland, they grew by 34 percent and
38 percent respectively,” Trichet said.  Greece and Ireland required European Union bailouts last
year after investors lost confidence in their ability to service
their debt, triggering a crisis that continues to threaten the
euro-area economy.  Thousands of Greeks marched through  Athens  today in renewed
protests against government measures to cut public-sector
spending.  “Our 331 million fellow citizens can rest assured that the
ECB is fully faithful to its primary mandate” of ensuring  price
stability , Trichet said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at   cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Liege at   markdeen@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  