-- 
Rio, Guinea in Talks to Try to Resolve Simandou ‘Matters’

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-02-23T18:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/rio-tinto-says-guinea-confirms-extension-of-simandou-tenure.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the third-biggest
mining company, said it’s in talks with Guinea to try to resolve
“outstanding matters” on the company’s application for a
mining concession at the Simandou iron ore project.  The West African nation granted a three-month extension on
Rio’s exploration license from tomorrow to allow the  Ministry of
Mines  to study the application for a concession lodged by  Rio
Tinto  unit Simfer SA, the London-based company said.  “This enables the Government of Guinea and Rio Tinto to
continue the positive discussions currently under way between
them, aimed at resolving all outstanding matters regarding the
Simandou project,” Rio said in a statement today.  Rio is studying at least $6 billion of spending in  Guinea ,
where new President Alpha Conde has ordered the drafting of a
policy giving the country at least a one-third stake in mining
projects. The company said in July it had invested $650 million
at Simandou and planned to begin mining within five years.  Guinea’s mining policy review may jeopardize Rio Tinto’s
2010 agreement to sell a stake in the venture to Aluminum Corp.
of China, or Chinalco, because the government has held off
approving the transaction, UBS AG said in a Feb. 14 report.  Rio Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese has described the
situation as “very uncertain,” UBS said, citing a briefing
with him in  London . Rio has been involved in a dispute with
Guinea since 2008, when the government ordered it to hand over
part of the Simandou venture, a stake later acquired by rival
 Vale SA. (VALE3)  UBS has valued the project at about $9.5 billion.  Rival in Guinea  Vale, the world’s largest iron ore exporter, yesterday said
it would spend more than $1 billion to rebuild a 662-kilometer
(411 mile) railroad in Guinea, where it plans to start producing
the steelmaking ingredient next year.  The company, based in  Rio de Janeiro , last year agreed to
pay $2.5 billion for Guinean iron-ore deposits. The sites
include Simandou North Blocks 1 and 2, the assets confiscated
from Rio, and the Zogota project in Simandou South.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  