-- 
Rupiah Strengthens on Inflows Driven by Growth, Interest Rates

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-02-23T09:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/rupiah-strengthens-on-inflows-driven-by-growth-interest-rates.html
  Indonesia ’s rupiah strengthened as
overseas investors boosted holdings of the nation’s assets to
take advantage of the economic growth outlook and the likelihood
of more interest-rate increases. Bonds gained.  Overseas funds bought $52 million more stocks than they
sold in the first two days of this week, exchange data show.
Demand for 10-year  government bonds  saw them rise for a sixth
day today, pushing yields to the lowest level in more than a
month. The currency had its worst loss in more than a month
yesterday as escalating violence in Libya and a surge in  oil
prices  sapped demand for emerging-market assets.  “Investors are buying more stocks and bonds,” said Mika Martumpal, a senior market analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth in
Jakarta. “They are confident that  Bank Indonesia  is aggressive
about fighting inflation.” The central bank will raise
borrowing costs at least three more times this year, Martumpal
predicted.  The rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 8,855 per dollar as of
4:24 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency rose to as high as 8,828 on Feb. 21, the strongest
level since June 2007. The rupiah has gained 1.4 percent this
year, the best performer among the 10 most-traded Asian
currencies.  Bank Indonesia raised its  reference rate  to 6.75 percent
this month from a record-low 6.50 percent, citing price
pressures. Inflation accelerated to 7.02 percent in January from
a year earlier, compared with 6.96 percent in December,
according to official data. The central bank next meets to
review its policy rate on March 4.    Southeast Asia ’s largest economy may expand 6.5 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, Bambang Permadi
Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at the  finance ministry ,
said in Jakarta on Feb. 17.  Ten-year government bonds rose. The yield on the 8.25
percent note due July 2021 fell eight basis points to 8.68
percent, the lowest level since Jan. 19, according to closing
prices from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  