-- 
U.S. Economy: Existing Home Sales Climb to Eight-Month High

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-23T21:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-climb-to-eight-month-high.html
Sales of U.S. previously owned homes
unexpectedly climbed in January to the highest level in eight
months as investors used all-cash transactions to snap up
distressed properties.  Purchases increased 2.7 percent to a 5.36 million annual
rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed
today in  Washington . The share represented by foreclosures and
short sales rose to a 12-month high, pushing the median price to
the lowest level in almost nine years.  Affluent investors may continue taking a bigger share of
the market as credit restrictions and 9 percent unemployment
keep first-time buyers at bay. A pickup in job growth is needed
to ensure more Americans will be in a position to consider home
ownership.  “It is really a foreclosure-driven market,” said  Ethan Harris , head of developed markets at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Research in  New York , who projected sales would
increase to a 5.38 million rate. “I don’t think it is a sign of
the market returning to health.”  Stocks fell as  oil prices  surged and Hewlett-Packard Co.’s
forecasts trailed analysts’ estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.6 percent to 1,307.4 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. The S&P Homebuilder Supercomposite declined 1 percent as
foreclosures represent competition for construction companies.  The median forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 5.22 million sales pace from a previously
reported 5.28 million rate in December. The NAR revised the
prior month down to 5.22 million. Estimates ranged from 4.86
million to 5.4 million.  Distressed Properties    Lawrence Yun , chief economist at the Realtors’ group, said
distressed sales accounted for 37 percent of total sales last
month and all-cash transactions represented 32 percent, three
times the average of about 10 percent.  The increase in demand was “encouraging,” Yun said in a
press conference as the figures were being released. “Right now
it is the cleansing of distressed property that is coming on to
the market” that is driving sales. Investors with all-cash
offers are rushing in looking for “bargains,” he said.  Those sales climbed to about 50 percent of the total in
cities like  Las Vegas  and Miami last month, he said. The share
of first-time buyers fell to 29 percent last month compared with
an average 40 percent, said Yun.  The median price decreased 3.7 percent from January 2010 to
$158,800, the lowest since April 2002. Purchases were up 5.3
percent from a year earlier, when a government tax break was
still in effect.  Less Supply  The number of previously owned homes on the market fell 5.1
percent to 3.38 million in January. At the current sales pace,
it would take 7.6 months to sell those houses compared with 8.2
at the end of the prior month.  Month’s supply in the eight months to nine months range is
consistent with stable  home prices , the group has said.  Three of four regions showed increases last month, led by a
7.9 percent gain in the West. Purchases in the Northeast fell
4.6 percent.  CoreLogic Inc., a real-estate analytics firm based in  Santa
Ana ,  California , this week released a report showing that 3.3
million existing homes were sold last year, less than the 4.9
million tallied by NAR.  Property Records  The CoreLogic figures track sales through property records
at local court houses, while the NAR follows sales through the
multiple listing services used by brokers.  Yun told reporters today that NAR’s tallies in recent years
may have been overstated because the consolidation of listing
services may have caused distortions in the data. He said
estimates of direct sales by owners may also have been
overstated.  Benchmark revisions to the group’s data may correct a
possible “upward drift” in the figures, he said. The revisions
will be based on new models because the 2010 Census doesn’t
include the same housing-related questions as the 2000 count, on
which the prior benchmark revisions were based.  “Hopefully, we can find another reliable external source
of data to make the benchmarking more frequent and to lessen any
drift that occurs,” he said in a telephone interview. “It will
not change the fundamental trend line. What it will do is lower
the level a bit; hopefully it is a bit.”  Housing, the industry that triggered the recent recession,
is struggling to gain traction after the lapse of a government
homebuyers’ tax credit worth up to $8,000 caused existing sales
to plunge to a 3.84 million pace in July.  Lower Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
2.4 percent in December from a year earlier, the biggest 12-
month decrease since December 2009, the group said yesterday.
Prices were down 31 percent from their peak in July 2006.  Industry projections reinforce the concern about housing.
The number of homes receiving a foreclosure notice will climb
about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing
crisis, RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
seller, said last month.  Rising borrowing costs represent a new hurdle. The average
rate on 30-year fixed mortgages matched or exceeded 5 percent
for a third period in the week ended Feb. 18, the first time
that’s happened since April, the  Mortgage Bankers Association 
said today. Rates have been rising from a record low of 4.21
percent reached in October.  Homebuilders are still posting losses. D.R. Horton Inc.,
the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by stock-market value, on
Jan. 27 reported a fiscal first-quarter loss that was wider than
analysts expected.  “I think 2011 will be a marginal, weak year in the
homebuilding industry,” D.R. Horton Chief Executive Officer
Donald Tomnitz said during a conference call the same day.
“Given the weak macroeconomic conditions, high levels of
existing homes for sale and tight mortgage availability, we
remain cautious and realistic in our expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  