-- 
Hong Kong's Main Task Is `Fighting Inflation,' Tsang Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-02-23T04:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/tsang-says-hong-kong-economy-to-grow-4-to-5-this-year-slowing-from-2010.html
  Hong Kong ’s economy may expand as
much as 5 percent this year and “fighting inflation” is the
government’s major task, Financial Secretary John Tsang said in
his budget speech today.  Gross domestic product rose 6.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, Tsang told lawmakers. That was more
than the 5.5 percent median estimate of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The government, robbed of an independent interest-rate
policy because of a currency pegged to the  U.S. dollar , plans to
sell up to HK$10 billion of inflation-linked bonds to help
residents cope with rising costs, starting in six months,
according to Tsang. He also pledged to boost land supply to head
off the risk of a property bubble.  “Inflation is rearing its head and rising price pressures
will test the government’s fine-tuning skills in the coming
year,” Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-based economist at  HSBC Holdings
Plc , said before the announcement.  Consumer prices jumped the most in 29 months in January, a
report yesterday showed.  Hong Kong is seeking to limit overheating risks as Chinese
investors put money into the city’s real-estate market and
rising commodity costs push up consumer prices. Growth rebounded
to a faster-than-anticipated 6.8 percent in 2010 after the
economy contracted in the previous year, Tsang said.  The economy may expand 4 percent to 5 percent this year,
and inflation may be 4.5 percent, he added.  ‘On Guard’  The financial secretary pledged that the government would
ensure a sufficient supply of land, adding that he’s
“concerned” about property bubbles after the home market
rebounded in January.  Chief Executive Donald Tsang said last month that the city
is “on guard” against inflation after  home prices  surged more
than 60 percent since the start of 2009.  Fourth-quarter growth compared with a revised 6.7 percent
expansion in the third quarter. Consumer prices rose 3.6.
percent in January from a year earlier, a report yesterday
showed.  While households may be concerned at inflation they are
also benefiting from an improved labor market. The jobless rate
fell to 3.8 percent in the three months ended January, a more
than two-year low, as companies such as HSBC Holdings hire
workers to expand.  Hong Kong’s economy has fully recovered, Financial
Secretary Tsang said today.  “The government will remain vigilant in pre-empting the
risk of a property bubble forming,” Kelvin Lau, an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said before the budget. He expected
the government to boost land supply to cool the real-estate
market after imposing sales taxes and tighter mortgage
requirements in November.  Neighboring  China , the world’s second-largest economy, is
bolstering Hong Kong’s economy via demand for exports and 22.7
million visitor arrivals in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  