-- 
Saudis Said to Be Willing to Pump More Oil Without OPEC Meet

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-02-23T19:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/saudis-said-to-be-willing-to-pump-more-oil-without-emergency-opec-meeting.html
  Saudi Arabia  and some other
producers are willing to put more oil on the market if buyers
demand it even if no emergency OPEC meeting is held, said a
person with knowledge of producer-nation policy.  Exporters are under pressure to ensure adequate supplies to
the market after violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest
producer, sent New York crude futures to $100 a barrel today for
the first time since October 2008.  Any extra supply would be conditional on requests for more
crude from  oil companies , said the person, on condition of
anonymity.  The 12-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
is due to hold its next formal meeting in early June and any
gathering before then would be deemed an “extraordinary,” or
emergency meeting.  The  United Arab Emirates , Kuwait, Angola and Nigeria would
also be willing to boost supplies, the person said.  While OPEC members have flouted their quotas for months,
pumping more as prices rose, the group usually institutes major
changes to its production policy at formal conferences where all
12 nations are present. OPEC’s next such meeting is June and any
gathering before that would be deemed an “extraordinary
meeting.”  An emergency meeting can be called by the group’s secretary
general in consultation with its president, according to the
OPEC  Statute . Iran, which holds the presidency, sees no need to
increase supply because there is plenty of oil in the market,
its governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi said in an interview in  Riyadh 
yesterday.  Cutting Output in Libya  Eni SpA and several other foreign oil companies said they
were curtailing production in Libya after violent clashes
between soldiers and anti-government protestors.  Libyans claiming to have ousted Muammar Qaddafi’s troops
organized committees to run and defend their eastern cities, as
forces loyal to the leader retained control of the capital,
Tripoli.  OPEC collectively pumped 29.4 million barrels a day last
month, according to Bloomberg estimates and has about 5 million
barrels a day of spare capacity, according to the  International
Energy Agency . Most of the unused capacity is in Saudi Arabia,
the organization’s biggest producer.  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,  Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  Iraq  is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  