-- 
HSBC’S Indian Loan Debacle Spurs Bank to Target Rich in Asia

-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 
2011-02-23T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/hsbc-s-indian-loan-debacle-spurs-bank-to-focus-on-affluent-in-asia-growth.html
Naina Lal Kidwai,  HSBC Holdings
Plc ’s country head for  India , remembers when the bank’s plan to
boost profits by lending to the nation’s burgeoning middle class
went awry.  It was February 2008, and the government of Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh stunned local lenders by ordering them to cancel
$15 billion in loans to help debt-strapped farmers. Inspired by
the amnesty, borrowers from all walks of life, some of them
newly minted HSBC customers, began abandoning their own debts as
political rhetoric about heavy-handed loan collectors grew, she
says.  Kidwai’s consumer unit lost $374 million in 2008 and 2009
as credit card customers and retail borrowers simply stopped
paying -- chopping HSBC’s India earnings by about half in 2009,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its April issue.  “The whole business across banks got into one hell of a
bind because suddenly it became OK not to repay your loans,”
says Kidwai, 53, sipping a Coke in her first-floor office in a
10-story building in central New Delhi.  HSBC would seem an unlikely candidate for Asian growing
pains. The bank was founded in  Hong Kong  and  Shanghai  in 1865
and today is the biggest foreign lender in  China  and among the
largest in India. Yet Kidwai’s loan nightmare is just one of the
setbacks and regulatory hurdles that HSBC has confronted as it
turns to emerging markets to fuel growth.  ‘Missed Opportunities’  During two crucial decades -- the 1990s, when India opened
its economy to outside investors, and the 2000s, when China
blossomed into an economic superpower -- HSBC strayed from its
Asian turf. It switched its headquarters to  London  from Hong
Kong in 1993 en route to becoming  Europe ’s No. 1 bank in market
value. Then, in a disastrous U.S. foray in 2003, it paid $15.5
billion for subprime lender Household International Inc.  After the housing market began to collapse in 2007, HSBC
set aside more than $58 billion for North American losses.  “In this 10-year sojourn into the U.S., they missed
opportunities in Asia -- which is their newfound mantra,” says
Sunil Garg, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s head of research for Asia
equities, except Japan, and for  Asia  banks and financial
services.  Now, after its Western detour, HSBC is navigating the
challenges of India and China -- the most potentially lucrative
emerging economies. China’s 20 percent cap on foreign ownership
of banks by a single investor and India’s reluctance to license
new branches are among local rules stymieing growth. Rising
inflation puts earnings at risk.  ‘Will Be Bumps’  And the battle for customers with New York-based Citigroup
Inc. and London-based  Standard Chartered Plc  keeps a lid on the  interest rates  HSBC can charge for loans and the commissions on
its investment services.  HSBC said on Feb. 9 it was cutting management fees by as
much as 40 percent on Hong Kong pension funds for workers in the
territory. HSBC managed more than $14 billion of the funds, or a
third of Hong Kong’s mandatory pensions, in November.  “Nobody should take a view that emerging markets is one
straight line up,”  Michael Geoghegan  told investors on a Nov. 5
conference call shortly before he retired as HSBC’s chief
executive officer. “There will be bumps along the road as
economies adjust.”  Geoghegan, 57, who departed in December after the board
passed him over as chairman, said competition and rising real
estate prices in Hong Kong and China were among the challenges.  “However, we believe the long-term fundamentals for
emerging economies are as compelling as ever,” he said.  Reporting Earnings  The bank is scheduled to report 2010 earnings on Feb. 28.
Net income probably rose to $13.91 billion, from $5.83 billion
in 2009, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, in part as the company set aside less
money for bad loans.  HSBC’s board underscored emerging economies when it picked
investment bank chief  Stuart Gulliver  to replace Geoghegan.  Gulliver, 51, has spent most of his career in Hong Kong and
Japan. He immediately singled out Asia as a priority, building
on the bank’s strategy of using its history in the region and
presence in 87 countries and territories as an advantage in
cross-border deals.  Last year, for example, HSBC set up a Brazil-Latin America
desk in Shanghai and staffed it with two bankers sent from
Brazil. It formed a similar China desk in Sao Paulo, where
Chinese bankers help countrymen vet investments in South
America’s largest economy.  Stock Rebounds  Cross-border arrangements are the first part of HSBC’s two-
pronged approach in emerging markets. The bank increased loans
and advances to customers in developing regions to 31 percent of
its global total in the first half of 2010, or $283 billion, up
from 23 percent at the end of 2006.  In those six months, HSBC got 64 percent of its pretax
profit in developing economies, delivering on management’s 2007
decision to focus on India, China and other nations in Asia, the
Middle East and Latin America.  Investors are applauding the invigorated Asian strategy.
HSBC shares, which tumbled as much as 62 percent from their 2008
high of 808.5 pence during the subprime disaster, have almost
recovered to pre-crisis levels. The stock, which trades in
London and Hong Kong, more than doubled to 696.8 pence in the
U.K. on Feb. 23 from 304.1 pence on March 9, 2009.  Executives say they want to list the shares in Shanghai as
soon as this year.  “We’ve welcomed the move to Asia; it’s something we’d been
asking them to do for a long time,” says David Trenchard, a
managing director in London at New York-based Knight Vinke Asset
Management LLC. “The subprime venture in the U.S. was a
debacle, and HSBC had insufficient focus on China.”  Golf Perks  HSBC has learned a lesson from Kidwai’s retail-banking
experiences in India. It now targets affluent customers
throughout Asia, tailoring offerings for each market. For its
so-called Premier service in India, HSBC wants clients with
minimum deposits and investments of $55,000 -- about 50 times
the per capita income. In Hong Kong, the minimum is $128,000.  HSBC sells high-end clients everything from life insurance
and mutual funds to emergency cash transfers for children
studying abroad.  Premier credit card benefits in India grant access to the
Greg Norman-designed Jaypee Greens golf course about 25 miles
(40 kilometers) from  New Delhi , with a concierge to book tee
times.  On a January afternoon outside HSBC’s New Delhi office, a
pair of silver-colored lions stands watch -- replicas of the
Hong Kong mascots said to bestow good fortune on those who rub
their paws. Cars of Premier clients are ushered into the
branch’s private lot while a guard directs others to find
parking on the street.  India Investment  To extend its reach, HSBC paid $296 million in 2008 for
control of brokerage IL&FS Investsmart Ltd., which it renamed
HSBC InvestDirect India Ltd.  It is also purchasing Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
Indian commercial and consumer division, which offers accounts
for Indians living abroad.  The number of Indians with investable wealth of $1 million
or more surged 51 percent in 2009 to 126,700, a study published
in June by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch and Capgemini
SA found. The ranks of China’s wealthy rose by 31 percent to
477,400. HSBC tripled its branches and outlets in China to 107
during the four years through 2010 and added to stakes in two
Chinese banks.  These new services and investments must prosper to
compensate for laggards in other markets, says  Ian Gordon , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London.  Asian Roots  “Substantially all their growth is coming in Hong Kong and
the rest of Asia,” he says. “Growth in customer loans at the
group level has been shrinking, and strong growth from Asia
offsets that.” HSBC says net loans have fallen every half since
the first half of 2008.  Asian banking runs in HSBC’s genes. Thomas Sutherland, a
Scot employed by The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation
Co., joined with partners in 1865 to establish The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited. The bank financed trade in
tea, cotton and silk through a Hong Kong headquarters that
operated out of a harbor-front office with access for boats.  HSBC repeatedly returned to Asian markets after war and
politics drove it away. In December 1941, as Japanese troops
advanced on the then-British colony of Hong Kong, the board
temporarily moved legal headquarters to London, according to
handwritten minutes at the bank’s archives in Hong Kong.  Shrinking Under Mao  A black-and-white photo there shows bankers, who had been
rounded up by Japanese soldiers and forced to live in a former
brothel, marching to work in shorts and pith helmets.  HSBC resumed its base in Hong Kong after the war only to
see its China business shrivel under Mao Zedong. From 1949 to
1955, all of the bank’s mainland branches closed except one in
Shanghai.  The bank began its push west in the early 1990s, taking
over the U.K.’s Midland Bank Plc. In the U.S., it paid $9.85
billion in 1999 for financier Edmond Safra’s Republic New York
Corp. and Safra Republic Holdings SA. Then it bought Household.  HSBC invested smaller amounts in Asia in that period,
making its biggest purchase in 2004: $1.75 billion for a 19.9
percent stake in Bank of Communications Co., China’s fifth-
largest lender.  Now, with its sights back on the East, HSBC will have to
weather what could be turbulent economic times for the world’s
two most populous nations.  Rising Prices  Chinese consumer prices jumped 4.9 percent in January from
a year earlier, the fourth straight month they exceeded the 2011
target of 4 percent. In response, the central bank raised its
benchmark lending rate on Feb. 8 for the third time since
October.  India’s wholesale-price inflation index increased 8.23
percent in January from a year earlier. On Jan. 25, the  Reserve
Bank  of India boosted rates for the seventh time in a year and
signaled more increases ahead.  HSBC, which until the past two decades mostly dispatched
British men to run country units, chose two women with local
roots to spearhead the emerging-market push.  Kidwai, a career banker who grew up in Mumbai and was the
first Indian woman to graduate with an MBA from Harvard
University, became India chief in 2006. Hong Kong-born Helen Wong, 49, was named China CEO in June. HSBC says its
international managers represent 52 nationalities.  Cross-Border Deals  From her New Delhi office, Kidwai says she’s trying to
create a modern bank amid antiquated regulations. Wearing a blue
sari and a red lanyard with her ID card, Kidwai says she has had
to explain even simple derivatives to local regulators.  “It takes time to introduce what’s very traditional stuff
elsewhere,” she says.  Kidwai’s unit has also engineered successes for the bank’s
cross-border aspirations. In 2007, HSBC bankers in India helped
arrange financing for  Tata Steel Ltd ., the nation’s biggest
steel company, on its 6.8 billion pound ($10.9 billion) purchase
of U.K.’s Corus Group Plc. That company was advised by HSBC in
the U.K.  “Some of these companies don’t need us here just as a
bank,” Kidwai says. “Where we’re really able to add value is
knowledge of that new country or that acquisition.”  Kidwai’s exit from riskier consumer businesses has helped
her unit’s profit. In the first half of 2010, earnings rose to
$340 million before taxes -- about as much as the unit made in
all of 2009.  Badminton Trophies  Wong, Kidwai’s counterpart in China, woos affluent
customers by offering them access to HSBC’s global network of
bankers. The bank opened 40,000 accounts on the U.S. West Coast
for mainland Chinese clients in the first four months of 2010.  She says she can’t afford to compete for retail customers
in China with the likes of  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China 
Ltd., the country’s biggest bank, with more than 15,000 outlets
nationwide.  “We are not trying to bank 100 million people in this
marketplace,” says Wong, who has a bachelor’s degree in social
science from the University of Hong Kong. “We can’t put ATMs
across the whole country,” she says in her office in a Shanghai
high-rise designed by architect Cesar Pelli. Her shelves display
trophies from amateur competitions in badminton, golf and
basketball.  HSBC is making most of its money in mainland China by
investing in the country’s financial firms. The bank reported
pre-tax profit of $1.28 billion on the mainland in the first
half of 2010, up 70 percent from a year earlier.  Chinese Credit Cards  Stakes in Chinese companies produced 92 percent of those
earnings. HSBC built a 19.9 percent share in No. 2 insurer Ping
An Insurance (Group) Co. in 2002 and 2005 that has been diluted
to 16 percent. It bought 8 percent of Bank of Shanghai Co. in
2001, a stake it has maintained by investing in a 2010 issue of
new stock.  In a venture with Bank of Communications, HSBC has issued
15 million co-branded credit cards.  “The major growth engine from mainland China would be from
these associated companies,” says Dominic Chan, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at BNP Paribas.  In the first half of 2010, mainland companies accounted for
about half of new customer growth at the commercial-banking
division in Hong Kong.  Just like in India, HSBC has stumbled in China. After
taking its stake in Bank of Communications in 2004, HSBC sent
brochures to Shanghai residents on marketing lists, some of whom
happened to be customers of the Chinese firm, says Peter Wong,
HSBC’s Asia-Pacific CEO. Bank of Communications complained to
HSBC that it was trying to poach BOC’s clients.  Hong Kong Tower  “We told them: ‘We’re not. We don’t. We just got these
marketing lists,’” Wong says. Peter Wong, who isn’t related to
Helen Wong, set up regular meetings for managers at both banks,
which continue today.  Peter Wong, 59, plots HSBC’s expansion in the East from the
34th floor of its Hong Kong head office. The landmark tower,
which wears its steel girders as an exo­skeleton, was designed
by British architect Norman Foster.  HSBC holds the most deposits in the territory, which
produces about 50 percent of the bank’s Asia profits. HSBC also
issues more than 60 percent of Hong Kong’s currency, which bears
Peter Wong’s signature.  Wong, A Hong Kong native with a master’s degree in computer
science from Indiana University in Bloomington, says he’s
boosting loans and fees from foreign exchange in the territory
through Chinese customers and currency.  Luxury Hong Kong  In July, China started allowing wider global use of the
yuan to compete with the  U.S. dollar . During the next two
months, Hong Kong handled 64 percent of the world’s
international trade payments in yuan, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. The currency is also known as the renminbi, or RMB.  “The RMB, the way it’s being internationalized, is very
fast,” says Peter Wong, as he rides a glass elevator down to
the tower’s atrium, where ATMs dispense yuan and other
currencies.  At Pacific Place, a 10-minute walk from HSBC’s tower,
stylish men and women haul shopping bags from Prada and Kate Spade. Wong says such Chinese customers are increasingly using
credit cards to buy from HSBC’s business clients in Hong Kong.  “We can see the volumes,” he says.  HSBC is also offering mortgages in a city where home prices
soared more than 55 percent from the start of 2009 through
January 2011, according to property broker Centaline Property
Agency Ltd.  ‘Survived Bubbles’  All of that adds up to what some investors warn is a bubble
about to burst. Hedge-fund manager  Jim Chanos , who was among the
first investors to predict the 2001 collapse of Enron Corp.,
says property values in China are headed for a fall.  Hugh Young isn’t so sure. “It can always blow up,” says
Young, global head of equities at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc
in Singapore, who helps manage $287 billion of assets, including
about 41 million HSBC shares. “Maybe it is another bubble, but
Hong Kong has survived bubbles.”  Hong Kong’s housing and luxury boom may foretell a coming
slowdown for HSBC if the region’s inflation spins out of
control, says  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA
in London.  Peter Wong says rising wages, food prices and property
values in Guangdong province, Beijing and other Chinese cities
worry him most. Escalating prices would crimp profits from
corporate clients and trim spending among retail customers.  “We need to handle that,” he says. “One of the things
about China is, they’re handling it. They keep increasing the
interest rate until they get the inflation into shape.”  HSBC has been late to the party before. The bank’s last
major global shift -- buying a U.S. mortgage lender before the
subprime fiasco -- produced multibillion-dollar losses.  In reviving its roots in Asia, HSBC again faces the
possibility that its timing is all wrong -- investing in a red-
hot region just before it cools down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  