-- 
Scene Last Night: Wolfensohn, Lauder Hear Israel Philharmonic

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-02-23T15:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/scene-last-night-wolfensohn-lauder-offit-lend-ear-to-israel-orchestra.html
“It’s the music,” said James Wolfensohn last night over hummus.  The chairman of investment firm Wolfensohn & Co. LLC and
former World Bank Group president was explaining his support of
the  Israel  Philharmonic Orchestra, and the sentiment was echoed
throughout the Plaza Hotel’s ballroom.  The occasion was a black-tie fundraiser organized by the
American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra. The group
is responsible for raising 30 percent of the orchestra’s budget.  Heading back to his table after a round of greetings,
composer Marvin Hamlisch commented on the orchestra’s music
director of more than 40 years, Zubin Mehta.  “He leads an orchestra that wants to play for him,”
Hamlisch said.  “He does everything with kindness,” said Lauren Veronis,
a co-chairman of the gala. “It’s a tap on the shoulder, asking
about the kids. It’s just his way.”  At the podium, Mehta thanked his musicians for “pouring
their hearts out. And we haven’t finished,” he said.  The evening started at  Carnegie Hall , with Mehta conducting
the orchestra in the North American premiere of Avner Dorman’s
“Azerbaijani Dance,” Franz Liszt’s Piano Concerto No. 2,
featuring Yefim Bronfman, and Mahler’s Symphony No. 5.  By 9:30, much of the gala crowd had moved to the Plaza.
Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel, sex expert Ruth Westheimer, investor
Ronald Lauder and Morris Offit, chairman of Offit Capital
Advisors LLC, sat in the ballroom for dinner.  In the Terrace Room, one floor below, a younger crowd known
as the Associates gathered for cocktails and lighter fare.  “This is the best way I know to support Israel in an
apolitical way,” said Heidi Learner, a fixed-income trading
consultant and co-chairman of the Associates party.  The 35-year-old composer Dorman has realized another
benefit: he met his wife, Jenny, at an Associates event.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 