-- 
Scottish Fund Manager Sells Banco Santander on Concern Over Debt

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-02-23T00:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/scottish-fund-manager-sells-banco-santander-on-concern-over-sovereign-debt.html
Edinburgh’s largest money manager
for outside clients is shunning shares of European banks such
as  Spain 's  Banco Santander SA , saying the risk of losses from
their sovereign debt holdings are still too great.  Banks that were “conservatively” managed and own more  government bonds  than some rivals will have to raise more
capital as part of expected regulatory changes, Gerald Smith,
deputy chief investment officer of  Baillie Gifford & Co ., said
in an interview in Edinburgh. He prefers telecommunications
companies that pay higher dividends such as  Deutsche Telekom AG .  “There has been some enthusiasm for financial stocks, but
I think that’s premature,” Smith said at his office. “You have
still got sovereign debt issues to be resolved, you have got
changes to capital requirements that will structurally lower
returns as companies will have to hold more capital.”  Baillie Gifford manages 72 billion pounds ($116 billion)
for seven of the largest 15 pension funds and clients including
 Vanguard Group Inc. , the world’s biggest mutual fund company,
according to the Scottish firm’s website. Its assets jumped 29
percent last year as it won new business.  Smith, 48, sold his holding in  Banco Santander , Spain’s
largest bank, and reduced investments in other European
financial stocks at the end of 2010.  Banks are the second-best performing industry in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index of European shares so far this year, returning
more than 11 percent, more than three times the overall index
return of 3.3 percent. Santander returned 12 percent this year,
ranking 24th of the 52 banks in the index.  Spanish Question  “I am a little bit concerned about Santander,” Smith said
in the Feb. 17 interview. “They are a European bank exposed to
the Spanish market and they will be caught up in some of the
same trends. I have even less in European banks than I would
have done last year.”  Spanish banks may need 38 billion euros ($52 billion) of
additional capital because of new government rules on  capital
requirements , JPMorgan Chase & Co. said on Jan. 31.
Santander, based in the northern Spanish city of the same name,
is counting on business abroad as bad loans and higher funding
costs hurt earnings at home.  Smith, who takes over as chief investment officer at the
end of April, says Spain probably won’t follow Greece and
Ireland in needing an international bailout. It’s “50-50”
whether Portugal will need help, he said.  The yield on the 10-year benchmark Spanish bond has fallen
by 9 basis points this year to 5.36 percent. The premium, or
spread, over German bunds has narrowed to 221 basis points, down
from 249 basis points at the end of December.  Emerging Markets  Emerging markets are starting to look cheaper relative to
other markets following declines in countries such as  Brazil ,  China ,  India  and Indonesia, said Smith, who was head of emerging
markets at Baillie Gifford between 1997 and 2008.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of shares lost 2.7 percent
this year, while the  MSCI World  Index of equities from developed
markets in 24 countries rose 6.1 percent. India’s benchmark
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has fallen
11.9 percent in 2011.  “We are not yet at the point we can say places like India
and Indonesia are screamingly cheap,” Smith said. “But they
are de-rating rapidly, so even within emerging markets we are
starting to see some value emerging.”  Buying Gold  Smith has started to invest in gold mining stocks including  Canada ’s  IAMGOLD Corp ., and  Real Gold Mining Ltd ., an Inner
Mongolia-based producer. He changed his mind on gold when
thinking about where else people might want to put their money.  “The final factor is that some central banks have started
to buy a bit and that has made a huge difference in the supply-
demand dynamic,” he said.  Gold mining stocks are looking quite attractive relative to
the higher price of bullion , Smith said. Gold in  New York 
topped $1,400 an ounce yesterday as unrest in the Middle East
boosted demand for precious metals as a haven.  Baillie Gifford’s assets compare with 183.3 billion pounds
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, Scotland’s largest fund
company. Aberdeen increased assets 27 percent last year,
according to regulatory statements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  