-- 
LSE-TMX Deal Unlikely to Win Canada Approval, Instinet Says

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-23T19:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/lse-tmx-deal-unlikely-to-win-canada-approval-instinet-says.html
The proposed combination of  TMX
Group Inc . and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  won’t get
approval from Canadian regulators, according to Instinet Inc.’s
research unit.  Regulators will probably say that Canada’s importance in
the merged company will wane with further consolidation in the
industry, Alison Crosthwait, Toronto-based director of global
trading strategy at Instinet said today in a report.  “We do not believe that the proposed merger, as currently
constituted, will make it through the Canadian regulatory
process,” Crosthwait said. “As the market is currently giving
the deal only a 60 percent chance of being consummated, we are
not the only party questioning its feasibility.”  Instinet owns Chi-X Canada Inc., a competitor to TMX.
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo owns Instinet.  The federal government, which may face an election this
year, isn’t likely to feel comfortable ceding control of the
Canadian exchange, she said, adding that public sentiment won’t
be in favor of the deal unless it increases investment in  Canada . Still, a combined LSE-TMX will likely promote Canadian
companies to European investors and introduce some new financial
products, she said.  The LSE agreed Feb. 9 to buy TMX in a C$3.2 billion ($3.22
billion) stock deal. LSE investors will own 55 percent of the
combined company, while TMX shareholders will hold the rest.  The transaction requires approval from Canada’s federal
government and five provincial regulators including Ontario and  Quebec , as well as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Ontario Securities Commission plans to hold a public
hearing as part of its review of the transaction, Chairman
Howard Wetston said today in Toronto.  Public Hearings  Ontario’s government yesterday agreed to set up a committee
to review the transaction, and will hold a series of public
hearings starting March 2. The committee is expected to submit
its findings by April 7.  The Canadian government will review the deal under the
Investment Canada Act to determine if it has a “net benefit”
to the country’s economy. LSE’s bid comes less than four months
after Industry Minister Tony Clement rejected a hostile takeover
of Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. by BHP Billiton Ltd.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; 