-- 
SEC’s Top Lawyer Becker Sued for Inheriting Madoff Ponzi Profits

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-23T18:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/sec-s-top-lawyer-becker-sued-for-inheriting-madoff-ponzi-profits.html
David M. Becker, the departing chief
lawyer at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said he
had no detailed knowledge of how his parents came to earn $1.5
million from an investment in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Becker and his brothers, who inherited the money upon his
mother’s death in 2004, were sued in  bankruptcy court  in New
York by the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, Irving H. Picard,
who seeks to recover the funds as a fictitious gain.  “It is true that my brothers and I were designated as co-
executors of my mother’s will, and it is also true that we were
the residual beneficiaries of my mother’s estate,” Becker, 63,
said today in an e-mail. “I have no direct knowledge of any of
the other facts -- how and when the Madoff account was opened,
what was invested, and what was in the account when it was
liquidated.”  Becker, who had been the SEC’s general counsel from 1999 to
2002, returned to that role in 2009. At the time, the agency was
reeling from its failure to uncover the Madoff scandal before it
unraveled in 2008. Asked whether he disclosed his family’s
investment with Madoff when he rejoined the SEC, he said, “I
can’t discuss internal discussions.”  Becker is finishing his last week as general counsel and
senior policy adviser at the agency. A Feb. 1 announcement of
his pending departure from the SEC came eight days before the
date on a pre-trial summons from Picard that was served to
Becker and his brothers, William and Daniel.  ‘Two-Year Deal’  Becker said the summons came in the mail “sometime late
last week” and that he had “no idea” when the case was filed.
He said his departure from the SEC post is “not remotely”
related to the Madoff lawsuit. It reflects the end of his “two-
year deal” with SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , he said.  The complaint in bankruptcy court, dated Nov. 12, alleges
that the Beckers “have received $1,544,494 of other people’s
money,” and seeks to return the funds to other defrauded Madoff
investors.  “I don’t know how we’ll respond to the complaint,” said
Becker. “I’ll get legal advice first.”  When Becker’s departure was announced, Schapiro said in a
statement, “David’s wise counsel has guided the commission
through a gauntlet of complex legal and policy issues.” Other
top SEC officials also praised his work at the agency during a
recent  Washington  securities forum.  Mark D. Cahn, a deputy general counsel, was promoted to
replace Becker. Cahn said he is set to start work on Monday.  Picard’s lawsuit against the Beckers was reported earlier
by the  New York  Daily News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 