-- 
Senegal Government Breaks Diplomatic Ties With Iran Over Weapons Shipments

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-02-23T09:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/senegal-government-breaks-diplomatic-ties-with-iran-over-weapons-shipments.html
  Senegal  severed diplomatic ties with
Iran over a series of arms shipments that it alleges have led to
the deaths of soldiers from the West African nation, Foreign
Minister Madicke Niang said.  Iran delivered “important amounts” of arms to Gambia, Niang
said in a statement published in the state-owned le Soleil
newspaper today. Gambia borders the southern Senegalese region
of Casamance, where separatists are fighting for autonomy. A
shipment of weapons seized in Nigeria last year was destined for
that country, Niang said.  “Senegal is indignant to find that Iranian bullets have
been able to cause the deaths of Senegalese soldiers,” he said.
“As a consequence, Senegal has decided to break its diplomatic
relations with the Republic of  Iran .”  Nigerian authorities in October intercepted 13 shipping
containers of Iranian rockets, grenades and mortars and charged
an Iranian national and three Nigerians with unlawfully
importing the weapons. CMA CGM SA, the French shipping company,
said an Iranian company used one of its vessels to illegally
transport the arms to Lagos after labelling them as “packages of
glass wool and pallets of stone.”  In December, Senegal withdrew its ambassador to Iran citing
concern that the consignment may “deeply undermine the peace and
security of the sub-region.” Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade
return the ambassador five weeks later, after a visit by Iranian
Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi , who pledged to provide as
much as $200 million dollars for joint economic projects.  Three Consignments  Iran’s ambassador to Nigeria, Husseini Abdullahi, said
earlier this month the shipment seized in  Nigeria  was the last
of three consignments destined for Gambia, the Lagos-based
Nation newspaper reported on Feb. 9. He didn’t give the ultimate
destination of the weapons.  Members of the Wade administration believe the weapons were
meant to be delivered to separatists in the southern Senegalese
province of Casamance, Papa Dieng, a special adviser to the
president, said in a Jan. 11 interview. The rebels began attacks
on military and civilian targets in Casamanace in 1982 to demand
independence for the region.  Gambian President Yahya Jammeh, who has ruled Gambia for 16
years, is from the Casamance region and is “thought to be
quietly and unofficially sympathetic to Casamance rebels’ cause
of greater autonomy if not independence for the southern region
of Senegal,”  Strategic Forecasting Inc. , an Austin, Texas-based
intelligence group, said in November.    Nuclear Weapons   Trade and financial transactions with the Persian Gulf
nation have been restricted after the  United Nations  approved a
fourth round of sanctions last June in response to concerns that
the Iranian government is attempting to build nuclear weapons.  In a 2009 meeting, Wade voiced support for Iran’s “struggle
to contain the proliferation of nuclear weapons,” according to
minutes posted on the government website. The country continues
to support Iran’s nuclear project if it is purely for civilian
purposes, Ndiaye said.  Iran Khodro, the country’s largest car manufacturer,
maintains two plants outside of the Senegalese capital, Dakar,
from which it seeks to export as many as 15,000 cars a year to
as far as Nigeria, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar at 
 dhinshaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  