-- 
Serbian January Consumer Price Index Exceeds Market Expectations

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-02-23T12:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/serbian-january-consumer-price-index-exceeds-market-expectations.html
Serbian consumer prices rose in
January to the highest level in more than two years, driven by
alcoholic drinks, tobacco, transportation, food and beverages.  January consumer price index reached 11.2 percent, its
highest since October 2008, exceeding the median forecast for a
10.8 percent rate in a Bloomberg survey, the Statistics Office
reported today on its website.  Alcoholic drinks and tobacco prices rose an annual 7.7
percent, followed by a 2.4 percent increase in transportation
prices and a 1.9 percent rise in food and beverage prices.  Inflation is “in line with expectations,” the National
Bank of  Serbia , which targets inflation at 4.5 percent plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points at the end of 2011, said in a
statement on its  website .  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije expects inflation
to “peak in March or April this year, while slowing down in the
second half of the year and nearing the target.” It is likely
to fall to around 6 percent at the end of 2011.  Getting inflation back into an “acceptable” target range
remains a key monetary policy challenge, the chief of the
International Monetary Fund’s mission to Serbia Albert Jaeger
said in an interview yesterday.  Serbia’s central bank is also struggling to balance
accelerating inflation, driven by food and fuel prices, with a
nascent economic recovery.  The central bank has raised  interest rates  six months in a
row, to 12 percent, the highest in  Europe , and left the two-week
repurchase rate unchanged this month on signs that the rate had
begun to have an effect on the dinar, which has gained more than
3.5 percent since the start of the year, according to Bloomberg
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  