-- 
Sex Ratio Does Magic in China Amid Egypt Effect: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-02-23T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/sex-ratio-stabilizes-china-amid-egypt-effect-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
The world abhors China’s one-child
policy. Officials in Beijing must be quietly toasting its very
existence as the Middle East burns.  A common thread linking events in Egypt,  Bahrain , Tunisia,  Libya  and elsewhere is big populations of disaffected youth.
They’re angry about greed, corruption, the rich-poor divide and
unaccountable leaders. Many Chinese harbor similar gripes, yet
demographics works in the Communist Party’s favor.  Had China not instituted population control in 1979, there
would be tens of millions more underemployed and aggrieved young
men milling about in China’s cities. Just the type to foment
revolution -- a Tiananmen Square 2.0. Only, they were never
born. Turns out, the policy is a boon for Chinese regime
control.  The longer-term implications are far less advantageous.
China’s working-age population will start shrinking in 2020,
denting growth. For now, though, demographics is a key reason  China  isn’t Egypt. It also could mean slower yuan gains amid
fear that less growth will fan unrest.  Security forces are going all guns to quell scattered
protests, dubbed the Jasmine Revolution. China’s great firewall
of censorship is taking no chances. And knowing just how vital
social stability is to their leaders, a critical mass of Chinese
are unlikely to test them anytime soon.  Mass Paranoia  A side-effect of the mass-paranoia permeating the most
populous nation, one that also touches on demographics, is a
slower rate of yuan appreciation.  The most immediate issue is calming the masses. Surging
food prices are fueling inflation. That’s unsettling many of the
nation’s 1.3 billion people, who are increasingly demanding
higher wages. If you thought exports were everything before  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted, they’re even more important now.  China’s sex ratio also has a role here. In a recent  paper ,  Columbia University ’s Qingyuan Du and Shang-Jin Wei argue that
the real imbalance doesn’t involve trade or the yuan; it’s a
dearth of women.  Call it China’s “testosterone glut.” Thanks to a cultural
preference for boys, the decades ahead will see untold tens of
millions of wifeless and frustrated Chinese men aged 20 to 45
wondering what the future holds. The key risk is that concerns
about demographics postpone the day when traders decide the
yuan’s value, not the Communist Party.  Making Friends  China, let’s face it, is excellent at the long game. The
U.S. spent the 2000s waging counterproductive wars better fought
by the forces of Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. -- conflicts
that cost precious lives, treasure and respect. China spent
those years scouring the globe for resources and making friends
in  Africa ,  Asia  and Latin America.  Officials in Beijing won’t make the same mistake Japan did
in 1985 by being browbeaten into raising its currency. And the
unintended consequences of the one-child policy appear somewhat
related: Chinese men, according to Du and Wei, will assume that
a big pile of savings is what they need to find a good wife.  Increased saving is the opposite of what China wants from
its male population. It wants greater consumption to develop a
more self-sufficient domestic economy. Today’s one-child policy
may further depress tomorrow’s consumption.  Chinese are getting antsy, as evidenced by recent Internet
messages urging people to gather in 13 major cities to demand
food, jobs, housing and justice. The speed with which China
clamped down on protests and cyber traffic shows just how shaken
it is by events in the Middle East.  Who’s Next?  A favorite parlor game in Asia is guessing where citizens
might try to emulate the Tunisians and Egyptians.  North Korea ?
Sadly, scant few of the nation’s 24 million people have access
to  Al Jazeera  or Google Inc.’s search engine. And  Kim Jong Il 
isn’t a leader who would shy away from opening fire on anyone
holding a protest banner.  The same goes for Myanmar’s junta-backed government. Its
generals are hardly a cuddly bunch. They even shot at monks
during anti-government demonstrations in 2007.  Yet East Asians are getting the domino-effect memo.
“Malaysia is not like  Egypt ,” former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said of his Muslim-majority nation this week. Leaders of
populations with a history of people-power revolts -- like the  Philippines  and  Indonesia  -- are facing similar questions from
the media this week, and it’s a healthy dynamic.  Moving Forward  Such pressures may increase the urgency to spread the
benefits of growth, reduce corruption and accelerate the pace of
democratization. You don’t fight these impulses with security
and military forces. You do it by raising incomes more broadly
and deeply than in the past.  That brings us back to China. The odds of President  Hu Jintao  going the way of Mubarak or  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali are tiny. Yet events abroad will only increase Beijing’s
obsession with control. The risk is that China moves backward on
opening up, allowing greater free speech and yuan reform.  Even if Middle East-like tensions don’t destabilize China,
they are a graphic signal that the most dynamic economy needs to
be moving forward, and fast. The masses won’t remain docile
forever no matter how fast  China’s economy  grows.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  