-- 
Slovakia Calls for New Rules to Calculate EU Bailout Fund Share

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-02-23T12:52:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/slovakia-calls-for-new-rules-to-calculate-eu-bailout-fund-share.html
  Slovakia is ready to support the
creation of the European Union’s permanent bailout fund if rules
for calculating individual countries’ contributions to the pool
change, Finance Minister Ivan Miklos said.  Contributions should mainly reflect the size of each
country’s economy and take into account the strength of its
financial industry and the level of public debt, he said at a
press conference in Bratislava, Slovakia. The change is a
“principal” condition for Slovakia’s approval of the so-called
European Stability Mechanism, which is set replace the current
temporary fund expiring in 2013, he said.  “This is a very important issue for us,” Miklos said.
“We will pursue it with all available means.”  European leaders are scheduled next month to discuss the
creation of a permanent rescue mechanism for distressed
countries. The Slovak government that took office in July has
criticized the formula used to calculate the share of guarantees
in the temporary European Financial Stability Facility, saying
the rule is unfair to poorer members as it takes into account
the population of individual countries.  Miklos said the Slovak proposal has the backing of some
other euro-area members, including fellow former communist
countries Slovenia and  Estonia .  The lending capacity of the permanent fund, whose size has
been agreed by finance ministers at 500 billion euros ($687
billion), should be sufficient once the EU adopts stricter
measures for fiscal prudence, Miklos said. Slovakia is
“rather” against allowing the fund to buy government bonds of
countries in crisis, he said.  Slovakia “in principle” supports the Competitiveness Pact
proposed by Germany and  France , according to Miklos. The country
opposes unifying the income-tax base across the 27-nation bloc,
which is part of the proposal, he said.  Slovakia also supports introduction of a bank tax, under
condition the move is coordinated by the EU and the levy won’t
hurt citizens, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 