-- 
Sony Expects 15% Market Share in High-End Cameras on New Models

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M i k a k o   N a k a j i m a
-- 
2011-02-23T02:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/sony-expects-15-market-share-in-high-end-cameras-on-new-models.html
  Sony Corp . expects to boost its
share of global shipments of cameras with interchangeable lenses
to a record this fiscal year, helped by the introduction of new
models, the head of the business said.  Sony may control about 15 percent of the global market for
single-lens-reflex cameras by the end of March, Masashi Imamura,
president of the Personal Imaging & Sound Business Group, said
in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. The maker of alpha-series
cameras and NEX models had an average market share of about 10
percent in the previous four years it has been in the segment.  “We’re currently discussing our next target, and that will
certainly be higher than 15 percent,” Imamura said.  Sony has introduced new devices that are smaller and can
capture up to 10 shots per second to close the gap with bigger
rivals  Canon Inc . and  Nikon Corp . in the fastest-growing segment
of digital-imaging devices. Shipments of SLR cameras  jumped  30
percent last year, more than double the 13 percent gain by
compact models, according to the Camera & Imaging Products
Association, a Tokyo-based industry group.  Sony was the world’s No. 3 maker of SLR cameras with an 11
percent share of the 9.77 million units sold in 2009, research
company IDC said in April last year. Canon controlled 45 percent
of the market, followed by Nikon, which accounted for 34 percent
in the 12 months, IDC said.  In June last year, Sony introduced its NEX cameras, which
don’t have the mirror that allows users of conventional models
to see the same image in the viewfinder as captured by the lens.
It also unveiled new models of the alpha series in September
that had a translucent mirror between the lens and the
viewfinder.  Sony, which also makes Cyber-shot compact cameras, bought
the high-end camera business of Konica Minolta Holdings Inc. in
2006. Konica closed its 130-year-old camera business to focus on
printers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Mikako Nakajima in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  