-- 
South Africa Won’t Change London-Based Companies’ Status

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-02-23T18:08:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/south-africa-won-t-change-london-based-companies-local-classification.html
South Africa’s National Treasury
said five companies whose shares trade in both  South Africa  and
the U.K. will continue to be treated as domestic entities,
following a review of rules governing cross-border investment.  There is a need “for a more coherent, harmonized and
transparent framework to cover all foreign direct investment
into South Africa,” the Treasury said in its Budget Review
released in Cape Town today. “Any change to the classification
system would be forward looking and would not affect the current
classification of non-resident Johannesburg Stock Exchange
listings.”  South Africa currently allows retirement funds and other
institutions to invest 25 percent to 35 percent of their assets
abroad. Investors don’t currently have to utilize their
allowances to buy stakes in  Anglo American Plc ,  BHP Billiton
Ltd .,  SABMiller Plc ,  Old Mutual Plc  and Investec Ltd., which
have primary listings in London and secondary listings in
Johannesburg.  A discussion paper outlining the rationale behind the
proposed review will be used as a basis for new laws to be
formulated following discussions with affected parties.    JSE Ltd ., which manages South Africa’s stock and bond
exchanges, welcomed the Treasury’s assurances that any changes
won’t be applied retroactively.  Most Appropriate  “The JSE looks forward to engaging with National Treasury
on the most appropriate way to classify other foreign companies
with listings on the JSE,” said Russell Loubser, chief
executive officer of the exchange, said in an e-mailed statement
from Johannesburg today. The “Treasury’s classification of
listed companies as domestic or foreign inward listings is
important, as it determines the manner in which South African
investors, particularly institutions, are able to invest.”  The review may affect London-based British American Tobacco
Plc, whose shares trade on the Johannesburg exchange and is
classified as a foreign company. The central bank has given
investors until Oct. 31, 2012, to realign their investments in
BAT and ensure their prudential allowances aren’t exceeded.  BAT “would have to qualify under the new dispensation if
they wanted a domestic classification,” Ismail Momoniat, a
deputy director-general in the National Treasury, said in an
interview in  Cape Town  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  