-- 
South African Central Bank’s Marcus Comments on Rates, Rand

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-02-23T12:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/south-african-central-bank-s-marcus-comments-on-rates-rand.html
 South Africa’s central bank
Governor Gill Marcus made the following comments at a press
conference in  Cape Town  today, ahead of the release of the
National Treasury’s budget:  On  interest rates :  “It doesn’t automatically occur that you have lower
interest rates because you have a policy on it,” Marcus said in
reference to the government’s New Growth Path. “You’ve got to
make it happen.  “The attention to the micro is very crucial to ensure that
we are able to look at the way in which that enabling
environment for lower interest rates” is created.  “If the economy is growing, and if you have attention to
the micro, the macro will play the role that it should do, and
enable the bank to have lower interest rates.  “It can’t be something that is decreed, that you have
loose monetary policy.  “When people started talking about looser monetary policy
- interest rates were more than double what they are now.  “Right now, you do have loose monetary policy and that is
creating and contributing to the opportunities that are there.”  On the rand:  “It’s very interesting that as soon as the rand does
weaken, which everyone has been asking for it to do, there seems
to be this whole question, like, how have we moved from where we
were then to where we are now.  “At the current rate, it’s fluctuating fairly at the
moment between 7.10 and 7.30. It’s considerably stronger than it
was when this discussion started a year or two ago, and people
were saying it was far too strong, even at those previous
levels.  “To me, the debate about the rand tends to be where you’ve
put your cut-off point.  “We’ve seen that capital has moved out over the last
period, end of December, beginning of January.  “The flows are flowing back in now and the  exchange rate 
does respond. But the objective for us is to address the
volatility of the currency and we do not target a particular
rate of exchange.  “That would be inappropriate in our view and we do
intervene in the markets in order to build our reserves, not to
target the level of the exchange rate.”  On foreign reserves:  “I don’t think anyone has an appropriate level.  “Reserve accumulation is a consequence of what is
happening in the global flows at the moment and, therefore, each
country is responding in the way it deems it most appropriate
and what is affordable for them.  “We do look at building reserves, we do not have a
targeted reserve. We intervene as and when it is appropriate for
us to do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 