-- 
South Africa Considers Payroll Tax, Raising VAT for Health-Care Coverage

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-02-23T12:03:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/south-africa-considers-payroll-tax-raising-vat-for-health-care-coverage.html
  South Africa  is considering raising
value-added tax and imposing a levy on payroll taxes to improve  health services  and fund a compulsory medical insurance plan,
the  National Treasury  said.  Details of the funding instruments to be used for the
National Health Insurance program, which will be implemented
over 14 years, will be announced in next year’s budget, the
Treasury said in its Budget Review released in Cape Town today.  South Africa’s ruling  African National Congress  agreed in
September to extend quality healthcare to all citizens,
requiring the government to boost investment in hospitals and
train more nurses and doctors. The ANC estimated the health
insurance plan will cost 128 billion rand ($18 billion) in its
first year, rising to 267 billion rand by 2020.  “There is no doubt that as we go further there will be an
extra cost on South African citizens, but the benefit that most
of South African citizens will get is a working health system
and an affordable health system,” Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in  Cape Town . “There will be substantial
cost implications.”  Preliminary studies by the Treasury show that possible
funding options may include a phasing in of a  payroll tax ,
payable by employers, an increase in the 14 percent value-added
tax rate, or a surcharge on individuals’ taxable income.  ‘Cost-Effective Route’  “This is a notice of intention and we’ll come up with
conclusions next year,” Mark Blecher, acting chief director for
health and social development at the Treasury, said in an
interview. “It may be a combination of these. The challenge is
to follow a sustainable cost-effective route. As long as we are
bold, but cautious at the same time, we will come up with
something that’s useful.”  Privately insured citizens of  Africa ’s biggest economy on
average have access to medical benefits worth six times more
than those who rely on the state, according to the ANC. The
entire population will have to sign up to the health plan to
make it affordable and enable the government to hire the extra
80,000 health workers it needs, the party said.  The Department of Health’s proposals on the health
insurance plan will be presented to Cabinet shortly and a
discussion paper will be published for public comment by mid-
year, Blecher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 