-- 
South African Wine Producers See Crop Cut by Flood, Fungus

-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-02-23T09:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/south-africa-s-2011-wine-grape-harvest-seen-falling-to-1-26-million-tons.html
  South Africa ’s wine producers, with
a history dating from 1655 and the Dutch East India Co., expect
flooding, fungus and disease to cut the grape crop this season.  “Estimates are that at least 36,000 tons of grapes from
the initial anticipated wine grape harvest were destroyed by
floods and showers -- the figure may yet be higher,” said  South
African Wine Information Systems , representing all the country’s
wine producers. “Grapes in many other blocks have started to
rot and outbreaks of fungal disease prevail.”  Water has damaged vines in the Orange River region, with an
“enormous cost” for local producers, while other areas remain
flooded, resulting in a “total crop loss,” Sawis said today in
an e-mailed statement. Overall production may drop 0.3 percent
from 2010 to about 1.26 million metric tons of grapes, it said.  South Africa, the seventh-largest wine maker,  mainly grows 
white grapes, including Chenin blanc, Chardonnay and Sauvignon
blanc, while red varieties include Pinotage, a hybrid developed
in the country. The industry is focusing on “non-traditional
markets” such as Canada and  China  as sales decline to the U.K.,
its main market, the Wines of South Africa export group says.  Based on the latest production forecast, South Africa will
this season produce 969.3 million liters (256 million gallons)
of wine and related products such as juice, concentrate, wine
for brandy and distilling wine, Sawis said. Stocks held by
producers and private cellars will fall to 314.1 million liters
by Dec. 31, from 338.3 million liters a year earlier, it said.  First Vines  South Africa’s first vines were planted in 1655 near  Cape
Town , where Dutch settlers set up a station to supply ships
plying the spice routes. The Cape’s first famous wine was
Constantia, a sweet fortified muscat that was shipped to  Europe ,
where Louis XVI and Napoleon Bonaparte became fans.  Wine routes around the university town of Stellenbosch take
tourists past more than 140 producers, including family owned
Meerlust and Vergelegen, owned by London-based  Anglo American
Plc , the world’s second-largest mining company.  Italy is the world’s biggest wine producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed at   areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  