-- 
Spanish Wages Outpace Growth in Risk to Recovery: Chart of Day

-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-02-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/spanish-wages-outpace-growth-in-risk-to-recovery-chart-of-day.html
Spanish wages are rising at the
fastest pace in two years as the economy struggles to emerge
from a recession amid Europe’s highest  unemployment rate .  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that salaries agreed to in wage
deals with unions rose 3 percent in January from a year earlier,
in line with inflation, after the economy contracted 0.1 percent
last year. The jobless rate ended 2010 at 20.3 percent.  “Reaccelerating wages are likely to delay further any
early attempt at job creation and hope of stabilization in the
unemployment rate,” said  Giada Giani , an economist at Citigroup
Inc. in London. The data will support “those advocating the
abolition of wage indexation,” she said.  The Bank of Spain, the  European Central Bank  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  have called for severing the link
between wages and inflation, which is one percentage point
higher in  Spain  than in Germany. Most Spanish wage-bargaining
deals include wage-indexation clauses, according to ECB data,
allowing workers to recoup lost purchasing power if inflation
exceeds agreed targets over a period of a year or more.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist
government has pledged to change wage-bargaining rules by the
end of March as part of efforts to make it easier for Spanish
businesses to compete with foreign companies. Zapatero said in
December that a lack of productivity gains after a decade-long
construction boom is Spain’s main challenge.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Madrid at 
 agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net . 