-- 
U.S. Mortgage Demand Rose From Two-Year Low on Falling Rates

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-23T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/u-s-mortgage-demand-rose-from-two-year-low-on-falling-rates.html
The number of applications for U.S.
mortgages rose last week, led by more refinancing as  mortgage
rates  fell to the lowest level since the end of January.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index of loan
applications increased 13 percent in the week ended Feb. 18
after dropping the prior week to the lowest point since November
2008. The group’s refinancing measure jumped 18 percent and the
purchase gauge rose 5.1 percent.  “Refinancing is more sensitive to fluctuations in rates”
than are purchases,  Paul Dales , a senior economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in Toronto, said before the report. Still, he
said he expected refinancing to “remain soft” with sales at
“historically depressed levels for perhaps two or three
years.”  The average rate on 30-year fixed mortgages dropped to 5
percent as turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa led
investors to seek the safety of U.S. Treasury securities, which
are benchmarks for some consumer loans, pulling down their
yield. Still, mounting foreclosures, falling prices and 9
percent unemployment mean it will take time for demand to pick
up.  The 30-year rate fell from 5.12 percent the prior week. It
reached 4.21 percent in October, the lowest since the group’s
records began in 1990.  At the current 30-year rate, monthly payments for each
$100,000 of a loan would be $536.82, in line with the same week
the prior year, when the rate was 5.04 percent.  Rates Fall  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.28
percent from 4.34 percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan rose to
65.7 percent from 64 percent the prior week.  The housing market is struggling to gain traction after a
homebuyers’ tax credit expired last year and as more properties
fall into the foreclosure pipeline. Combined sales of existing
and new homes in December were at a 5.61 million annual unit
pace, down from a July 2005 record of 8.53 million.  A report from the National Association of Realtors today
may show existing home sales fell 1.1 percent to a 5.22 million
annualized rate in January, according to economists’ estimates.
Sales of previously owned homes last year totaled 4.91 million,
the lowest level since 1997.  Builder Losses  Homebuilders are still posting losses. D.R. Horton Inc.,
the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by stock-market value, on
Jan. 27 reported a fiscal first-quarter loss that was wider than
analysts projected.  “I think 2011 will be a marginal, weak year in the
homebuilding industry,” D.R. Horton Chief Executive Officer
Donald Tomnitz said during a conference call the same day.
“Given the weak macroeconomic conditions, high levels of
existing homes for sale and tight mortgage availability, we
remain cautious and realistic in our expectations.”  The Washington-based  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s loan
survey, compiled every week, covers about half of all U.S.
retail residential mortgage originations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  