-- 
U.S. Crude Oil Supply Rose a Sixth Week, Bloomberg Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-23T17:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/u-s-crude-oil-supply-rose-a-sixth-week-bloomberg-survey-shows.html
U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose
for a sixth week, the longest series of gains since May, as a
glut forms at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the country’s biggest oil-
trading hub, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories climbed 1.13 million barrels in the seven days
ended Feb. 18 from 345.9 million a week earlier, according to
the median of 12 analyst estimates before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Ten respondents forecast an increase and two
projected no change.  Supplies at Cushing, the delivery point for New York-traded
West  Texas  Intermediate, rose to the highest level since at
least 2004 last month, according to the Energy Department.
TransCanada started deliveries from  Alberta  to the hub on Feb. 8
in the second phase of its Keystone pipeline project.  “The increase at Cushing is a benefit the U.S. gets from
being linked to rich Canadian resources,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy.  An expansion of the pipeline to the  Gulf Coast , the third
phase of the project, known as Keystone XL, may be operational
by early 2013 if regulators approve it. The XL extension will
run from Cushing to Nederland, Texas, linking Gulf refineries to  Canada ’s oil sands.  Cushing Stockpiles  Cushing stockpiles have climbed in 11 of the past 14 weekly
reports from the Energy Department. They peaked at 38.3 million
barrels in the last week of January.  Refineries probably operated at 81.7 percent of capacity,
up 0.5 percentage point from the prior week, according to the
Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline stockpiles increased 700,000 barrels from 241.1
million, the survey showed. Supplies have climbed in all but one
of the past 13 reports and surged to the highest level since
March 1990 in the week ended Feb. 11. Thirteen respondents gave
product-supply estimates. Seven respondents projected a gain,
five said there was a drop and one forecast no change.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably slipped 1.2 million barrels
from 161.3 million, the survey showed. Eleven of the analysts
anticipated a drop and two projected an increase.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
11 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington , a day later than usual because
of the Presidents Day holiday on Feb. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net . 