-- 
House Republicans Said Working on Two-Week Budget Extension

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-24T00:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/u-s-house-republicans-are-said-to-be-working-on-two-week-budget-extension.html
U.S. House Republicans are working
on a plan to keep the federal government operating until mid-
March while cutting spending by $4 billion, a proposal
immediately rejected by Senate Democrats.  House leaders haven’t decided what to cut as part of the
two-week extension, said a Republican congressional aide who
described the proposal on condition of anonymity.  Republicans aim to put the plan to a vote next week, before
the March 4 expiration of a measure funding federal agencies.
Without agreement with Democrats by then on some sort of
extension, the government would shut down.  “Americans understand we need to stop the spending binge
in  Washington  to create a better environment for  job creation ,”
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said earlier
today. “So I ask  Senator Reid , with all due respect: What are
you willing to cut?”  Jon Summers, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , called the proposal a “nonstarter.” He said it would
amount to an initial phase-in of the plan passed by the House 
last week to cut $61 billion in spending this year.  “This isn’t a compromise,” Summers said. “This bill
would simply be a two-week version of the reckless measure the
House passed last weekend. It would impose the same spending
levels in the short term as their initial proposal does in the
long term, and it isn’t going to fool anyone.”  Current Spending Levels  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has said that he will bring up a
temporary spending measure next week to keep the government
operating at current levels into early April. That, as well as
the Republican proposal, would buy lawmakers time to work on
their differences on funding for the rest of the 2011 fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30.  Democrats also seized on a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . report
issued yesterday that said the House-approved cuts would hurt
the economy in the short term. The $61 billion in spending cuts
would shave between 1.5 and 2 percentage points off economic
growth during the second and third quarters of this year,
according to the research note.  Reducing spending by a smaller amount, such as $25 billion
to $50 billion, would cut almost 1 percentage point off the
annualized rate of GDP growth in the second quarter, though it
would have a “negligible” effect on growth by the end of the
year, the analysis said. It said a shutdown of the federal
government would reduce  government spending  by about $8 billion
per week.  “This analysis puts a dagger through the heart of their
‘cut-and-grow’ fantasy,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New
York Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  