-- 
Lufthansa, Airbus Said to Negotiate $2.5 Billion Order for Revamped A320s

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-02-24T07:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/lufthansa-airbus-said-to-negotiate-2-5-billion-plane-order.html
Airbus SAS may win an order from  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  for about 30 of its new A320neo planes as
the airline seeks greater  fuel efficiency  amid rising oil
prices, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Negotiations between the planemaker and Europe’s second-
largest airline for an order valued at $2.5 billion at list
prices will probably be completed within a month, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
confidential. A Lufthansa contract for the airliner, a version
of Airbus’s current A320 equipped with engines that use less
fuel, would be the third commitment since the manufacturer began
offering the model in December.  Lufthansa is rejuvenating its fleet as the Cologne,
Germany-based carrier seeks to use less fuel and replace smaller
regional planes with larger models. Airbus said that mounting
new engines on its single-aisle aircraft would offer 15 percent
more fuel efficiency, adding pressure on  Boeing Co ., whose 737
model competes with the A320.  “This is not only about saving cost but also about
image,” said Jochen Rothenbacher, an analyst at Equinet AG in
Frankfurt who recommends buying Lufthansa shares. “Lufthansa
has always been emphasizing how they’re renewing their fleet for
efficiency, and this will help them prove that point.”  Stefanie Stotz, a Lufthansa spokeswoman, said the carrier
is constantly reviewing options for its fleet and declined to
comment on whether the airline is talking with Airbus about the
A320neo. Stefan Schaffrath, a spokesman for Toulouse, France-
based Airbus, also declined to comment.  30-Month High  Oil surged in London to the highest in almost 30 months
today as Libya’s violent popular uprising reduced supplies from
Africa’s third-biggest producer. Brent oil for April settlement
rose as much as $2.96, or 2.7 percent, to $114.21 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, the highest since
Sept. 1, 2008.  A geared turbofan engine built by  United Technologies
Corp .’s Pratt & Whitney unit and the Leap-X from  CFM
International , the venture of  General Electric Co . and  Safran SA 
of France, are the choices for powering the A320neo.  India’s IndiGo pledged in January to buy 150 of the
A3230neo. Billionaire Richard Branson’s Virgin America Inc. said
that month that it would buy 30 of the revamped planes as well
as 30 of the current model.  Lufthansa Fleet  Lufthansa’s main-brand airline had 228 narrow-body jets in
its fleet as of Sept. 30, according to its quarterly report,
including 117 from Airbus’s A320 series. The carrier’s narrow-
body planes also include models by  Bombardier Inc . and  Embraer
SA  of Brazil.  Last September, Lufthansa’s supervisory board approved an
order that included two Airbus A321s, 22 A319s and eight Embraer
E-195 regional jets for delivery starting in 2012. The German
carrier is also expecting delivery of 20 fifth-generation Boeing
747 widebodies, and will eventually have a total of 15 Airbus
A380 superjumbos.  Lufthansa has said it’s planning to decide this year on
orders for Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner or the A350 widebody made by
its European competitor.  Another potential A320neo customer is  AirAsia Bhd .,
Southeast Asia’s biggest discount carrier. AirAsia Chief
Executive Officer Tony Fernandes said this month that the
company is in talks to buy about 175 of the upgraded A320s.  Success in the single-aisle market is critical because
Airbus and Chicago-based Boeing derive the bulk of their
earnings from these aircraft. Airbus, the planemaking unit of
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., predicted in December
that it could sell as many as 4,000 of the modified A320
aircraft over 15 years.  Boeing is still weighing its options and will probably make
clear its strategy by summer,  Randy Tinseth , director of
marketing at the U.S. company’s commercial airplanes group, said
yesterday at the ICBI aircraft finance conference in Geneva.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;  Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 