-- 
Ukraine Needs Reforms Before Wrapping Up EU Association Pact

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-02-23T16:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/ukraine-needs-reforms-before-wrapping-up-eu-association-pact.html
Ukraine needs to reach agreement
with the European Union on issues such as agriculture quotas and
product names before an association agreement can be reached,
said the head of the EU delegation to Ukraine.  EU delegation chief Jose Manual Pinto Teixeira said at a
briefing in Kiev today that the two sides can close the
association agreement, which has been the subject of talks for
four years, as early as this year. He said reforms still are on
the table and it is up to Ukraine to wrap up the agreement.  Ukraine has been negotiating with the EU on the deal, which
would ease trade barriers, move the former Soviet republic
closer to the rest of  Europe  and bring it a step toward eventual
membership in the Brussels-based bloc.  “Ukraine has a choice, to live in the old Soviet world”
with an uncertain rule of law, “or to move into the European
western model, based on democracy, minority rights freedoms and
free economies where there are rules,” Teixeira said.  Among points that are yet to be agreed on, Ukraine’s
government has to accept the EU’s so-called geographical
designation, which bans companies from using product names such
as Champagne and Madiera not operating in those geographical
areas.  “This is not a negotiable issue for the EU,” said
Teixeira. “Alternative names should be adopted.”  He also said that about 30 million euros of a 100 million
in budget support for Ukraine this year is being held up as the
country still needs to adopt an acceptable procurement law.  “The country has to improve its public finance
management,” he said. The  money flow  would be resumed once the
government passes a law “that is acceptable” to the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  