-- 
Universal Studios Seeks Payment From Blockbuster or Ban on Movie Rentals

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-23T21:36:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/universal-studios-demands-payment-from-blockbuster.html
  Blockbuster Inc . creditor Universal
Studios Home Entertainment LLC demanded immediate payment or a
ban on rentals of movies including “Scott Pilgrim vs. the
World,” claiming the bankrupt chain is giving itself a
“windfall” at the studio’s expense.  Blockbuster hasn’t paid $6.4 million for leases to titles
including “Charlie St. Cloud,” and $13.4 million is due in the
next few weeks, lawyers for Universal said in a filing yesterday
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . Blockbuster accepted
shipments of new releases and doesn’t intend to pay for them, in
violation of its agreements, the studio said.  Universal seeks court help to get paid, reclaim its goods
or bar Dallas-based Blockbuster from renting its products to
customers. Blockbuster seeks “to abuse the Chapter 11 process
and reap a windfall at USHE’s expense,” lawyers for Universal
wrote.  Universal’s complaint was filed a day after Blockbuster said
it would sell itself to debt holders as part of a plan that
could involve liquidation. The contract, which still requires
court approval and testing through an auction, calls for
Blockbuster to start closing 609 stores by Feb. 28.
Administrative expenses incurred in the bankruptcy through
Feb. 24 will be frozen, according to court papers. Those
beginning on Feb. 25 will be paid only if provided for in a sale
budget.    Martin Sosland , a Blockbuster lawyer, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment today on Universal’s filing.  Studios’ Agreement  Under a November agreement, major movie studios said their
claims would have administrative expense priority and be paid in
full, keeping Blockbuster’s most important business relationship
intact, Universal said in court papers.  “Over 90 percent of Blockbuster’s total revenue of
approximately $3 billion per year is attributable to the rental
and sale” of titles licensed from the studios, lawyers for
Universal wrote in yesterday’s filing.  Another supplier, Summit Entertainment LLC, said this month
that Blockbuster hadn’t paid it $9.5 million. It sought to
convert Blockbuster’s case to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy to
liquidate its assets.  The $290 million stalking-horse bid by Blockbuster debt
holders Monarch Alternative Capital LP, Owl Creek Asset
Management LP, Stonehill Capital Management LLC and Varde
Partners Inc. is scheduled to be evaluated at a March 2 court
hearing.  Blockbuster had 5,600 stores when it filed for bankruptcy
on Sept. 23.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 