-- 
Valero Said to Be in Talks to Buy Chevron’s U.K. Refinery

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-02-23T21:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/valero-said-in-talks-to-buy-chevron-s-u-k-refinery-for-up-to-1-5-billion.html
  Valero Energy Corp ., the largest
U.S. oil refiner, is in talks to buy  Chevron Corp .’s U.K.
refinery for $1 billion to $1.5 billion, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  An agreement may be reached as soon as next month, said one
of the people, who declined to be identified because the matter
is private. Chevron has been seeking a buyer for the Pembroke
refinery in Wales, its only remaining European plant, for almost
a year. It’s unclear whether there are other bidders for the
asset besides San Antonio-based Valero, and talks could still
break down.  Chevron is among  oil companies  selling refineries to cut
debt and redeploy spending to oil exploration and development in
higher growth regions. Valero has not bought a refinery since
its 2005 acquisition of Premcor Inc., and has sold four
refineries in that time, two on the U.S. East Coast.  “I think they’re looking to Pembroke as an upgrade over
what they sold,” said Chi Chow, an analyst with Macquarie
Capital USA Inc. in Denver. The plant is a low-cost refinery
that has export capabilities to the U.S. and other parts of the
U.K., and has flexibility to run discounted grades of crude oil,
he said.  Refining Deals  The largest U.S. refining deal since Valero’s acquisition
of Premcor was announced yesterday when  Holly Corp . agreed to
acquire Frontier Oil Corp. of Houston for $2.9 billion. India’s
Essar Group last week offered to buy Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
Stanlow refinery in the U.K. for $350 million in cash. Refining
deals are picking up as companies seeking exposure to the sector
are able to acquire plants at less than 20 percent of the cost
of plants five years ago.  Sean Comey, a spokesman for Chevron, said the sale process
is ongoing and the company has no further information to add at
this time.  Bill Day , a Valero spokesman, declined to comment on
the Pembroke refinery.  “We are looking specifically at refineries in  Europe 
because there are many that are available,” Day said in a phone
interview. Earlier this month, Valero Chief Executive Officer
Bill Klesse said at a conference that a properly structured deal
for a refinery would add “a lot of  shareholder value .”  Valero is being advised by Barclays Plc, while Chevron is
working with Deutsche Bank AG, said the people.  Valero shares fell 42 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $27.75 at
4:02 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  Europe Refineries  Valero had agreed in May 2009 to buy Dow Chemical Co.’s 45
percent stake in a refining venture that Dow operated with
France’s Total SA to gain a foothold in Europe. The venture
owned the Vlissingen refinery in the Netherlands. Total instead
agreed the following month to buy the part of the venture it
didn’t own and sell it to Russia’s OAO Lukoil, thwarting
Valero’s attempt.    San Ramon , California-based Chevron, the second-largest
U.S. oil company, said in March 2010 that it planned to sell
Pembroke, which can process 210,000 barrels of crude a day, or
about one in every eight in the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;  Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 