-- 
Porsche Slumps as Extended Share-Price Probe Delays Merger With Volkswagen

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-02-24T18:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/volkswagen-plows-ahead-with-porsche-integration-as-legal-obstacles-remain.html
Porsche SE’s planned merger with  Volkswagen AG  will probably be delayed into next year because of
German legal obstacles. Porsche plunged the most in 19 months.  An investigation into share-price manipulation allegations
will likely push the deal’s completion into 2012, Porsche said.
Stuttgart prosecutors said today their probe has “solidified”
suspicions Porsche didn’t adequately inform the market between
2007 and 2009 about its intentions to take control of VW.  Institutional investors in  Germany  are seeking 2.5 billion
euros ($3.4 billion) from the sports-car maker over the matter,
according to Porsche’s annual report. Prosecutors’ findings
could be used in German civil suits seeking damages. VW said
last year the merger, planned to close in the second half, was
also being held up by U.S. lawsuits and German tax disputes.  “Legal proceedings are proving to be more complex,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a London-based Credit Suisse analyst with
“outperform” ratings on VW and Porsche. “It’s very likely
that it will happen next year because financial risks will then
be more calculable.”  Porsche’s preferred shares dropped 6.60 euros, or 11
percent, to 55 euros in Frankfurt trading, the most since July
2009. VW’s preferred stock fell 3 percent to 112.45 euros.  Expanded Probe  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in August 2009 following a
failed attempt by the Stuttgart-based sports-car maker to
acquire its larger rival. Investors claim Porsche misled them by
denying through much of 2008 it intended to acquire VW. Porsche
said in October of that year it controlled most of VW’s common
stock, causing the shares to surge as short-sellers raced to
cover their positions. Porsche has denied the charges.  Investigators have expanded the scope of their probe into
former Porsche Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and
former Chief Financial Officer Holger Haerter to include
allegations they may have taken risks endangering the carmaker’s
existence, the Stuttgart prosecutors said in a statement today.  Prosecutors also extended the probe to include three people
from Porsche’s finance unit over allegations they may have made
false statements in talks with banks over Porsche’s refinancing
and thus may have committed credit fraud, the office said.  “The further investigations are proving to be extremely
complex and time consuming and will definitely not be completed
before the end of this year,” the prosecutors’ office said.  Stake Acquisition  Prosecutors continue to investigate allegations Wiedeking
and Haerter may have misled the public between 2007 and 2009
about their intentions when acquiring the Volkswagen stake,
prosecutors said. That part of the probe regards statements made
by Porsche, as well as potentially failing to disclose required
information about the issue, they said. Investigators are also
still looking into allegations Porsche cornered, or shorted, VW
stock as a result of the omitted disclosures, they said.  Wiedeking’s lawyer Walther Graf said the allegations are
unfounded. Haerter’s lawyer Eberhard Kempf didn’t return a call
seeking comment. Porsche spokesman Frank Gaube declined to
comment on today’s allegations.  The part of the probe looking into allegations of trading-
related market manipulation was dropped, the prosecutor said. An
investigation of managers of Maple Bank GmbH, which worked with
Porsche at the time, was also ended.  VW in October said the combination may be delayed because
of the legal and tax issues.  Hedge funds  last month appealed a
U.S. judge’s ruling dismissing lawsuits they brought claiming
Porsche cost them more than $2 billion by misleading short-
sellers in its purchase of VW shares in 2008. The two carmakers
must also resolve tax issues in Germany linked to any merger.  ‘Cautious Assessment’  “Volkswagen concurs with the now more cautious assessment
of Porsche with regards to the timing and probability of the
merger,” the carmaker said in a statement today. “Volkswagen
remains fully committed to the comprehensive agreement and the
merger with Porsche and continues working in this direction.”  Porsche shareholders voted in November in favor of a 5
billion-euro ($6.9 billion) capital increase to facilitate a
merger by lowering debt piled up as part of its earlier takeover
attempt. German prosecutors’ investigations won’t impact plans
to complete the share sale by May 30, Gaube said.  As the carmakers work to resolve legal and financial
issues, the two are tightening manufacturing links. A VW plant
in Osnabrueck, Germany, will build Porsche Boxster and Cayman
models, plant director Ludger Teeken said in an interview this
week.  Europe ’s largest carmaker already assembles the bodies for
Porsche’s Cayenne sport-utility vehicle and four-door Panamera.  Deeper Integration  VW gave Porsche authority in November to run sports-car
development across the group. Adding Porsche as its 10th brand
may help Volkswagen in its effort to overtake  Toyota Motor Corp .
in sales and profitability by 2018, Bralo said.  Porsche’s next model, the Cajun compact SUV, will be based
on the platform of VW’s Audi Q5 model, saving Porsche
development costs. Porsche’s supervisory board will vote March
15 to build the Cajun at the carmaker’s Leipzig factory, said a
person familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition he not
be identified before the board vote.  “Volkswagen is moving forward to fit Porsche into its
structure,” said Stipo Bralo, a Frankfurt-based analyst at SEB
AG who recommends buying VW and Porsche stock. “The merger is
fully underway in operating terms.”  Porsche, working with VW, has a target of doubling sales to
200,000 vehicles by 2018. The carmaker will do so by expanding
the number of model lines to seven from four, the person said.
Each model will have a seven-year lifespan before being
replaced, allowing Porsche to bring one new vehicle to market
every year, the person said. Porsche spokesman Heiner von der
Laden declined to comment on the carmaker’s plans.  “Cooperation will intensify,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , an
auto analyst with M.M. Warburg in Hamburg who recommends buying
VW stock. “VW and Porsche have the resources to uncover new
areas of business. The challenge will be to do all that without
harming Porsche’s brand identity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 