-- 
Wall Street Bonuses Decline 8% in 2010, New York Comptroller DiNapoli Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-02-24T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/wall-street-bonuses-fell-8-last-year-from-2009-new-york-s-dinapoli-says.html
Cash bonuses on Wall Street declined
8 percent last year as financial firms raised base salaries and
deferred some earnings, according to  New York  State Comptroller
Thomas DiNapoli.  Financial companies disbursed $20.8 billion in 2010,
compared with $22.5 billion a year earlier, DiNapoli’s office
calculated in a report based on personal income-tax collections.
It doesn’t include stock options or other types of deferred pay.  The average Wall Street employee took home a cash bonus of
$128,530 in 2010, a drop of 9 percent that was greater than the
total decline because the pool was shared among more workers.
New York City’s securities industry added 3,600 people from
August to December, the report said.  “Cash bonuses are down, but that’s not an indicator of a
weakness on Wall Street,” DiNapoli said yesterday in a
statement.   Wall Street  is changing its compensation practices
in response to regulatory reforms adopted in the aftermath of
the greatest financial meltdown since the Great Depression. Past
practices rewarded short-term gains at the expense of long-term
profitability.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said last week that an improving
economy bolstered by Wall Street profits and record tourism will
help generate about $2 billion of unanticipated revenue through
mid-2012.  Profits at New York Stock Exchange firms’ broker-dealer
units were the second-highest ever in 2010, at $27.6 billion,
behind the $61.4 billion generated in 2009 by federal bailouts,
interest-rate cuts and proprietary trading, DiNapoli said.  Cash Bonuses  Wall Street cash bonuses are up from $17.6 billion in 2008,
which was about half the record level of $34.3 billion in 2006,
the comptroller’s office said.  The size of the bonus pool has shifted as more firms pay a
larger percentage in stock and deferred compensation.  “Almost everyone’s salaries have increased over the past
couple years, so you’re seeing more cash all year, but at the
end of the year you aren’t getting the big, fat cash check you
used to,” said Michael Karp, chief executive officer of Options
Group, an executive search and compensation consultant firm in
New York.    Morgan Stanley , owner of the world’s largest brokerage,
said last month the nine members of its operating committee will
receive an average of more than 80 percent of their 2010 bonuses
deferred. The average for all employees’ deferred pay rose to 60
percent from 40 percent in 2009, the company said in a Jan. 20
statement.  Deferred Compensation  “The industry’s greater emphasis on deferred compensation
will hold down tax collections this year, but the state and the
city will benefit in future years when taxes are paid on this,”
DiNapoli said. “A more stable and less volatile securities
industry is in the best interests of Wall Street, the city and
the state.”  Before the financial crisis, Wall Street-related earnings
accounted for as much as 20 percent of the state’s tax revenue.
That amount has slid to about 13 percent, and to about 7 percent
of  New York City  tax revenue, from 13 percent, DiNapoli said.  Soaring pay before the credit crisis pushed traders to
disregard risk and motivated financial firms to use leverage to
boost returns, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission wrote in
a 545-page book outlining its findings.  Regulators including the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. 
and the  Federal Reserve  are crafting rules that would require
firms to spread at least half of top managers’ incentive pay,
including stock and options, over three years. The awards may be
cut during the deferral period, the multiagency proposal says.  The securities industry lost 30,700 jobs in New York City
during the recession, a decline of 16 percent, or 3.5 times the
rate of total job loss in the city, DiNapoli said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  