-- 
Weber Says Deficit Countries Must Become More Competitive

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-02-23T17:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/weber-says-deficit-countries-must-become-more-competitive.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Axel Weber  said euro nations with large current
account deficits must become more competitive to help prevent
another sovereign debt crisis.  “To avert future damage from the currency union the
imbalances in the euro region must be tackled resolutely and
permanently,” Weber said, according to the text of a speech
delivered in Zurich today. “Countries with current account
deficits will have to contribute the most: what is needed are
reforms that will improve their competitiveness.”  Even though the euro-area economy as a whole has emerged
from the recession, growth is still uneven. While exporting
nations like Germany are booming, the periphery countries like  Greece ,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Ireland are struggling to emerge
from the slump as their countries grapple with budget deficits,
high borrowing costs and banking systems dependent on ECB funds.  Weber said these countries becoming uncompetitive have
resulted directly in higher imports, boosting export nations’
surpluses.  Weber said if high-deficit countries implemented reforms,
“that will not remain without impact on the surplus countries.
With diminishing export opportunities, domestic demand growth
should gather strength.”  Weber, 53, who will step down from his position as
president of  Germany ’s Bundesbank on April 30, also said fiscal
stimulus or rising wages are unlikely to tackle the imbalances.  “If Germany would boost its imports by 10 percent, that
would only boost Greece’s, Spain’s and Portugal’s current
account by 0.25 percentage points. In the case of Ireland it
would be 1 percentage point,” he said.  Weber also said it’s “vital” to tackle global imbalances
and that he was “confident” that the Group of 20 will find a
“constructive” solution to their “difficult debates” on
crafting an early warning system to detect when economic fault
lines are opening.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net 
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  