-- 
Wheat Rebounds From Two-Month Low as U.S. May Boost Export Sales

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-02-23T21:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/wheat-rebounds-from-two-month-low-amid-speculation-u-s-may-boost-exports.html
Wheat futures rebounded from a two-
month low amid signs that demand for U.S. exports is increasing.    Egypt , the world’s largest importer, bought 115,000 metric
tons from the U.S. in a tender, the government in Cairo said.
Iraq, Morocco and the  United Arab Emirates  also have issued
buying tenders. Grains plunged yesterday as escalating unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa threatened to curb demand.
Wheat tumbled as much as 17 percent since Feb. 14, when the
price reached the highest since August 2008.  “End-users are getting an opportunity that one week ago
you wouldn’t have thought you’d get to see,” said  Jason Britt ,
the president of Central States Commodities Inc., a broker in
Kansas City, Missouri. “It’s going to start showing up in
export tenders.”  Wheat futures for May delivery rose 2.5 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $7.9825 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $7.5675, the
lowest since Dec. 22. Wheat has gained 58 percent in the past
year after harvests were disrupted by drought in  Russia  and
floods in  Australia . The U.S. is the biggest exporter.  Yesterday, wheat, rice, corn and soybeans fell the most
allowed by the CBOT as violence escalated in Libya, where
protests have left as many as 300 people dead, according to
Human Rights Watch. Leaders have been ousted this year in
Tunisia and in Egypt, and unrest has spread to Yemen and
Bahrain.  Rising commodity costs have pushed up global food prices,
which jumped 25 percent last year and surged to a record in
January, according to the  United Nations . North Africa and the
Middle East are expected to buy 39.4 million metric tons of
wheat this year, or 32 percent of world purchases, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  Wheat  was the fourth-biggest U.S. crop in 2010, valued at
$13 billion, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 