-- 
When Pretending Fails to Hide Bankruptcy: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-02-23T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/when-pretending-fails-to-hide-bankruptcy-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
Our country is bankrupt. It’s not
bankrupt in 30 years or five years. It’s bankrupt today.  Want proof? Look at President Barack Obama’s 2010  budget .
It showed a massive fiscal gap over the next 75 years, the
closure of which requires immediate tax increases, spending
cuts, or some combination totaling 8 percent of gross domestic
product. To put 8 percent of GDP in perspective, this year’s
employee and employer payroll taxes for Social Security and
Medicare will amount to just 5 percent of GDP.  Actually, the picture is much worse. Nothing in economics
says we should look out just 75 years when considering the
present-value difference between future spending and future
taxes. Over the full long-term, we need an extra 12 percent, not
8 percent, of GDP annually.  Seventy-five years seems like a long enough time to plan.
It’s not. Had the  Greenspan Commission , which “fixed” Social
Security back in 1983, focused on the true long term we wouldn’t
be sitting here now with Social Security 26 percent underfunded.
The Social Security trustees, at least, have learned a lesson.
The 26 percent figure is based on their infinite horizon fiscal-
gap calculation.  But the real reason we can’t look out just 75 years is that
the government’s cash flows (the difference between its annual
taxes and non-interest spending) over any period of time,
including the next 75 years, aren’t well defined. This reflects
economics’ labeling problem. If you use different words to
describe the receipts taken in and paid out each year by the
government, you produce entirely different cash flows and an
entirely different fiscal gap measured over any finite horizon.  Matter of Language  It’s only the value of the infinite horizon  fiscal gap  that
is unaffected by the choice of labels of language. Take this
year’s payroll tax contributions. Let’s call these transfers
from workers to Uncle Sam “borrowing” by the government,
rather than “payroll taxes,” since the money will be paid back
as future benefits. If the future payback isn’t in full (equal
to principal plus interest), we can call the difference a
“retirement tax.” Presto! With this change of words, our 2011
deficit of about 10 percent of GDP is boosted another five
points to 15 percent.  With one set of words, taxes are higher now and lower
later. With the other set of words, the opposite is true. But
neither set of labels makes more economic sense than the other
or changes what the government takes, on balance, from any
person or business in any given year.  This is no surprise. The math of economics rules out an
absolute measure of the deficit, just like the math of physics
rules out an absolute measure of time.  Bottom Line  The bottom line, then, is that we need to look at the
infinite-horizon fiscal gap not just for Social Security, but
for the entire federal government. That analysis, based on the  Congressional Budget Office ’s long-term alternative fiscal
scenario, shows an unfathomable fiscal gap of $202 trillion. And
covering this gap requires coming up with the aforementioned 12
percent of GDP, forever.  If this gives you the willies, there’s a ready narcotic --
the president’s 2012  budget , which shows that most of our long-
term fiscal problem has miraculously disappeared; the fiscal gap
isn’t 12 percent of annual GDP. Nor is it 8 percent. It’s now
1.8 percent.  This fantastic improvement in our finances is due, we’re
told, primarily to the  Independent Payment Advisory Board . This
board, to be established in 2014 (after the next election, of
course) is charged with recommending cuts to Medicare and
Medicaid providers when their costs grow too fast.  Repealing Cuts  We’ve had laws mandating such cuts for years, and they are
routinely repealed. Indeed, President Obama signed the latest
such repeal last June. But rather than laugh out loud at this
cost-control mechanism, the Medicare trustees, three-quarters of
whom were appointed by the president, assume in their 2010
 report  that these cuts will be made -- to the dollar. And the
2012 budget cites the report’s fictional forecast as its
authoritative source.  No one takes the 2010 Medicare trustee report’s long-run
projections seriously, least of all Richard Foster, Medicare’s
chief actuary. Foster added this statement to the end of the
report: “The financial projections shown in this report for
Medicare do not represent a reasonable expectation…in either the
short range…or the long range.”  This isn’t the first administration to conceal our long-
term fiscal problem. Back in 1993,  Alice Rivlin , then deputy
director of the Office of Management and Budget, asked me and
economists Alan Auerbach and  Jagadeesh Gokhale  to prepare a
long-term fiscal gap/generational accounting for inclusion in
President  Bill Clinton ’s 1994 budget.  Politics Triumphs  We worked for months on the analysis, but two days before
the budget’s release, the study was excised from the budget. We
were shocked, but, in retrospect, the politics are clear. The
Clinton administration wanted to claim it was fiscally prudent
and the study, which showed unofficial debt growing at enormous
rates, showed the opposite.  The fiscal gap’s next near appearance in a president’s
budget was in 2003. Treasury Secretary Paul O’Neill commissioned
Gokhale and Kent Smetters to do the study. It showed a massive
$45 trillion fiscal gap -- not a great basis for pushing tax
cuts or introducing the prescription-drug benefit for seniors,
known as Medicare Part D. O’Neill was ousted on Dec. 6, 2002,
and a couple of days later the fiscal-gap study was discarded.  I’m not sure whether censoring the fiscal gap is more
dishonorable than fudging it. What I do know is that we can’t
assume our problems away and that I expected far better of this
president when I voted for him.    Laurence Kotlikoff  is professor of economics at  Boston
University , president of Economic Security Planning Inc. and
author of   Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu ;  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  