-- 
Whitehall Hotel Loan Faces Imminent Default

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-02-25T18:52:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/whitehall-hotel-loan-faces-imminent-default-realpoint-says.html
(Corrects hotels’ seller and management company in fourth
paragraph of story published Feb. 23.)  A $478.5 million loan backed by 107
hotels owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s Whitehall Street
Global Real Estate Ltd. will be transferred to a special
servicer because of imminent default,  Realpoint LLC  said.  A representative for the borrower told the servicer that
the loan likely won’t be paid when it matures, according to an
analysis by the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based credit-rating
company. Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  “We consider this a high credit risk as the borrower used
its last option to extend the loan,” Realpoint said.  Goldman Sachs’s highly leveraged Whitehall real estate
funds suffered losses after the global credit crisis halted the
flow of cheap debt financing and depressed property values
starting in 2007. Whitehall bought the hotels in 2006 as part of
a $1.2 billion deal with the Tharaldson family in a transaction
led by developer Gary Tharaldson. The management was taken over
in 2008 by Pillar Hotels and Resorts, formerly Archon
Hospitality, an affiliate of Goldman Sachs, according to
Realpoint.  The loan is backed by extended-stay and limited-service
hotels that carry Marriott International Inc. and Hilton
Worldwide flags, with the majority in  California , Realpoint
said. For the 12 months ended Sept. 30, occupancy and net  cash
flow  at the properties were 70 percent and $52.9 million,
respectively, down from 81 percent and $78.8 million in 2008,
according to Realpoint.  Whitehall Street Global Real Estate Ltd. Partnership
comprises 10 funds raised by Goldman Sachs to invest in higher-
risk real estate, including distressed assets.  The senior debt was $490 million at issuance, according to
Realpoint. There is also a non-trust junior piece of $181.8
million, and mezzanine debt of $148.6 million. The loan
originally matured in April 2008 and had three one-year
extension options, Realpoint said.  “It appears that the mezzanine debt would be at risk of a
substantial loss in the event of a liquidation, and the junior
debt could also be at risk of some loss,” Realpoint said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  