-- 
Wilmar Quarterly Profit Drops 28%, Misses Estimates, on Margins

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-02-23T02:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/wilmar-quarterly-profit-drops-28-misses-estimates-on-margins.html
  Wilmar International Ltd ., the
world’s biggest palm oil processor, said fourth-quarter profit
dropped 28 percent as margins narrowed at its oilseeds and
grains units, missing analyst forecasts.  Net income fell to $318.6 million from $442 million a year
earlier, the Singapore-based company said today in a regulatory
filing. That was less than the $392 million average estimate of
four analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 31 percent
to $9.1 billion for the quarter, while sale and distribution
costs jumped 78 percent on higher export taxes in  Indonesia .  Wilmar’s result was at least the second straight quarterly
report to miss analyst estimates. Crude palm oil prices rose 62
percent in the second half of last year. Wilmar declined 1
percent on the Singapore Stock exchange in the same period.    China , where Wilmar holds about half of the retail market
for cooking oil, in December asked suppliers to cap prices as
the nation seeks to hold back food price inflation. That has
eroded the margins on bottled oil, making the cost of bulk oil
higher than the retail price of the bottled product, Nomura
Holdings Inc. analyst Tanuj Shori said in a January report.  “They are stuck between a rock and a hard place: rising
raw material prices and China’s retail caps,” said  Carey Wong ,
an analyst with OCBC Investment Research Pte in Singapore.
“That will persist at least for the next two quarters.”  Wilmar fell 4.1 percent in  Singapore  trading to S$5.19 as
of 9.42 a.m. local time, the biggest decline since Dec. 22. The
benchmark Straits Times Index fell 0.6 percent.  Revaluation Gain  Wilmar’s profit benefited from a $251 million revaluation
gain on current plantations and palm oil mills, helping to
offset the $173.2 million pre-tax loss on the oilseed and grains
business. The company’s palm and laurics unit earned $159
million before tax.  Wilmar relies on outside supplies of palm plant to fill its
processing capacities. At its own plantations in Indonesia and  Malaysia , Wilmar could not meet a target of replanting 15,000
hectares last year because of wet weather, Executive Director
Martua Sitorus said Nov. 10. Yields of palm plant declined 13
percent to 5.2 million tons per hectare, Wilmar said today.  “Despite the weaker performance for the year, the group is
optimistic about 2011,” Wilmar Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said in today’s earnings statement. “Outlook of
Asian economies remains positive. The group will also continue
to invest in existing and new business as part of its growth
strategy.”  Kuok is seeking to diversify from Wilmar’s palm oil
business. Last July, Wilmar spent A$1.75 billion ($1.75 billion)
to buy  CSR Ltd .’s Australian sugar unit before the nation’s
worst floods since 1974 hurt crop of the sweetener. In December,
Wilmar said it would enter China’s real estate business just as
the country toughens measures on mortgages to tackle a bubble in
the  property market .  China Property  Wilmar agreed with  Kerry Properties  (China) Ltd. and hotel-
operator Shangri-La China Ltd. to set up joint ventures to
develop properties in China’s Liaoning province, the palm oil
trader said Dec. 21. Malaysia’s  Kuok family  owns stakes in all
three companies. Wilmar may invest about $134 million in the
real estate business with Kerry and Shangri-La.  Wilmar’s shares fell to a six-month low a day after the
real estate investment announcement as analysts at Citigroup Inc.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. queried the rationale. Nomura cut
Wilmar’s rating to a “neutral” from “buy” in a Jan. 7 report,
citing the property investments.  As it seeks to expand, Wilmar grew its loans and borrowings
82 percent to $17.4 billion last year, with working capital
needs rising with commodity prices. Net debt more than doubled
to $10.6 billion, Wilmar said today.  Wilmar will pay a 2010 dividend of S$0.023 per share, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Singapore at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  