-- 
Apple Supplier Wintek May Boost Compensation for Poisoned Workers in China

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-02-23T05:37:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/wintek-may-boost-compensation-for-workers-hurt-while-making-touch-panels.html
  Wintek Corp ., a supplier of displays
to  Apple Inc ., may pay more money to workers in  China  poisoned
by chemicals while making touch-screen panels, Chief Financial
Officer Jay Huang said. The stock fell the most in two months.  “If they feel they need more compensation to be satisfied,
then we’re willing to discuss it case by case,” Huang said in a
phone interview today. The Taichung, Taiwan-based company has
already paid about 10 million yuan ($1.5 million) to 91 workers
poisoned after dealing with the chemical N-hexane, he said.  Workers at a Wintek Group factory in Suzhou, China became
ill in 2009 after using N-hexane to clean display panels, the
company said in a May 17 exchange  statement . Employees wrote to  Steve Jobs , Chief Executive Officer of Apple, appealing for help
after the poisoning, Reuters reported yesterday, citing a letter
signed by people who claimed to represent the workers.  “This case happened a long time ago, so the impact is more
short-term noise,” said Kylie Huang, an analyst who rates
Wintek and its competitor TPK Holding Co. “outperform” at
Macquarie Securities Ltd. in Taipei. “I don’t think Apple will
take orders away from Wintek, though they may put pressure on
the company to raise its standards.”  Wintek shares dropped 4.4 percent to NT$51.90 at the 1:30
p.m. close of trading today in Taipei, the most since Dec. 15.
The benchmark Taiex index lost 1.7 percent and Taipei-based TPK,
which also supplies touch-panels to Apple, dropped 1.8 percent.  Huang said he’s not heard of the letter to Jobs.  Apple Visit  “Only a few” workers are seeking further payouts, with
most having fully recovered or accepted compensation, he said.  An Apple representative visited employees at the Wintek
affiliate, United Win Technology, to listen to worker’s demands,
China Daily  reported  today, citing a worker named Hu Jie.  Jill Tan, an Apple spokeswoman in  Hong Kong , didn’t answer
two calls to her cellphone today. Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based
spokeswoman, didn’t answer a call to her cellphone either.  Of the 137 workers affected by the poisoning, 56 still work
for the company and the rest have left, Huang said. Some workers
left after accepting compensation in accordance with local
regulations that require the highest payouts for employees who
can no longer work, he said.  Apple considers the poisoning “a core violation” of
worker safety, and required Wintek to stop using the chemical
and provide evidence that it has been removed from production
lines, the company said in its 2011 Apple Supplier
responsibility  report  released earlier this month.  Wintek also supplies touch panels to  HTC Corp . and Samsung
Electronics Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 