-- 
Democrats From Wisconsin, Indiana Take Haven in Illinois to Block Bills

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-02-23T22:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/wisconsin-indiana-democrats-flee-to-illinois-to-block-union-rights-votes.html
Illinois has become a haven for
Midwestern Democratic lawmakers fleeing their states to stall
votes on Republican-backed bills restricting union rights.  Fourteen senators left  Wisconsin  last week for the Chicago
area to prevent the quorum needed to vote on a bill limiting
collective bargaining for public employees. Most of  Indiana ’s
Democratic House members are in Urbana for the same reason.  The absent lawmakers have no plans to return today, B. Patrick Bauer, the Democratic House minority leader, said in a
conference call today from the Comfort Suites in Urbana. The
state party is paying for the lodgings of the 37 House members
who left, he said.  “It’s never been seen before in this state,” Bauer said.
“You’ve never seen this kind of class war.”  States face deficits that may reach a combined $125 billion
in the next fiscal year. Republican governors including
Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker , Ohio’s John Kasich and  New Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  are trying to change rules for collective
bargaining and worker contributions for health care and pensions
to manage costs. Labor leaders call the bills “union busting.”  In Indiana, Republicans hold 60 seats in the 100-member
House, so the Democrats’ walkout prevented the two-thirds
quorum. Democrats are blocking a bill that would restrict
collective bargaining for teachers and one that would keep
employers and unions from negotiating contracts that make non-
union members pay for labor representation.  Rattling the Glass  In Indianapolis, Republican House Speaker Brian Bosma
demanded that fist-shaking demonstrators leave the gallery this
morning. Later, when the House session resumed, protesters
pressed against the glass chanting “go home.”  The Wisconsin Democrats will remain out of state until
Walker drops his efforts to restrict collective bargaining,
Senator Mark Miller, the Democratic leader has said. Unions have
agreed to accept increased payments for health-care and pension
costs in the bill, he has said.  State employees could begin getting notices of possible
firings if the senators don’t return, Walker said at a news
conference in Madison.  “They should be doing the jobs they were elected to do,”
he said. “If we don’t pass the bill by the end of the week, for
us that means at-risk notices would have to go out, and
ultimately that would affect 1,500 individuals.”  Quiet in Columbus    Ohio ’s Statehouse was quiet today after an estimated 5,500
people demonstrated against a bill that would eliminate
collective bargaining for state workers and limit negotiations
to wages only for local employees.  Senate Republicans have agreed to amend the bill to allow
state workers to have the same bargaining rights as local
workers, said Senator Shannon Jones, the bill’s sponsor. Another
change would prohibit strikes by all public employees, she said.
Currently, only police and firefighters are barred from
striking.  The delay tactic being used in Wisconsin and Indiana isn’t
possible in Ohio, which requires a simple majority to vote on
bills. Republicans hold 59 of the 99 House seats and 23 of 33 in
the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in  New York  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  