-- 
Youku Raises Ad Rates in `Clear Path' to Profitability, CEO Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-23T02:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-23/youku-raises-ad-rates-in-clear-path-to-profitability-ceo-says.html
  Youku.com Inc ., the largest online
video site in  China , has raised advertising rates this year,
which will help the company move toward profitability, Chief
Executive Officer Victor Koo said.  Youku increased advertising rates on its site by an average
of about 15 percent to 20 percent for 2011, Koo said in a
Bloomberg TV interview in  Hong Kong  today. He didn’t estimate
when the company will turn profitable.  “We’re on a clear path to profitability because the
revenue growth at the company is still in triple digits,” Koo
said. “We’re still investing in content and technology so we
see that as part of the business plan.”  Youku leads China’s online video market by viewership time,
in an industry that has grown at a compound annual rate of 74
percent in the past three years and is set to more than double
over the next two, according to Shanghai-based iResearch
Consulting Group.  Youku, which hasn’t made a profit since it started in
December 2006, is projected to continue reporting losses through
the first quarter of 2012, at which point it would turn to
profit and report a net income of $1.25 million for the full
year, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Its net loss is projected to narrow to $17.97 million this year,
from a loss of $21.72 million last year, according to the
analysts’ estimates.  Fundraising  The Beijing-based  Internet company  raised $233.3 million in
its U.S. initial public offering in December. The stock surged
161 percent on its first day in the biggest gain for a U.S. IPO
since 2005, when Baidu Inc., the Beijing-based owner of China’s
most-used Internet search engine, began trading.  Youku’s rivals are also raising funds. Tudou Holdings Ltd.,
the operator of China’s second-largest online video website, is
seeking as much as $120 million in a U.S. IPO, the company said
in a regulatory filing in November. Synacast Corp. received a
$250 million investment this month for its China online video
company PPLive from Japan’s  Softbank Corp .  Koo said Youku has a "good relationship" with China’s
regulators and has worked on technology and ways to monitor
content since "pretty early days" of the site.  “As a leading Internet site in China we clearly want to be
a good corporate citizen,” Koo said.  China, the world’s largest Internet market with 457 million
users, censors content for politically sensitive topics and
pornography.  Google Inc .’s YouTube, the world’s most popular
video-sharing site, is inaccessible in China.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  