-- L.A. Banker to Stars Follows Show-Biz Clients to New York
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/l-a-banker-to-stars-follows-show-biz-clients-to-new-york.html
City National Corp. (CYN) , banker to
Frank Sinatra and Arnold Schwarzenegger, will open its first
street-level branches in New York to gain visibility in the city
where many of its Hollywood clients work and live.  The first of two branches will open in June, including one
in the city’s Midtown theater district, Chief Executive Officer
Russell Goldsmith said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Los
Angeles office.  The expansion is part of a long-term strategy by the bank
to follow its customers, especially wealthy individuals and
business clients in entertainment. City National opened branches
in Atlanta and Nashville in the past two years to target music
producers, talent agencies and law firms. In the past four
years, the industry has been its fastest-growing source of
deposits, climbing 36 percent, the bank said.  “This isn’t an army that has to march across the ground,”
Goldsmith said. “We can cherrypick places based on where our
clients are.”  Net income  at City National rose 21 percent to $208 million
last year, the 20th straight year of profitability. Assets have
grown 73 percent to $28.6 billion from $16.5 billion in 2008,
making it the 23rd largest publicly traded U.S. commercial bank,
according to SNL Financial.  Loans at Los Angeles’ largest bank climbed 15 percent to
$15.8 billion in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
according to  company filings . That compares with 6.8 percent at
smaller U.S. banks, which boosted loans to $2.38 trillion,
according to the Federal Reserve.  “City National continues to experience meaningful loan
growth,” Paul Miller, an FBR Capital Markets Corp. analyst,
wrote in a Feb. 5 report. The bank’s “organic growth prospects
remain encouraging.”  Showbiz Clients  City National, founded in 1954, has long focused on a show-
business clientele. It provided a $100,000 loan to Sinatra when
he needed to pay a ransom after his son was kidnapped in 1963.
The bank also lent $4.5 million to Schwarzenegger to fund his
first gubernatorial campaign in 2003. Goldsmith, 63, followed in
his father’s steps at the bank after running Republic Pictures
Corp. from 1986 to 1994.  The company first made inroads into New York a decade ago
with five people in an upstairs Midtown office, Goldsmith said.
The bank set its sites on Broadway, and while it doesn’t finance
productions, it provides payroll and cash-management services
for shows such as  “Book of Mormon” and the recent revival of
“Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.” It’s now the largest banker to the
theater industry, with about a 50 percent market share,
Goldsmith said.  Entertainment Loans  About one-fifth of City National’s business loans are
entertainment-related, according to Cary Walker, a spokesman.
Mostly they fund professional corporations in the business.
While the bank provides film financing, it does so only with
backing such as guarantees from foreign distributors or
production tax credits.  “We don’t put up money dependent on box office
performance,” said Goldsmith. “When you do that, you’re not a
bank, you’re a production company.”  City National’s fourth-quarter earnings of 87 cents a share
missed the $1 average estimated by 15 analysts, the result of
lower interest income, according to Miller. Goldsmith said he’s
reluctant to lower his standards to win loans.  “Banks are awash in deposits,” Goldsmith said. “Interest
rates are low, margins are under pressure. When you get that
situation there’s always someone willing to push a little harder
on pricing and terms.”  Tax Reform  City National rose 0.2 percent to $57.44 yesterday in New
York. The stock has  gained  16 percent this year, compared with a
10 percent gain for the S&P Midcap Financials Index.  Goldsmith has been lobbying against a potential change in
tax laws that would hurt his wealthy, bi-coastal customers: the
elimination of deductions for local levies, which would fall
most heavily on high tax states like New York and  California .  “I think that would be incredibly unfair and damaging to
the U.S. economy,” Goldsmith said. “Politically it’s very
attractive for Republicans because the states it would impact
would be blue states, states that almost without exception are
represented by Democratic senators.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  