-- A Model Medicare Program
-- B y   P a u l   H o w a r d
-- 2013-03-13T22:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/a-model-medicare-program.html
The  fiscal standoff  in Washington
shows little movement toward compromise, and nowhere is the
impasse more unyielding than it is on Medicare.  Proposals for reducing Medicare spending are often couched
in the form of price controls -- for example, capping the
maximum price that Medicare pays for products such as
prescription drugs.  Although on the surface price controls might seem logical,
in practice they have multiple negative, unintended effects --
including, ultimately, higher prices and worse health. There are
better ways of reining in costs while also fostering the
continued innovation that the U.S. health-care system needs.  We certainly need to slow the growth of health-care costs,
especially for Medicare. Fortunately, the program has an in-
house model for how to do this: Part D, the Medicare drug
benefit passed in 2003.  Part D gets high marks for controlling costs, protecting
the elderly and driving the right kinds of health-care
innovations. There is also much in the program that both the
right and left can praise.  Conservatives like Part D because private plans bargain
with drug companies over prices and then compete with one
another for senior citizens’ business. Lower premiums attract
more enrollees, leading to more profits for insurers and lower
costs for taxpayers. Competition and consumer choice help keep
costs down.  Lower Costs  Part D has features liberals love as well. Coverage is
subsidized so that the lower-income elderly pay little or
nothing for drug coverage, and wealthier seniors pay somewhat
more. Medicare also defines the standard benefit all plans must
cover, so competition is focused on price, specific drug
coverage and the convenience that pharmacy-network plans offer.  The result: Medicare Part D has cost more than  30 percent
less  than initially projected by the Congressional Budget Office
in 2004 -- $304 billion compared with $449 billion.  Part D plans also control costs by making broad use of
generics. In cases where a substitute to a brand name was
available, the generic was dispensed  almost 93 percent  of the
time. A  2010 CBO study  estimated that generic substitution
reduced Part D spending by $33 billion in 2007 ($24 billion of
that savings accrued to taxpayers).  Part D premium costs to seniors have basically stayed flat
in recent years, and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, the agency that oversees the program, predicts a 4
percent decline in premiums in 2014 as drug costs fall.  Independent and internal  government  surveys have found that
satisfaction with Part D plans is generally high. For instance,
a 2012 survey by KRC Research found that 60 percent of seniors
were very satisfied with their coverage, and 30 percent were
somewhat satisfied -- with only 10 percent reporting they
weren’t satisfied. Senior citizens on limited incomes and
eligible for Medicaid also reported high satisfaction ratings.
Eight out of 10 seniors reported that Part D plans cover the
medicines they need.  Part D’s emphasis on market pricing strikes the right
balance between preserving affordability and spurring investment
in pharmaceutical innovation. When patent protection expires for
branded drugs, prices plummet and stay low. This allows society
to reap far more of the benefits of medicines in the long term
than they cost in the short term. Lipitor, which once cost
dollars a day, is now pennies a day.  Medicines for chronic illnesses can also prevent more
expensive complications. Cheap statins, for instance, can
prevent expensive heart attacks. Drugs, in other words, can
substitute for much more expensive types of health-care labor
and technology. So it’s important to encourage more investment
in medicines for diseases, such as Alzheimer’s, that impose
enormous costs on society and families.  Mandatory Rebates  Unfortunately, President  Barack Obama  wants to reap
Medicare savings from Part D by imposing mandatory rebates --
that is, price controls -- on drug companies that participate in
the program. (The rebates amount to price controls because they
limit the prices manufacturers can charge government programs
relative to prices companies charge in the private market.)  To be fair, this would (at least for the moment) apply only
to seniors who receive both Medicare and Medicaid coverage and
some other low-income elderly. And this approach has also been
endorsed by the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform.  Although price controls lower government spending in the
short term, they also create long-term problems. The  CBO
estimates  that applying automatic Medicaid rebates to Part D’s
low-income population would reduce federal spending by $137
billion over 10 years. But lower revenue for manufacturers also
translates into reduced incentives for future medical research
and development, fewer jobs in the sector and higher prices to
payers outside the favored government programs (that is, private
insurers and employers).  Far better to stick with the pricing model that has made
Part D such a successful, and comparatively affordable, program
to date.  There are other areas, too, where we could contain health-
care spending and improve health.  We should  focus on coordinating care  for Medicare’s poorest
and sickest recipients by reducing the fragmentation between
Medicare and Medicaid, which results in higher costs and
worsened health.  “Dual-eligible” seniors  account for only 20
percent of the Medicare population but 31 percent of Medicare
costs and 39 percent of Medicaid costs. United Health  has
estimated  that better care coordination for this population
could save $189 billion over the next 10 years.  Another good idea is to cap the rate of growth of total
federal health-care spending -- including Medicare and Medicaid
-- putting all providers on notice that they have to focus on
providing the most value to patients.  Price Controls  Some variation of this approach has been proposed by House
Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, by Obama and by the
bipartisan plan put forward by former Senator Pete Domenici and
former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Alice Rivlin.  Too often, policy makers in  Washington  reach for price
controls first, imposing them without recognizing the unintended
consequences and higher costs that often pop up elsewhere in the
health-care system.  We need to rationalize and update health-care programs that
were cobbled together in the mid-20th century, with an eye on
what really works, such as Part D. The best solution for
preserving the safety net also means encouraging the right kinds
of health-care innovations.  ( Paul Howard  is the director and senior fellow of the
Manhattan Institute’s Center for Medical Progress. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul Howard at  phoward@Manhattan-Institute.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 