-- Magnetar Capital Raises $370 Million for Mortgage-Bond Funds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-13T19:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/magnetar-capital-raises-370-million-to-invest-in-mortgage-debt.html
Magnetar Capital LLC, the hedge
fund that profited from subprime defaults in 2007 after helping
create collateralized debt obligations, raised $370 million to
bet on mortgage bonds.  The firm raised the money in two separate Magnetar Mortgage
Securities funds, which were started last year, it said today in
filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Hedge
funds  often raise money in two vehicles with similar names to
serve onshore and offshore investors. The $370 million may not
reflect any redemptions.  Melinda McMullen, a spokeswoman for Evanston, Illinois-
based Magnetar, declined to comment on the funds.  The firm joined companies including Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Cerberus Capital Management LP and Canyon Partners LLC in
raising money in 2012 for mortgage-bond funds. Home-loan
 securities  without government backing soared as the housing
market emerged from a five-year  slump  and the  Federal Reserve ’s
effort to stimulate the economy by holding down  interest rates 
pushed investors toward debt with potentially higher returns.  Magnetar’s role in 2006 and 2007 in helping create CDOs,
which package assets such as mortgage bonds and buyout loans
into new securities with varying risks, has led to regulatory
actions and private lawsuits against underwriters and asset
managers also involved in the deals.  Legal Claims  A Deutsche Bank AG unit agreed to pay $17.5 million to
settle a Massachusetts probe over its alleged failure to
disclose conflicts of interests tied to a $1.56 billion mortgage
CDO involving Magnetar called Carina, Secretary of the
Commonwealth  William Galvin  said today in a statement. Deutsche
Bank and Magnetar co-invested in at least six CDOs with a value
of $10 billion, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank failed to disclose Magnetar was betting
against some of Carina, the regulator said. It also didn’t
disclose that a Deutsche Bank proprietary trading desk intended
to make wagers against “other CDOs whose performance was
expected to be similar to the performance of Carina” while
participating in the deal, according to a  consent order  filed
today by the state’s securities division.  “We are pleased to have reached this settlement and put
this matter behind us,”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman in New
York for Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mail. Magnetar’s McMullen
said in an e-mail that “as an investor, Magnetar had no
responsibility for the disclosures or marketing of CDOs.”  ‘Market Neutral’  In 2011, JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay $153.6 million
to settle SEC claims that it didn’t tell investors about
Magnetar’s involvement in helping pick the underlying assets in
a CDO. Massachusetts regulators sued Putnam Advisory Co. last
year for allowing Magnetar to allegedly recommend collateral for
CDOs, without telling investors the hedge fund was betting
against those securities.  Magnetar told investors in a 2010 letter that it didn’t
help banks create CDOs “built to fail” as it paired purchases
of the riskiest slices with wagers that mortgage debt would
default. The firm offered limited input on the selection of
securities in the deals and made bets that would pay off if they
soured as part of a “market neutral” portfolio designed to
profit no matter what happened, it said.  After a slump that wiped out the value of certain U.S.
mortgage debt in 2007 and 2008, so-called non-agency home-loan
bonds without government backing last year returned about 21
percent, according to Amherst Securities Group LP, as some notes
tied to  subprime borrowers  gained more than 40 percent. The debt
returned 0.1 percent on average last month, trailing other
assets, after outperforming with a 3.3 percent gain in January,
according to the bond broker.  Magnetar, which is led by Chief Executive OfficerAlec Litowitz and oversees about $9 billion, focuses on fixed-income
and energy investments, as well as profiting from sudden changes
in securities valuations that result from corporate and other
events, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  