-- Aimia Wins Nectar Point Tax Ruling at U.K. Supreme Court
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-13T13:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/aimia-wins-nectar-point-tax-ruling-at-u-k-supreme-court.html
An  Aimia Inc. (AIM)  unit, which operates
the Nectar points  loyalty program , won a case at the U.K.’s top
court to recover taxes on payments to companies that accept the
points as currency.  Failure to set off the payments in its value-added tax bill
“would mean double taxation,” said Judge Robert Reed at the
U.K. Supreme Court, dismissing an appeal by Britain’s tax-
collection agency. “That cannot be right.”  Aimia Coalition Loyalty UK, a unit of Montreal-based Aimia,
has fought U.K. tax  collectors (MLCOL)  for a decade over the treatment
of its Nectar program, used by companies including supermarket  J
Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)  Aimia sought to recover VAT from fees to
suppliers that took reward points from customers.  The  Supreme Court  asked for further submissions before
making a final order, so Aimia isn’t in a position to comment on
the 3-2 ruling of the justices, company spokeswoman Megan
Ratcliffe said in an e-mail. Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs
will review the judgment before providing any guidance, the tax
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  Nectar points are collected when customers shop at partner
companies, and then spent on anything from food to travel. It is
the U.K.’s most popular loyalty program, with about 18.5 million
members, according to Aimia’s website.  In 2012 financial  statements  published on its website,
Aimia said it made a C$159.5 million ($155 million) provision
related to the VAT dispute. It also accounted for C$66.3 million
under recoverable amounts.  The VAT case was referred to the  European Court  of Justice
in 2010, which found in favor of HMRC and sent the matter back
to the U.K. Supreme Court for a ruling, Aimia said.  The European Court’s ruling was “based upon an incomplete
evaluation of the facts,” the U.K. court said in its written
 decision  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  