-- Air Canada Hits 23-Month High After Pension Pact
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-03-13T20:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/air-canada-hits-23-month-high-after-pension-pact.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  gained the most in a
week after the carrier reached an agreement with the federal
government to extend a cap on pension funding by seven years.  The company will pay at least C$1.4 billion ($1.4 billion)
over that time frame into its  pension plan  under the pact,
according to a statement yesterday. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  confirmed the extension in a  separate  statement on his
department’s website.  The shares  gained  3.1 percent to C$2.65 at the close in
Toronto, their biggest single-day gain since March 5.  Canada ’s
largest airline earlier touched C$2.76, the highest intraday
price since March 21, 2011.  Air Canada had faced a January 2014 deadline for restoring
pension contributions to their usual levels. That’s now extended
to Jan. 30, 2021, and makes funding payments sustainable in the
current interest-rate environment, the company said. The carrier
will save more than C$400 million a year in cash outflow, Kevin Chiang, a CIBC World Markets analyst, said.  “This is supportive of the company’s initiative to
deleverage its balance sheet and re-fleeting opportunities,”
said Chiang, who has a sector outperform rating on the stock.  Air Canada had pension liabilities of C$4.7 billion as of
Dec. 31, according to a Feb. 7 quarterly filing. That’s down
from about C$5.6 billion a year earlier.  Had the pension arrangement not been extended, Air Canada’s
pension funding obligations would have risen by more than
C$1 billion a year,  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a note today. That’s more than double the
C$471 million that the company expects this year, he said.  ‘Fair Valuation’  “AC shares will begin to approach fair valuation”
following this agreement, said Spracklin, who rates the stock
outperform.  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , the discount carrier which is
stepping up its challenge to Air Canada with a new regional
service, said it is “disappointed” with the pension decision.  “We trust this marks the end of special treatment for Air
Canada, as such treatment at the expense of other industry
players has become too common,” the Calgary-based carrier said
in a statement. “We look forward to working with the government
to create a level playing field and an environment that supports
a healthy industry that benefits the travelling public.”  WestJet is gearing up for a mid-2013 start of its Encore
regional unit, which will compete with  Air Canada (AC/B)  on short-haul
and trans-border flights.  Under its agreement with the federal government, Air Canada
is prohibited from paying dividends or buying back shares for
the pact’s duration, according to the company’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  