-- Halliburton Worker Says He Missed Signs of Blowout Risk
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/halliburton-worker-missed-signs-of-blowout-risk-judge-told.html
A  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  worker assigned
to monitor a  BP Plc (BP/)  well testified at trial that he missed a
warning sign of a potential blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig
before the explosion that set off the largest offshore oil spill
in U.S. history.  Joseph Keith, a “mud logger” who monitored the flow of
fluid in the well, agreed under questioning in court yesterday
in New Orleans that he didn’t alert others on the rig on April
20, 2010, as pressure increased on the drilling pipe, a sign of
a possible “kick.” A kick is an entry of gas or fluid into the
wellbore, which can set off a blowout.  At the nonjury trial over liability, U.S. District Judge
Carl Barbier is to determine responsibility for the disaster and
whether BP, owner of the well;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the
Deepwater Horizon; or Houston-based Halliburton acted with
willful or wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the
legal requirement for establishing gross negligence.  Keith said he hadn’t seen any indications of a kick while
monitoring the well. When presented at trial with data showing
100 pounds per square inch of pressure on the pipe, he said he
didn’t think it was an “anomaly.” A reading of 100 psi
required a well monitor to alert others of a possible kick, he
acknowledged under questioning by plaintiffs’ lawyer John de
Gravelles of Baton Rouge.  ‘Never Missed’  “I’ve been a mud logger for 19 and a half years and I’ve
never missed a kick,” Keith testified.  “You missed this one, didn’t you sir?” Gravelles asked.  “A lot of people miss a kick, sir.”  “You and a lot of other people, correct, sir?” Gravelles
asked.  “Yeah,” Keith answered.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the Gulf of Mexico. The accident sparked hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, and Houston-based Halliburton. Trial began Feb. 25.  “I’m sorry it happened,” Keith said during his testimony.
He wept on the stand as he recalled the chaotic evacuation from
the rig. “I wish it had never happened...and everybody was
still at work,” he said.  Lawyers for the government and spill victims contend BP was
over budget and behind schedule on the Macondo deep-water
drilling project off the Louisiana coast, prompting the company
to cut corners and ignore safety tests showing the well was
unstable.  Cement Job  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and leaving the crew untrained for crisis
situations.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean workers’
miscues were the main cause of the explosion and that
Halliburton officials concealed flaws with cement work done on
the drilling project. Transocean and Halliburton countersued,
pointing the finger back at BP on liability issues.  Lawyers for the plaintiffs and co-defendants contend that
Keith should have alerted others that a kick was occurring.
Keith testified yesterday that while he took a smoke break
during a critical time on the night of the explosion, he was
back on duty in time to monitor the well.  ‘Little Hard’  Monitoring the well “was a little hard that night”
because so many simultaneous operations were going on, Keith
said. Halliburton had been hired to provide cementing services
to seal the well to prevent leaks of hydrocarbons. Keith was
monitoring the well that night as workers tried to seal it while
preparing to move the drilling rig.  Keith said he had never seen so much activity during
displacement of a well. This included repeated flushing of
tanks, crane operation, diverting of fluid overboard and
offloading of mud from another vessel below the rig, Keith said.  Keith said he had no authority or means to shut in the
well, stop the flow of mud, pumps, or otherwise stop drilling
operations. He could only advise others with such authority of
abnormal readings on gas or well-monitoring equipment.  If he detects a kick, “we’re just supposed to let them
know if we see anything,” he testified.  Keith said Transocean’s and BP’s monitors in the drilling
shack were looking at the same data he was and had access to
information that he didn’t.  Abnormal Changes  Under questioning by Halliburton attorney Floyd Hartley
Jr., Keith said that on April 20 he set alarms on his monitoring
equipment for abnormal changes in gas and fluid flow. When he
came back from his smoke break, Keith said he saw alarms go off
in his shack on the rig.  “I made several calls to the rig floor and a call to the
mud lab,” Keith recalled. When he called the lab, he said he
was told that a crew was cleaning a tank.  He said he saw a spike in pump pressure and telephoned
assistant driller Stephen Curtis about 9:15 p.m. and was
informed that it had nothing to do with well pressure or a
blowout. Keith testified that a few seconds later he called
Curtis, who said a valve was lined up wrong. Curtis sent a crew
to investigate a “pop-up valve,” Keith said. There was no
indication of a kick or blowout, Keith said.  Heard Noise  Keith said the first sign he had there was something wrong
was when he heard a noise outside like rain on the roof of his
shack on the rig. It was drilling mud coming up from the
Macondo. Then, “I smelled gas,” he said. His monitoring system
shut down and “everything went black,” Keith testified.  The well exploded shortly after. Keith and other survivors
were evacuated to the nearby workout boat, the M/V Damon
Bankston, where they watched the rig burn. Curtis, an assistant
driller for Transocean, was among the 11 people who perished in
the blast.  Barbier also heard testimony yesterday from Edward G.
Webster, a marine engineering expert, who said Transocean
officials didn’t comply with international safety management
codes in their operations of the Deepwater Horizon rig.  Webster said that his review of records in the case showed
Transocean executives violated the international codes by
failing to properly maintain the drilling installation,
including its fire-suppression system.  Raised Concerns  He noted that a 2005 audit of the rig raised concerns about
“the availability and reliability” of the emergency shut-down
system designed to avoid explosions and fires and listed its
effectiveness as “suspect.”  Transocean managers were required under the safety codes to
fix any equipment that broke on the rig, Webster added. Other
witnesses have testified that some broken drilling equipment on
the Deepwater Horizon was left unattended for three years.  “They were required to fix” any malfunctioning equipment
“immediately” under the international codes, he added.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at +1-
   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  