-- AllianceBernstein Sees No Bubble Building in High-Yield Bonds
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-03-13T04:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/alliancebernstein-sees-no-bubble-building-in-high-yield-bonds.html
AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , which
manages $437 billion of assets, sees no bubble in the high-yield
 bond market , saying prices are justified by issuance trends and
creditworthiness.  Investors will reap a “relatively attractive” return of
about 6 percent to 8 percent this year buying global junk-rated
debt, Jeremy Cunningham, a London-based senior portfolio
manager, said at a media briefing in Sydney today. Sales of new
debt will be outweighed by redemptions while the outlook for
companies is strong, bolstering the asset class, he said.  Investors repressed by near-zero benchmark  interest rates 
in the U.S., the euro region and Japan are paying up for debt
from lower-rated companies, driving spreads to levels seen in
late 2007 before the global financial crisis worsened. U.S.
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said last month some
credit markets, such as corporate debt, are showing signs of
potentially excessive risk-taking.  ‘We certainly don’t think we’re in a bubble scenario,’’
Cunningham said. “The supply and demand dynamic remains
supportive for high-yield corporate bonds and in addition to
that, fundamentals remain very supportive.”  AllianceBernstein expects company default rates to remain
low and high-yield spreads to tighten “slightly” further, he
said.  Non-investment grade debt, also known as high-yield or
junk, is rated below BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  and the
equivalent Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Investors should favor junk debt with grades of B or
higher, Cunningham said, as lower ratings don’t offer enough
extra reward for the risk.  Selective Buying  Companies are starting to take advantage of the demand for
debt by offering notes of lower  credit quality , so buyers need
to be selective, he said.  Yield premiums on global high-yield debt averaged 497 basis
points more than government debt yesterday, down from 777 in
June, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads
peaked at 2,193 basis points in late 2008 after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., from 578 at the end of 2007, the
data show.  AllianceBernstein is favoring high-yield bonds sold by
European companies, including banks, as well as emerging-market
sovereign notes, according to a presentation distributed at the
briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  