-- America Movil Sinks Third Day on Proposal for More Competition
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-03-13T17:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/america-movil-sinks-third-day-on-proposal-for-more-competition.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , Mexico’s largest
telephone carrier, plunged for a third day on speculation that a
proposed bill designed to bolster competition will reduce the
company’s market share.  Shares plunged 5.8 percent to 12.09 pesos at 10:54 a.m. in
Mexico City trading, poised for the lowest closing price since
June 2009. America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
has fallen 11 percent in the three days since the bill was
announced. The stock is down 19 percent this year.  Mexican lawmakers announced legislation this week that
would create an agency with the power to regulate competition in
the phone and broadcasting industries and require asset sales if
needed. The bill defines a dominant operator as anyone with
market share of more than 50 percent. Mexico-City based America
Movil has 70 percent of mobile-phone subscribers and 80 percent
of landlines.  “It will mean more competition,” Manuel Jimenez, an
analyst with Banorte IXE Grupo Financiero in  Mexico  City who
rates the stock hold, said in a telephone interview. “The stock
could stay at these levels for several months.”  HSBC cut its rating on the stock to neutral from the
equivalent of buy in a note dated yesterday and lowered
estimates for revenue and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda.  “Enforcing a 50 percent market share cap on America Movil
would likely drive significant cuts in revenue and Ebitda
growth,” Richard Dineen and Sean Glickenhaus, analysts with
HSBC, wrote in the report.  Credit Suisse also lowered its rating on the shares to
neutral from the equivalent of buy earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in  New York  at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  