-- AMR Bankruptcy Yields Record-Low Bond Coupon: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-13T18:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/amr-bankruptcy-yields-record-low-bond-coupon-corporate-finance.html
American Airlines is selling
investment-grade debt even as it spends a 15th month in
bankruptcy while bond buyers look ahead to the merger with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  that will create the world’s largest carrier.  The  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  unit issued $663 million of so-called
enhanced equipment trust certificates yesterday that included a
portion paying 4 percent, matching the record low coupon for
similar airline debt, which was first awarded to United
Continental Holdings Inc. in September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. American is also seeking to refinance
about $1.3 billion of bonds backed by aircraft after receiving
court approval to do so in January.  Debt investors are wagering a heftier American will benefit
from consolidation that will help the carrier restore
profitability as it fills more seats and boosts fares. Airlines
are also adding more efficient planes such as those securing the
new American debt, helping to support the value of EETCs.  “This is an alignment of the stars that hasn’t been
available to this company in years,” said  Vicki Bryan , a senior
bond analyst at Gimme Credit LLC, who upgraded AMR to “stable”
from “deteriorating” last month. American’s bankruptcy is
“already in the rearview mirror and people are willing to
invest in the new company,” she said.  Court Approval  The airline won court approval Jan. 17 for $1.5 billion in
aircraft financing, which the carrier said would save it more
than $200 million in interest expense by exploiting lower
 interest rates . While U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane overruled
an objection from bondholders that American would owe a so-
called make-whole premium, creditors have appealed the decision.  Make-whole provisions, under which investors receive a
premium if the securities are redeemed early, are included in
credit agreements to compensate lenders for missed interest
payments while allowing issuers to call debt before maturity.  American plans to refinance $425 million of 10.375 percent
securities maturing in 2019, $159 million of 13 percent debt due
2016 and $682 million of 8.625 percent bonds maturing 2021. The
securities were issued before the company entered bankruptcy in
November 2011 with assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion.  The notes are all trading above par to yield a weighted-
average 8.74 percent, with the 13 percent securities rising to
104.6 cents on the dollar on March 6 from as low as 103.5 cents
after the January court decision, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  ‘Clear Pathway’  Sean Collins , a spokesman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based
American, declined to comment on the company’s financing plans.  American’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes
due October 2014 that are in default rose today to 109.125 cents
on the dollar at 2:01 p.m. in  New York , the highest level in two
years, Trace data show.  Its sale of EETCs yesterday was the first by an airline
operating under Chapter 11 court supervision,  Fitch Ratings  said
in a March 5 report. American issued $506.7 million of 4 percent
notes due 2025 and $156.6 million of 5.625 percent securities
maturing 2021, Bloomberg data show.  “The market is favorable,”  Philip Baggaley , an analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s  in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“American in bankruptcy, but with a clear pathway to exiting
bankruptcy and a better cost and capital structure, can finance
at much better rates than American could before the bankruptcy,
when its future was more uncertain.”  Most Popular  The carrier’s 4 percent coupon matches the then-
unprecedented payment on United’s $712 million of securities due
2024 that are linked to aircraft including three  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
Dreamliner jets. American’s new securities are expected to be
backed by eight of its Boeing 737-823 aircraft and one Boeing
777-223ER plus four 777-323ER planes that will be delivered
between April and July, the company said in a statement
yesterday.  Boeing’s 737-800 model, a midsize narrow-body plane used by
more than 100 airlines worldwide, is the company’s most popular
 aircraft , Baggaley wrote in a March 5 report.  “Given its wide user base and expected demand in excess of
supply over the next couple of years, we consider it to be the
best aircraft collateral currently available,” he said.
American’s EETC issue yesterday is also the first to use the
Boeing 777-300ER as collateral, he said.  Credit Ratings  S&P ranks the 4 percent, Class-A certificates BBB-, two
steps below Fitch’s BBB+ grade, and has a B+ rating on the 5.625
percent, Class-B debt, a level above Fitch’s B ranking.  US Airways  is rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service and B-
at S&P.  Airlines are poised to increase profits as larger carriers
limit capacity, giving them greater power to raise fares and
hold down costs. They’re also replacing older and less fuel
efficient planes, with industry backlogs for the four largest
manufacturers including Boeing and Airbus SAS at a record 9,533
at the end of 2012, Bloomberg data show.  That helps to make EETCs “compelling” for investors,
whose claims are secured by collateral that can be resold
worldwide, according to Sara Rouf, an analyst at Fitch.  “Unlike any other collateral, you can move a plane
anywhere in the world, so if the market’s bad in the U.S. or
 North America , there are a lot of growing airlines in the rest
of the world,” Rouf said in a telephone interview.  Charles Lindbergh  While investors probably won’t award American lower yields
than the 4 percent coupon received yesterday as it refinances
debt linked to older aircraft, the carrier is still poised to
benefit as bond buyers anticipate its merger with US Airways,
according to  Roger King , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.  “It’ll have a much less levered balance sheet, and it’ll
have a new CEO,” King, based in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “People are very optimistic about it.”  The all-stock merger will create the world’s biggest
carrier by passenger traffic, passing United. The combination,
announced Feb. 14, will be considered by the judge overseeing
American’s bankruptcy at a March 27 hearing in New York.  Charles A. Lindbergh flew a postal route in 1926 with a DH-
4 biplane for one of American’s forerunners, Robertson Aircraft
Corp.  A pioneer of nonstop transcontinental service in the 1950s,
American grew to become the world’s largest carrier in the
2000s. It lost that status when Delta Air Lines bought  Northwest
Airlines  in 2008;  United Airlines  and Continental Airlines
formed the largest carrier when they merged in 2010.  ‘Bodes Well’  American sought court protection on Nov. 29, 2011, blaming
labor costs it said exceeded competitors’ by as much as $800
million a year. It reached cost-cutting agreements with its
unions and other workers during bankruptcy to reduce annual
spending by $1.06 billion.  Doug Parker, the US Airways chief executive officer who
will retain that role in the combined company, said during a
Feb. 14 news conference to announce the merger that American
would emerge from bankruptcy in the third quarter, the same time
the deal between the carriers is set to close. The resulting
business, to be named  American Airlines  Group Inc., will be
owned 72 percent by American creditors and 28 percent by US
Airways shareholders.  A weighted average coupon of 9.76 percent means the secured
debt American seeks to refinance costs the company about $124
million a year, Bloomberg data show. Tapping the  bond market  may
allow the carrier cut that interest expense by as much as half,
Gimme Credit’s Bryan said.  “The company is already trading as if it’s become the new
company it will be,” she said. “It bodes well for their entire
refinancing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  