-- Anadarko Holds Talks With Japan Over Mozambique LNG Supply
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-03-13T08:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/anadarko-holds-talks-with-japan-over-mozambique-lng-supply.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  said it’s
in talks with potential customers in  Japan  to buy supplies from
a joint liquefied natural gas plant in Mozambique it’s planning
with Eni SpA.  “We are advancing efforts with selective companies in
Japan and we’re hopeful that the policy uncertainty around
nuclear power and U.S. exports does not cause them to miss
out,” said Steve Hoyle, vice president of LNG marketing for the
Woodlands, Texas-based company. “None of those things are going
to be clarified anytime soon.”  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said last month he’ll
restart reactors once safety measures are in place in the face
of public opposition after the Fukushima disaster. An abundance
of shale gas discoveries in the U.S. has divided opinion over
exports.  Mozambique ’s offshore fields may hold as much as 250
trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet world consumption for
more than two years, according to national oil company Empresa
Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos. Anadarko, the second-biggest U.S.
independent oil and natural gas producer by market value, and
Eni of  Italy  have said they may sell some of their assets in
Mozambique to cut costs.  “We are currently in discussions with 20 customers in 10
countries,” Hoyle said at a gas conference in Maputo, the
capital of Mozambique.  Anadarko and Eni awarded front-end engineering and design
contracts for both onshore LNG construction and offshore
installation last year. Engineering will focus on production
units, also called trains, with a 5 million-ton-a-year capacity,
according to Anadarko. The plant’s gas supply will be split
evenly with Eni, Anadarko’s Chief Executive Officer Al Walker
said in a Dec. 21 statement.  Bechtel Group Inc. and ventures between JGC Corp. and Fluor
Corp., and Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. and Chiyoda Corp., will
design the LNG plant, according to Anadarko.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  