-- Angola’s Banco BIC Has $760 Million to Expand in Angola, Brazil
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/angola-s-banco-bic-has-760-million-to-expand-in-angola-brazil.html
Banco BIC SA,  Angola ’s biggest
private bank in terms of branches, has $760 million to expand
its network and carry out an acquisition in  Brazil , Chief
Executive Officer Fernando Teles said.  Banco BIC, which bought  Banco Portugues de Negocios SA  from
the  Portuguese government  last year for 40 million euros, a
transaction that didn’t include all BPN subsidiaries, agreed
yesterday to pay another 30 million euros for BPN’s Cape Verde
unit, Teles said in a telephone interview from Lisbon after
signing the deal.  “In April, BIC made an offer for BPN’s operations in
Brazil, and we are waiting for the government in Portugal to
decide on the sale,” Teles said. “We are focused on this deal
and on the expansion of our Angolan branch network.”  Adding branches is “important” to attract new clients,
said Teles. BIC plans to increase its number of branches in
Angola,  Africa ’s second-biggest oil producer, to 213 by the end
of the year from 188 branches today, he said. About 22 percent
of Angolans have access to banking services, according to audit
firm KPMG LLP.  Portugal’s government said in a statement yesterday that
the sale of BPN’s Cape Verde unit, BPN IFI, is a step toward its
goal of selling the remainder of BPN’s assets that were
nationalized by the Portuguese state last year.  BIC may also carry out a share sale once the stock market
in Luanda opens, said Teles. The Angolan government has yet to
announce a date for the opening of the stock market.  “When the stock market opens we will see,” he said.  Teles owns 20 percent of Banco BIC. Americo Amorim, one of
 Portugal ’s richest men, and Isabel dos Santos, the daughter of
Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, each hold 25 percent
of Banco BIC, according to Teles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  