-- Apple CEO Must Give Deposition in E-Books Antitrust Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/apple-ceo-cook-must-give-deposition-in-e-books-antitrust-suit.html
Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  was ordered by a judge to give a deposition in the U.S.
 Justice Department ’s e-books pricing lawsuit against the world’s
biggest technology company.  The possibility of Cook’s deposition was disclosed March 8
in a brief order by U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in
 Manhattan , who is overseeing the case. Cote granted a request by
the U.S. and ordered the deposition yesterday, limiting it to
four hours, according to the court.  Lawyers for the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division
asked Cote in a letter on March 6 for “assistance in settling a
discovery dispute” with Cupertino, California-based Apple over
Cook’s deposition. The March 6 letter wasn’t part of the
publicly available court file.  Lawrence Buterman, a lawyer for the U.S., said in a letter,
filed March 12 in court and also dated March 6, that Cook is the
only defendant CEO who hasn’t agreed to be questioned under oath
as part of the case.  The U.S. sued Apple and a group of book publishers last
year, claiming they conspired to raise prices for electronic
books in violation of U.S. antitrust law.  E-Books Strategy  Cook was Apple’s chief operating officer responsible for
running the company day-to-day because of the poor health of
former Apple co-founder and late CEO  Steve Jobs , Buterman said.  “Mr. Cook is likely to have highly relevant information
regarding Apple’s decision to enter the e-books market and its
related strategies that are at issue in this case,” Buterman
said.  He also had “private exchanges” with Jobs, who died in
October 2011, and other company officials, Buterman said.  “It is also likely that, given their relationship, Mr.
Jobs sought Mr. Cook’s counsel on matters relating to e-books,
and that, as a result, the two engaged in private e-books
conversations that cannot be discovered other than through Mr.
Cook’s deposition,” he said.  Buterman said that while Apple told judge Cote that Jobs
played no meaningful role in the alleged price fixing, the
company’s assertion “is plainly contradicted by Apple’s own
documents and testimony which demonstrates that Mr. Jobs had
personal knowledge of and involvement in Apple’s decision to
enter an illicit agreement with publishers to raise e-book
prices.”  Mainstream Market  In the letter, Buterman cited the deposition under oath of
Kevin Saul, an Apple associate general counsel, and an e-mail
sent by Jobs suggesting to a publisher’s corporate parent that
it should “throw in with Apple”  and “create a real
mainstream e-books market” rather than “going with Amazon.”  Apple is the only defendant remaining in the case.
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster ,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News Corp.’s HarperCollins
settled with the government.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment on
the deposition order for Cook.  Orin Snyder, a lawyer at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP who is
representing Apple, said in a March 11 letter that questioning
Cook would “threaten disruption of Apple’s business” and
“serve as a potent tool for harassment.” He also said the
government’s assertions about Cook’s knowledge and role in the
matter were “speculative.”  Cue’s Deposition  Snyder said Cook’s testimony wasn’t necessary because U.S.
lawyers were questioning Apple Senior Vice President Eddy Cue
March 12 and yesterday. According to a transcript of a court
conference yesterday, Butterman said Cue told lawyers that Cook
had information about e-book prices and the company’s strategy.  Jeff Friedman, a partner at Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP
in  San Francisco , who is co-lead plaintiff’s counsel on a
related civil lawsuit brought on behalf of e-book customers,
said he welcomed the taking of Cook’s testimony under oath.  “The class agrees with the Justice Department’s position
and Mr. Buterman did an excellent job before Judge Cote in
articulating all the plaintiffs’ position,” Friedman said. “We
were very satisfied with the judge’s reasoning in granting the
four-hour deposition of Mr. Cook.”  The case is U.S. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  