-- Apple Import Ban Explored by U.S. Agency in Samsung Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-14T02:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/apple-decision-in-samsung-itc-case-rescheduled-to-may-31.html
A U.S. trade agency is considering
how much consumers and the U.S. economy would be hurt should it
ban imports of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads over a patent held
by its largest competitor,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington was
scheduled to issue a final decision in Samsung’s patent-
infringement case yesterday. Instead, it asked for comments on
how a ban would affect the market for smartphones and tablet
computers. The question pertains to one of four patents that
Samsung asserted against Apple, for a way that phones transmit
data. The agency said it would make its decision May 31.  The notice may indicate the commission is considering a
finding that Apple violated the Samsung patent. The agency may
be trying to fashion a compromise giving Apple time to work
around or license the patent, or to deny an import ban because
of the impact on consumers and the competitive market, said
Rodney Sweetland, a lawyer with Duane Morris in Washington who
specializes in ITC cases.  “Were they not thinking about a violation, they would not
need to ask for further information of this nature,” Sweetland
said in a telephone interview.  Samsung is the world’s largest maker of handsets and is a
major  supplier  of components for the iPhone. Apple dominates in
the U.S., with 45 percent of the smartphones sold in the fourth
quarter compared to Samsung’s 27 percent, according to Neil Shah, an analyst with Boston-based Strategy Analytics.  Biggest Fight  Apple, which in 2007 energized the nascent smartphone
market, contends that phones running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system copy the look and features that make the iPhone
unique. Cupertino, California-based Apple has been embroiled in
litigation over smartphones and tablet computers on four
continents.  Its biggest fight is with Samsung, with each side accusing
the other of violating patents. At stake is getting a greater
position in the global market for mobile devices, an industry
projected by researcher Yankee Group to double to $847 billion
by 2016.  The trade commission asked for comments on what products
are authorized by Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung to use the
technology covered by the patent, and whether they are
acceptable substitutes for the iPhone and iPad.  The products in the case related to third- and fourth-
generation Apple products that work on  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s wireless
network. The commission said it wants to know whether an order
would cover devices that run on other networks, as well as the
iPhone 5 and latest iPad version.  Licensing Terms  The ITC also wants to know about licensing terms for the
patent that might be considered fair, and a history of
negotiations between Apple and Samsung. The agency said
interested parties must submit filings by April 3.  Adam Yates, a spokesman for Samsung, and Amy Bessette, a
spokeswoman for Apple, both declined to comment.  The last time the ITC decided against issuing an import ban
after finding a violation was in 1984, when it found that
barring hospital beds designed for burn victims would harm
patients who might not be able to get the equipment. In a patent
case won by Apple against  HTC Corp. (2498) , the commission gave the
Taiwanese handset maker time to design around the Apple
invention.  Any import ban would have to be reviewed by President
 Barack Obama  and the U.S. Trade Representative, who have the
authority to reject an exclusion order on public policy grounds.
The last time that  happened , President Ronald Reagan in 1987
overturned an import ban on Samsung memory chips, Sweetland
said.  Offer Rejected  Samsung contends Apple infringes four patents, including
two concerning how phones transmit data. Those patents relate to
standard technology used across the industry. Apple argued that,
since Samsung helped establish the industry standard and agreed
to license the patents on fair terms, it shouldn’t be allowed to
use those patents to block competition.  In filings with the agency, Samsung said it offered to
license its standard-essential patents to Apple at a rate of 2.4
percent of the handset price “but Apple rejected it without
making a counteroffer or attempting to negotiate a better
deal.”  U.S. Trade Judge James Gildea sided with Apple in
September, saying it didn’t infringe the patents and that one,
for a way to detect movement on a touch screen, was invalid. The
fourth patent in the case is for a way to detect phone numbers
in e-mails so they can be dialed or stored in the phone’s
contact list.  Apple has its own case against Samsung at the trade agency
that’s being considered by the commission. A final decision in
that dispute is scheduled to be released Aug. 1.  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  