-- Arabtec Gains as Builder Scraps Convertible Bonds: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-13T11:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/arabtec-gains-as-builder-scraps-convertible-bonds-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  rose the most
in almost a week after the United Arab Emirates builder scrapped
a plan to issue convertible bonds that had stoked concern among
shareholders that their positions may be diluted.  Rather than selling convertible bonds, Arabtec plans to
issue fixed-income notes this year or in 2014, according to a
statement from the U.A.E. market regulator to the Dubai bourse
yesterday. The stock slumped 30 percent through yesterday since
Arabtec said Feb. 27 it will offer convertible bonds as part of
a plan to raise capital by $1.74 billion to fund internal
growth, acquisitions and joint ventures.  “The uncertainty related to the convertible bond and
further dilution risks has been eliminated,”  Julian Bruce ,
Dubai-based head of institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE, said in an e-mailed note to clients yesterday. He says
investors should buy the shares after yesterday’s announcement.  The stock gained 2.4 percent, the most since March 7, to
2.13 dirhams at the close in Dubai. Arabtec, which surged as
much as 7.7 percent earlier, was the most traded on the
benchmark  DFM General Index, (DFMGI)  which fell 0.9 percent.  Arabtec will issue rights shares in two parts this year and
in 2014, if needed, according to the statement. The builder will
hold an annual general meeting and extraordinary general meeting
for shareholders to vote on the proposals on April 7.  “Dividing the rights issue into two tranches could also
reduce the anxiety of shareholders selling parts of their
holdings in order to participate in the capital increase,”
Bruce said.  The stock’s  10-day volatility,  a measure of price swings,
surged to 85 yesterday, the highest level since April 15.  Arabtec trades at a  price-to-earnings  ratio of 24 times,
compared with 16 times for  Emaar Properties PJSC, (EMAAR)  developer of
the world’s tallest skyscraper in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  