-- Archer & Greiner, McDermott, Davis Polk: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-13T11:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/archer-greiner-mcdermott-davis-polk-business-of-law.html
New Jersey-based law firm Archer &
Greiner PC dismissed 14 attorneys, including seven nonequity
partners across a mix of practices, firm President Christopher
Gibson said.  The 200-lawyer firm with nine offices in cities including
in New York, Philadelphia and Wilmington,  Delaware , also fired
27 staff members. The cuts included lawyers in the litigation,
intellectual property, trusts and estates and corporate
departments.  “We had, over the last five years, grown from about 150 to
210 or 220 lawyers through mergers in Philadelphia and
Hackensack,” Gibson said in a telephone interview. “Throughout
that period of time, while a lot of firms were letting lawyers
and staff go in record numbers and waves, we didn’t cut a soul.
The simple truth is that just like our clients we’ve had to
learn to do more with less.”  Gibson said that the firm’s revenue rose about 50 percent
from 2008 to 2012. Gross revenue for 2011 was $88 million and
for 2012 was $96.8 million, a record increase, according to the
firm. Gibson said that as a result of tightening their ranks,
they’ll be freer to embrace new opportunities.  The firm opened a Monmouth County office with three lawyers
within the last year. It’s in discussions with a specialty
practice group that would add another four attorneys to that
office, he said.  Baker Botts Announces New Management Appointments  Baker Botts LLP announced several management changes
yesterday, including naming Jamie Baker as chairman and Jason
Bennett as deputy chairman of the firm’s global projects
department. John Taladay is the new partner in charge of the
Washington office.  Global projects chairman Baker will lead a team that
advises clients on the acquisition, divestiture, development and
financing of energy and infrastructure projects. He replaces
Stuart Schaffer, who held that position since 2002, and will
retire from the firm at the end of this month, the firm said.
Baker will also retain his current position as the firm’s
international partner, coordinating the firm’s international
practice and strategy.  Taladay, a former Howrey LLP lawyer who joined the firm in
2011, succeeds Jamie Baker as partner-in-charge of the
Washington office. He currently co-chairs the firm’s antitrust
department along with Sean Boland.  Paul Cuomo, an antitrust lawyer and former Howrey lawyer,
will continue as the office’s deputy partner-in-charge.  Baker Botts has approximately 725 lawyers at 14 offices
worldwide.  News  Dewey Executives Attempt to Transfer Aviva Suit  The three former top executives from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP,
the defunct law firm, are trying to extricate themselves from a
lawsuit filed against them in  Iowa  by Aviva Life & Annuity Co.  The Des Moines, Iowa-based insurance company explained in
the complaint filed in December how the trio induced the
insurance company into purchasing $35 million of secured notes
in April 2010. Aviva said the firm represented that it was
“financially sound” when there was $100 million in
“undisclosed debt to certain highly compensated partners.”  Aviva sued Steven Davis, the former Dewey chairman; Stephen DiCarmine, the former executive director; and Joel Sanders, the
chief financial officer. The firm itself wasn’t named as a
defendant in the suit.  The Dewey managers filed papers this week asking the
district judge in Des Moines to transfer the case to the
bankruptcy court in New York, where Dewey’s bankruptcy is
pending. The firm’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan was approved
with a confirmation order signed in February.  The Dewey managers argue that the suit belongs in
bankruptcy court because it’s really a claim against the firm.
The suit also involves the bankrupt estate because recovery
would come from an insurance policy that is Dewey’s property.  Aviva’s complaint alleges that Dewey kept obligations
secret even from the firm’s own partners to avoid the
“possibility of a mass defection” and misstated “revenues by
over $100 million per year.” The firm managers say that the
insurance company was given a private placement memorandum that
“clearly explained the dire financial situation.”  Previously, Ned Bassen from Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP,
attorneys for DiCarmine and Sanders, said the suit was
“preposterous.”  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under
Chapter 11 in May. At the outset of bankruptcy, there was
secured debt of about $225 million and accounts receivable of
$217.4 million, the firm previously said.  The petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities
of $245.4 million. The firm estimated that midpoint recoveries
for secured and unsecured creditors under the plan would be 58.4
percent and 9.1 percent, respectively.  The Iowa lawsuit is Aviva Life & Annuity Co. v. Davis,
12-603, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Iowa (Des
Moines). The bankruptcy case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP,
12-12321, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  White Promises Investor Advocacy as SEC Chief at Senate Hearing  Mary Jo White, President  Barack Obama ’s choice to run the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, told lawmakers that her
work for Wall Street firms won’t affect her ability to be a
zealous advocate for investors.  The scope of any conflicts of interest is “quite narrow”
and would mostly affect SEC enforcement cases, White, 65, said
yesterday at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on her
nomination. Her participation in writing regulations will be
unaffected by her previous representation of clients such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , and UBS AG as a defense
lawyer, she said.  “The public investors should know I am their advocate,”
White said. As a U.S. attorney from 1993 to 2002, “I was
exceptionally aggressive against large institutions, CEOs and
large executive types,” she said.  White, who has said she would retire from New York-based
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP if she’s confirmed, drew bipartisan
support at the hearing before the Democrat-led panel. Senator
Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said last week he wasn’t ready
to support White because of concerns over conflicts of interest.  White said her first priority would be completing rules
required by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 and last year’s Jumpstart
Our Business Startups Act. The SEC should consistently consider
the economic costs and benefits of new rules “from the
outset,” she wrote in her prepared remarks.  She told the committee that the SEC, not the banking
regulators who are members of the Financial Stability Oversight
Council, should write new rules for money-market mutual funds.  White was the focus of most questions at the hearing, where
senators also questioned Richard Cordray, Obama’s nominee to be
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Republicans are blocking full Senate consideration of Cordray,
looking to restructure the bureau’s leadership and gain
oversight over its budget before voting on a permanent director.  White has spent much of her 38-year legal career at
Debevoise, where she earned $2.4 million last year. She also
represented former  Bank of America Corp . Chief Executive Officer
Kenneth D. Lewis during an SEC probe of bonuses paid to Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s executives before Bank of America bought the
brokerage.  Her history as an attorney for banks could make her more
appealing to some Republicans because it suggests she
understands how regulations affect companies, according to
Richard C. Breeden, a Republican and SEC chairman from 1989 to
1993.  For more, click here.  Former Howrey Partners Sued for Fraudulent Transfers  The trustee liquidating Howrey LLP filed lawsuits in
bankruptcy court this week against six of the defunct law firm’s
former partners. The suits contend the former partners are
liable to give up profits they made at new firms in finishing
business begun at Howrey.  From three of the partners, the suits are seeking $3.75
million in distributions the firm made after June 2010, when the
trustee believes Howrey became insolvent. The trustee contends
the payments to the partners were fraudulent transfers because
there were no profits available for distribution to partners.  The suits to recover profits from unfinished business are
based on what’s known as the Jewel doctrine, named after a
 California  decision holding former partners liable to give up
profits made at their new firms. Courts are split on whether the
Jewel doctrine is good everywhere.  The issue is now in the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan
arising from the liquidation of Coudert Brothers LLP.  Federal district judges in Manhattan are split on whether
profits at a new firm must be given up. In September U.S.
District Judge William H. Pauley III ruled in a case involving
Thelen LLP that hourly fees earned on unfinished business by a
new law firm aren’t property of the defunct firm. Pauley
disagreed with a decision in May by U.S. District Judge Colleen McMahon who ruled in the Coudert liquidation that fees earned on
unfinished business belong to the liquidated firm.  The case is In re Howrey LLP, 11-bk-031376, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Moves  Clifford Chance Dealmaker Brian Hoffmann to Rejoin McDermott  Brian Hoffmann, co-chairman of Clifford Chance LLP’s
mergers and acquisitions practice in the Americas, will rejoin
McDermott Will & Emery LLP as a partner.  Hoffmann is returning to McDermott’s New York office, where
he was a partner from 1995 to 1999, McDermott said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  Hoffmann’s “long history leading sophisticated corporate
transactions, including public mergers and acquisitions, will
enable us to meet growing demand from clients all over the
world,” David Goldman, head of McDermott’s corporate advisory
practice group, said in the statement.  Hoffmann, a graduate of Georgetown University Law Center,
specializes in M&A, high-yield and other complex corporate
transactions, according to his biography on Clifford Chance’s
website. He was a partner at that firm since 2002.  K&L Gates Hires Banking and Finance Partner in Brisbane Office  The Brisbane office of K&L Gates LLP has added Deborah Bean
as a partner in the finance practice. She joins the firm from
Gadens Lawyers. K&L Gates also added John P. Scordo as a partner
in the firm’s insurance coverage practice. Scordo joins from Day
Pitney LLP.  Over a 20-year career, Bean has spent 20 years advising the
top four banks and other financial institutions on institutional
and property banking transactions, the firm said. She also has
experience in commercial construction projects, agribusiness,
retirement and aged care, pharmacy, and energy and resources.  Scordo counsels clients on liability, litigation, and
insurance coverage issues involving privacy, data breach, and
data protection. He has experience in complex insurance claims
and coverage matters concerning many types of policies,
including general and professional liability, directors’ and
officers’, property/business interruption, fiduciary,
environmental, employment, life/accident, media/publishers, and
health and group benefits, among others.  K&L Gates has 47 offices in the U.S., Asia,  Australia ,
 Europe , the Middle East and South America.  Latham & Watkins Hires Manatt Partner in Los Angeles  Yi-Chin Ho  has joined Latham & Watkins LLP’s Los Angeles
office as a partner in the litigation department. She was
previously at Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP, where she was a
partner and served as the firm’s Director of Asia Development
and Strategic Growth.  Ho is a general commercial litigator with experience
advising on antitrust and trade regulation, intellectual
property and white collar investigation matters for clients in
Asia and the U.S.  Ho’s practice centers on representing Chinese and Taiwanese
companies on litigation matters including price fixing class
actions, predatory pricing actions, patent litigation,
International Trade Commission investigations, white-collar and
government investigations, and complex commercial litigation.
She has experience litigating commercial disputes in
arbitrations, mediations, court and jury trials and appeals.  Latham & Watkins has approximately 2,000 attorneys in 31
offices, in the U.S., Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Video  Heinz’s Lawyer: Inside the Berkshire/3G Deal  John Bick, head of the corporate department at Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about
his representation of H.J. Heinz Co. in its recent acquisition
by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and 3G Capital. The
ketchup maker was acquired for approximately $23 billion in the
biggest U.S. acquisition this year.  Bick, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains the
significance of the deal for the M&A market and reasons for the
“surge” of M&A activity in 2013.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 