-- Argentine Prices Rise Least Since 2009 on Supermarket Freeze
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-13T20:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/argentine-prices-rise-least-since-2009-on-supermarket-freeze.html
Argentine  consumer prices  rose 0.5
percent in February, the smallest gain since June 2009, after
supermarkets and home appliance retailers agreed to freeze
prices, the government said.  From the year earlier,  prices  gained 10.8 percent, compared
with 11.1 percent in January, the national statistics agency
reported today in Buenos Aires.  Argentina ’s inflation data has been questioned since early
2007, when then President  Nestor Kirchner  changed personnel at
the agency. On Feb. 1, Argentina became the first country to be
censured by the  International Monetary Fund  for not providing
accurate economic data under a procedure that can end in
expulsion from the Washington-based lender.  According to the government, inflation last year was 10.8
percent, less than half the 26 percent estimated by private
economists. Opposition lawmakers tomorrow will release estimates
of February inflation prepared by economists, who aren’t named
because they would be exposed to fines for releasing statistics
that aren’t in line with official data.  In meetings with government officials last month,
Argentina’s supermarkets and home appliance retailers agreed to
freeze prices from Feb. 1 to April 1. The accord may be extended
for another 120 days, Miguel Calvete, director of the Federation
of Chinese Supermarkets and Associations, said today.  “We asked to extend the freeze on prices to prevent
negative inflationary expectations once the accord is over,”
Calvete said in a telephone interview.  Argentines see consumer prices rising 30 percent over the
next 12 months, according to a February poll by the Buenos
Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  