-- Argentina Plans State Bank Credit Card to Cut Commission Charges
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-13T17:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/argentina-plans-state-bank-credit-card-to-cut-commission-charges.html
Argentina  is planning to create a
 credit card  issued by state-owned Banco de la Nacion Argentina
for purchases at retailers that would agree not to accept cards
from other banks, according to Osvaldo Cornide, president of the
Confederation of Medium Businesses.  Interior Trade Secretary Guillermo Moreno is studying the
creation of the card that would charge retailers 1 percent
commission compared with the 3 percent levied by banks, said
Cornide, who discussed the plan with Moreno on March 11.  “We disagree with the idea that the card will be the only
one that can be accepted,” Cornide said in a telephone
interview. “We agree with the idea of having a cheaper card
that may increase pressure on other banks to reduce fees.”  Officials at Moreno’s office didn’t return phone calls and
e-mails seeking comments.  The plan for the new card coincides with efforts by
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government to hold
down costs in  South America ’s second-biggest economy, where
economists estimate consumer prices rose 26 percent in 2012.  Supermarkets agreed to freeze prices from Feb. 1 to April
1, according to the Association of Supermarkets. The accord may
be extended by 120 days, said Miguel Calvete, director of the
Federation of Chinese Supermarkets and Associations. So-called
Chinese stores are commonplace in the neighborhoods and suburbs
of Buenos Aires and other major cities.  ‘More Competition’  A card with lower fees would help retailers boost profit
margins though it may undermine sales if participating stores
weren’t allowed to accept other cards, Calvete said.  “It’s not easy to issue 20 million plastics for clients of
other cards,” said Calvete, who also discussed the plan with
Moreno. “It may halt sales, making the treatment worse than the
illness.”  Federico Sturzenegger, president of Banco de la Ciudad de
 Buenos Aires , said Fernandez is seeking to restrict competition
and use the cards as a lever to tighten government control over
supermarkets and their prices.  “The issue here is freedom -- Banco Nacion may decide
whether or not to pay the supermarket,” Sturzenegger said in a
March 11 interview with Radio La Red. “We need a country with
more competition, not less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  