-- Argentina Gives Vale Ultimatum in Stalled Potash Concession
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-03-13T21:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/argentina-may-strip-vale-s-potash-venture-license-de-vido-says.html
Argentina said it will strip  Vale
SA (VALE5)  of licenses for a $6 billion potash project if the Brazilian
miner fails to resume work at a venture that represents more
than half the country’s annual foreign investments.  Vale’s decision this week to shelve the Rio Colorado
project in Mendoza province, after the government refused to
grant $3 billion in tax breaks and other benefits, is a breach
of concession rules, Planning Minister Julio De Vido said.  “If they don’t exploit it, they will lose the license,”
De Vido said today in televised comments from the presidential
palace. “There is a blatant violation of the concession.”  While Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said the project had become
unfeasible because of inflation, exchange rate fluctuations and
demands from provinces, Argentine authorities say the decision
is part of global cutbacks by mining companies amid losses
fueled by lower metal and mineral prices.  “Their demands have nothing to do with  Argentina ’s
macroeconomic conditions and everything to do with their
financial losses and scaling back of projects worldwide,” De
Vido said. “Vale wanted to pay its losses with our money.”  Shares Drop  Vale’s press office in Rio declined to comment. Company
executives including Vale’s country manager Sergio Leite are
holding a meeting with Argentine authorities in  Buenos Aires ,
according to press advisers for the Mendoza government.  Vale shares  slid  3.7 percent to 33.36 reais in  Sao Paulo ,
the lowest closing price Sep. 5.  The company had spent $2.23 billion on Rio Colorado at the
end of last year, completing 45 percent of a project that
includes a mine in Mendoza as well as rail and port investments.  The initial $5.92 billion budgeted for the project, which
has an estimated annual output capacity of 4.3 million metric
tons, compares with 2011 foreign direct investment in Argentina
of $7.24 billion, according to United Nations data.  Argentina will complete the project with or without Vale,
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said, according to
comments today by Mendoza Governor Francisco Perez. Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala Development Co. is one of at least two companies
interested in investing in Rio Colorado even if Vale decides to
exit, Carlos Molina, Mendoza’s head of mining, said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  