-- Asian Stocks Drop a Second Day as Chinese Equities Fall
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-03-13T10:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-after-rally.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a second day
amid concern shares rose too fast after the regional benchmark
index hit a 19-month high this week. Chinese companies tumbled
in Hong Kong after the nation’s central bank chief said he’s on
“high alert” for inflation.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the biggest builder
traded in Hong Kong, sank 3.1 percent after a report the
southern city of Shenzhen banned developers from raising new
home prices.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera maker,
slipped 2.8 percent as the yen strengthened, cutting the
earnings outlook for Japan’s exporters.  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  lost 1.9 percent as the country’s largest lender by assets
announced cost cuts after full-year profit fell for the first
time since 2009.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.6 percent to 135.39
as of 7:42 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than two shares falling for
each that rose. The gauge rallied 2.1 percent in the past three
weeks amid signs the U.S. and China economies are recovering.
The Shanghai Composite Index is poised for its biggest monthly
decline since July after the government on March 1 imposed its
toughest curbs on real-estate transactions in a year.  “There’s a slight possibility China might overdo
tightening measures in the property market,” said Yoji Takeda,
who oversees about $1.2 billion as Hong Kong-based head of Asian
equities at RBC Investment Management (Asia) Ltd. “An asset
bubble is one potential problem for China, but if they really
push down property prices, that’s also bad for the economy.”  Stronger Yen  China’s monetary-policy is “no longer relaxed” and is
“neutral,”  Zhou Xiaochuan , head of the People’s Bank of China,
said at a press conference today during the annual gathering of
China’s National People’s Congress. China this year will keep
stable credit growth, which must be in line with goals for gross
domestic product and consumer prices, Zhou said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index, the second-worst performing developed-market
benchmark gauge, dropped 1.5 percent, with declines deepening
after Zhou spoke. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies listed in the former British colony plunged
2.2 percent, the most in a month.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.6 percent.
Exporters declined as the yen rose against most major peers
after an opposition party said it wouldn’t support Kikuo Iwata,
a pro-stimulus nominee for central bank deputy governor. A
stronger currency reduces the value of overseas income when
repatriated.  Yen Effect  Japan’s benchmark index last week erased losses from the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. amid speculation
the government and the Bank of Japan will step up efforts to
revive the world’s third-largest economy. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY) ’s 42
percent increase since November shrinks to 19 percent when
 converted  into dollars, just 4 percentage points more than the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s return in the same period.  “The market has run very, very hard and it is due for a
pullback,” Andrew Pease, Sydney-based chief investment
strategist at Russell Investment Group, which manages about $160
billion, told Bloomberg Television. “You wouldn’t expect us to
be back to pre-crisis levels any time soon, given that we know
we’re going to get sluggish growth going forward.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.5 percent, while New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index dropped 0.9 percent. Singapore’s Straits
Times Index lost 0.4 percent, and South Korea’s Kospi Index
added 0.3 percent.  U.S. Futures  Shares on the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  traded yesterday at
14.9 times estimated earnings compared with 14 times for the S&P
500 and 12.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the S&P 500 slipped 0.1 percent today. The
equity gauge fell 0.2 percent yesterday, snapping a seven-day
rally that drove the benchmark toward a record high.  Chinese developers fell after news site Sina.com reported
Shenzhen’s land authorities won’t approve the sale of new
property projects with higher prices. China Overseas Land &
Investment dropped 3.1 percent to HK$21.60. Shimao Property
Holdings Ltd., controlled by billionaire Hui Wingmau, fell 2.7
percent to HK$13.62. China Vanke Co., the largest mainland-
listed homebuilder, dropped slipped 2.4 percent to 10.95  yuan  in
Shenzhen.  Keppel Corp. (KEP) , the world’s biggest maker of oil platforms,
fell 1.1 percent to S$11.73 in Singapore after saying a $1.2
billion conditional contract to build two semi-submersible
drilling rigs for Ukraine’s Naftogaz won’t take effect.  Canon, Panasonic  Japanese exporters declined. Canon slid 2.8 percent to
3,450 yen. Panasonic Corp., Japan’s second-largest television
maker, decreased 2.9 percent to to 681 yen.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a Japanese supplier of factory automation
equipment, fell 2.5 percent to 14,000 yen. A switch to focusing
on the auto industry from smartphone-related machine tools could
backfire on the company, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst
Hideyuki Mizuno wrote in a report.  National Australia Bank slipped 1.9 percent to A$30.95 in
Sydney. The lender said it plans to cut annual costs by A$800
million ($825 million) within five years after full-year profit
fell for the first time since 2009.  Among stocks that advanced, Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s biggest maker of smartphones, rose 2.2 percent to 1.527
million won. The company will unveil its new Galaxy S4 in the
U.S. tomorrow as it challenges Apple Inc. in the iPhone maker’s
biggest market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  