-- ASMI Shares Plunge After Plan to Cut Holding in ASM Pacific
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-03-13T12:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/asmi-shares-plunge-after-plan-to-reduce-holding-in-asm-pacific.html
ASM International NV (ASM)  fell as much
as 16 percent after saying it plans to sell a stake in ASM
Pacific Technology Ltd. in an effort to increase the value of
its combined businesses.  The company is selling 8 percent to 12 percent of ASM PT,
ASMI said in a statement today. The price is HK$88.88 to
HK$91.77 a share, according to a term sheet obtained by
 Bloomberg News , which would raise a maximum of $567 million
according to Bloomberg calculations.  “This is clearly disappointing news,” said Jos Versteeg,
an analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers. “People were
anticipating a breakup of the company, and this is kind of a
setback. I think the company decided it still needs ASM PT as a
cash cow.”  The sale follows a study of the market valuation of the
combination, after investors pressed ASMI to separate its two
businesses. The alternatives that were investigated included a
full or partial placement or sale of the company’s stake in ASM
PT, a spinoff of shares in ASM PT and merger options, the
Almere, Netherlands-based company said.  “A partial secondary placement of 8 percent to 12 percent
of the company’s stake in ASM PT is the most suitable step to be
taken to address the non-recognition by the markets of the value
of the combined businesses,” ASM International said in a
statement today.  No Part Two  The company intends to return about 65 percent of the cash
proceeds from the divestment to shareholders, using the
remainder to strenghten the business. ASMI has no plans to
further reduce its stake beyond the mentioned range, said
company spokesman Ian Bickerton by phone. “There is no part
two, this is it,” he said.  ASMI dropped as much as 4.94 euros to 26.05 euros, the
largest intraday decline since 2008. The stock was down 11.8
percent at 27.32 euros as of 12:50 p.m. in Amsterdam, giving the
company a market value of 1.72 billion euros ($2.24 billion).
Shares of ASM PT closed 2.1 percent lower at HK$96.60 in
Hongkong trading today.  ASMI consists of two separate businesses: The front-end
division makes machines used to turn silicon wafers into chips.
The company also owns about 52 percent of Hong Kong-based  ASM
Pacific Technology (522)  Ltd., the world’s biggest maker of chip
assembly and packaging equipment, known as back-end gear. After
the share sale ASM will hold 40 percent to 44 percent in ASM
Pacific, a term sheet shows.  With the ASMI market value lower than the value of its
stake in ASM PT, investors have asked the company several times
to break up in the past. In May 2010, the company won backing to
postpone discussion on its structure, giving it two more years
to restore profitability at the front-end operations.  At a shareholders meeting in May a lawyer for ASMI’s
founder and largest shareholder, Arthur del Prado, declared that
he might be open to splitting the company in two. The shares
have risen 10.7 percent since then, until today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  