-- That Sickening Sugar Subsidy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-13T22:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/that-sickening-sugar-subsidy.html
Sweet reason has left U.S.
agricultural policy, at least judging from the latest
installment in the sugar-subsidy saga.  Because of a plunge in U.S. sugar prices amid a hefty crop
of sugar beets and cane, the Agriculture Department  estimates 
that it may have to buy 400,000 tons of sugar from processors
who might default on $862 million in government loans. Sugar
producers have the option of repaying the loans either with cash
or with their harvests if prices fall below a certain level.  This is all part of a confection of federal price supports
and subsidies for the industry. Last year, sugar processors took
out loans when U.S. prices were about 25.5 cents a pound. Prices
have since declined to 21 cents, just a hair above the trigger
price that lets them repay their loans with raw sugar.  The sugar, by law, would be sold to ethanol refiners, who
would pay 10 cents a pound less than the government paid -- an
inducement needed to get the ethanol industry to use the sugar.
Aside from the ridiculousness of piling one ill-advised subsidy
atop another, this would produce a loss of $80 million for the
U.S. Treasury. Some industry analysts estimate the government
may have  to buy  as much as 800,000 tons of sugar to restore
balance to U.S. stockpiles, potentially doubling the loss.  The sugar industry says the loan program, along with price
supports, helps sustain an industry that employs 142,000 people.
Fair enough. There is no gainsaying the importance of jobs in an
economy that hasn’t produced enough of them since the 2008
financial crisis.  But like most subsidies, and U.S. agricultural policy more
broadly, the program benefits the few at the expense of everyone
else. Each year, the federal government bestows $25 billion in
handouts on the farm industry. Most of it goes to large
agribusinesses and farmers who on average earn much more than
the average American. According to one  analysis , about three-
fourths of all agriculture subsidies go to just 10 percent of
the nation’s farms.  What’s more, consumers end up paying twice -- first as
taxpayers, and then at the supermarket, where inflated sugar
prices cost shoppers an extra $3.5 billion a year, according to
an Iowa State University  study . Meanwhile, the U.S. sugar market
remains protected from the lower prices that prevail around the
world: Because of import restrictions, U.S. prices are higher
than the world market price of about 18.8 cents a pound.  Congress had a chance to end the subsidies for the U.S.
sugar industry last year, when it was drafting a new farm bill,
as it does every five years. The proposal was  narrowly defeated .
It didn’t matter because the revised farm bill died as Congress
reached an impasse on a debt deal. The old farm bill, sugar
subsidies included, was extended for a year.  Congress plans to take another shot at writing a farm bill
this year. A good place to start would be rolling back sugar
subsidies. If legislators lacked a good reason before, they
should have one now.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 