-- Baird Confident on AAA as New South Wales Top Grade ‘Imperative’
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-03-13T01:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/baird-confident-on-aaa-as-new-south-wales-top-grade-imperative-.html
New South Wales Treasurer Mike Baird says he’s confident of retaining the top credit score for
 Australia ’s second-largest state borrower after traveling abroad
to meet ratings companies last month.  Baird met with officials after  Standard & Poor’s  revised
its outlook on Australia’s biggest state economy to “negative”
in October, citing concern budget flexibility may be limited
amid needed infrastructure investments. S&P would be “much more
comfortable” with the state’s finances if revenue improves or
the government executes plans to raise funds by leasing and
selling some assets, he said.  “At the moment revenue is holding up so that’s a positive
and as the asset transactions go through, if we achieve good
results, I think that will be positive as well,” Baird said in
an interview in Sydney today. “We are managing toward the
concerns and doing everything that’s consistent with an AAA-
rated credit.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold New South  Wales ’s
bond maturing in May 2020 instead of sovereign securities was 69
basis points today, down from this year’s high of 75 basis
points, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
prices. The state has A$59.7 billion ($61.6 billion) in bonds
outstanding, Bloomberg data show.  “If you look at the cost of funds, pre global financial
crisis there’s a less compelling argument on a one-step
downgrade, post I think it’s become imperative,” said Baird.
“It’s a competitive advantage for capital.”  New South Wales is planning to maintain borrowings at about
A$10 billion a year in the coming fiscal years, Baird said. The
state is more likely to reduce its borrowings than to increase
them, he said.  The state government’s funding arm said in December it
expects borrowings to fall to A$9.9 billion in the 12 months
ending June 30, from its previous forecast for A$10.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  