-- Baker’s ‘The Flick’ Is Slow-Motion Torture: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-03-13T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/baker-s-the-flick-is-slow-motion-torture-jeremy-gerard.html
Annie Baker’s new play, “ The
Flick ,” unfolds at a rundown movie theater over a recent summer
in central  Massachusetts .  The set at New York’s Playwrights Horizons consists of
several rows of seats and, above, the projection booth. The
owner has resisted the changeover to digital film.  At first, David Zinn’s design was so dingily realistic that
I half-expected ticket holders to find themselves seated up
there in the midst of the action. That, of course, presumes
there was any action.  It’s hard to believe Baker wrote the acclaimed “Circle
Mirror Transformation,” as well as a fine adaptation of “Uncle
Vanya” seen here last year.  “The Flick” concerns Sam (Matthew Maher), a veteran
employee whose duties include sweeping up and tending the
concession stand; new hire Avery (Aaron Clifton Moten), an
idiot-savant whose genius is playing “Six Degrees of Kevin
Bacon,” and Rose (Louisa Krause), recently promoted from
sweeper to projectionist.  Sam loves Rose, who’s attracted to Avery, whose social
skills are limited to naming the sequence of movies that link,
say, Macaulay Culkin to Michael Caine. There’s also the issue of
skimming, in which some stubs are not kept and the extra cash is
divided among the three of them.  In Jokes  Baker throws in a few movie-geek jokes (the play begins and
ends with snippets from famous film scores not by John
Williams).  Mostly, there’s slow repetition of mundane tasks --
sweeping up, threading the projector, missing sexual connections
-- whose point, I think, is that verisimilitude equals
importance.  Baker and director Sam Gold pack more pauses into the
evening than a Harold Pinter marathon.  After three-and-a-quarter hours of excruciating tedium,
escaping into a miserable winter night felt like liberation.  Through March 31 at Playwrights Horizons, 416 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com 
Rating: (No stars)  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
Katya Kazakina on hot  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 