-- Bank Pay Attacked by U.K. Business Lobby as Threat to Capitalism
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-13T18:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bank-pay-attacked-by-u-k-business-lobby-as-threat-to-capitalism.html
Excessive employee compensation at
U.K. banks is denting public confidence in capitalism in the
wake of the Libor scandal, according to the Institute of
Directors, a management lobby group.  “Shareholder value has been destroyed, capitalism has been
given a bad name, key measures of the market have been
manipulated for cynical gains, taxpayers have shelled out
billions to bail banks out, and yet vast rewards packages are
still being handed out,” Simon Walker, director general of the
Institute of Directors, said  in a speech .  Discontent is spreading “beyond the professional
anticapitalists in their Occupy tent cities” into wider
society, including businesses’ investors and customers, he said,
according to a copy of a speech to members of the Chartered
Institute of Public Relations yesterday that was published on
the Institute of Directors’s website.  Britain’s banks are under pressure to rein in executive pay
and cut costs after a series of regulatory missteps in the years
since the financial crisis, when taxpayers injected about 65.5
billion pounds ($98 billion) into  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Since then, RBS has been fined
about $612 million and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  290 million pounds for
attempting to manipulate global  interest rates .  Barclays said on March 8 that it awarded 428 workers more
than 1 million pounds in 2012, down from 473 in 2011. RBS said
on the same day that it paid 95 employees more than 1 million
pounds last year.  Reward for failure “has to change,” and pay structures
must be reformed to assuage public anger, Walker said.  RBS said last month it will cut its bonus pool and claw
back some compensation to help pay the fine on interest-rate
rigging. At Barclays, Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  has
said he won’t take a bonus following the Libor scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  