-- Barnes & Noble Loses Bid to Dismiss Alcatel-Lucent Claims
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/barnes-noble-to-argue-it-didn-t-violate-alcatel-patents.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the biggest
U.S. bookstore chain, lost its bid for a federal judge to
dismiss some claims it infringed  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  patents related
to Internet commerce.  Barnes & Noble, based in New York, sued Alcatel-Lucent in
July 2010, seeking a ruling that it hasn’t infringed patents
registered by the telecommunications company, which had warned
of possible legal action. A federal jury in Texas has already
ruled that some of the patents at issue weren’t infringed,
Barnes & Noble said.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels yesterday at a hearing
in  Manhattan  allowed two claims to remain in litigation. He
dismissed one infringement claim because Alcatel-Lucent licensed
the patent to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , whose products Barnes & Noble
uses on its website.  Of six patents in the initial filing, three were at issue
yesterday. Two claims the judge allowed to remain included
patents for technology related to checkout functions on e-
commerce sites and the use of a search engine that, after the
user types in a product search, returns results that don’t
exactly match the specified product.  “They had their shot,” Gerard Haddad, a lawyer for Barnes
& Noble, told the judge yesterday, referring to the  Texas 
verdict. “They asserted the same elements against Barnes &
Noble in the same way.”  Rejected Argument  Daniels yesterday rejected the company’s Texas ruling
argument.  “It’s inappropriate for this court to try to decipher what
issues” the Texas jury considered that may apply to this case,
Daniels said.  During the hearing, he repeatedly asked the company’s
lawyers how the verdict should affect his ruling.  “You say the jury by general verdict decided an issue
that’s in this case,” Daniels said. “What is the evidence you
want me to extrapolate? How am I supposed to determine what is
the issue the jury decided to make them rule against the
plaintiff?”  Alcatel-Lucent, based in Paris, said the infringement
occurred on the retailer’s website,  Barnesandnoble.com . Alcatel-
Lucent has appealed the Texas verdict to the Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit. Oral arguments in that case may be
heard in May, said Thomas Mahlum, a lawyer for Alcatel-Lucent.  Different Systems  Mahlum argued yesterday that the Texas verdict shouldn’t
apply to the  New York  case.  “We’re talking about different systems,” Mahlum said.
“The evidence is different and the functionality is
different.”  Alcatel-Lucent sought a stay in the proceedings in New York
until the appeals court rules. Daniels denied the stay.  “That’s not the way it works,” the judge said. Referring
to the Texas verdict, he said, “Your claims continue to be
invalid.”  Mahlum argued that the Microsoft license doesn’t apply to
Barnes & Noble because the retailer wrote some computer
application code to perform certain functions using Microsoft’s
server and software.  “This is a limited license,” Mahlum said. “The license
applies only if unmodified.”  No Evidence  Daniels noted that a witness said in a deposition that
Barnes & Noble hadn’t modified Microsoft’s product.  “He said they took it out of the box and used it as is,”
Daniels said. “You’ve put no other evidence before me to
dispute that statement.”  Lucent Technologies  merged with Alcatel  in 2006. Lucent had
been part of AT&T Corp. and the patents in question were
developed at AT&T’s Bell Labs in the 1990s.  Barnes & Noble said in court papers that one of the patents
is invalid because “the claimed invention was in public use or
on sale in the  United States  more than one year prior to Dec.
30, 1992, the filing date of the patent.”  The case is Barnes & Noble Inc. v. Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.,
10-05759, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  