-- Bayer Joins Merck in Fighting Generic Drugs Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bayer-joins-merck-in-fighting-generic-drugs-case.html
For more than a decade, drugmakers
have battled U.S. Federal Trade Commission accusations that they
have colluded to forestall the introduction of dozens of generic
medicines, costing buyers as much as $3.5 billion a year.  The fight hits a climax March 25 when the  Supreme Court 
hears arguments on what the FTC calls “pay for delay” patent
settlements. Under those accords, the FTC says, a brand-name
drugmaker pays a would-be rival to push back the release of a
low-cost generic medicine. Drug companies say the deals have the
opposite effect, clearing the way for generic competition by
resolving patent issues.  The FTC is seeking a ruling that those deals are generally
anticompetitive, a decision that could alter the landscape for
U.S. drug sales and lead to a wave of suits by wholesalers,
retailers and insurers.  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  units already have faced suits, and the agency says
40 more pay-for-delay accords were struck in fiscal 2012 alone.  “I cannot emphasize enough the enormous consequences with
respect to this Supreme Court decision,” said Ralph Neas,
president of the Generic Pharmaceutical Association, a
Washington industry trade group that opposes the FTC campaign.  The Supreme Court argument is one of two this month that
will affect the generic-drug industry. On March 19 the court
will weigh limits on patient lawsuits, using the case of a woman
awarded $21 million for injuries she incurred after taking a
painkiller made by  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)   Shielding Companies  Patients are seeking a way around a 2011 Supreme Court
ruling that shielded generic-drug companies from claims that
they failed to warn of possibly dangerous side effects. A
federal appeals court said the patient could sue because she was
pressing a different legal theory, claiming the drug was so
dangerous it shouldn’t have been on the market.  The high court will rule in both cases by June.  The disputed patent settlements are a product of the
economics of the pharmaceutical industry, where companies can
reap billions of dollars from blockbuster drugs -- and then see
those sales plummet the moment a generic alternative appears.
The FTC says generic drugs sell for an average of 15 percent of
the original price, with the brand-name company losing 90
percent of its market share by unit sales. Generics have saved
purchasers $1.1 trillion in the last decade, Neas says.  Pharmaceutical patent settlements typically arise when a
generic-drug maker has either secured, or is poised to secure,
 Food and Drug Administration  approval. At that stage, only the
brand-name company’s patents stand in the way of generic
competition.  Consumers’ Expense  The FTC and its allies say they have no quarrel with
settlements that merely set the date for generic entry. They say
that type of agreement simply reflects the companies’
assessments of the chances that a court would invalidate the
brand-name company’s patent.  A payment is different, they say. If a brand-name drugmaker
with $100 million in annual sales can pay a generic rival $20
million to wait an extra year, both companies come out ahead --
at the expense of purchasers, the FTC argues.  “It is a win-win for the pharmaceuticals, and it is a
lose-lose for the consumers,” said  Jon Leibowitz , who stepped
down last week as the FTC’s chairman after making drug-industry
settlements his signature issue. “The brands and generics are
conspiring to prevent competition, and the consumers are
essentially the ones who pay the premium for that.”  A 2010 FTC  study  found that the accords cost purchasers
$3.5 billion a year, a figure the drug industry contests.  The high court case centers on Androgel, a treatment for
low testosterone in men that is made by Solvay Pharmaceuticals
Inc. Bayer and Merck have both filed briefs backing Solvay.  Long Fight  The court fight has been a long time coming for the FTC.
The justices refused to hear the antitrust agency’s arguments in
2006 after President  George W. Bush ’s  Justice Department  urged
the court to reject an appeal in a case involving Schering-
Plough Corp., now part of Merck. The department switched sides
on the issue after  Barack Obama  became president and is now
backing the FTC case against the companies.  Drug companies say the government fails to grasp the
complexities of settlement talks.  “For the FTC to sit in a little ivory tower and pretend it
is that simple is nonsense,” said  Paul Bisaro , chief executive
officer of  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  The company, the fourth-largest maker of
generic drugs by sales, is also a defendant in the case.  Bisaro says a payment can make the difference between an
accord that clears the way for competition and a stalemate that
forces a generic-drug company to survive years of patent
litigation before going to market.  Lipitor Accord  He points to the agreement that let his company, then known
as Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., start selling a version of
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor cholesterol pill, the world’s best-selling
drug, in 2011. The accord meant Watson didn’t have to spend
millions of dollars litigating over patents that might have
protected Lipitor from competition until 2017.  “If we had lost -- and statistics show we lose 50 percent
of the time -- the product would still be protected today,” he
said. Bisaro said the Lipitor settlement didn’t involve a
“direct payment,” without elaborating.  The FTC says the price for Androgel was poised to fall at
least 75 percent in 2007 after the Food and Drug Administration
cleared the way for competition. Faced with the prospect of
losing $125 million in annual profits, Solvay instead paid the
generic-drug makers as much as $42 million a year to delay their
competing versions until 2015, the FTC says.  Five Years  The companies say Solvay, which is now part of  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) ,
had a patent that, if backed by the courts, would have protected
the drug an additional five years -- until 2020.  “Unless and until a patent is adjudicated invalid or not
infringed, good-faith claims about infringement must be assumed
true for antitrust purposes,” the AbbVie unit argued in court
papers.  The companies say the payments were compensation for
services to be provided by the generic-drug makers, including
Watson’s marketing of Androgel to urologists.  Three of the four federal appeals courts to rule on the
issue have said the settlements, also known as reverse payments,
are generally permissible. That includes the Atlanta-based 11th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which threw out the FTC’s
Androgel suit.  Passing Muster  The court said that, unless the patent litigation is a
sham, reverse payment agreements are immune from antitrust
attack so long as they stay “within the scope of the
exclusionary power of the patent.” Because the Androgel accord
shortened the period of time Solvay potentially could exclude
generic competition, it passed antitrust muster, the appeals
court said.  Leibowitz says that reasoning undermines a federal law,
known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, that encourages generic-drug
makers to challenge patents and get their products to market as
soon as possible. Should the Supreme Court adopt the appeals
court’s approach, companies would be emboldened to delay lower-
priced medicines even longer, he said.  “The payment wouldn’t go for a few extra years. It would
go to the last day of the patent,” Leibowitz said.  Bisaro says it’s the patent, not the payment, that is
responsible for delaying generic competition.  “People get stuck on the cute label,” he said, referring
to “pay for delay.” “It is the patent that creates the block.
The patent, which is lawfully granted by the United States
government, is what creates the anticompetitive behavior.”  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals, 12-416.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  