-- Bayern, Malaga Complete Champions League Quarterfinal Lineup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-14T00:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bayern-munich-malaga-advance-to-champions-league-quarterfinals.html
Four-time champion  Bayern Munich 
ousted Arsenal on away goals and tournament newcomer Malaga
eliminated Porto to complete the quarterfinal lineup in soccer’s
Champions League.  Bayern’s 2-0 home loss last night followed a 3-1 win in its
round-of-16 opener in London, putting the German team through on
the tiebreaker as the two-game series finished 3-3. Isco and
 Roque Santa Cruz  scored as Malaga beat 10-man Porto 2-0 at home
to advance 2-1 on aggregate.  Arsenal’s exit leaves  England  without a quarterfinalist in
Europe’s elite club competition for the first time in 17 years.
Eight teams from five countries, including three from  Spain ,
will feature in tomorrow’s last-eight draw in Nyon,  Switzerland .  “It’s a massive disappointment for English football,”
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said at a news conference. “It’s
a massive wake-up call when you think we had Chelsea, Manchester
City,  Manchester United  and Arsenal all out by the quarterfinal.
It’s a long time since this happened.”  Goals at the start and end of last night’s match in Munich
had given Arsenal a chance of avoiding a round-of-16 elimination
for the third straight year. It was Bayern’s first defeat in 24
games in all competitions.  “We managed to get off with a slap on our wrists,” Bayern
coach Jupp Heynckes said in comments on tournament organizer
UEFA’s website. “We still haven’t won anything. This was a
timely reminder for us.”  Opening Goal  The Gunners opened the scoring after three minutes at the
 Allianz Arena  as Theo Walcott sent a low cross from the right
that Olivier Giroud directed into the roof of the net.  It was Arsenal’s only shot of the first half as Bayern then
controlled play. Toni Kroos had the home team’s best chance with
a shot that was stopped by Lukasz Fabianski.  Bayern continued to dominate in the second half with  Arjen Robben  and Kroos shooting wide. Luiz Gustavo then curled a shot
just wide and Fabianski blocked an attempt from Robben, who got
behind the Arsenal defense.  Laurent Koscielny then headed in a corner in the 86th
minute to put Arsenal within a goal of overturning the deficit
from the opening game, though the Gunners weren’t able to create
another good chance.  “We gave everything,” Arsenal captain  Mikel Arteta  said
in a televised interview. “We knew after the first leg it was
going to be difficult. It was hard mentally but we kept the
crowd quiet. If we had had 10 more minutes, who knows?”  Debut Run  Malaga’s debut run in the  Champions League  continued as it
beat Porto to join fellow Spanish teams Barcelona and Real
Madrid in the quarterfinals. It’s the first time since 2003
three teams from La Liga have advanced that far, according to
Opta Sports.  “An achievement like this seemed impossible only a short
time ago,” Isco said on UEFA’s website. “The Champions League
is the essence of football and we will continue to enjoy it no
matter where it takes us next.”  After Malaga’s Javier Saviola had a goal ruled out in the
39th minute for a foul on Julio Baptista, the home team tied the
series when Isco curled a shot from the edge of the penalty area
into the top corner just before halftime.  Porto went down to 10 men four minutes after the break when
Steven Defour received his second yellow card for a challenge on
Joaquin.  Santa Cruz  came on for Baptista in the 73rd minute and
put Malaga in front on aggregate four minutes later by heading
in Isco’s corner kick.  With Porto needing to score to go through on away goals,
Maicon’s 81st-minute header was disallowed for offside and
Malaga held on to advance.  “Achieving this with Malaga feels different to everything
I have lived through in my career because of the fact that we
are creating history at the club,” Joaquin said on UEFA’s
website. “Being among the last eight teams in Europe is the
reward for all of that hard work.”  Borussia Dortmund , Galatasaray, Juventus and Paris Saint-
Germain are the other quarterfinalists. The two-game series will
open April 2 and 3 with the return matches a week later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 