-- Berlin Airport Fiasco Shows Chinks in German Engineering Armor
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-03-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/berlin-airport-fiasco-shows-chinks-in-german-engineering-armor.html
Faulty fire protection, lights that
won’t go off and an overlooked nuclear reactor are just a few of
the hurdles holding up the  new airport  in Berlin that is
tarnishing  Germany ’s reputation for industrial derring-do.  Designed to befit a capital that attracts more than 10
million  visitors  every year as  Europe ’s No. 3 city destination
after  London  and Paris, the airport was built to handle 27
million passengers annually and first scheduled to be
operational in 2011. A new date hasn’t been set after
construction and planning faults made a June start impossible.  The fiasco reflects the mismanagement creeping into
prestige public projects in Germany, taking the sheen off the
country’s image as a paragon of engineering proficiency. The
setbacks come as Berlin, Germany’s capital  since 1990  and its
biggest city, shakes off a post-unification malaise and booming
tourism spawns new hotels. Low rents compared with other
capitals are drawing in software, film and publishing startups.  “It’s not rocket science to build a modern airport,” said
Thomas Winkelmann, chief executive officer of Germanwings,
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s low-cost airline. “Fashion is better in
 Italy , food is better in  France , and Germans do engineering. So
not to be able to construct a single terminal building is super
embarrassing.”  The project is being managed by the city of Berlin, the
state of Brandenburg and Germany’s federal government.
Originally budgeted at about 2.8 billion euros ($3.6 billion),
the latest projection is 4.3 billion euros.  More Tourists  Hartmut Mehdorn, the former chief executive officer of
Deutsche Bahn AG and  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , was named CEO of the
airport on March 8, filling a post vacant since January after
Rainer Schwarz was fired because of the missteps.  Berlin is building the new airport to attract more tourists
and business and cut through the postwar tangle of several
aerodromes, Tegel in the western part of the city and
Schoenefeld in the east. While Tegel has been popular with
travelers for its short distances from street drop-off to
departure gate, the facilities don’t offer enough space to
expand into the global gateway Berlin is aspiring to become.  “Berlin needs an airport, and that’s why we have to do
everything so that this airport is completed as quickly as
possible,”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters on March 8.  London’s Heathrow is Europe’s busiest airport, attracting
69.9 million passengers last year. Paris’s  Charles de Gaulle 
drew 61.6 million passengers, while third-ranked Frankfurt had
57.5 million.  Prestige Companies  Some of Germany’s biggest  companies  including  Siemens AG (SIE) 
and  Robert Bosch GmbH  are involved in the Berlin airport
project. Carriers including Air Berlin and Lufthansa have built
new facilities there and are in talks over how to recoup losses
incurred by the delays. Air Berlin plans to use the site as its
hub and Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline, had planned
to operate more than 1,000 weekly flights there.  The list of calamities at the 280,000 square-meter (3
million square-foot)  terminal , located in the state of
Brandenburg about 20 kilometers (12 miles) southeast of downtown
Berlin, is growing. At last count, at least 20,000 defects
ranged from the faulty fire protection systems to incorrectly
laid tiles, according to reports in German media.  A Feb. 13 visit revealed a site devoid not only of
passengers and planes, but also of workers as project directors
continue to compile a catalog of what needs to be fixed before
work can resume. The building is lit up every night because
there’s no mechanism to turn the lights off. There are deficits
in the sprinkler system and a lack of fire protection on some
steel girders used for construction.  Stained Record  The project is not the only blemish on Germany’s
engineering prowess. A plan to put Stuttgart’s train station
underground has met environmentalist opposition and is now
budgeted to cost 6.5 billion euros, compared with 4.5 billion
euros in the initial plan. A harbor concert hall in Hamburg,
Germany’s richest city, may end up costing more than 10 times
the original estimate of 77 million euros and is also years
behind its 2010 completion date.  “I would love it if Berlin had the international airport
it deserves as the capital,” actor  Matt Damon  told reporters at
the Berlinale Film Festival, where he was promoting his film
“Promised Land” on Feb. 8.  ‘Poor But Sexy’  Critics of the Berlin chaos have put the blame on
politicians meddling in the complexities of a large-scale
infrastructure project. Matthias Platzeck, the prime minister of
the state of Brandenburg who became airport supervisory board
chairman on Jan. 16, took over the job from Berlin Mayor Klaus Wowereit, who has marketed Berlin as the city equivalent of a
startup under the slogan of “poor but sexy.”  Berlin is the second-most  indebted  of Germany’s 16 states,
with more than 60 billion euros of debt, according to data from
the Federal Statistics Office.  “It shows that big German city governments are incapable
of running the infrastructure show,” said Friedrich Thelen,
founder of Thelen-Consult, a Berlin-based business advisory
group and former parliamentary editor of business magazine
WirtschaftsWoche. “Major projects must be run by private
professionals.”  Germany’s federal structure has spawned a network of global
and smaller airports throughout the country.  Frankfurt  remains
by far the largest, followed by Munich, built in the early
1990s. Berlin, which was divided until 1990, never gained the
same global status as other German cities, with years of only
one regular intercontinental connection -- servicing the
Mongolian capital of Ulan Bator.  Nuclear Reactor  At the new site, the smoke ventilating equipment installed
throughout the glass-sheathed structure is faulty even after
lessons learned from Germany’s worst airport disaster -- a 1996
 fire  at Dusseldorf airport which killed 17 people. These present
the biggest safety risk, according to a Jan. 25 report to
Parliament’s Budget Committee.  Planners also failed to consider that authorities might
balk at an experimental nuclear reactor located under a planned
flight path. The reactor in Berlin’s southwest Wannsee district
is operated by the  Helmholtz Zentrum , a materials and energy
research institute. The Wannsee route was declared illegal by an
administrative appeals court in a Jan. 23 ruling.  “The risk of a plane crash and an aviation terrorist
attack and the release of ionized radiation from the research
reactor was insufficiently considered,” the court said in a
statement issued with the  ruling , in which it scolded airport
planners for failing to recognize and evaluate the risks.  ‘Very Severe’  “The problems are severe, very severe,” Horst Amann, the
chief airport operating officer who was installed last year
after his predecessor was fired, said in a Jan. 8 interview with
broadcaster Hessischer Rundfunk.  To be sure, other German airport projects have been
completed on time. Fraport AG expanded Frankfurt Airport’s
Terminal 1 in October after four years of construction, adding
capacity for the biggest passenger planes, including Airbus’s
A380 and Boeing’s 747, for as many as 6 million passengers at a
cost of 700 million euros.  And one thing that does work at the new airport is its low-
tech environmental monitoring system.  Cabbages have been planted in plots around the runways to
help monitor the  air quality  since 2011, according to Jan. 28
report by the airport. The cabbages are harvested and analyzed
in a laboratory for hazardous substances, the report says. Honey
produced in beehives at the airport is also analyzed.  “Building an airport is a complex thing that needs a
massive amount of teamwork, an open and integrated relationship
with the supply chain,” said  Paul Griffiths , the CEO of Dubai
Airports. “To get the program back on track, get some realism
into the schedule, get people who know what they’re doing and
start testing. And don’t announce a date until you’re absolutely
confident everything is working.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  