-- Biggest Junk Sale in Limbo After Deaths in U.S. War: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/biggest-junk-sale-in-limbo-after-deaths-in-u-s-war-muni-credit.html
The largest-ever U.S. municipal
junk bond sale remains in limbo after  Indiana  learned that a
Pakistani company backing a fertilizer plant financed by the
biggest borrowing in state history is linked to explosives
causing the most U.S. casualties in  Afghanistan .  The Indiana Finance Authority in December sold about $1.3
billion of tax-free notes for the initial phase of a facility
near the Illinois border for a unit of Lahore, Pakistan-based
 Fatima Group. (FATIMA)  The proceeds are in escrow until July 1, after
which they will convert into bonds if the plan proceeds.  Indiana Governor Mike Pence halted the project upon taking
office in January after a U.S. general said the company wasn’t
cooperating with efforts to eliminate improvised explosive
devices in Afghanistan. Fatima is the  only  producer in Pakistan
of a chemical compound used in the weapons.  “Economic development is important, but the safety and
security of our troops in harm’s way is more important,” Pence,
a 53-year-old Republican, said in a Feb. 1 statement. “We’re in
the process of making a careful evaluation of the
appropriateness of Indiana’s involvement in this project with
those priorities in mind.”  Indiana’s borrowing is an example of tax-exempt bonds sold
for industrial development. While the securities have the best
returns of all revenue debt in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, they also account for the most entities defaulting.
Local agencies sell the securities for companies, hospitals and
nonprofit organizations, whose credit backs the bonds.  Eclipsing Allegheny  Proceeds from the Indiana deal would be converted into
bonds with a tentative maturity of 2046, offering documents say.
Those securities would probably be rated below investment grade,
which would make the deal the biggest high-yield muni sale on
record, according to Mark Paris, a senior portfolio manager at
Invesco Ltd. in  New York . It would eclipse a $750 million deal
in 2007 for West Penn Allegheny Health System, the largest tax-
exempt junk deal since at least 1990, Bloomberg data show.  The December borrowing for the 300-person plant was the
largest from Indiana, Bloomberg data show. It priced the same
week as the Iowa Finance Authority issued $1.2 billion to help
finance a nitrogen fertilizer plant for Cairo-based Orascom
Construction Industries.  Gas Boon  The projects will take advantage of a 65 percent drop since
June 2008 in the price of natural gas, a fertilizer component,
as supply has increased because of hydraulic fracturing.  Iowa is the biggest corn-producing state and the largest
consumer of nitrogen-based fertilizer, according to  Orascom. (OCIC) 
Indiana is the fifth-largest corn producer, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  The Defense Department’s Joint Improvised Explosive Device
Defeat Organization is focusing on Fatima’s production of
calcium ammonium nitrate. It is an ingredient in improvised
explosives, which are the “leading cause” of civilian,
military and law-enforcement casualties in Afghanistan and
Pakistan, according to U.S. Lieutenant General Michael Barbero.  In 2012, the devices caused 1,874 U.S. casualties, with
about 60 percent of the explosives used against military forces
made from calcium ammonium nitrate, according to  testimony 
Barbero made in December to the Senate Committee on Foreign
Relations.  At least 18 of the 52 Indiana soldiers who have died in
Afghanistan since 2003 were killed by improvised explosive
devices, according to data from iCasualties.org. The soldiers
ranged in age from 19 to 44.  Safer Product  In the last 18 months, Fatima developed a less-explosive
ammonium-nitrate fertilizer, Syed Ali Nasir, the company’s
manager of corporate communications, said in an e-mailed
statement. The group has suspended sales of calcium ammonium
nitrate in provinces adjacent to Afghanistan, Nasir said.  “The new product minimizes the ability to misuse ammonium
nitrate,” Nasir said in the statement. “Once it is ready for
commercial distribution, it will offer a solution to a worldwide
and long-term problem.”  Fatima’s safer product and voluntary suspension of sales
represents “a significant economic cost for  Pakistan  and is an
illustration of how seriously we take this issue,” Nadeem
Hotiana, a spokesman for Pakistan’s Embassy in  Washington , said
in an e-mail.  Barbero has seen “positive developments,” in talks with
Fatima, he said in a Feb. 26 statement. The project is still on
hold, according to Christy Denault, a spokeswoman for Pence.  High-Yield Supply  Shares of Fatima Fertilizer Co., the unit behind the
project, have gained about 5 percent in the past year, including
dividends, while the Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index has earned
about 43 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Halting the project would further crimp supply of high-
yield muni debt.  Localities sold just $552 million of non-investment grade
local bonds last year, the least since 2009, according to
Moody’s Investors Service data compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Demand for lower-rated debt is its highest since
September as the bonds outperform the broader market.  “A $1.3 billion deal is going to cause us to assign an
analyst, send somebody out there and talk to people,” said
Paris at Invesco, which oversees about $23 billion in local
debt. “It’s a chance to get bonds.”  ‘Great Opportunities’  He co-manages the $7.2 billion  Invesco High Yield Municipal
Fund (ACTDX) , which the company closed to new investors in September
because demand for the debt was outpacing investment
opportunities.  “It would be unfortunate if this project gets postponed or
taken off,” Paris said. “People get a little nervous, but if
you do your homework on these projects and what they’re for,
they’re really great opportunities.”  Investors have added $1.3 billion to high-yield muni mutual
funds this year, according to Lipper US Fund Flows data. The
funds added assets for seven consecutive weeks through Feb. 27,
the longest stretch since September.  The project drew scrutiny from Representative Duncan Hunter, a  California  Republican who served in the Marines in
Afghanistan and  Iraq , and Senator  Bob Casey , a Pennsylvania
Democrat.  “Indiana did the right thing by putting the deal on
hold,” Hunter said in an e-mailed statement. He spoke with
Pence in January about the project. “The company’s track record
and susceptibility to influence raised some real concerns.”  Ausaf Qureshi, head of  investor relations  for Fatima
Fertilizer, declined in an e-mail to say whether the company
would seek to build a plant elsewhere in the U.S. if the Indiana
project were halted.  Barbero said in his most recent statement that he
appreciates Fatima’s work on a new product to make calcium
ammonium nitrate less explosive.  It would be a “true scientific breakthrough,” he said.  Market Update  In trading yesterday, yields on 30-year benchmark munis
were little changed at about 3.07 percent, the highest since
August, according to Bloomberg Valuation data.  Munis trailed gains in Treasuries as California began
selling about $2.6 billion of general-obligation debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  