-- Blackstone Said to Get $2.1 Billion Loan for Home Purchases
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-03-13T22:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/blackstone-said-to-get-2-1-billion-bank-loan-for-home-purchases.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , manager of the
largest real estate private-equity fund, has expanded a credit
line to buy single-family homes to $2.1 billion from $600
million, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  leads the syndicate of banks, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the loan is private.
Other lenders include  Bank of America Corp .,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “The deal demonstrates that the market for these types of
loans is expanding and maturing as major Wall Street banks
become more and more comfortable with the asset class,” Stephen
Blevit, an attorney for Sidley Austin LLP who represented
Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mail from Los Angeles.  Blackstone has invested $3.5 billion to buy 20,000 single-
family rental homes since last year, making the New York-based
company the largest investor of its type in the U.S. The firm is
rushing to acquire properties as  housing prices  recover and as
demand for rentals increases among people who can’t qualify for
a mortgage or don’t want to own.  Blackstone spokesman Peter Rose and Deutsche Bank
spokeswoman  Renee Calabro  declined to comment. The firm had been
trying to increase the loan to $1.2 billion.  The single-family home rental business, which has been
dominated by small investors, is attracting more institutional
capital. American Homes 4 Rent, a Malibu, California-based
company headed by  Public Storage (PSA)  founder B. Wayne Hughes, has
acquired about 10,000 properties. Thomas Barrack’s Colony
Capital LLC has raised $2.2 billion for home purchases.  Public Offerings  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY) , a Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based real estate investment trust, raised $263 million in an
initial public offering in December. American Homes 4 Rent
issued a statement last month saying it plans to file for an IPO
within 60 days.  “The next milestone to come is the securitization of
single-family residential rental homes, which we expect will
occur in the second half of 2013,” Blevit said, referring to
bonds that bundle pools of loans and slice them into securities
of varying risk. Charles Schrank and Anny Huang, Sidley Austin
attorneys from  Chicago , worked with Blevit on the deal.  U.S. home prices rose 6.8 percent last year, the biggest
12-month gain since July 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities.  More than 5 million former owners have lost their
properties to foreclosure or in a distressed sale since home
prices peaked in 2006, according to RealtyTrac. Last year, the
total number of renter-occupied residences increased 1.1
million, while the number of  owner-occupied  households fell by
106,000, according to a Commerce Department report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  