-- Blackstone, KKR Lose Bid to Toss Antitrust Buyout Case
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/blackstone-kkr-lose-bid-to-toss-antitrust-buyout-case.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  and other private-equity firms failed to persuade
a judge to dismiss an antitrust lawsuit that accuses them of
suppressing competition for leveraged buyouts.  U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington in Boston yesterday
rejected a defense request to throw out the suit. Defendants
also include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bain Capital Partners
LLC, KKR & Co. and  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)  At the same time, the judge
narrowed the basis on which the case could proceed.  Shareholders of companies that were acquired claim the
firms conspired to allocate the market for large leveraged
buyouts, suppressing prices and depriving investors of billions
of dollars. The lawsuit stems from the biggest deals of the
leveraged buyout boom before the financial crisis, including
HCA, Clear Channel Communications and TXU, now known as Energy
Future Holdings Corp.  The plaintiffs claimed that prices were held down when the
private-equity firms formed groups to take companies private.
The firms agreed not to compete for exclusive deals and
allocated transactions among themselves, according to the
complaint.  In his ruling, Harrington said the case could only proceed
based on an allegation of an overarching conspiracy among the
firms to refrain from “jumping” each other’s deals.  Citing Evidence  “The evidence suggests that the practice was not the
result of mere independent conduct,” the judge said.  Still, the judge said that the existence of partnerships
among the firms is “just as consistent, if not more consistent,
with a widely accepted and independent business strategy, as it
is with a vast price-fixing conspiracy.”  “There is largely no indication that all the transactions
were, in turn, connected to a market-wide agreement,” the judge
wrote. “Rather the evidence shows a kaleidoscope of
interactions among an ever-rotating, overlapping cast of
defendants.”  Christopher Burke  of Scott & Scott LLP, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said claims that the defendants acted
anticompetitively will go forward even though the judge narrowed
the case.  “This remains a multibillion-dollar case and the
plaintiffs live to fight on,” he said in an e-mail. “So this
is a good day for us.”  The private-equity firms argued at a hearing in December
that the plaintiffs hadn’t provided evidence of an overarching
conspiracy to rig bids. The transactions represented legitimate
practices of the mergers-and-acquisitions business, they said.  ‘Not Possible’  “Such a sprawling conspiracy claimed in the complaint is
not possible,” Joseph Tringali, an attorney with Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP, told the judge. “We don’t control the
process. The target company in a bid situation often decides who
they are going to allow to bid.”  Harrington granted  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s motion for
summary judgment. Other defendants may file new summary-judgment
motions over the narrowed conspiracy claim, he said.  “We are pleased the court saw through the absurdity of a
‘vast overarching conspiracy’ involving 27 deals and will allow
us and the other defendants to demonstrate to the court that
even the modified claims should not go to a jury,”  Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  ‘Without Merit’  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for defendant TPG, said the
company was pleased that the court had limited the scope of the
case. KKR’s  Kristi Huller  said the case “is without merit, and
we will continue to contest it.”  “We are pleased that the court significantly narrowed the
claims, and we intend to vigorously defend the remaining
claims,” Andrea Raphael of Goldman Sachs said in an e-mail.  Representatives of the other defendant firms couldn’t be
reached for comment or declined to comment. Providence Equity
Partners, Silver Lake Technology Management and  Thomas H. Lee
Partners  are also defendants.  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners, 07-12388, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  