-- BMW Said to Hire Former Audi Sales Chief Schwarzenbauer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-03-13T11:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bmw-said-to-hire-former-audi-sales-chief-schwarzenbauer.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of luxury cars, plans to hire  Peter Schwarzenbauer , the former Audi AG sales chief, as part of an
effort to tighten its grip on the premium segment’s top spot,
three people familiar with the matter said.  Schwarzenbauer will likely join the Munich, Germany-based
company next month and take a top-level management position
reporting directly to Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer ,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks haven’t been finalized yet.  BMW’s supervisory board will probably discuss the
appointment tomorrow, the people said. Bill McAndrews, a BMW
spokesman, said the automaker does not comment on “personnel
speculation.”  BMW and Audi are battling it out for the top sales position
in premium autos, with the BMW brand securing a 407-car lead in
the first two months. Schwarzenbauer, Audi’s sales chief for
more than four years, led the brand’s expansion by raising its
U.S. presence, boosting sales in China and gaining market share
in  Europe . He left in August as part of a broader management
reshuffle by parent  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   “He’s certainly a distinguished guy and lots speaks for
his talent,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst with Bankhaus
Metzler in  Frankfurt  who recommends selling BMW shares. “Audi
was riding a growth wave” during his tenure as sales chief.  In Schwarzenbauer’s first year on the job in 2008, Audi
crossed the threshold of 1 million in car sales. The brand’s
deliveries rose to a record 1.46 million vehicles in 2012.  BMW Reshuffle  Audi reported 2.77 billion euros (3.61 billion euros) in
 operating profit  and a return on sales of 8.1 percent in the
year he joined. Operating profit last year surged to 5.38
billion euros, with an 11 percent operating margin, making Audi
one of the world’s most profitable carmakers. Audi CEO Rupert Stadler reiterated yesterday his plan to dethrone BMW from the
top spot in deliveries by the end of the decade.  BMW last March appointed Milagros Caina-Andree as its first
female management board member, with responsibility for
personnel. The appointment expanded the board to eight. Harald Krueger, who was personnel chief, took on a new role overseeing
sales and product lines of the Mini and Rolls-Royce brands as
well as BMW’s motorcycle unit.  Board members Klaus Draeger and Herbert Diess also swapped
jobs as part of the reorganization, with Draeger taking over
purchasing and Diess overseeing development.  Audi Departure  Schwarzenbauer left Audi, the largest earnings contributor
at VW, in the wake of the management revamp. The reshuffle last
year also triggered the departure of VW’s former China chief
Karl-Thomas Neumann, who became CEO at  General Motors Co.’s (GM)  Opel
unit earlier this month, and Audi’s former head of research and
development Michael Dick.  VW CEO  Martin Winterkorn  told reporters last June during a
press conference in Stuttgart that Schwarzenbauer would leave
Audi, without elaborating on the reason for his departure.  The 53-year-old auto executive was born in the Bavarian
city of Weissenburg,  Germany , and went to high school in Munich
and Nova Friburgo,  Brazil . After studying business
administration at the Munich University of Applied Sciences, he
joined BMW in 1984 and held several positions within the
marketing and sales department.  He left BMW to join Porsche AG in 1994 and became CEO of
the Stuttgart, Germany-based sports-car maker’s North American
division in 2003. Five years later, he took over the management
board position responsible for sales and marketing at Audi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  