-- Bogus Asbestos Claims Cheat Companies, Lawyer Testifies
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-03-13T21:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bodgus-asbestos-claims-cheat-companies-lawyer-testifies.html
Fraudulent claims for asbestos
exposure are shortchanging companies and legitimate victims,
former judge and McCarter & English attorney Peggy L. Ableman
testified today in support of legislation aimed at curtailing
false claims on an estimated $30 billion in assets.  Under the current system, people claiming harm from
asbestos can seek damages from trusts set up by bankrupt
companies and simultaneously sue non-bankrupt companies, using
inconsistent information about how and when they were exposed,
Ableman said in a hearing before the U.S. House of
Representatives Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial
and Antitrust Law today.  Companies are “often led to believe -- erroneously -- that
their products were far more responsible for the plaintiff’s
disease than what may have been the case, because they have no
way of knowing the substance of an individual plaintiff’s
claims,” Ableman said.  The proposed rules would affect non-bankrupt companies
being sued under tort law as well as trusts for bankrupt
companies that hold $18 billion in assets today, with up to $12
billion that may be added once current bankruptcies are
resolved, according to testimony from Marc Scarcella, an
economist with Bates White LLC in  Washington .  Johns-Manville  A wave of asbestos bankruptcies from 2000 to 2004 included
companies such as  Owens Corning , Fibreboard Corp., Babcock &
Wilcox Co.,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s non-operating Quigley Co., Armstrong
World Industries and United States Gypsum Co. All followed the
example of Johns-Manville Corp., which pioneered the concept of
an asbestos trust in its 1982 bankruptcy.  By settling on an amount to be set aside for all current
and future asbestos claims, companies could reorganize and exit
bankruptcy free of lawsuits, leaving a trust and a trustee to
manage distributions to alleged victims.  Ableman was a judge on the Delaware Superior Court for more
than 29 years and joined McCarter & English in February as
special counsel in product liability. She supports legislation
called the Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency Act of 2013,
which she said would limit fraud by requiring such trusts to
file quarterly reports on their claims in  bankruptcy court .
Reports would include the name and exposure history of
plaintiffs and the basis for any payments that were previously
made to them.  “The enemy of any just compensation system is fraud and
abuse,” said  Spencer Bachus , a Republican from  Alabama , in a
statement today. “Fraud and abuse take money away from real
victims who desperately need help.”  Adequate Oversight  “For too long, asbestos bankruptcy trusts have operated
without adequate oversight,” said Lisa Rickard, president of
the U.S. Chamber Institute for Legal Reform, in a phone
interview before the hearing. “Courts around the country have
uncovered examples in which plaintiffs’ lawyers have filed
inconsistent or fraudulent claims with multiple trusts.”  “This is not about human error or mistakes being made when
people are inputting information,” Rickard said. “Claimants go
after trust money and then make different claims in lawsuits,”
essentially “double-dipping,” she said. ILR, founded by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, advocates legal reforms that will
reduce what it says is the “excessive” influence of plaintiffs'
lawyers over the legal and political system.  Ableman used as an example a case in which a plaintiff,
June Montgomery, sued 22 companies claiming her mesothelioma was
caused by exposure to their products via her husband’s work
clothes, which she laundered. Only on the eve of trial did her
lawyers inform the court that Montgomery had pursued claims
against 20 trusts for bankrupt companies with a different claim:
that she had been exposed through her own work.  New Burden  Elihu Inselbuch, a lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale in  New York ,
which represents asbestos victims’ rights, said the proposed
legislation is an attempt by large corporate defendants to “add
a new time-consuming burden” to bankrupt trusts.  The bill would “slow down the trust process such that many
victims could die before receiving compensation since victims of
mesothelioma typically only live for four to 18 months after
their diagnosis,” Inselbuch said. There is no evidence that
fraud is widespread, and large corporate defendants not in
bankruptcy can already get details about a plaintiff’s past
claims under state law, he added.  Plaintiffs may have been exposed to asbestos from multiple
places, and have a right to recovery from more than one
defendant, Inselbuch said, noting that bankrupt trusts, usually
underfunded, currently only pay around 25 percent of what
mesothelioma victims are scheduled to be paid.  Mesothelioma Payments  Manville’s trust, for example, currently only pays $26,250
to mesothelioma claimants, or 7.5 percent of the $350,000 they
are scheduled to receive under the agreement that formed the
trust.  Mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer in the lungs, is one of
many diseases linked to asbestos exposure. Trusts allot amounts
to be paid based on what disease an asbestos claimant has.
Asbestos, a mineral, was mined and used in products for its
fire-resistant capabilities until the 1970s.  Without the kind of transparency proposed under the new
legislation, it may be impossible to tell whether fraud is
actually occurring, said Todd Brown, a former Jones Day lawyer
who teaches bankruptcy and tort law at  State University of New
York  at Buffalo Law School.  No one “has access to sufficient information across trusts
to reach the extreme conclusions that are commonly advanced --
that fraud is nonexistent, on the one hand, or rampant, on the
other,” Brown said in his prepared testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 