-- Boeing 777-X With Wider Interior May Move Ahead of 787-10
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-03-13T20:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/boeing-777-x-with-wider-interior-may-move-ahead-of-787-10.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is speeding up efforts
for upgrades of the twin-aisle 777 jet, including a roomier
interior, raising the possibility that the revised model will be
introduced before the stretch version of the 787.  “On the 777-X, things are accelerating,”  Randy Tinseth ,
Boeing’s marketing chief, said in an interview yesterday at the
International Society of Transport Aircraft Trading conference
in  Orlando ,  Florida . Boeing named Bob Feldman as the head of the
program last week, which “shows how important this project is
and that we’re making good progress,” Tinseth said.  Customers including Emirates airline, the biggest 777
buyer, have urged Boeing to commit quickly to the 777-X, which
is targeted to enter service by decade’s end. As Boeing works to
end the Dreamliner’s grounding, Tinseth left open the prospect
of the 777-X coming ahead of the 787-10 version.  “When it comes to the 787 right now, we’re focused on
getting that plane back in the air, and until we do, other
things take a back seat,” he said. Of the two models’ upcoming
variants, “which one gets launched first or second, we’ll just
have to see how that plays out,” Tinseth said.  Boeing has described the 787-10 as a so-called simple
stretch of the 787-9 Dreamliner, the follow-on to the 787-8
model that began reaching airlines in 2011. For the 777-X, the
Chicago-based planemaker plans to widen the interior of the
fuselage, give it new engines and enlarge the wing, building it
out of composite materials instead of aluminum.  Biggest Twin  The 777 is Boeing’s biggest twin-engine model, with a top
list price of $315 million. The largest of the current versions
seats about 450 passengers.  “We think there’s ways to provide more space and a bigger
cabin for the customer without changing the outside dimensions
of the airplane” as far as width goes, Tinseth said. “We’re
looking for a more comfortable 10-abreast.”  The plane will be lengthened, and Boeing is still
consulting with airlines to determine how many seat rows to add.  “The configuration is looking good,” Tinseth said. “The
big question is affordability and the business case, making it
affordable for us to build and the airlines to buy.”  Boeing gained 0.7 percent to $84.75 at the close in New
York, its highest value since May 2008. The shares have risen
for the last seven trading sessions. The planemaker won U.S.
approval to test its proposed fix for the battery faults that
have kept the Dreamliner grounded since Jan. 16.  Airbus Challenge  With the upgraded 777, Boeing is vying to keep its lead
over Airbus SAS in twin-aisle jets as the European planemaker
develops its competing A350.  Airlines that operate the current 777, and are anxious for
improvements in range and fuel efficiency, have been watching
closely over the past year as Boeing has pushed back its plans
to begin offering the plane. Former Boeing Commercial Airlines
President Jim Albaugh said a year ago that he’d seek board
approval for the 777-X by the end of 2012.  Tim Clark, chief executive officer of Dubai-based Emirates,
said in February that he didn’t expect Boeing to start selling
the plane for another six to nine months, which would put its
official go-ahead about a year behind plan. He offered a
different view last week, saying he expected Boeing’s board to
give a green light within weeks.  Boeing generally seeks the board’s authority to offer a new
model to airlines first and then, once it has customers lined
up, commits to producing the plane, which is called the
“launch.” The board gave its initial authority to offer the
787-10 late last year, allowing Boeing to start trying to line
up customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  