-- BofA Ordered to Pay Ex-Merrill Banker Jailed in Brazil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-03-13T15:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bofa-ordered-to-pay-ex-merrill-banker-jailed-in-brazil.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill
Lynch unit was ordered by a Brazilian court to pay Alexandre Caiado 150,000 reais ($76,500) to compensate the former banker
for five days he spent in jail over allegations tied to his work
at the company.  Sao Paulo’s 26th labor court said it was
“incontrovertible” that the imprisonment was because of his
position as a junior financial consultant at Merrill Lynch, now
a division of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America ,
according to a document  published  in the nation’s official
Gazette earlier this month. Caiado wasn’t convicted of any
wrongdoing.  Caiado, 42, was jailed in June 2006 in a Curitiba federal
prison over allegations he helped Merrill’s clients make illegal
overseas money transfers. His arrest was part of an
investigation that resulted in indictments of 18 bankers at
Credit Suisse AG and UBS AG in  Brazil . Merrill fired Caiado nine
months later, saying the dismissal was part of a restructuring.  “It’s inevitable to conclude the prison and the police
investigation caused the claimant a moral damage,” according to
the court document. “It hasn’t been proved in the legal
proceedings the claimant had acted on his own will leading to
his imprisonment by Federal Police.”  Appeal Pending  Bank of America declined to comment on the case. Caiado
said in an interview that he appealed the unanimous decision to
Brazil’s superior labor court, asking for a bigger payment.  Bill Halldin , a Merrill Lynch spokesman, said in 2010 that
the firm wasn’t responsible for the criminal charges against
Caiado, adding that “this individual was arrested on matters
that didn’t involve any activities related to Merrill Lynch.”  Caiado said he won a separate labor claim and lost a third
in Brazil against Merrill Lynch, which he is appealing. He
declined to be more specific because the cases are confidential.  “It was proved the reason for my imprisonment was related
to my activities at the firm,” said Caiado, who is now chief
executive officer of  Gold Sea Participacoes SA , a real-estate
company based in Curitiba.  The decision may set a precedent for other cases, said
Viviane Castro Neves Pascoal M. Dal Mas, a partner at law firm
Castro Neves, Dal Mas, which represents Caiado.  “This decision may create jurisprudence in Brazil,” Dal
Mas said in a telephone interview today. “It may have a global
effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  