-- BofA Said to Cut 5% of Property Appraisers Amid Slowdown
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-03-13T15:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bofa-said-to-cut-5-of-property-appraisers-amid-slowdown.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. lender, cut an appraisal unit’s staff by about 5
percent last month as the firm rid itself of overdue mortgages,
said two people with knowledge of the move.  The dismissals from  LandSafe ’s workforce of more than 1,000
employees began Feb. 22, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the matter is private. Those affected include
appraisers, who estimate the  market value  of properties, and
regional managers, according to a Feb. 25 staff memo from Tracy
Sanderson, a LandSafe senior vice president.  “While we have known we were overstaffed since the fall,
we did everything we could to delay impacts as long as
possible,” Sanderson wrote. “We were hopeful that our volume
would return and potentially reduce the number impacted.”  The bank has scaled back in mortgages after being saddled
with more than $40 billion in costs tied to defective home
loans. Most of those came to Bank of America through its 2008
takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp., whose operations
included LandSafe.  Bank of America, once the  biggest  U.S. home lender, fell to
No. 5 in the fourth quarter and has been eclipsed by competitors
including Quicken Loans Inc., according to newsletter Inside
Mortgage Finance. The field is now dominated by San Francisco-
based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which accounted for almost 1 in 3 U.S.
mortgages last year.  Distressed Borrowers  About 70 percent of work done by LandSafe appraisers was
related to transactions for soured loans, including the auction
of bank-owned properties and short sales in which a borrower’s
home is sold for less than the amount owed, said one of the
people. The bank’s expected increase in originations this year
isn’t enough to offset the drop in work resulting from having
fewer overdue loans to service, the person said.  Bank of America had about 773,000 mortgage customers who
were at least two months behind on payments at the end of 2012.
That figure will drop to 400,000 by the end of this year, fueled
by the sale of mortgage-servicing rights on $306 billion in
loans announced in January, the firm said.  Terry Francisco , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, confirmed the company was cutting
LandSafe personnel and placing some elsewhere in the firm. The
current staff will be able to handle an expected surge in new
mortgages in 2013, he said.  Origination Outlook  “If they do more loans this year than last, I’d be
surprised,” said Paul Muolo, managing editor of Bethesda,
Maryland-based Inside Mortgage Finance, who predicts Bank of
America’s refinancing revenue will drop. “They’re not competing
aggressively on rates, they take a long time to close loans, and
they’re living off refis that will decline when rates rise.”  Bank of America’s home lending dropped by half last year to
$78.7 billion after Moynihan shuttered its correspondent
business, which bought mortgages marketed by third-party
lenders. Wells Fargo,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Quicken Loans, and
U.S. Bancorp originated more than Bank of America’s $22.5
billion in fourth-quarter loans, according to Inside Mortgage
Finance.  Eliminating workers who served delinquent borrowers is part
of Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s plan to pare
expenses. Bank of America dismissed 3,000 such employees and
6,000 contractors in the fourth quarter, he said. About $3
billion of quarterly costs tied to legacy asset servicing
eventually will fall to $500 million, Moynihan has said.  “There’s nothing more important in our company than to get
this done as quickly as possible,” Moynihan, 53, told analysts
during a Jan. 17 conference call.  Lenders Retreat  Some of his biggest competitors have said they will pull
back in home lending. JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by  assets ,
will cut as many as 15,000 mortgage-related jobs through 2014 as
fewer employees are needed to service soured loans, the New
York-based company said last month.  Rising interest rates may discourage refinancings, which
accounted for 71 percent of originations last year, and new
loans for home purchases probably won’t cover the shortfall,
according to a  Mortgage Bankers Association   forecast . Total
lending will slide 20 percent to $1.4 trillion in 2013, and 24
percent to $1.06 trillion in 2014, the group said.  Remaining LandSafe appraisers may see a “slight increase”
in workload because of the adjustment, Sanderson told employees
in the February e-mail.  Staffing is “at the right level for our expected volume,”
she wrote. “Our hope is that we will get through this
challenging environment and then start to grow again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  