-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise Before Central Bank Minutes; Real Gains
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-13T17:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/brazil-swap-rates-rise-before-central-bank-minutes-real-gains.html
Brazil  swap rates climbed to an
eight-month high on speculation central bank minutes due
tomorrow will signal plans for an increase in borrowing costs to
contain accelerating inflation.  Swap rates due in January 2016 rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 9.11 percent at 1:48 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, the highest level on a closing basis since July 5. The
real appreciated 0.2 percent to 1.9615 per dollar.  Inflation has remained “very resilient” since the second
half of 2012, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
yesterday in Warsaw, four days after the government eliminated
taxes on staples to rein in consumer prices. Annual inflation
accelerated to a 14-month high of 6.31 percent in February, the
government reported last week.  “The central bank’s vision on inflation, which was more
favorable, has changed,”  Jankiel Santos , the chief economist at
Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview. “If that is confirmed in the minutes, the
market is inclined to bet on a rate hike as soon as April.”  Policy makers dropped a pledge made in October to keep
borrowing costs unchanged for a “prolonged period” from their
statement on March 6 as they left the target lending  rate  at a
record low 7.25 percent.  Economists cut their 2014 growth forecasts in a survey
published March 11. Gross domestic product will expand 3.50
percent next year, according to the median estimate of about 100
analysts surveyed by the central bank, down from the prior
projection of 3.65 percent.  Currency Intervention  The real fell that day from a 10-month high of 1.9442 as
the central bank sold $1 billion of reverse foreign-exchange
swaps to weaken the currency. It rallied on March 8 as traders
speculated that policy makers would let the currency appreciate
after the government reported accelerated inflation.  “The real should respect the ceiling of 1.95 per dollar
since there is not much space for further gains given the
central bank’s vigilance,”  Reginaldo Galhardo , a foreign-
exchange manager at Treviso Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview.  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventing
excessive gains.  Brazil pushed the real down 9 percent in 2012 and 11
percent in the prior year as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
developed economies were debasing currencies such as the dollar
while driving up those of emerging nations.  The central bank reported today $2.9 billion in net
currency outflows this year through March 8, up from $2.1
billion a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  