-- Brazil Real Drops on Speculation Credit Rating May Be Lowered
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-03-13T22:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/brazil-real-drops-on-speculation-credit-rating-may-be-lowered.html
Brazil ’s real declined, giving up
earlier gains, on speculation among traders that the nation’s
credit rating may be lowered.  Credit-default swaps for Brazil rose while the benchmark
 stock index  fell for a second day and  interest-rate swaps  jumped
to an eight-month high. The real slid 0.4 percent to 1.9721 per
dollar. It earlier advanced as much as 0.3 percent.  “There was a rumor in the market about a downgrade of
Brazil,” Italo Abucater, the head of  currency trading  at ICAP
do Brasil, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s just rumors.
nothing has been confirmed.”  Sebastian Briozzo, a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst in  Buenos
Aires , said in a phone interview that the Brazilian government’s
macroeconomic approach is “prudent” and the rating company
doesn’t see “any significant change of factors that could
heavily weigh on our evaluation of Brazil’s sovereign rating.”  Mauro Leos, a senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service
in  New York , said by e-mail that the rating company plans no
change in its assessment of Brazil. Brian Bertsch, a Fitch
Ratings spokesman, didn’t return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
124 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  declined 1.4 percent. Swap rates due in January
2016 rose 10 basis points to 9.16 percent, the highest on a
closing basis since June 21.  Speculation about Brazil’s credit rating started after S&P
boosted its outlook for  Mexico  yesterday, Roberto Simoes, the
head of proprietary trading at BES Investimento, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Swap rates climbed on speculation central bank minutes due
tomorrow will signal plans for an increase in borrowing costs to
contain accelerating inflation.  Inflation has remained “very resilient” since the second
half of 2012, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
yesterday in Warsaw, four days after the government eliminated
taxes on staples to rein in consumer prices. Annual inflation
accelerated to a 14-month high of 6.31 percent in February, the
government reported last week.  Policy makers dropped a pledge made in October to keep
borrowing costs unchanged for a “prolonged period” from their
statement on March 6 as they left the target lending rate at a
record low 7.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  