-- Iberia Urges ’Irresponsible’ Pilots to Join Job-Cuts Accord
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-13T15:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/british-airways-parent-iag-says-unions-agree-iberia-job-cut-plan.html
British Airways (IAG)  parent IAG has yet
to win backing from pilots at Iberia for a turnaround plan that
includes 3,140 job cuts at the Spanish subsidiary, after union
representatives joined management in signing off on the accord.  Unions representing the majority of Iberia’s employees have
agreed to accept the proposal, IAG said in a statement today.
With 93 percent of the workforce supporting the deal, IAG
remains at odds only with the Sepla pilot union, a brewing
conflict that Madrid-based Iberia called “irresponsible.”  “We have not signed the document because there are details
we want to negotiate,” Ana Serrano, a spokeswoman for the Sepla
union, said by telephone. “We want the same labor conditions
imposed on other workers.”  Under the terms of the deal, pilots and cabin crew face
higher pay cuts than ground staff. Gaining union approval would
let IAG Chief Executive Officer Willie Walsh implement a 600
million-euro ($780 million) earnings turnaround at Iberia by
2015, after losses at the Spanish business wiped out gains at
British Airways and dragged IAG to an operating loss last year.  The plan proposed by the Spanish mediator would cut pay at
Iberia by as much as 14 percent, with no raise before 2016.
IAG’s board voted over the weekend to approve the settlement
that pares job losses from the 3,807 it had pledged to drive
through in the absence of a negotiated settlement. The deal
calls off a strike planned for next week, Iberia said.  Concessions Made  Shares of IAG , as International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA is known, rose as much as 3.2 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 260.4
pence in  London , and traded at 260 pence as of 3:04 p.m. The
stock has gained 40 percent this year, valuing the company at
4.8 billion pounds ($6.8 billion).  “We all had to concede something,” Iberia Chief Executive
Officer Rafael Sanchez-Lozano said in a statement. The deal
“enables us to advance towards a leaner, more viable Iberia,
able to compete on more reasonable terms in the difficult
commercial aviation business,”  Union and Iberia representatives met the mediator today to
discuss the proposal after unions on March 10 indicated they
favored the terms of the deal. The plan still has to be
submitted to union members for ratification.  Sepla’s Serrano said she’s “hopeful” an agreement with
the pilots can be reached soon.  The job cuts match the number of posts Walsh had initially
stipulated must go as part of a negotiated deal including lower
pay, before saying the equivalent of more than 3,800 would need
to be cut when talks on staffing levels and contracts failed.  IAG agreed to fund redundancies by dropping a planned link
to productivity gains, while salaries will be reduced by 14
percent for pilots and cabin crew and 7 percent for ground
staff..That’s down from as much as 35 percent under previous
offers, which also sought to freeze pay until 2017, Manuel
Atienza, a spokesman for the UGT union, said on March 11.  “Iberia will immediately ask unions to negotiate the
measures needed to raise productivity,” the airline said.  To improve IAG’s financial performance in Spain, Walsh last
year established a new unit Iberia Express, with less-generous
contracts, and that business has been profitable.  The CEO also initiated a takeover bid for Barcelona-based
discount carrier  Vueling Airlines SA. (VLG)  The Vueling board last
week rejected a 7 euros-a-share proposal that IAG made for the
54.14 percent of stock it does not already own.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  