-- Broad-Backed L.A. MOCA Mulls Aid, Merger as Revenue Slips
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/broad-backed-l-a-moca-mulls-aid-merger-as-revenue-slips.html
The Museum of Contemporary Art  in
Los Angeles is considering takeover proposals or offers of
assistance from at least three institutions after a drop in
revenue and the departures of board members.  The museum will consider options at a March 15 board
meeting, according to a person with knowledge of the situation
who declined to be identified because the deliberations are
private. Lyn Winter, a spokeswoman for MOCA, didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Billionaire Eli Broad may hold the key to the next step. A
funding accord with the local philanthropist, a MOCA co-founder,
bars a merger with another local institution. Meanwhile, he’s
building his own museum across the street from MOCA’s downtown
headquarters. Karen Denne, a spokeswoman for Broad, 79, declined
to comment.  The National Gallery of Art in  Washington  has expressed
interest in a five-year collaboration on programming, research
and exhibitions, the New York Times reported yesterday.  The gallery “is continuing to discuss programmatic
opportunities with L.A. MOCA and has nothing to report at this
time,” Deborah Ziska, a spokeswoman, said in a statement.
“There has been no formal decision or vote on this by the NGA
Board of Trustees.”  The Los Angeles County Museum of Art proposed a merger last
month, Chief Executive Officer Michael Govan said in a
statement. The University of Southern California has expressed
interest in a partnership with the museum, which has more than
6,000 pieces of contemporary art, according to Elizabeth Garrett, provost and senior vice president for academic affairs.  Contributions and grants to MOCA fell 22 percent to $14.6
million in the year ended June 30, 2011, the latest publicly
available data. Four prominent contemporary artists quit the
museum’s board last year, protesting the management of director
Jeffrey Deitch, a former  New York  gallery owner who joined the
museum in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  