-- Bulgarian Interim Cabinet Takes Office to Hold Early Poll
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-03-13T12:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/bulgarian-interim-cabinet-takes-office-to-hold-early-poll.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister Marin
Raikov’s caretaker Cabinet pledged to sustain the Balkan
country’s financial stability, hold early elections on May 12
and prevent chaos caused by ongoing protests.  The new administration took office today following the Feb.
20 resignation of Premier Boyko Borissov amid protests against
high energy prices and poverty that turned violent. Washington-
born Raikov, a career diplomat appointed by President Rosen Plevneliev yesterday, will focus on energy, social welfare and
economic growth.  “We will organize fair and democratic elections, which
will have to restore confidence among Bulgarians,” Raikov said
at the handover ceremony in Sofia today. “We will implement the
budget as approved by the previous Parliament and we will seek
reserves for a broader social approach for people in a
vulnerable position.”  Bulgaria  is mired in turbulence after anti-austerity
protests that have sunk prime ministers across  Europe  forced out
Borissov, a former bodyguard elected on an anti-corruption
platform in 2009. His government focused on budget cuts to ward
off bailouts and turbulent bond markets, boosting unemployment
to the highest in eight years.  A 51-year-old man set himself on fire in front of the
President’s building in Sofia today, the fourth case of self-
immolation in Bulgaria this year, BTA newswire reported, without
citing anyone. The man was taken to a hospital after the
President’s guards extinguished the flames. Bulgaria has endured
five weeks of protests against poverty and demands for a change
in the political system.  Sofix Index  The benchmark Sofix stock index rose 0.12 percent to 388.63
at 12:26 p.m. in Sofia, after it plunged 4.4 percent Feb. 26,
its biggest drop since Feb. 2, 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.0422 percent.  Bulgaria will continue to fulfill its obligations to the
European Union and keep the currency board system that pegs the
lev to the euro, Raikov said yesterday.  “We’ll continue the policy of sustaining macroeconomic,
financial and fiscal stability,” Finance Minister Kalin Hristov
told reporters in Sofia. “This is an unconditional priority.
Our efforts will also aim at implementing the budget’s revenue
targets.”  Spending has increased 14 percent this year compared to the
same period last year, said Hristov, who took leave from the
central bank, where he is deputy governor, to serve in the
government.  Jobs Challenge  “The biggest challenge of this government will be to
restructure the labor market and create new jobs,” Georgi
Ganev, program director at the Center for Liberal Strategies in
Sofia, said. “There will be strong opposition from syndicates
and other circles.”  The new Cabinet has three deputy prime ministers. Ilyana
Tsanova, 37, who worked in the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development in  London , is in charge of European Union
funding. Ekaterina Zaharieva, who was the chief secretary of the
President’s office, is also the regional development minister
and Deyana Kostadinova, who is also labor and social policy
minister.  Assen Vassilev, a Harvard alumni, is the new minister of
economy, energy and tourism.  European Paradox  “Bulgaria is a paradox in the European sovereign-credit
space,”  Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy Ltd. in London, said yesterday. “It’s the poorest
country in the EU and it’s facing full-blown political crisis
associated with the effects of fiscal austerity, while being a
paragon of fiscal prudence.”  Excessive austerity brought down Bulgaria’s Cabinet,
Nouriel Roubini, the  New York  University professor who predicted
the 2008 global financial crisis, said in a Feb. 26 interview.  Government debt was 15 percent of gross domestic product at
the end of January, the EU’s second-lowest behind  Estonia ,
compared with the 27-nation bloc’s average of 85.1 percent,
according to Eurostat. The outgoing government planned to keep
this year’s budget deficit at 1.3 percent of GDP, the same level
as last year.  The fall of Borissov’s Cabinet will fuel spending before
elections and have “negative implications for fiscal
consolidation,” Moody’s Investors Service said on Feb. 25.  Government ‘Uncertainty’  The lack of a fully functioning government “creates
uncertainty about policy direction,” damages “investor and
 consumer confidence ” and undermines “the 2013 outlook for an
already weak economy,” Moody’s said.  The cost of insuring the country’s debt with credit-default
swaps fell 0.08 percent to 110.25 at 12:28 p.m. in Sofia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness
worsen, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should an issuer fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  