-- Business Inventories in U.S. Increase by Most Since May 2011
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-03-13T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/business-inventories-in-u-s-increase-by-most-since-may-2011.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose in
January by the most since May 2011 as companies replenished
warehouses and shelves amid signs demand will pick up.  The 1 percent increase in goods on hand exceeded the
highest forecast in a Bloomberg survey and followed a 0.3
percent gain in December that was more than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median estimate was for a 0.5 percent advance.  Businesses are restocking after a cutback in the pace of
inventory building in the fourth quarter that weighed on
economic growth. Progress in the labor market is sustaining
 consumer spending  as companies invest in new equipment, a sign
factory orders may pick up.  “As evidence grew that consumer demand had momentum,
businesses had to catch up again” after the slowdown in
inventory growth at the end of 2013, Sam Coffin, an economist
for UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said before the
report. “Household spending has been moving along at a decent
clip.” UBS is the top forecaster of business inventories for
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg survey  median  was based on forecasts from 47
economists. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 0.8
percent after a previously reported 0.1 percent gain in
December.  Another report from the Commerce Department today showed
retail sales climbed in February by the most in five months,
boosted by purchases of motor vehicles and more expensive
gasoline. The 1.1 percent advance in retail purchases exceeded
all projections in a Bloomberg survey and followed a revised 0.2
percent gain in January. The median forecast was for a 0.5
percent advance.  Inventory-Sales Ratio  At the January sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.29 months, up from 1.28 months in the prior month
and the highest since August.  Business sales dropped 0.3 percent in January, reflecting
declines at factories and wholesalers. Purchases at retailers
advanced 0.3 percent in January after a 0.4 percent gain the
prior month.  Retailer inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, increased 1.5 percent in January, the most
since May 2006. Retail stockpiles excluding unsold motor
vehicles rose 1.3 percent, the most since August 1995.  Wholesale Inventories  Wholesale  inventories , which account for about 30 percent
of all business stockpiles, jumped 1.2 percent in January, the
biggest in more than a year, the Commerce Department reported
last week. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, increased 0.5 percent in January, the Commerce
Department said March 6.  The rebuilding of stockpiles may help gross domestic
product rebound after a fourth-quarter slowdown subtracted 1.55
percentage points from growth.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 0.1 percent annual
rate from October through December as military spending dropped
by the most since the Vietnam War era, Commerce Department
figures showed Feb. 28. A final revised reading is scheduled for
release March 28.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  of  Dallas , the largest maker of
analog chips, said its thousands of electronics industry
customers have been keeping a lid on supplies.  “Our sense is that the customers are still running pretty
lean on the inventory front,” Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said
on a March 7 conference call. “They’re not committing to a lot
of extended backlog.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  