-- California Gets Orders for 30% of $2.2 Billion Bond Sale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-13T14:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/california-gets-orders-for-30-of-2-2-billion-bond-sale.html
California  took orders from
individual investors for almost a third of $2.2 billion of
general-obligation bonds in the first day they were offered,
with a preliminary yield of 2.54 percent on 10-year securities,
the treasurer’s office said.  Investors booked $651.7 million of the tax-exempt bonds
yesterday, according to  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for California
Treasurer Bill Lockyer. In the sale’s second day to individuals,
the state offered the bonds today with yields little changed
from yesterday’s levels.  The preliminary yield on debt maturing in 2023 remained at
2.54 percent, or about 0.5 percentage point above a Bloomberg
Valuation  index  of AAA munis, according to three people familiar
with the sale who declined to be named because the prices
weren’t final.  The sale is scheduled to wrap up tomorrow with bids from
institutional investors such as pension funds and insurance
companies. Lockyer also is offering $310 million of taxable
bonds today.  The sale is the first for California since the state had
its credit-rating raised by  Standard & Poor’s  in January. The
most-populous U.S. state earned its first upgrade from S&P since
2006 after Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, curbed pension
costs, persuaded voters to approve a tax increase and proposed a
budget for the next fiscal year that projects a surplus. New
York-based S&P raised California to A, its sixth-highest rank,
lifting it out of a tie with  Illinois  as the lowest-rated state.  Tax Increase  The relative borrowing cost for issuers in California has
been cut in half since Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, took
office in 2011. The extra yield over top-rated municipal bonds
that investors demand to buy 10-year debt of the state and its
localities was  0.52 percentage point  on March 11, the narrowest
since November 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Some portfolio managers in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market are wary of adding California securities with spreads
down to about half their five-year average.  Craig Brothers, who helps oversee $3 billion of munis as
managing director of Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC in  Los
Angeles , said the state may need to increase yields by lowering
prices in some maturities to attract buyers. Yields move
inversely to bond prices.  Nationwide, local governments are scheduled to offer about
$10 billion of long-term debt this week, the most this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  