-- California to Audit Owners Losing Right to Bear Arms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-03-13T22:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/california-to-audit-owners-losing-right-to-bear-arms.html
California will audit its program
that confiscates guns for residents who are prohibited from
possessing them, to ensure those who are disqualified are
reported promptly.  Lawmakers on the Joint Legislative Audit Committee approved
a request for the review. Republicans sought the inquiry, citing
a 2010 study of states other than California by the National
Center for State Courts that found fewer than half of those who
should have been reported to local police for background checks
were processed.  California is the only state that tracks and disarms people
with legally  registered  guns who have lost the right to own
them, according to Attorney General Kamala Harris. Almost 20,000
gun owners in the state are  prohibited  from possessing firearms,
including convicted felons, those under a domestic-violence
restraining order or deemed mentally unstable.  “Keeping guns out of the hands of felons and other
individuals who have been deemed ineligible to possess firearms
is vital,” Assemblyman Katcho Achadjian, a Republican from San
Luis Obispo, said yesterday.  Since California was not one of the states in the 2010
study, Achadjian said a thorough review is needed to determine
if state and local officials were reporting and processing the
necessary information.  The Dec. 14 killings of 20 children and six adults at Sandy
Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, the second
deadliest school shooting in U.S. history, reignited a national
debate over gun-control laws, stricter bans on assault weapons
and better screening and care for the mentally ill.  California’s no-gun  list  is compiled by cross-referencing
files on almost 1 million handgun and assault-weapon owners in
the state with databases of new criminal records and involuntary
mental-health commitments. About 15 to 20 names are added to the
list each day, according to the attorney general’s office.  These individuals are supposed to be immediately reported
to the state Justice Department. Local police can check the list
when conducting background checks for gun purchases. Someone who
is on the prohibited persons list would not be allowed to
legally purchase a firearm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  