-- Cameron Ignores ‘Rubbish’ Stories, Focusing on Economy
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-14T10:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/cameron-ignores-rubbish-stories-focusing-on-economy.html
Prime Minister David Cameron,
speaking after three weeks of reports of lawmakers questioning
his leadership, said he ignores such “rubbish” and is focusing
on securing the U.K.’s international economic competitiveness.  Cameron saw the U.K.’s top credit rating downgraded last
month and his party, already behind in the polls for a year, was
pushed into third place in a special election, stoking criticism
of his leadership. Following Cabinet revolts over spending plans
and alcohol pricing, he hit back last night, saying his Tory
party and voters need to concentrate on the longer-term goal of
restoring economic growth.  “It’s so vital that you look to the horizon and not
tomorrow’s headlines, because there is a sort of daily battle of
this story and that event,” Cameron said in a Conservative
Party broadcast on national television. “It’s all rubbish. What
matters is: Are you taking the right long-term decisions for the
good of the country?”  Cameron’s intervention was aired hours after the leader of
the opposition Labour Party, Ed Miliband, told the premier his
grip on power is failing. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne delivers his fourth annual budget next week, with the
economy on the brink of a triple-dip recession.  “A week out from the budget, they’ve got an economic
policy that’s failing, a prime minister that makes it up as he
goes along, a government that is falling apart and all the time
it’s the country that is paying the price,” Miliband told
lawmakers at Cameron’s weekly question-and-answer session in
Parliament in  London  yesterday.  Discipline Sought  Cameron’s lieutenants moved to discipline Tory lawmakers
and ministers two days ago, telling them to stop undermining the
premier and focus on the opposition.  At a morning meeting of Conservative Cabinet members,
Education Secretary Michael Gove attacked those in the room who
were positioning themselves to succeed Cameron. He didn’t name
names, according to one person present who declined to be
identified.  Home Secretary Theresa May gave a speech on March 9 that
went outside her brief by setting out her views of the agenda on
which the party should fight the 2015 election.  May’s next speech, in two days, will focus on her own
policy areas, a person familiar with the matter said. She’ll
seek to remind her party and voters that she’s been successful
in reducing crime and bringing down immigration, both key Tory
policy platforms, said the person, who declined to be named
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the press.  Clegg’s View  “I’m not going to intrude into internal discussions in
another political party,” Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg,
the deputy prime minister in Cameron’s coalition, said on LBC
radio today when asked what he thought of the leadership
speculation.  “David Cameron is going to remain prime minister for the
rest of this parliament,” Clegg said, referring to the period
of time until elections in 2015. “I personally think the
British public won’t be very interested or tolerant of political
parties that start talking to themselves rather than fixing the
problems of the country.”  Cameron faced his rank and file at a private meeting for
lawmakers in Parliament on the evening of March 12. According to
two of those present, his newly appointed election strategist,
Lynton Crosby, told them they must decide whether they were
commentators or participants in the political fight. They were
urged to think about the impression created by their comments on
the Twitter Inc. social network.  Mayoral Wins  Crosby, an Australian who helped John Howard win power
before coming to Britain to work on the Conservatives’ losing
2005 general election campaign, was behind London Mayor Boris Johnson’s successful campaigns in 2008 and 2012. He told
lawmakers that his strategy for the 2015 general election would
involve simple messages attacking the Labour Party.  According to one lawmaker, Crosby said the Conservatives
should highlight tensions between Miliband and the party’s
treasury spokesman, Ed Balls.  “Some people want to abandon the course we are on; they
are offering easy answers,” Cameron said in his broadcast last
night, referring to Labour. “There is still more to do, there
are still some massive areas we have to tackle.”  Another rift within the Conservatives was exposed by BBC
and Daily Telegraph newspaper reports yesterday that Cameron has
been forced to drop a plan to set a minimum retail price for
alcohol after criticism from other ministers. The premier
declined to confirm in the Commons that he’ll go ahead with the
proposals.  “For me, the heart of politics is not political theory, it
is people and how they want to live their lives,” Cameron said
in his broadcast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  