-- Canada Dollar Declines as Economic Recovery Trails U.S. Growth
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-13T21:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/canadian-dollar-falls-first-time-in-five-days-ending-jobs-rally.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for the first
time in five days versus its U.S. peer after data showed sales
at American retailers rose in February by the most in five
months, a sign of the diverging economies of the two nations.  Canada’s currency initially erased a drop as the 1.1
percent retail-sales advance exceeded all projections in a
Bloomberg survey and followed a revised 0.2 percent gain in
January, Commerce Department figures showed. The U.S. is
Canada’s largest trading partner. The so-called loonie fell
against the  yuan  amid concern policy makers in  China , Canada’s
third largest destination for exports, will expand efforts to to
cool the local housing market.  “The trend in dollar/Canada is still higher” for the
greenback, said David Bradley, director of foreign exchange
trading at Scotia Capital Inc., a unit of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
by phone from Toronto. “Some of the language the Bank of Canada
has been using has been negative for the Canadian dollar, and
we’ve had a lot of negative economic releases -- apart from last
week’s employment data -- which has been negative for the
Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.2 percent to C$1.0276
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys 97.31 U.S.
cents. On March 1 it reached C$1.0342, its lowest point since
June 29.  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, declined
0.1 percent to $92.49 per barrel. Western Canada Select, the
benchmark for oil-sands bitumen, traded at a  discount  of $19.50
to U.S. West Texas Intermediate price, down from $23.75 the week
before. The discount reached $42.50 on Dec. 14.  Yield Spread  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell, with the
yield rising one basis point, or 0.1 percentage point, to 1.92
percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 slid 7
cents to C$107.03.  Yields on Canada’s 10-year debt fell below their U.S.
counterparts on Feb. 21 and the spread today was 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, almost the largest
 differential  since March 2011, making long-term Canadian debt a
less attractive investment than American.  The Bank of Canada auctioned C$1.5 billion ($1.46 billion)
of 30-year bonds today, drawing an average yield of 2.62
percent, up from 2.289 percent at the last auction on Nov. 28.
The 3.5 percent securities will mature in December 2045.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the greenback
versus the Canadian dollar fell for a fifth day to 6.26, the
least since Feb. 20. Implied volatility signals the expected
pace of currency swings and is quoted by traders to set prices.  China ‘Alert’  The loonie declined against the yuan as central bank
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China should be on “high alert”
over inflation after February’s figures exceeded forecasts,
signaling a heightened focus on controlling prices.  Zhou’s comments add to signs that officials are tightening
policies even as the recovery in the world’s second-biggest
economy shows signs of weakness. While the People’s Bank of
China has left interest rates and lenders’ reserve requirements
unchanged since July last year, the government this month
intensified a campaign to control home prices.  Canada’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to 6.0473 yuan.  Selling Loonies  “The overwhelming trend is that people are looking for
Canadian data to be less impressive in coming months, and it
already has been not great,” said John Curran, senior vice
president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign exchange
dealer, by phone from Toronto. “So they’re happy to start
selling Canadian dollars whenever they can.”  Gross domestic product and inflation numbers below
analysts’ forecasts prompted Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney
to say interest-rate increases were “less imminent” on Jan. 23
and to add the current rate would be “appropriate for a period
of time” on March 6. Interest-rate decreases tend to debase the
currency.  One bright spot came from employment reports on March 8,
when both the U.S. and Canada added more jobs than forecast as
unemployment rates were at four-year lows. The loonie gained for
four straight days after the data.  The loonie has fallen 1.2 percent in the past three months
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. Only the yen and the
pound have fallen more, at 11 percent and 5.4 percent. The U.S.
dollar has gained 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  