-- Canada’s NWT Counting on China Cash for Resource Projects
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-13T15:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/canada-s-nwt-counting-on-china-cash-for-resource-projects.html
Canada ’s  Northwest Territories  is
appealing to Asian investors to boost oil and natural gas
drilling after reaching an agreement with the federal government
over control of resources, the region’s leader said.  With an  estimated  6.87 billion barrels of potentially
recoverable oil resources and 81.1 trillion cubic feet of gas,
the territory’s economy stands to gain from rising global energy
demand, according to territorial leader Bob McLeod, who has
scheduled talks with “about 20” Chinese oil and gas companies
next month in Calgary.  “The people of the Northwest Territories are not going to
sit idly by and see all of this tremendous oil and gas potential
just continue to sit in the ground and be stranded,” McLeod
said in an interview from his office in Yellowknife, the
territorial capital. He declined to name any of the Chinese
companies.  The rush to develop oil and gas comes after the territory
reached a consensus agreement with the federal government,
 announced March 11 , to transfer oversight of public lands, water
resources, mineral resources and oil and gas to the Northwest
Territories, giving it access to royalties on resource
development. Chinese companies have invested $29.9 billion in
Canadian oil and gas assets over the past two years, including
Cnooc Ltd.’s purchase of  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  April 2014  After consultations with native communities to finalize the
agreement, so-called devolution is scheduled to take effect in
April 2014. The Northwest Territories, with 43,000  people  spread
over an area almost twice the size of  Texas , will retain as much
as half the royalties previously collected by the federal
government, or as much as five percent of its budget, McLeod
said. That’s about C$75 million ($73 million), based on the
government’s  fiscal plan  for 2013-2014.  “Today, the government of the Northwest Territories is the
kid that gets its money from its dad,” John Hogg, vice
president exploration and operations at MGM Energy Corp., said
in a March 12 interview, calling the agreement positive.
“There’s no incentive to make development work, there’s no
incentive to have infrastructure” under the old arrangement, he
said.  MGM Energy, a Calgary-based energy producer, is exploring
alongside ConocoPhillips,  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and Husky Energy Inc. in the Canol Shale in the territory’s
central Mackenzie Valley. The area has sparked new interest in
the region, with producers  committing  more than C$625 million in
exploration spending at land auctions since 2011.  Bakken Comparison  The Canol’s potential may be comparable to the Bakken Shale
that helped reverse oil production declines in the U.S.,  Brad
Hayes , president of Petrol Robertson Consulting Ltd. said on
March 12. It is probably the source of Canada’s most northerly
producing oil field, Norman Wells, which has produced more than
 265 million barrels  of oil since its 1920 discovery, according
to the  Geologic Survey of Canada .  Northwest Territories oil  production  fell 43 percent from
2002 to 2011 as output at Norman Wells declined, according to
Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada.  With devolution, changes in regulatory oversight and the
lack of a clear approval process in the future threaten to delay
exploration, Eric Hanson, supervisor for the central Mackenzie
Valley at  ConocoPhillips (COP) , said in a March 12 interview.  “Will there be delays, slowdowns in programs because of
devolution?” Hanson said. “It only takes a small delay to lose
a whole year.”  Winter Roads  Companies currently need local, territorial and federal
approvals to drill in the Northwest Territories, a “complex”
regime that caused ConocoPhillips to wait almost a year to drill
the two wells it will have completed by the end of the month,
Hanson said. The use of winter access roads and an ice bridge
over the Mackenzie River means producers have three months a
year to reach drilling sites.  The challenge for the region whose capital city is about
5,390 kilometers (3,350 miles) northwest of  New York  is
transporting the fuels to markets.  The territorial government is counting on the C$16.2
billion Mackenzie gas  project , a 1,196-kilometer proposed
pipeline from Inuvik to northern  Alberta , to help push
development, as well as a possible Beaufort Sea port at
Tuktoyaktuk, said McLeod. Partners on the Mackenzie pipeline
suspended the project indefinitely last year as gas prices in
 North America  fell to a decade low.  To develop shale oil, producers will also need a new oil
export line, as  Enbridge  Inc.’s existing 39,400 barrel-a-day
Norman Wells pipeline that connects Northwest Territories with
the North American pipeline grid fills, Hanson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  