-- Canada’s Fast Says Momentum Building for EU Trade Accord
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-13T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/canada-s-fast-says-momentum-building-for-eu-trade-accord.html
Canadian Trade Minister Ed Fast
said negotiations on a free trade pact with the European Union
have built momentum and he’s optimistic the two sides are near
an agreement.  Fast, speaking in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in  New York , said negotiators have made progress since European
Union Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht indicated last month
that Canada’s latest offer wasn’t good enough, and that talks
could be in jeopardy if the country didn’t improve it.  “We’re now into the end game where there is only a small
number of issues left to be addressed,” Fast said, adding they
also happen to be the most difficult. “Even with those, we are
making good progress in bridging the gaps.”  The proposed agreement is the biggest test of Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper ’s efforts to diversify Canada’s trade
away from the U.S., by far its largest trading partner. The
world’s 11th largest economy has completed six trade accords
since Harper came to power in 2006, and is in negotiations on a
number of others, including with Japan and  India .  “It’s also important that Canada show that it can actually
negotiate a trading agreement with a large trade partner,” said
Fast, who is on a three-day tour of New York and Washington to
promote trade with the U.S.  He spoke at a Financial Times conference today in New York
touting Canada as a nation that is “open for business.”  Europe Trade  EU-Canada trade in merchandise was worth 52.5 billion euros
($62.4 billion) in 2011, while services commerce totaled 25.8
billion euros, according to the latest data from the European
Commission, the bloc’s executive arm. Sticking points have
included Canadian access to the EU’s beef and pork markets and
European access to Canada’s dairy market as well as to Canadian
public procurement contracts at the provincial and municipal
levels, the National Post newspaper has reported.  “What was on the table simply didn’t please me, so I
didn’t make an agreement,”  De Gucht  told the European
Parliament’s international trade committee Feb. 21 in Brussels.
“They need to make additional steps and, if not, there will not
be an agreement.”  Fast said the two sides have moved ahead since those
comments.  “The key is to keep the momentum going towards a final
conclusion to these negotiations and we are actually doing that
bit by bit,” Fast said. “Unlike my European counterpart, who I
admire very much and have an excellent relationship with, I am
committed, and my government is committed, not to negotiate
through the media.”  Bilateral Boost  An agreement is expected to increase bilateral trade by 20
percent and add C$12 billion annually to  Canada ’s economy,
according to the Canadian trade minister.  A negotiated accord, which would need the approval of EU
national governments and the bloc’s Parliament, may end 97
percent of tariffs on EU-Canada goods trade immediately and 99
percent after seven years.  Fast pledged to keep intact the “integrity” of Canada’s
supply management policy, which limits imports of dairy products
and other agricultural goods. He’s also told the European Union
it won’t be exempted from Canada’s foreign takeover review
 process , which requires foreign investors to show that the
transaction will be of “net benefit” to Canada.  The Canadian government automatically reviews all foreign
takeovers of companies with asset values of more than C$344
million. In December, after approving a bid by  China ’s Cnooc
Ltd. for Calgary-based Nexen Inc., Harper added additional
restrictions for state-owned companies seeking to acquire
Canadian assets.  Foreign Investment  “We’ve made it very clear to our EU partners that Canada’s
foreign investment review regime has served Canadians well,”
said Fast. “I’ve also noted for the Europeans that Canada has
never turned down an investment from the European Union.”  Fast says he still expects Chinese companies to continue
investing in Canada’s resources, even though the North American
country would like to have a more balanced trade relationship.
Fast said he’s still pressing Chinese officials to permit
proposed investments by Toronto-based Manulife Financial Corp.
and  Bank of Nova Scotia .  “We remain engaged in promoting those investments with our
Chinese counterparts,” Fast said. “Action speaks louder than
words and we’re now looking for some concrete signs from our
Chinese partners that they are willing to actually respect the
interest of Canadians who do want to invest in China.”  Canada is also working to protect the nation from counter-
intelligence and cyber-security threats, Fast said, adding his
government has prevented companies such as  Huawei Technology Co. (002502) 
from bidding on government telecommunications contracts.  “We welcome investment from the Chinese provided they play
by the rules and that they respect Canadian sovereignty, and
that they not undertake the kinds of activities that would
represent a security threat to Canadians,” Fast said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in New York at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  