-- Carlyle Allows Investors in New Fund With $50,000 Minimum
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-03-13T03:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/carlyle-allows-investors-in-new-fund-with-50-000-minimum.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-biggest private-equity firm by assets, is lowering the
minimum a person can invest in a new buyout-focused fund as it
seeks to expand its number of so-called limited partners.  The fund, which Washington-based Carlyle is starting with
investment firm Central Park Group LLC, will accept commitments
of as low as $50,000 from accredited investors, according to a
regulatory  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The SEC defines an accredited investor as having a
net worth of more than $1 million; earning more than $200,000 in
each of the past two years, or $300,000 including a spouse; or
being involved in the management of the fund.  Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein  has said that the
growth of commitments by individual investors to so-called
alternative-asset funds will outpace that of public institutions
such as pension plans. Competitor  KKR & Co. (KKR)  last year started
two funds -- a mutual fund that plans to buy non-investment-
grade debt and a closed-end debt fund -- that lowered the cash
standard for individual investors to $2,500 commitments.  “The individual investor velocity will be much greater”
than that of public pension funds, Rubenstein said last month on
a conference call with investors and analysts. “I do believe in
time, the individual investors will be able to come into private
equity in different ways than they are today.”  Central Park Group was founded in 2006 by two executives
from UBS AG, where they started the investment bank’s alternate-
investment business for private clients. It  specializes  in
investing clients’ money in private-equity and hedge funds, real
estate pools and funds-of-funds.  The firm will allocate money from the new pool, called CPG
Carlyle Private Equity Fund, to a variety of Carlyle-managed
funds, according to the filing.  Carlyle, founded in 1987 by Rubenstein,  William Conway  and
 Daniel D’Aniello , oversees $170 billion across 113 funds and 67
funds-of-funds. The minimum commitment to its funds is typically
between $5 million and $20 million, according to the filing.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported the move by
Carlyle to lower the minimum investment value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  