-- Carlyle Said to List 650 Madion for Over $1.3 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-03-13T19:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/carlyle-said-to-list-650-madion-for-over-1-3-billion.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  is putting midtown
 Manhattan ’s 650 Madison Ave. on the market, with a sale expected
to fetch more than $1.3 billion and possibly lead to a
redevelopment of the office tower into residences, two people
with knowledge of the situation said.  Broker Eastdil Secured has the listing for 650 Madison,
said one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
information on the planned sale is private. Carlyle and a
partner bought the building from Hiro North American Properties
for $695 million in April 2008, and refinanced it in 2010.  A sale would probably be the biggest so far this year for
an entire office building, Dan Fasulo, managing director of Real
Capital Analytics Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail.  The building is between East 59th and East 60th streets,
one block north of the General Motors Building, and is home to a
Crate & Barrel housewares store at street level. A  Ralph Lauren
Corp. (RL)  unit is the largest office tenant in the fully leased
building, which may sell for as much as $1.5 billion, one of the
people said.  Carlyle, the biggest U.S. private-equity firm by assets
after  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is taking advantage of both strong
demand for trophy office buildings and rising apartment rents.
In January, Sony Corp.’s U.S. unit agreed to the $1.1 billion
sale of its 37-story New York headquarters at 550 Madison Ave.
to Chetrit Group, which may convert part of the building to a
hotel and residences.  Chris Ullman, a spokesman for Washington-based Carlyle,
declined to comment. Martha Wallau, a senior managing director
in Eastdil’s New York office, didn’t return a telephone call and
e-mail seeking comment.  The planned sale was reported late yesterday by newsletter
Real Estate Alert.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  