-- Carney Faces BOE Pay Tension as Merger Threatens Culture Clash
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-03-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/carney-faces-boe-pay-tension-as-merger-threatens-culture-clash.html
Bank of England  officials absorbing
an influx of Financial Services Authority staff face potential
tensions on pay thrown up by the merger of their institutions.  The management is confronting a heightened challenge in
maintaining morale as employees of the U.K.’s banking regulator
join an organization where colleagues tend to be paid less,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. For
example, FSA department heads earn up to 200,000 pounds
($297,600) a year, compared with a 158,108-pound maximum for an
equivalent job at the BOE.  The central bank is taking on part of the FSA’s
responsibilities and about 1,300 of its staff as it assumes new
powers to oversee banks in a revamp of regulation. The pay
disparity presents incoming Governor  Mark Carney  with a
potential headache as he prepares to take on Mervyn King’s
decade-long struggle to retain staff whose earnings can easily
be topped in London’s financial industry.  “It’s a challenging aspect of reintegration,” said Simon Wells, who led an economics team at the Bank of England before
becoming chief U.K. economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in 2011.
“All the BOE noises have been to soothe and reassure, but how
you can do that, faced with the cold hard numbers, is another
matter.”  Pay Differences  Within the FSA, the salary range for a head of department
is between 95,000 pounds to 200,000 pounds, data on its website
show. For a BOE division chief, that range is 86,689 pounds to
158,108 pounds, according to a  2012 document .  At FSA director level, staff earn up to 281,000 pounds,
almost as much as the 305,000-pound salary commanded by King.
Salaries of BOE executive directors, the level that includes
Chief Economist Spencer Dale, go from 160,983 pounds to 209,967
pounds, according to the central bank’s annual report.  A Bank of England spokesman declined to comment on pay
disparities and the effects of the merger.  An official said in January that the Bank of England
intends to limit the increase in its wage bill to 1 percent
after two years of frozen pay. That restraint contrasts with the
increase in remuneration for Carney compared with King. The Bank
of Canada governor, who takes over in July, is getting a
480,000-pound base salary -- about 57 percent more than King’s
pay -- as well as a 250,000-pound housing allowance.  ‘Challenges’  “Integrating a whole new directorate at a time when pay is
frozen presents some challenges,” said Robert Wood, an
economist at Berenberg Bank in London who replaced HSBC’s Wells
at the BOE before he too left last year. “There’s no guarantee
they’ll be paid a comparable amount, as you can’t adjust it.”  The transfer of staff to the BOE is part of an overhaul of
bank regulation in the aftermath of the financial crisis driven
through by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne . The FSA
was originally established by  Gordon Brown  when he was finance
minister in 1997 as an organization to consolidate regulation of
Britain’s banking and insurance industries.  The change will see the FSA dissolved and its powers
transferred to the Prudential Regulation Authority, which will
be a unit of the BOE, and the Financial Conduct Authority, an
agency to regulate consumer financial services and markets.  The PRA will be responsible for setting capital, liquidity
and bonus rules, and will oversee the stability of the bank and
insurance industries. It will be based at 20 Moorgate in the
 City of London , the former headquarters of broker JP Morgan
Cazenove Ltd., and employ around 1,300 people. The BOE, situated
a five-minute walk away, has about 1,800 staff, according to its
most recent annual report.  Culture Clash  The salary issue is part of a wider culture clash created
by the merger. Both institutions have developed differently and
there are challenges in absorbing so many people, said Lindsay Thomas, a former FSA director who is now an adviser at risk
management company Sustainable Risks.  “It’s a significant jump in numbers and the sheer size
will be tricky to manage,” he said. At the FSA, “a lot of the
senior people are ex-bank and they’ll slot right in, but for
those lower down, the culture will get into them gradually like
the cold seeping in.”  The BOE has acknowledged the scale of the integration, with
David Lees, who chairs the Court of Directors, the Bank of
England’s governing body, saying in the  2012 annual report  that
“none of us on the court underestimates the management
challenge involved.”  Both institutions’ differing views on pay have been played
out in the public domain. FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  defended
regulators’ wages when questioned by lawmakers in February.  Public Service  “When you’re paying people to do a public service, you
can’t pay them a small fraction of what they would get in the
industry,” said Turner, who earned 426,000 pounds last year.
“If you end up trying to keep them there for a 10th of what
they’d get elsewhere, you’d have difficulties. Most of our best
people could walk out for more money.”  In contrast, King said in 2011 that the BOE won’t have to
offer “vast sums” to recruit regulators, and wants people who
are “committed to a life of public service.”  “I don’t think that we will want to mimic some of the
salary scales at the FSA,” he told lawmakers. “Nor do I think
that we want to attract people who take short-term periods out
of the financial-services sector to come and get two to three
years’ experience and then go back. We want people to make
careers as a regulator.”  The central bank already had to contend with a string of
resignations of its economists before the merger. Brunello Rosa,
a member of the Sterling Markets Division, left in December to
join Roubini Global Economics LLC. Berenberg’s Wood resigned six
months ago.  “Given the Bank of England has had a pay freeze for two
years, I know a lot of people who are unhappy with their pay,”
said Chris Apostolou, director of London-based recruitment firm
Arbitrage Search and Selection Ltd. who has previously
headhunted Bank of England staff. “Many are looking to leave,
especially when they typically increase their basic by 50
percent or more when moving to the private sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  