-- CBOE and S&P Dow Jones Extend Exclusive License to Index Options
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-03-13T15:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/cboe-and-s-p-dow-jones-extend-exclusive-license-to-index-options.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and S&P Dow
Jones Indices extended the options exchange’s exclusive license
to trade  contracts  based on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
until 2032.  The owner of the  Chicago Board Options Exchange  will be the
only market with rights to list and trade options based on the
 S&P 500 , the most-active U.S. index contract, and other broad
gauges, the companies said in a statement today. Exclusive
rights to the S&P 500 and S&P 100 previously expired in 2018 and
those for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  were supposed to end
in 2017, according to CBOE. Financial terms of the deal weren’t
disclosed.  Exchanges are seeking to boost revenue amid declining
volume and increasing competition. International Securities
Exchange Holdings Inc. said earlier this month that it plans to
start an options market that will become the 12th U.S. exchange
for equity derivatives. Exclusive trading agreements may help
boost CBOE’s stock price, according to KBW Inc.’s  Niamh Alexander .  “The extension of the exclusive S&P contract is a net
positive and we expect the stock to react positively today,”
Alexander, an analyst at KBW in New York, said about CBOE shares
in a note to clients today.  CBOE shares rose 0.4 percent to $35.89 at 11:44 a.m. in New
York today, extending its advance for the year to more than 21
percent. The Bloomberg  World Exchanges (BNWEXCH)  Index, which includes
CBOE and 24 of its peers, has gained 13 percent this year.  CBOE will have non-exclusive rights to use the benchmark
gauges as the basis of contracts until 2033, the statement said.  The deal extends a 30-year relationship between CBOE, home
of the biggest U.S. options market, and the index provider, Bill Brodsky, chairman and chief executive officer of CBOE Holdings,
told reporters at a briefing today at the annual Futures
Industry Association conference in  Boca Raton , Florida.  “We initiated conversations with S&P primarily driven by
the fact that the analyst community was pressing us constantly
about the duration of the contract,” Brodsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  