-- Cerberus’s Bawag Names Ally’s Hobbs Chairman as Aid Is Repaid
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-03-13T13:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/cerberus-s-bawag-names-ally-s-hobbs-chairman-as-aid-is-repaid.html
Bawag PSK Bank AG, the Austrian
lender controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP, named
Franklin Hobbs chairman of its supervisory board as the lender
gets ready to repay state aid.  Hobbs, who also serves as the chairman of U.S. government-
controlled  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , will succeed Cees Maas on March
12, the company said today after reporting a 2012 drop in
profit. The total number of board members will rise to 12 from
nine and include a representative from GoldenTree Asset
Management LP, which bought a 39 percent stake in the Vienna-
based lender last year.  “Having two American shareholders, it is important that
the chairman can liaise and link with them,” Bawag Chief
Executive Officer Byron Haynes said at a news conference today.
“We have a lot of perspective in  Austria , but we need to make
sure we get perspective internationally.”  Cerberus bought Bawag, the country’s fourth-biggest lender,
from a federation of Austrian trade unions in 2006. The
government gave a 550 million euro bailout to Bawag three years
later in response to the financial crisis. Cerberus and
GoldenTree injected another 200 million euros into the bank last
year.  Bawag’s 2012 full-year net income fell 12 percent to 107.3
million euros after restructuring charges more than doubled and
record low interest rates cut lending revenue, the bank said
today. The core Tier 1 capital ratio rose to 11 percent from 7.8
percent at the end of 2011.  Job Cuts Ahead  Restructuring charges at the bank were 43.2 million euros
in 2012, compared to 20.3 million euros a year earlier,
according to the company.  Bawag reiterated that it will repay 50 million euros of the
state aid by the end of June. The two majority shareholders have
no intentions to sell the bank in the near-term, Haynes said.  Cerberus, which owns 52 percent of Bawag, was also a
majority shareholder in GMAC Inc. before the U.S. government
took control of the auto lender in 2008 and changed its name to
Ally. Ally’s Hobbs, 66, is a Harvard Business School graduate
and former CEO of Dillon Read & Co., the investment bank that
was acquired by UBS AG.  Bawag will continue to cut jobs this year and focus on
developing the Austrian retail market, said Haynes, who declined
to say how many positions would be eliminated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  