-- Cesco Says China Copper Demand Could Absorb Surplus in 2013
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-03-13T16:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/cesco-says-higher-china-copper-demand-may-absorb-surplus-in-13.html
Higher demand from  China , the
biggest copper user, may help to absorb surplus metal this year
as the market shifts to oversupply, according to a mining
studies group in  Chile , the world’s largest producer.  Copper supply will outpace demand by between 100,000 and
200,000 metric tons in 2013,Juan Carlos Guajardo, executive
director of the Center for Copper & Mining Studies, said in a
telephone interview from Santiago today. The copper market is
bracing for a first surplus in four years on increased output
from new and existing mines, the International Copper Study
Group estimates.  “In previous years we faced an important deficit,”
Guajardo said. “The question is whether the surplus is enough
to put pressure on prices or the higher demand in China is able
to absorb this transition to surplus.”  Global refined copper production will rise about 3 percent
in 2013 as usage increases “slightly less,” he said. Demand
from China will expand 5 percent to 6 percent this year and the
country’s copper consumption will start to increase “in the
near future,” he said.  Copper for three-month delivery fell 0.3 percent to $7,805
a ton by 3:30 p.m. on the London Metal Exchange, down 1.6
percent this year.  Grasberg, Escondida  Mined copper output will increase 1.9 million tons this
year, equal to 11 percent of last year’s production, Credit
Suisse Group AG estimates.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s Oyu Tolgoi mine,
which starts in the second half of 2013 in Mongolia, 30 percent
growth at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s  Grasberg  mine in
Indonesia and increased production at Escondida in Chile will
boost global copper supply in 2013, according to Citigroup Inc.  “It’s true that we will have more production,” Guajardo
said. “It was expected, but the year is still too young to say
that we will have too much production. The key issue here is
unexpected losses, disruptions,” which in past years reduced
supply below initial expectations, he said.  Refined copper production will gain 6 percent this year,
compared with a 1.5 percent increase in consumption, tipping the
market into a 458,000-ton oversupply, the ICSG estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  