-- Chavez Daughter Asks Venezuela Opposition to Respect Family
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-03-13T12:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/chavez-s-daughter-asks-opposition-to-stop-playing-with-pain.html
Maria Gabriela Chavez, the daughter
of the late Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , asked the
country’s opposition to respect her family’s pain and stop
playing “dirty.”  “I see a need to raise my voice against those who are
playing with the pain of my family, my people and, above all,
the memory of my father the giant,” Maria Gabriela wrote in a
letter read by Information Minister Ernesto Villegas yesterday
on state television. Villegas read the  letter  while standing
alongside Chavez’s coffin as he lies in state at a Caracas
military academy.  Opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski said March 10
that acting President  Nicolas Maduro  and the government lied to
Venezuelans about the health and timing of Chavez’s death.
Capriles, who will run as the opposition candidate in an April
14 election, also said Maduro is using Chavez’s popularity to
boost his electoral chances.  Maduro and other top officials have called on the
opposition to respect the mourning for Chavez as both sides
prepare for the snap election.  Capriles wrote on his Twitter account last night that his
criticism was aimed at Maduro, not Chavez’s family.  “Nicolas, you’re the one who lied,” he wrote. “I never
in all these years offended the president or his family. If
anything I said was interpreted that way by his family, I
apologize.”  Argenis Chavez, the late president’s brother and head of
the state power company Corporacion Electrica Nacional SA, said
yesterday the government never lied to the country and called
Capriles’ questioning of when Chavez died “immoral” and
“barely human.”  “It’s disrespect to the president’s memory and the Chavez
family’s dignity, as he insinuated that my mother and father,
the president’s daughters and his brothers would lend ourselves
to such an act,” Argenis said on state television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 