-- Chief Executives in U.S. Grow More Optimistic About Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-13T16:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/chief-executives-in-u-s-grow-more-optimistic-about-economy.html
Chief executives of U.S. companies
grew more optimistic about the  U.S. economy  for the first time
in a year, projecting gains in sales and capital spending.  The Business Roundtable said today its index of business
leaders’ outlooks advanced to 81 in the first quarter, the
highest since the three months ended in June 2012, from 65.6 at
the end of last year.  The gain shows corporate leaders are largely looking beyond
the budget battle in Washington as demand holds up and the
global economy stabilizes. Some 72 percent of the 144 chief
executives who responded to the survey said they project sales
will improve in the next six months even as their hiring plans
remained stagnant.  “CEOs foresee somewhat better economic performance for the
next six months, with improved expectations for sales and
capital expenditures,” Jim McNerney, chairman of the
Washington-based Business Roundtable and chief executive officer
of  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  said in a statement. “The relatively smaller
improvement in the outlook for hiring, however, may reflect
ongoing uncertainty and a wait-and-see attitude about the
business climate in the  United States .”  The share of executives projecting higher sales was up from
the 58 percent who said so in the fourth quarter, the survey
showed. The portion saying they will increase spending on
equipment and software in the next six months climbed to 38
percent from 30 percent.  Twenty-nine percent said they expect to increase their
headcount in the next six months, matching the share in the
fourth quarter. Fewer executives, 25 percent, said they planned
to reduce payrolls compared with 29 percent in the last three
months of 2012.  Company heads forecast the economy will expand 2.1 percent
in 2013, up from last quarter’s projection of 2.0 percent, the
group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  