-- Chile Traders See Slower Pace of Tightening Than Analysts
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-13T11:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/chile-traders-see-slower-pace-of-tightening-than-analysts-1-.html
Chilean traders and investors
forecast the  key interest rate  will rise a quarter-point within
two years, a slower pace of monetary tightening than analysts
expect.  The central bank board, which hasn’t changed borrowing
costs since January 2012, will keep the key rate on hold at 5
percent until at least September before raising it to 5.25
percent by March next year and keeping it there for another 12
months, according to the survey posted on the bank website
today. Economists in a poll published yesterday by the bank
forecast a half-point rise in borrowing costs within 23 months.  Central bank President Rodrigo Vergara said in a March 6
speech in Santiago that domestic risks had gained importance as
economic output and internal demand continue to exceed estimates
made by analysts. Still, two days later government data showed
inflation eased in February to 1.3 percent from 1.6 percent the
previous month.  Inflation will accelerate to 3 percent in 12 months,
remaining there for at least another year, according to today’s
poll of 57 traders and investors. Policy makers target 3 percent
inflation, plus or minus one percentage point over two years.  Gross domestic product grew 5.6 percent last year,
exceeding central bank forecasts made in December for a 5.5
percent expansion, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The bank publishes fourth-quarter GDP data on March 18.  The peso, which has expanded 2.6 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past 12 months, was largely unchanged from
yesterday’s close at 470.87 as of 8:36 a.m. Santiago time. The
peso will trade at 472 in seven days, according to the median
estimate of traders and investors in today’s survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 