-- China May Limit Gold to 2% of Foreign Reserves, PBOC’s Yi Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-13T11:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/china-may-limit-gold-to-2-of-foreign-reserves-pboc-s-yi-says.html
China  is likely to limit its gold
holdings to 2 percent of its total foreign exchange reserves,
said  Yi Gang , a deputy Chinese central bank governor.  The People’s Bank of China last made known changes to its
 gold reserves  in 2009, announcing that it held 1,054 metric
tons. The bank hasn’t made any revisions since then. That’s
about 1.8 percent of its total reserves, according to data from
the World Gold Council.  “If the Chinese government were to buy too much gold, gold
prices would surge, a scenario that will hurt Chinese
consumers,” Yi said today in a press briefing in Beijing. “We
can only invest about 1-2 percent of the foreign exchange
reserves into gold because the market is too small.”  The nation’s reserves, which have surged more than 700
percent since 2004, surpassed the value of all official bullion
holdings in January 2004 and rose to $3.3 trillion at the end of
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold has fallen about 4.7 percent this year as the U.S.
stocks extended a record rally amid speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  may rein in stimulus as the recovery gains traction,
curbing demand for safe-haven assets.  China was expected to displace  India  as the biggest gold
consumer last year, according to forecast in November from the
producer-funded World Gold Council. Chinese investors sought to
protect their wealth by buying gold, after government measures
to curb real estate prices and as China’s stock market has
fallen in the past decade even though nominal gross domestic
product rose fourfold.  Foreign Reserves  About two-thirds of China’s foreign reserves are dollar-
denominated and another quarter is in euros, according to Yao
Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe Generale SA. China
is now encouraging companies and residents to keep more foreign
currency in a strategy known as “hiding foreign currencies
among people,” meaning that the government’s foreign reserves
may “gradually fall,” Yang said.  Gold capped a 12th annual advance in 2012 and rose to a
record of $1,921.15 an ounce in 2011. Gold for immediate
delivery were little changed today at $1,591.95 at 6:29 p.m.
Beijing time.  “We will always keep gold in mind as an option in reserve
assets and investments,” Yi said. “We are able to import
500-600 tons a year, or more, but we will also take into
consideration a stable gold market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  