-- China’s Stocks Slump to Two-Month Low on Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-13T08:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/china-s-stock-index-futures-advance-after-four-days-of-declines.html
Chinese stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a two-month low, as real estate and
construction companies tumbled on concern policy makers will
step up property curbs.  Sina.com reported the southern city of Shenzhen banned
developers from raising  home prices , citing discussions with
property companies. Poly Real Estate Group Co. and Gemdale Corp.
declined more than 3 percent.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , the
nation’s biggest maker of construction machinery, lost 2.1
percent.  CSR Corp. (601766)  and China CNR Corp., the nation’s top train
makers, slumped at least 3.7 percent on concern the dismantling
of the rail ministry will curb state spending.  “Property curbs and the central bank’s possible attitude
towards tightening liquidity make investors nervous,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in  Shanghai .
“There’s concern the economic recovery will falter.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1 percent to 2,263.97
at the close, capping a five-day, 3.6 percent losing streak
that’s the longest in four months. The gauge also erased its
gain for the year. The CSI 300 Index declined 1.1 percent to
2,527.49. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 2.2
percent in  Hong Kong , taking its loss from a Feb. 1 high to 9.6
percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  fell 1.7 percent in New
York yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite Index has lost 7 percent since this
year’s high on Feb. 6 amid concern the government will tighten
monetary policy at the same time as economic expansion slows.
Data over the weekend showed inflation accelerated in February,
while industrial output had the weakest start to a year since
2009 and lending and retail sales growth slowed.  Zhou Comments  China should be on “high alert” over inflation after
February’s price gains exceeded forecasts, central bank Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  said after the market closed. The nation’s
monetary-policy stance is “no longer relaxed” and is
“neutral”, Zhou said at a press conference during the annual
gathering of the National People’s Congress.  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index (SHPROP)  tumbled 2.5
percent to a three-month low. Poly Real Estate, China’s second-
largest developer by market value, slid 3.8 percent to 11.14
 yuan . China  Vanke (000002)  Co., the biggest, dropped 2.4 percent to 10.95
yuan. Gemdale lost 4.6 percent to 6.05 yuan.  Shenzhen’s land authorities won’t approve the sale of
property projects with higher prices, news portal Sina.com
reported, citing unidentified officials with developers
including Gemdale and Vanke.  Property Curbs  A spokeswoman at the city’s Urban Planning Land and
Resources Commission, who would only identify herself as Liu,
said the housing authority will issue a statement on the report
today. Shenzhen adjoins Hong Kong.  The property stock gauge plunged 9.3 percent on March 4
after China’s cabinet told cities with “excessively fast”
price gains to tighten home-purchase limits, through measures
such as higher down-payment requirements for second mortgages
and tougher regulation of a profits tax.  Sany Heavy lost 2.1 percent to 10.56 yuan. Zoomlion Heavy
Industry Science and Technology Co., the second-biggest
construction-machinery maker, declined 2.4 percent to 8.38 yuan,
a three-month low.  The Shanghai Composite is valued at 9.3 times earnings for
the next 12 months, compared with the five-year average of 13.5,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes in the
index were 27 percent lower today than the 30-day average.  Ministry Break-Up  CSR, the nation’s biggest train maker, lost 3.7 percent to
4.44 yuan. China CNR, the second largest, retreated 4.8 percent
to 4.33 yuan.  China Railway Construction Corp. (601186) , builder of more
than half the nation’s rail links since 1949, tumbled 5.7
percent to 5.15 yuan, the most since July 2011.  The Ministry of Railways, burdened with 2.66 trillion yuan
($428 billion) of liabilities, will be split into two, according
to government reports over the weekend. The dismantling spurred
concern that investment in rail will be cut, Li Xiaolu, an
analyst at Capital Securities Corp., said in Shanghai today.  Shares have also dropped amid concern regulators will
resume approvals of initial public offerings, diverting
liquidity from existing stocks. The China Securities Regulatory
Commission suspended issuance of IPO shares in October, as
investors’ appetite for new stocks waned amid equity-market
declines that drove the Shanghai Composite to near four-year
lows.  CSRC’s Guo  Separately, CSRC Chairman  Guo Shuqing  may be appointed as
governor of Shandong province, the  South China Morning Post 
reported today, citing people it didn’t identify. A press
officer at the regulator said he hadn’t received information on
the matter.  Guo, who took over as chairman in October 2011, has
implemented changes such as cutting transaction costs, cracking
down on  insider trading  and encouraging dividend payments. Under
his watch, the commission also accelerated approvals for foreign
investments in the nation’s capital markets through the
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors program.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  