-- China to Free Yuan in 5 Years, Says Hong Kong Exchanges’ Li
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-03-14T04:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/china-to-free-currency-in-5-years-says-hong-kong-exchanges-li.html
China , the world’s second-largest
economy, will open its markets and allow its currency to float
within five years, said Charles Li, chief executive officer of
 Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  “China has to reform its interest-rate system,” Li said
yesterday during a panel discussion at the Futures Industry
Association conference in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . The value of the
Chinese currency is limited by the government and is only
allowed to rise or fall within a narrow range. Li said that
system can’t last forever.  China last week allowed foreign financial companies to
invest yuan raised offshore in its domestic markets, a step to
reduce the nation’s reliance on the dollar by boosting demand
for the currency. People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
yesterday reiterated plans to gradually reform the  exchange rate .
HSBC Holdings Plc forecast this week the  yuan  will become fully
convertible within five years.  After keeping the yuan stable for a decade, China allowed
its currency to strengthen 21 percent from July 2005 to July
2008, including an initial, single-day gain of 2 percent.
Appreciation was then halted for almost two years to help
exporters weather a global recession and the currency has
advanced 10 percent against the dollar since controls were
loosened on June 19, 2010.  More Flexibility  The People’s Bank of China sets a  daily reference rate  for
the yuan based on market makers’ quotations and the spot
contract in Shanghai can trade as much as 1 percent on either
side. It last increased the band on April 16, 2012, the first
expansion since 2007. Of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
in November, 12 predicted a further widening by the end of this
year and eight forecast a revision in 2014.  “I would expect China to increasingly move towards a
managed float with more flexibility,” Irene Cheung, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group in
 Singapore , said by telephone today. “Basically convertible is
possible in five years, but it might not be 100 percent
convertible.”  Basic convertibility doesn’t mean China would give up total
control,  Huang Yiping , Barclays Plc’s Hong Kong-based chief
economist for emerging Asia, said in September 2011. His
understanding of the situation was based on participation in
discussions about the yuan with policy makers including those
from the Chinese central bank, he said.  The yuan declined 0.04 percent to 6.2162 per dollar as of
11:56 a.m. in Shanghai, after the central bank weakened the
currency’s fixing for the first time in three days. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.1 percent to 6.3070, ending
their longest winning streak since September 2010.  Growing Demand  Since China started a pilot program allowing the use of
yuan to settle cross-border transactions in 2009, the proportion
of its trade conducted in the currency has increased to 9
percent from less than 1 percent, according to the People’s Bank
of China. By 2015, a third of China’s cross-border trade will be
settled in yuan, making the currency one of the three most-used
in global trade along with the dollar and euro, HSBC forecast in
a report this month.  The Chinese currency will appreciate 2.1 percent to 6.1 per
dollar this year, compared with a 1 percent gain in 2012, the
median forecast in a  Bloomberg News  survey of analysts showed.
The yuan has overtaken the Russian ruble for transactions in the
global payment system for the first time in January, according
to Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications,
a financial-messaging platform.  London Racing  London is racing against Paris and Zurich to become the
center for yuan trading in  Europe  as China seeks to take its
currency global. The  Bank of England  said it has the inside edge
to be the first Group of Seven nation to sign a currency-swap
agreement with the People’s Bank of China after a meeting last
month. The deal may allow the U.K. central bank to supply as
much as 400 billion yuan ($64 billion) to banks, matching Hong
Kong’s swap arrangement, according to Gao Qi, a markets
strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in Singapore.  Trading in exchange-listed derivatives worldwide fell 15.3
percent last year, compared with 2011, with  interest rates ,
currencies and equity contracts all declining, the Futures
Industry Association said earlier this week.  Asia Drop  The central bank  policy  in the U.S. of holding benchmark
interest rates near zero for more than four years has reduced
demand from investors to hedge against an increase, hurting the
volume of futures tied to the borrowing measure. Trading in  CME
Group Inc. (CME) ’s Eurodollar future dropped 24.4 percent in 2012
compared with the year earlier, while NYSE Euronext’s Euribor
contract fell 26.1 percent, FIA said.  The largest drop geographically occurred in Asia-Pacific,
with a 23.4 percent decline, according to FIA. Trading in  North
America  fell 11.9 percent while in Europe futures and options on
futures declined 12.5 percent.  CME Group, based in  Chicago , was the largest futures market
by volume, with 2.89 billion contracts changing hands last year,
FIA said. Eurex AG was second, with a volume of 2.29 billion.  Contracts based on agricultural products and energy saw
gains in 2012. Corn, soybean, wheat and other food-related
products rose 27.5 percent last year, while futures on crude oil,
natural gas and gasoline jumped 11.2 percent, FIA said.  Interest-rate contracts fell 16 percent, equity indexes
dropped 28.5 percent and currencies fell 22.7 percent, FIA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  