-- CIBC-Aimia Reward Card Partnership Seen Surviving Rift
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-03-13T20:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/cibc-aimia-reward-card-partnership-seen-surviving-rift.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
and  Aimia Inc. (AIM)  say they’re willing to end their profitable
credit card partnership after 22 years over a disagreement on
terms. Analysts aren’t buying it.  CIBC, Canada’s fifth-biggest bank, says it’s exploring
options as it negotiates with Aimia, owner of the Aeroplan
rewards program, before their agreement expires at year end. The
partnership has made the CIBC Aerogold Visa the bank’s most
popular credit card. Aimia, whose shares outperformed Canada’s
benchmark stock  index  13-fold during the past year, counts CIBC
as its biggest partner.  “At the end of the day, we’d be surprised if Aeroplan
didn’t have a contract,” said Kathleen Wong, a Veritas
Investment Research Corp. analyst who cut Aimia’s rating to
“sell” from “buy” on March 1. “CIBC has a very lucrative
contract already and it’s making good money for both of them.
There’s a mutual benefit for each other.”  Aeroplan began in 1984 as a promotional tool for business
travelers on  Air Canada (AC/B) , the country’s largest airline. CIBC
Aerogold Visa was started in 1991,  according  to Montreal-based
Aimia. The card allows users to collect Aeroplan points for
travel on Air Canada and get goods from retailers.  Lower Rate  CIBC, which buys Aeroplan miles from Aimia to give to
cardholders on purchases, may try to negotiate a lower rate for
those rewards points, according to Wong. If CIBC gets a 5
percent reduction in the selling price of Aeroplan miles, she
estimates, Aimia’s intrinsic value would fall by about C$1.20 a
share. That’s about 7.9 percent of the current value of Aimia’s
stock.  “CIBC has introduced other cards to try to wean people
away from Aerogold,” said Ian Nakamoto, director of research at
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages
about C$4 billion ($3.9 billion) in assets. “It would be
different if CIBC didn’t have anything else to offer.”  Losing CIBC as a partner would force Aimia to negotiate
with other Canadian banks to link cards to its Aeroplan program.
Toronto-based CIBC represents roughly 25 percent of about C$2.25
billion of Aimia’s gross billings, according to analysts Tim
Casey, John Reucassel and Fadi Chamoun of BMO Capital Markets.  “Any change in a credit card partner carries major risks
for Aimia,” the analysts said in a March 7 note. “We believe
the most likely scenario is a renewal, but for Aimia there seems
to be more downside than upside.”  Court Victory  Aimia posted a 22 percent  return  during the past 12 months,
compared with the 1.7 percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index. The company also owns the U.K. reward program
Nectar, whose partners include British grocery chain  J Sainsbury
Plc. (SBRY)  Aimia said Feb. 27 that it had  profit  of C$166.7 million
last year, compared with a net loss of C$77 million in 2011.  Aimia today won a case in the U.K.’s top court to recover
taxes on payments to companies that accept Nectar points as
currency, ending a decade-long battle with U.K. tax  collectors. (MLCOL) 
Aimia sought to recover value-added tax from fees to suppliers
that took rewards points from customers.  Aimia shares rose 1.4 percent to C$15.20 at 4:15 p.m.
trading in Toronto. Canadian Imperial fell 1.2 to C$82.25.  CIBC  shares  have risen 8.4 percent in the past year,
outperforming the 6 percent return of the eight-bank S&P/TSX
Commercial Banks Industry Index. Kevin Dove, a CIBC spokesman,
declined further comment on talks with Aimia.  Aimia, which also has a pact with  American Express Co. (AXP) , is
already approaching other banks, according to Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Duchesne.  ‘Extended Process’  “To ensure that we’re maximizing the significant value of
our premium Aeroplan brand and program, we have extended the
process to include a selected number of other major Canadian
financial institutions in addition to  CIBC,” (CM)  Duchesne said
during Aimia’s Feb. 28 earnings call with analysts.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  may be the likeliest lender to be
interested in becoming an Aeroplan partner, according to Wong.
 National Bank of Canada  may also be interested, though it would
be less lucrative than a CIBC contract because the Montreal-
based lender has a smaller market share for cards.  Aimia may be approaching Toronto-Dominion and  Royal Bank of
Canada , BMO Capital Markets said, though an agreement would be
less important to those banks as they already offer competing
travel rewards programs with more flexibility than Aeroplan.
Spokesmen for all three of the banks declined to comment.  “During this process we have confirmed that we have
options that would be attractive to Aimia and our
shareholders,” JoAnne Hayes, an Aimia spokeswoman, said while
declining further comment beyond Duchesne’s statements.  ‘No Assurance’  David Williamson, CIBC group head of retail and business
banking, said in a Feb. 28 earnings call there’s “no
assurance” the Aeroplan agreement will be extended so the
lender is “exploring alternatives.”  Aerogold represents half of CIBC’s credit card business, or
about 7 percent to 8 percent of total earnings, and is a “key
differentiated premium product for CIBC in a crowded premium
credit card market,” according to BMO Capital Markets.  CIBC earns about C$540 million from its credit card
operations, including Aerogold, or roughly C$1.35 a share of
estimated 2014 cash earnings, BMO Capital Markets analysts said.
The loss from non-renewal could approach C$168 million,
representing 4.8 percent of total annual earnings.  “We suspect CIBC is trying to play hardball with Aimia in
the upcoming negotiations,” Veritas’ Wong said. “This is a
material contract for Aimia.”  Lower Rate  Canadian Imperial introduced an Aventura Gold Visa in 2003,
offering lifestyle and travel rewards with purchases. The bank
currently offers two Aventura  MasterCard (MA)  cards and two Aventura
Visa cards.  Canadian Imperial had an average balance of C$15 billion
from credit cards as of Jan. 31, its lowest in two years and
down from C$15.9 billion two years ago, according to CIBC
financial statements. CIBC earned C$156 million from card fees
in the first quarter, representing about 5 percent of the
lender’s revenue.  CIBC is Canada’s second-biggest credit-card issuer,
following Toronto-Dominion, based on total outstanding balances,
according to the March 2012 issue of  The Nilson Report , a
credit-card industry publication. CIBC was the largest issuer of
 Visa Inc. (V)  cards based on outstanding balances, the report said,
though Royal Bank had the most Visa total volume, purchase
volume and purchase transactions.  A loss of the Aeroplan partnership may create other
opportunities for Canadian Imperial, according to Alfred DuPuy,
a managing director at Interbrand, a London-based brand
consultancy.  “CIBC has relied on Aeroplan for a long period of time to
help build their database and help build their customers,”
DuPuy said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “Although in
the short term it might hurt them, it actually might present
them with a pretty interesting opportunity to do something
bigger and badder and rather innovative that nobody else is
doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  