-- Citigroup Can Omit Shareholder Split Proposal, SEC Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-03-13T20:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/citigroup-can-omit-shareholder-split-proposal-sec-says.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, can omit from its annual meeting a question
for shareholders that would require the lender to explore
breaking up, the Securities and Exchange Commission said.  The SEC’s Office of Chief Counsel agreed with Citigroup
that the proposal, submitted by Trillium Asset Management LLC,
was vague enough that shareholders wouldn’t know what actions it
required, according to an SEC letter to the bank dated March 12.  Some investors and analysts have questioned whether the
largest banks would be worth more if broken up into smaller
businesses. Citigroup trades at a discount to tangible book
value, a measure of the firm’s liquidation value.  “We were surprised and disappointed, but we hope to
continue the conversation about the best way for Citi to unlock
value for its shareholders,” said Seth Magaziner, a bank
analyst at Boston-based Trillium.  The proposal called for a committee to explore
“extraordinary transactions” that would increase  shareholder
value , even those that separated the bank’s businesses.  “I am just flabbergasted the SEC would not even allow this
proposal on its ballot,”  Michael Mayo , an analyst at CLSA Ltd.,
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch
Money” with Stephanie Ruhle and  Adam Johnson . “This is not a
good move for shareholder rights.”  Selling Assets  Citigroup has already sold more than 60 businesses and cut
assets in its Citi Holdings division, which houses unwanted
units and securities, by more than $600 billion,  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said in a statement.  “Today Citi is a simpler, safer and stronger institution
that has returned to the basics of institutional and consumer
banking,” Bell said. “Citi’s management, along with its board
of directors, is committed to regularly reviewing its strategic
alternatives for maximizing shareholder value.”  Dow Jones Newswires reported the contents of the SEC letter
earlier today.  The SEC said last week that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
sixth-largest U.S. bank, couldn’t omit a shareholder proposal
calling for an independent chairman of its board of directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  