-- Colombia Dumps Euros and Yen Reserves for 99% Anglophone Debt
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-03-13T18:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/colombia-dumps-euros-and-yen-reserves-for-99-anglophone-debt.html
Colombia joined Brazil in cutting
its international reserves in the crisis-hit euro area in favor
of higher-yielding debt in  Canada  and  Australia .  The Andean nation now holds 99 percent of its $39 billion
in international reserves in the currencies of English-speaking
nations, after selling its euro and yen assets and buying
Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, as well as
sterling, the central bank said today in a report published on
its website.  It is currently “very difficult” to find attractive
yields on euro assets that are rated AAA, central bank co-
director Juan Pablo Zarate said today in a phone interview. “If
interest rates go up again and  Germany  has positive yields,
we’ll probably go back to investing in German debt.”  Colombia has boosted its international reserves by 17
percent over the last year, as the central bank stepped up
dollar purchases to try to curb a rally in the peso. Fitch
Ratings cited the nation’s rising reserve levels when it
increased its outlook on its BBB- rating on Colombia’s foreign
debt to positive from stable last week.  Colombia also wants to hold reserve currencies that move in
correlation with those of its trading partners, Zarate said.  “Our aim is to replicate the foreign exchange composition
of the import side of the balance of payments,” Zarate said.  Colombia held 87.7 percent of its reserves in U.S. dollars
on Dec. 31, up from 85.6 percent two years earlier. The country
held 5 percent of its reserves in Canadian dollars, 3.8 percent
in Australian dollars, 1.9 percent in sterling, and 1 percent in
New Zealand dollars, the central bank said. The country also
held 0.9 percent in Swedish krona and 0.3 percent in other
currencies.  On Dec. 31 2010, Colombia held 11.3 of its reserves in
euros, 2.8 percent in yen and 0.3 percent in other currencies  The Brazilian central bank has also cut its Euro holdings
in recent years while increasing its holdings of Australian and
Canadian dollars in recent years, citing these countries’
“solid fundamentals” and “comfortable” fiscal positions.
 Brazil  held 4.9 percent of its reserves in euros at the end of
2011, from 9.4 percent in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  