-- Commerzbank Seeks $3.3 Billion in Capital Increase
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-03-13T15:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/commerzbank-to-raise-capital-by-2-5-billion-euros-in-shar.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-
biggest bank, said it will sell 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion)
of shares to repay the government and insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)  The
company slumped the most since November 2011.  Shareholders will be asked to approve a reverse share split
on April 19 that will reduce the number of shares to 583 million
from 5.83 billion, the Frankfurt-based bank said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Commerzbank, which is 25 percent government-owned after
receiving an 18.2 billion-euro bailout in 2009, is selling the
shares as it seeks to strengthen capital, restructure its
consumer banking unit and close loss-making shipping and real
estate arms. It used the 5.3 billion euros it raised in a
previous stock offering in June 2011 to repay government aid.  “The plan will dilute earnings per share by about 15
percent, so that’s quite something to swallow for investors,”
 Ronny Rehn , an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in
London who recommends investors sell the stock, said by
telephone. “We’d have expected this to come later in the year
when the bank would have a better story to tell after
progressing on their overhaul.”  Commerzbank slid as much as 14 percent in Frankfurt. It
declined 11 percent to 1.25 euros at 3:57 p.m., valuing the
company at 7.3 billion euros.  Earnings Retention  Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
agreed to underwrite the capital increase. They will buy the
shares at a minimum of 1.1 euros apiece should Commerzbank fail
to sell the whole amount planned, the company said.  “Perhaps they see something on their books that they
believe could get worse in a year,”  Dirk Becker , an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt who has a buy recommendation
on the stock, said by telephone. “They cannot be very
optimistic about their own earnings retention capacity. The plan
was to increase  capital ratios  via retained earnings over
time.”  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , 49, said he will
use the capital to pay back a remaining 1.6 billion euros of so-
called silent participations, a form of non-voting capital, that
the bank owes the government and 750 million euros it owes
Allianz. The government’s equity stake will fall to less than 20
percent under the plan, he said.  “The state is beginning its exit while preserving value
with this repayment,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement
from Berlin. “The company is improving its  capital structure 
significantly. That’s an important step to win new investors.”  Credit Rating  Commerzbank will also use the cash to increase its core
Tier 1 ratio to 8.6 percent under full Basel III capital rules
from 7.6 percent, Blessing said.  “Their portfolio’s credit quality is weak, with ship
finance and commercial real estate generating losses,” said
 Christian Hamann , an analyst with  Hamburger Sparkasse  who
recommends investors sell the stock. “Their capital was low
compared to peers and while the losses wouldn’t take them below
the regulatory threshold, they still need to finance themselves
on capital markets and don’t want to risk losing their credit
rating.”  Standard & Poor’s cut its outlook on Commerzbank to
negative last month, saying it will review the company’s rating
of A once it receives more details about its business and risk
plans. Commerzbank’s restructuring process is “more complex and
more time-consuming” than previously assumed, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  