-- Corvex Group Boosts Stake in CommonWealth Property Trust
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 2013-03-13T21:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/corvex-group-boosts-stake-in-commonwealth-property-trust.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ’s largest
 investors , Corvex Management LP and Related Cos., are seeking to
remove its board after unsuccessfully challenging a stock
offering by the real estate investment trust earlier this month.  Keith Meister’s Corvex and Related, led by Chief Executive
Officer Jeff Blau, filed documents with the Securities and
Exchange Commission asking shareholders to consent to the
board’s removal, the companies said today in a statement. They
hired Deutsche Bank AG as their adviser and intend to work with
the lender on any financing required for their effort.  A “misalignment of incentives” between the Newton,
Massachusetts-based REIT and its external management has driven
down the value of the stock, the New York-based investors said
in a Feb. 26 letter to the board. They sued to stop an offering
of 34.5 million shares that was completed last week because of
the dilution it would cause. The two companies, which disclosed
their investment last month, own a stake of about 8.6 percent,
according to a regulatory filing today.  To fend off Corvex and Related, CommonWealth changed its
bylaws on March 1 to make it harder for an investor to replace
 board  members. A shareholder or group of investors must own 3
percent of the company for at least three years before taking
action to remove a trustee, according to a regulatory filing.  Two-Thirds  CommonWealth’s charter permits holders of two-thirds of the
outstanding shares to remove trustees by written consent, Corvex
and Related said in the statement. The board would then have to
call a special  shareholders’ meeting  to elect its successors.  “In our view and that of our lawyers, any bylaw amendment
that tries to make an end-run around this clear right is simply
unenforceable,” Meister and Blau said in today’s statement.
“We are confident that ultimately they cannot get around the
simple fact that CWH’s charter gives all shareholders the
ability to remove the board by means of written consent with a
two-thirds vote.”  Corvex and Related are arranging financing because removing
the board would constitute a “change of control” and trigger a
default under CommonWealth’s credit agreement, according to a
regulatory filing today.  The investors gained an ally today when Perry Corp., a New
York-based hedge-fund firm run by  Richard Perry , disclosed a 6.5
million-share, or 5.5 percent, stake in CommonWealth, according
to a regulatory filing. Perry supports the views of Corvex and
Related and said “proper corporate governance is critical to
unlocking the inherent value” of CommonWealth’s assets.  Management Company  CommonWealth gained 1.2 percent to $22 today. The company,
in a statement, urged shareholders to take no action and said
its board will evaluate the filings.  CommonWealth’s five-member board of trustees includes
President Adam Portnoy and his father, Barry Portnoy, a company
founder. They also own Reit Management & Research LLC, or RMR,
the external management company for the REIT.  CommonWealth last week sold 34.5 million shares at $19
each, resulting in net proceeds of about $628 million, after a
judge rejected the bid by Corvex and Related to stop the
offering. The investors estimate the company’s real estate
assets are worth about $40 a share.  Corvex and Related cited the equity offering in today’s
filing as an example of a board policy that reduces value for
shareholders by diluting their holdings. They also claimed that
the board buys properties at a high valuation to maximize
management fees for RMR.  ‘Egregiously Bad’  John Guinee, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, expects the investors to ultimately be successful
because of a “one, two, three punch” of legal action, the
consent solicitation and a potential fully financed offer to buy
the company in the low $20-per-share range.  “This is a slow process,” Guinee said in a telephone
interview. Corvex and Related will win because “the RMR
management is just so egregiously bad.”  Meister, a onetime  Carl Icahn  protege, has been active in
pressuring companies to make moves that increase value for
stockholders. In August, he disclosed a stake in food producer
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. and three months later the company agreed
to sell itself to rival  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  Related, whose
chairman is billionaire Stephen Ross, is the developer of
properties including  New York ’s Time Warner Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  