-- Cosco Said to Mull Selling Up to $4.3 Billion of Assets
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-03-13T11:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/cosco-said-to-mull-selling-up-to-4-3-billion-of-assets.html
China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the
nation’s biggest shipping company, may raise as much as 27
billion  yuan  ($4.3 billion) selling assets to its parent, said
two people familiar with the matter.  China Cosco said this week that it plans to sell Cosco
Logistics (Group) Co. to state-backed parent company China Ocean
Shipping (Group) Co. The unit may be valued at about 7 billion
yuan, the people said, asking not to be identified because the
information is private. The company also is considering selling
other assets to China Ocean to raise as much as an additional 20
billion yuan, the people said. The final amount China Cosco will
seek hasn’t been decided and the plan may change, they said.  Shares in China Cosco fell after the logistics sale was
announced, on concern that divesting the profitable unit would
undermine earnings over the longer term. Tianjin-based China
Cosco faces possible restrictions on its Shanghai-traded shares
after warning of a “significant”  loss for 2012 , amid falling
freight rates and rising fuel costs. Gains from asset sales may
help China Cosco avoid a third straight annual loss.  “It’s not a good time to sell shipping assets because the
value of such assets are difficult to determine right now given
the industry environment,” said Davin Chunpong Wu, a
transportation analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong.
“China Cosco’s objective is obviously to return to profit this
year.”  Four calls to the media office of China Ocean, which owns
52 percent of China Cosco, went unanswered today. China Cosco
doesn’t have any information that needs to be disclosed at
present, the company said in an e-mail reply to Bloomberg News.  Reaping Gains  Led by Chairman Wei Jiafu,  China Cosco (601919)  plans to sell its
logistics unit to the parent, it said in a March 11 stock
exchange filing without disclosing details. The unit posted an
operating profit of 388 million yuan in the first six months of
2012, compared with a 1.3 billion-yuan loss at its main
container shipping division and a loss of 3.4 billion yuan from
the dry-bulk fleet, according to a company statement.  The shipping company said it will use gains from the
logistics unit sale to boost operating results in 2013 and
reduce the risk of its stock being suspended from trading in
Shanghai. Analysts at Citigroup Inc. yesterday estimated that
the division may fetch 6.4 billion yuan to 9.1 billion yuan,
resulting in a gain of as much as 4.6 billion yuan.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , the container terminal unit of China
Cosco, slumped 4.7 percent, the most since Nov. 5, to HK$11.66
at the close in Hong Kong trading.  Share Swoon  China Cosco’s main business units include container and
dry-bulk shipping, logistics, terminal operations and container
making business.  China Cosco could also sell assets including its stake in
box maker China International Marine Containers Group Co.,
Citigroup said.  China Cosco last had an annual profit in 2010. According to
Shanghai stock exchange rules, companies that post two straight
annual losses can be subject to a “special treatment”
designation that cuts the daily trading limit for gains or
losses to 5 percent from 10 percent. A third consecutive annual
loss may result in shares being  delisted .  Shares in China Cosco fell 0.7 percent to HK$4.05 in Hong
Kong, extending their decline this week to 7.5 percent and
valuing the company at HK$49.4 billion ($6.4 billion). The stock
dropped 1.9 percent in  Shanghai , where it is down about 94
percent since peaking in 2007.  The company’s  cash and equivalents  shrank to 40.8 billion
yuan at the end of June, from 47 billion yuan six months
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Cosco, which has yet to report 2012 results, probably
posted a loss of 7.1 billion yuan last year, based on the
average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The shipper is
contending with higher fuel costs and slumping freight rates
because of worldwide overcapacity.  The company said yesterday it doesn’t believe now is a good
time to sell the dry-bulk unit, citing a weak market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  