-- Cuadrilla Delays Shale Gas Testing at U.K. Site Until Next Year
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-03-13T12:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/cuadrilla-delays-shale-gas-testing-at-u-k-site-until-next-year.html
Cuadrilla Resources Ltd., the
driller leading efforts to develop U.K. shale fields, delayed
testing at a site in northwest  England  until 2014 to undertake
an environmental assessment.  From now on, Cuadrilla will complete a full environmental
impact assessment at every site where it wants to drill, the
Lichfield, England-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. The driller said in January it planned to fracture
and test a well at  Anna’s Road  near Blackpool this year.  “We recognize that within the complex U.K. regulatory
framework governing planning this process can prove lengthy,”
it said in the statement. “We are determined to spare no effort
in meeting our exploration targets in an environmentally and
socially sustainable manner.”  The delay is a potential setback for the development of
shale production in the U.K. after the government lifted a
moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, in
December. Cuadrilla, part-owned by private equity firm
Riverstone Holdings LLC, says its licenses hold as much 200
trillion cubic feet of gas, more than  Iraq ’s total reserves.
Fracking was halted in the U.K. after Cuadrilla started earth
tremors in 2011.  Cuadrilla will continue exploratory testing at its Banks
site in Lancashire this year, the company said. It plans to add
temporary exploration sites this year and next to assess flow
rates from the shale, according to today’s statement.  Cuadrilla is in advanced talks to sell a stake,  AJ Lucas
Group Ltd. (AJL)  of Australia, its other shareholder, said last month.
Total SA and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  may invest in shale gas in
the U.K., company executives have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  