-- Daewoo Shipbuilding to Construct Jackup Rigs to Challenge Keppel
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-03-13T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/daewoo-shipbuilding-to-construct-jackup-rigs-to-challenge-keppel.html
Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. (042660) , the world’s second-largest shipbuilder, is
bidding to build  jackup rigs  for the first time in three decades
to tap more orders from offshore oil discoveries.  Demand for bigger, more sophisticated rigs that can work
under harsher conditions is increasing in the  North Sea  and
other regions, Lee Jae Ha, chief marketing officer at the Seoul-
based company, said in an interview. Each unit could be worth as
much as $600 million, he said.  Oil discoveries, including in the North Sea, have boosted
spending by companies for exploration and production. Daewoo is
making a comeback since its last delivery in 1983 into a segment
that has been dominated by  Keppel Corp. (KEP)  and  Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM)   “We expect demand for these high-specification heavy-duty
rigs to increase this year,” Lee said on March 12. “We have a
lot of experience building complex drilling units and that will
give us a competitive edge over the Singapore yards.”  Keppel and Sembcorp Marine have a combined 70 percent share
of the global market for jackup rigs, which are used in shallow
waters with extendable legs that allow them to stand on the
ocean floor.  Statoil ASA (STL) , which accounts for about 80 percent of
 Norway ’s oil and gas output, said in February that it will use a
floating storage unit and a jackup rig for the first four to
five years for its Mariner project.  Daewoo fell 1.8 percent to 29,550 won in  Seoul  yesterday.
The stock has climbed 8.8 percent this year, compared with a 0.1
percent gain in the benchmark Kospi index.  Offshore Demand  The shipbuilder also expects more demand for other offshore
products this year as economic growth and depleting reserves in
existing fields increase the need to develop new wells in deeper
and harsher areas.  Daewoo has $2.7 billion of orders this year, both from
Statoil, for two fixed platforms. It also won a similar contract
from the Norwegian company in December.  The shipbuilder is targeting $13 billion of new contracts
this year, with almost 70 percent for offshore products.  “Daewoo Shipbuilding is trying to widen the scope of
offshore products,” said Lee Jae Won, an analyst at Tong Yang
Securities Inc. in Seoul, who recommends investors  buy  the
stock. “They wouldn’t go into this if they think they will  lose
money . They’re moving into the high-end of the jackup market,
not the low end.”  The company may get an order with its partner for a $4
billion onshore oil production plant in the  Middle East , Lee
said, without elaborating. The winner will be selected before
the end of May, he said.  Daewoo is the world’s second-biggest shipbuilder by orders,
according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  