-- Dead Economists Debate Bang for the Buck from Spending
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-03-13T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/debating-the-government-s-bang-for-its-buck.html
Economists talk about the negative
impact from the $85 billion of automatic spending cuts with such
authority, you would think these forecasts were written in
stone.  Hardly. These are projections spit out by econometric
models that are pre-programmed with a specific  multiplier : a
number that reflects the effect of a $1 change in  government
spending  or taxes on gross domestic product.  For example, a $1 increase in the  government’s purchases  of
goods and services, one component of GDP, translates immediately
to $1 of output. Then what? That spending becomes someone else’s
income. The hope is that entity will spend or invest a portion
of it. The multiplier attempts to capture to what extent that
initial dollar boosts private-sector growth. If the estimate of
the multiplier is wrong, then the projection for the effect of
any given policy is wrong. Long-dead economists are still
 debating the issue .  John  Maynard Keynes  said that in a depressed economy, the
federal government could and should use deficit spending to
boost aggregate demand in the short run. To achieve a benefit,
the multiplier only had to be greater than zero. (In other
words, government spending couldn’t depress private spending and
investment.)  Milton Friedman  believed monetary policy could do
the job without creating market distortions. He said the
negative effects of financing deficit spending outweighed the
positives.  Friedrich Hayek  was a fan of neither form of
intervention.  Multiply This  Given the diametrically opposed views on the impact of
government spending, what should we expect from the $42 billion
in  actual cash disbursements  in fiscal 2013? (The nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office  says only half of the $85 billion
sequestration will be implemented between March and September.)
The CBO estimates the cuts will  reduce the growth  of real GDP by
0.6 percentage point in this calendar year and depress full-time
 job creation  by 750,000. The CBO’s 1.4 percent real GDP forecast
reflects a 1.5 percentage-point hit from the various changes in
tax-and-spend policy that went into effect this year.  When the CBO examined the effects of various parts of the
American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, the $830 billion fiscal
stimulus enacted in 2009, it found the  multiplier was about one :
$1 of federal outlays bought $1 of GDP. Or, to put it in
layman’s terms, there was nothing beyond the first-round effect.  Which shouldn’t be a big surprise. The nature of a balance-
sheet recession and its residual of bad debt made deleveraging,
not spending, a top priority for households and institutions.
The multiplier can be affected by the level of  interest rates ,
the kind of exchange-rate regime a country maintains, the degree
of unutilized resources, and the amount of stimulus that was
already put in place, according to economists Veronique de Rugy
and Matthew Mitchell, senior research fellows at the  Mercatus
Center  at  George Mason University  in Arlington, Virginia.  In a 2011  working paper , de Rugy and Mitchell surveyed the
academic literature and found a wide range of estimates for the
spending multiplier: from +3.7 to -2.9. They also found that
high levels of debt depressed the multiplier in various
countries.  The CBO is the first to admit that predicting the effect of
any given policy is an inexact science that “would require
knowing what path the economy would have taken in the absence of
a given policy action,” analysts Felix Reichling and Charles
Whalen wrote in a May 2012  working paper .  No wonder “ceteris paribus” -- all other things equal --
is such a popular phrase among economists. And such a fallback
when it comes to predictions.  Ceteris Paribus  All things are never equal, can never be equal, will never
be equal. An economy has lots of moving parts. At any given
time, it is buffeted by natural disasters and man-made
obstacles, such as new rules and regulations. There is no known
equation for the unknown.  What if, contrary to expectations, businesses snub their
noses at  Washington ’s dysfunction and carry on in spite of it?
Solid fourth-quarter  business investment  in equipment and
software belied all the surveys touting uncertainty over the
fiscal cliff as a reason for companies to sit on their hands.  What if firms are  hiring , not because they want to but
because they have to? After slashing payrolls during and after
the recession, companies are finding they need more employees to
meet demand for goods and services.  And what if consumers, who didn’t seem to alter their
behavior much in response to the temporary payroll-tax cut -- as
predicted by economic theory -- are equally  unruffled  by its
reinstatement?  Not to worry. The politicians and media will fill in the
blanks. No sooner did the Labor Department report a bigger-than-
expected increase of 236,000 in February non-farm employment
than the instant-analyzers put the gain in context for the rest
of us: It would have been a lot better without the specter of
automatic cuts.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  