-- Dell to Open Investor List to Southeastern Amid LBO Dispute
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-03-13T21:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/dell-to-open-list-to-southeastern-amid-opposition-to-buyout-1-.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  agreed to provide
investor information to Southeastern Asset Management Inc., its
largest outside shareholder and one of the most vocal opponents
of a planned $24.4 billion buyout.  Acting on behalf of its $7.7 billion  Longleaf Partners
Fund (LLPFX) , Southeastern sought access last week to a list of
investors to discuss the deal. Dell will make the information
available, pending a confidentiality agreement, according to a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The fund joins billionaire  Carl Icahn  in inspecting
confidential Dell information, seeking to step up pressure on
the company to find an alternative to a proposed buyout by
founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC.
Southeastern and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., the second-biggest
outside shareholder, say Dell is undervalued by the $13.65-a-
share agreement to be taken private.  The board is seeking bids under a so-called go-shop period
that lasts through March 22, and the deal requires approval from
a majority of shareholders excluding CEO Dell.  Dell fell less than 1 percent to $14.30 at the close in New
York, leaving them 4.8 percent higher than the offer price.  The computer maker denied a request for financial
information from Cavan Partners LP that was sent on the
letterhead of the Shareholder Forum, Dell said in the filing.  Proxy Statement  David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell,
said that the company isn’t required to comply with the request
for all communication between advisers and the company or a
committee of its board. Dell plans to disclose more information
about its financial performance and projections, as well as
efforts to find a buyer, by the end of March.  “It surprised me that they seemed to object to what people
would consider the obvious logic of investors having access to
the same information that insiders used to make a proposal,”
Gary Lutin, who filed the request for information and is
chairman of the Shareholder Forum, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “We actually deliberately specified the information
requirements to be exactly the same as what they provided to
their own valuation experts.”  The Shareholder Forum acts as an independent moderator and
doesn’t own Dell securities, Lutin said. Dell shareholder Cavan
Partners, a hedge fund, gave the Shareholder Forum authority to
write the letter.  Lutin responded to the issues raised by Dell as grounds for
its refusal, and reiterated the Shareholder Forum’s request for
information today.  Independent Decisions  “What concerns us is the need for each of Dell’s
stockholders to make its own independent decisions about its own
individual interest, and that is not something that board
members can or should be doing for them,” Lutin wrote in a
 letter  to Dell posted on the group’s website.  Icahn has amassed a stake in Dell and is pushing the
company to pay a $9 a share special dividend.  The buyers could boost the offer to $15 a share and still
pay the cheapest multiple among large technology buyouts. At
least five analysts see the buyout group increasing the bid to
as much as $14.90 to $15 a share. At $15, Dell still would be
going private at about 5.4 times profit, the lowest multiple for
a technology buyout larger than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  