-- DeLong Says Not Time to Cut U.S. Budget With Free Lunch
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/delong-says-not-time-to-cut-u-s-budget-with-free-lunch.html
Just as lawmakers force as much as
$85 billion of budget cuts on the federal government, economists
Bradford DeLong and Lawrence Summers have a message for
 Washington : Now is the perfect time to spend more, not less.  Their advice is based on new research suggesting that,
because of today’s rare economic circumstances, increased
spending could be unusually potent in reviving growth. A  study 
by former Treasury Secretary Summers and DeLong, a University of
California at Berkeley economist, concluded stimulus now could
generate so much growth that it would pay for itself.  The risk in the current focus on deficit reduction, say
exponents of more stimulus, is not only that Congress squanders
the chance to borrow at record-low costs to bolster the economy
and make lasting investments for the future. There is also the
danger that the same forces that magnify the strength of 
stimulus also make austerity particularly harmful, with as much 
as $1.2 trillion in federal spending cuts on the line, according 
to Martin Eichenbaum, an economics professor at Northwestern
University in Evanston,  Illinois .  “Look around at the infrastructure we have, the schools we
have, all the things we desperately need to do,” said
Eichenbaum. He has  found  that the economy is as much as three
times more sensitive to changes in government spending when
central banks are keeping interest rates near zero, as the
Federal Reserve is doing now. “Why aren’t we fixing that now
when it’s going to be a win-win? There are so many obvious
things to do and this is a good time to do them.”  Fiscal Multiplier  Key to the debate is rethinking a number called the fiscal
multiplier, a gauge of how much growth can be generated for each
dollar spent by the government. DeLong and Summers argue that,
with short-term interest rates near zero, the multiplier right
now is at its most powerful.  “We need more government spending right now, not less,”
DeLong, 52, an economics professor at the University of
California at Berkeley, wrote on his blog in January, reprising
his research with Summers as the automatic budget cuts known as
sequestration loomed.  They argue that expenditures that are going to be needed
anyway, such as renovating New York’s Kennedy Airport, might as
well be done now when the government can borrow cheaply. While
more spending would expand the deficit in the short run, the
investments could bolster the economy’s capacity to grow and
bring lower deficits in the long run, Summers and DeLong say.  The economists’ message has so far had no influence on the
debate in Washington, where lawmakers clash in standoff after
standoff over how to reduce, not expand, the  federal budget .  Spending cuts of as much as $85 billion for this fiscal
year started on March 1 after Congress and Obama failed to agree
on a deal to postpone the reductions or come up with a like
amount of deficit reduction.  Significant Headwind  Last month, lawmakers dismissed Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s warning to Congress that such short-term budget
contractions “could create a significant headwind for the
economic recovery.”  Congress would have “zero” credibility if lawmakers
tried to “somehow postpone” the budget cuts and promise to
implement them later, Republican Senator Patrick Toomey of
 Pennsylvania  told Bernanke during the Fed chairman’s Feb. 26
 testimony  before the Senate Banking Committee. “Our economy
would respond in a very adverse way, because it would see that
we have absolutely no willingness, no political ability to begin
even the slightest imposition of fiscal discipline.”  Investors haven’t signaled a call for stimulus either. The
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  has climbed 8.9 percent this year.
The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the currency against six of
America’s biggest trading partners, is near a seven-month high.  DeLong’s Blog  That hasn’t deterred DeLong, who has used his economics
 blog  as well as his daily 100 tweets and retweets to deride
those he calls “austerians.”  The budget cuts represent “Congress hitting the economy on
the head with a brick,” DeLong said in an interview with Pimm
Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock” on Feb. 28. “We
had a recovery -- not a great recovery -- going. Now we’re
putting it at risk.”  Summers, who advocated fiscal discipline as an official in
the Clinton administration, has produced a series of newspaper
opinion articles denouncing the current U.S. “obsession” with
deficit-cutting. He has taken his message for government
investment to members of Congress and, in January, to business
leaders and policy makers at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland.  Supply-Side Counterpart  DeLong and Summers represent a school of economic thought
that might be viewed as the liberal counterpart to conservative
supply-side theories about tax cuts generating enough growth to
pay for themselves.  Until recently, few studies suggested the government got
much bang for its taxpayer’s buck.  In a normal economy, the boost to growth would lead to
faster inflation, prompting the central bank to raise interest
rates. That would at least partially offset the benefits of
stimulus, the theory went.  “The net effect didn’t seem that big,” said Eichenbaum.
“The consensus of the profession was very much that fiscal
policy was not the way to go.”  Yet the deepest  recession  since the Great Depression left
the U.S. in unfamiliar territory, with a frustratingly slow
recovery and a Fed unable to lower its  benchmark interest rate 
any further. Turning to ideas economist John Maynard Keynes
published in the 1930s, economists went back to their computer
models and historical data. Their question: what happens when
the Fed refrains from tightening in response to a boosted
economy?  Research Explosion  A burst of studies followed, from Berkeley to Northwestern
to the Fed. The papers found that in depressed economies, each
$1 increase in government spending can generate as much as $2 or
$3 in additional economic growth. That compares with little
boost in normal times.  A minority of economists including Nobel laureate Paul Krugman had been arguing for years of this possibility. Krugman
repeatedly argued that the economy needed a bigger jolt as
Obama, advised by Summers, was putting together a spending
proposal in early 2009, and has continued to be one of the most
vocal critics of fiscal cuts today.  Fed economists Christopher Erceg and Jesper Linde  found 
that when a central bank is stuck with interest rates at zero
for much beyond two years, increased government spending leads
to so much growth that public debt actually falls.  Summers and DeLong, who have been co-authoring papers since
the 1980s and worked together at the Treasury Department under
President Bill Clinton, got together to further expand on the
possibility of a fiscal free lunch.  Economic Lift  As long as the Treasury’s inflation-adjusted borrowing
costs don’t exceed historic levels, the economic lift from the
stimulus could lead to higher tax  revenue  and cover the costs of
servicing that debt, they showed in a paper presented at the
Brookings Institution in March 2012.  The  real yield  for 10-year Treasuries after inflation was
at negative 0.5 percent on March 12.  “If fiscal expansion is self-financing, there are no
costs, only benefits,” the two wrote in their paper. Fiscal
policy “has a major role to play in a severe downturn in the
aftermath of a financial crisis that carries interest rates down
to the zero nominal lower bound,” the point where central
bankers run out of room to lower their policy rate any further.  Bernanke warned Congress last month that his monetary
stimulus can’t “carry the entire burden” of supporting the
expansion. He referred to  Congressional Budget Office  estimates
that fiscal tightening this year will probably reduce gross
domestic product by 1.5 percentage point. Such a drag on the
economy would result in “less actual deficit reduction in the
short run,” Bernanke said.  Still Controversial  To be sure, economists are far from consensus that the
conditions are right today -- or will ever be right -- for more
spending. Reflecting the still-controversial nature of the
debate, the CBO estimates the fiscal multiplier in today’s zero-
interest-rate environment may be as little as 0.5 or as much as
2.5.  Valerie Ramey, a professor at the University of California
at San Diego who reviewed DeLong’s and Summers’s work,  found 
that contrary to their assumptions, the U.S. economy isn’t any
more sensitive to government spending during periods of high
unemployment and low interest rates.  Others worry about boosting spending when government  debt 
is three-quarters the size of the economy, up from 36 percent in
2007.  Delayed Austerity  “The best path forward is a comprehensive fiscal deal
combining upfront stimulus with delayed but credible
austerity,” Peter Orszag, formerly Obama’s head of the Office
of Management and Budget, wrote in a Bloomberg View article
published Feb. 6. “Unemployment remains stubbornly high and our
fiscal outlook is problematic” and “two-month budget deals
address neither” of those concerns, he said.  And even those who see bigger multipliers at zero interest
rates acknowledge the practical difficulties of designing the
spending programs. For maximum impact, the stimulus must be
deployed before the economy improves enough for the central bank
to consider raising interest rates, according to  research  by
Michael Woodford, an economist at Columbia University in New
York, and Fed economists Erceg and Linde.  That urgency has spurred Summers and DeLong as they
continue to evangelize their work. At the beginning of the year,
Summers had one message for the World Economic Forum.  “This is a moment for broad renewal that corrects all the
deficits we have,” including poor infrastructure, rising health
care costs and educational inequalities, he said. If today “is
not the moment to do something about it, I don’t know when the
moment will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  