-- J&J’s Ekdahl Says Hip Recalled for Clinical Reasons
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-03-13T20:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/depuy-chief-questioned-over-records-calling-asr-defective.html
Andrew Ekdahl, president of  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy orthopedic products unit, told a Chicago jury
that the company recalled 93,000 hip implants in August 2010
because they weren’t meeting “clinical expectations.”  Ekdahl’s testimony came on the third day of a state court
trial in which Carol Strum, 54, claims her ASR XL hip was
defective. Strum, an Illinois nurse, had the all-metal device
implanted in 2008, and she had it replaced three years later in
a so-called revision surgery. Strum’s lawsuit is the second of
10,750 over the ASR hips to go to trial.  “The revision rate was not acceptable,” Ekdahl testified.
That was the reason for the recall, he said.  J&J recalled the ASR after saying 13 percent failed within
five years in the U.K., requiring revisions. Ekdahl was asked
about a DePuy document signed by top company officials days
before the recall. The document, from the Health Hazard/Risk
Evaluation Review Board, listed three possible explanations for
the recall. DePuy checked Class A for “defective product that
would affect product performance and/or could cause health
problems.”  In his opening statement on March 13, J&J attorney Richard
Sarver said the device was not defective.  ‘Many Factors’  “Many factors contribute to the overall revision rate so a
single root cause cannot be defined at this time,” Sarver said.
“We absolutely didn’t say the product is a defective product.
We said, ‘We don’t know. We need to figure this out.’”  To say the recall “is an admission of a defect, it is
absolutely absurd,” according to Sarver.  A Los Angeles jury last week found that the ASR was
defective and awarded $8.3 million to a Montana man in the first
hip-implant case to go to trial against DePuy, a unit of  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson. J&J is the
world’s largest seller of health-care products.  In his opening statement, Strum’s attorney Denman Heard
told jurors that the ASR design flaws caused it to shed chromium
and cobalt debris into surrounding tissue. Surgeons implanted a
metal cup in the hip and a metal ball, placed atop the femur,
rotated inside the cup. DePuy claimed its design would last
longer than other products.  “Before Carol Strum ever had the ASR put into her body,
DePuy knew that the design flaws in this defective device could
cause it to shed those particles into patients, causing tissue
death, causing high blood metal ion levels and the need for the
serious and unnecessary second surgery,” Heard said.  The case is Strum v. DePuy, 2011-L-9352, Circuit Court of
Cook County, Law Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  