-- Deutsche Bank Names Kuwahara Replacing Hatt as Japan Head
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-03-13T08:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/deutsche-bank-names-kuwahara-replacing-hatt-as-japan-head.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  named Makoto Kuwahara as its  Japan  head to replace David Hatt, who is leaving
the German lender, according to a company memo obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Kuwahara, 40, will start as chief country officer on April
1 and will become president of Tokyo-based Deutsche Securities
Inc., according to the document. Hatt, 50, led Deutsche Bank’s
operations in the country for six years and leaves the franchise
in a strong position, the memo said.  Deutsche Bank is among foreign firms that have been
reducing payrolls in Japan as part of worldwide cuts amid
stricter global regulations. At the same time, the Frankfurt-
based firm has worked on cross-border takeovers such as  Softbank
Corp. (9984) ’s agreement to buy  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for $20 billion,
Japan’s largest deal last year.  Kuwahara, who joined Deutsche Bank in 1997, has held
various senior management roles in Japan, including for global
rates and credit businesses, the memo shows. He became head of
markets in 2010. Kuwahara graduated from the  University of Tokyo 
in 1995, according to the document.  Takayuki Inoue, a Tokyo-based spokesman, declined to
comment on the contents of the memo. Hatt wasn’t immediately
available to answer a phone call to his office.  Deutsche Bank is overhauling operations and boosting
capital levels, the lowest among Europe’s biggest investment
banks, to meet stricter rules. The firm cut at least 20 jobs in
 Tokyo  in December in equities and investment banking, on top of
about 45 positions eliminated three months earlier, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  The German bank was ranked sixth among financial advisers
on mergers and acquisitions in Japan last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, helped by the Softbank deal. It was
10th among managers of share sales in Japan and 12th for
arranging debt issuances, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  