-- Dollar Falls From Three-Month High as Rally Fades; Aussie Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-03-14T21:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/dollar-is-near-3-month-high-versus-euro-on-u-s-recovery-signs.html
The dollar fell after touching its
strongest level versus the euro since December as European
leaders debate loosening the shackles on national budgets to
address economic weakness amid the region’s debt crisis.  The yen gained against the greenback after trading at
almost the weakest since August 2009 as the lower house of
parliament endorsed  Haruhiko Kuroda , an advocate of increased
stimulus, as the next central bank governor.  Australia ’s dollar
climbed to a one-month high after a report showed  payrolls  rose
to the highest in almost 13 years. The pound rose after this
week touching its weakest level since 2010.  “People have perhaps become a bit leery of selling the
euro and selling the pound at such low levels, and that perhaps
accounts for some of the snap back,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The Aussie dollar is benefiting from an
extremely strong employment report.”  The dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.3005 per euro at 5:07
p.m. in  New York , after touching the strongest level since Dec.
10. The greenback was little changed at 96.11 per yen, after
depreciating to 96.71 on March 12, the weakest level since
August 2009. The yen lost 0.3 percent to 124.99 per euro.  Pound Gains  The pound rallied 1.1 percent to 1.5083 per dollar. It
reached 1.4832 on March 12, the least since June 2010.  “There’s also been some pretty heavy interest in
sterling,” said Brad Bechtel, managing director at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut  said in a telephone
interview. “Given the force of the dollar selling, it’s really
sterling-dollar that’s leading the charge.”  Norway’s krone fell the most in three weeks against the
euro after central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a
statement that “the key policy rate may be kept low for longer
than previously anticipated.” The Norges Bank kept its
overnight deposit rate at 1.5 percent today, a decision that was
forecast by all 16 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The krone slumped 1.2 percent to 7.5339 per euro, posting
the biggest decline since March 14, 2012.  The rand gained for the first time in four days, rebounding
from a four-year low against the dollar, after manufacturing
growth beat analysts’ estimates and mining output unexpectedly
increased.  South Africa ’s currency strengthened 0.9 percent to 9.1748
per dollar.  Japan Policy  Japanese lawmakers in the lower house, which is dominated
by the ruling coalition, also approved Abe’s nominees Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso for the two deputy governor posts. The
upper house, where Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  lacks a
majority, is scheduled to vote tomorrow.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will be determined to get inflation
toward its 2 percent target and that “will undermine the yen,”
said Derek Mumford, a director at Rochford Capital, a currency
risk-management company in Sydney. “We can see dollar strength
for another three or four weeks -- I wouldn’t stand in front of
this decisive market.”  Australia’s dollar rose against most of its 16 of its major
counterparts as the statistics bureau said the number of people
 employed  rose by 71,500 in February from the previous month,
when it increased 13,100. That compared with a 10,000 increase
estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Aussie Strength  “It’s a very strong employment number, and somewhat
surprising given the challenges the Australian employment market
is facing,” said  Richard Grace , chief foreign-exchange
strategist and head of international economics at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia  in Sydney. “The market that was primarily
short the Australian dollar is now unwinding.”  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 7 percent chance the central bank will lower its benchmark
to 2.75 percent at its next meeting on April 2. That’s down from
19 percent odds yesterday.  The Aussie rose 0.8 percent to $1.0384, after climbing to
$1.0399, the strongest level since Feb. 6. The currency added
0.8 percent to 99.80 yen.  First-time U.S. jobless claims fell by 10,000 to 332,000 in
the week ended March 9, the fewest since mid-January, according
to data today from the Labor Department in  Washington . The
median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase to 350,000. The four-week average declined to a
five-year low.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.4 percent to 82.591, after rising to the
highest level since Aug. 3.  Economic Reading  “The data that we’ve seen recently has been really
surprising to the upside, and the  U.S. dollar  has been
responding positively to that,” said Eric Viloria, a senior
currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York  The gauge is forecast to decline to 81.6 by the end of
year, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  went into a European Union
summit today urging a stepped-up fight against youth
unemployment, now over 50 percent in Greece and  Spain , and
skipped the appeal to fiscal discipline that has been her
standard message throughout the debt crisis.  The euro zone’s continued economic slump has shoved aside
the financial crisis as the bloc’s biggest headache, leading the
EU to push back deficit-reduction deadlines and making it
perilous for politicians to wrap themselves in the flag of
austerity.  The euro has gained 1.5 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 3.1 percent and the yen lost 8
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  