-- Dollar Reaches 3-Month High Versus Euro; Kiwi Falls After RBNZ
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-03-13T21:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/dollar-rallies-as-retail-sales-top-forecasts-to-bolster-outlook.html
The dollar reached a three-month
high against the euro after a report showed U.S. retail sales in
February increased the most in five month, bolstering the
outlook for the world’s largest economy.  The 17-nation currency weakened as Italian borrowing costs
increased at a debt sale.  Japan ’s currency rose versus the
majority of its most-traded peers after the country’s largest
opposition party said it would vote against deputy governor
nominee Kikuo Iwata, who advocates more easing.  New Zealand ’s
dollar extended losses after the central bank kept the country’s
key interest rate at an all-time low. The South African rand
fell to its lowest level versus the dollar in almost four years.  “The broad-based dollar strength is being driven by the
positive numbers out of the U.S.,” Charles St-Arnaud, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York,
said in a phone interview. “You’re starting to see that
positive news in the U.S. is actually positive for the  U.S.
dollar , which hasn’t been the case in the past two years.”  The dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to $1.2961 against the
euro at 5 p.m. in New York, reaching the strongest level since
Dec. 10. It was little changed at 96.13 yen after earlier
falling as much as 0.7 percent. The euro declined 0.5 percent to
124.59 yen.  Peso Strength  New Zealand’s dollar declined against the dollar for a
second day after the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand kept  interest
rates  at a record low amid concern the nation’s worsening
drought will weigh on the economy. At the RBNZ’s last policy
meeting on Feb. 20, Wheeler said the central bank was prepared
to intervene to “smooth the peaks” in the “overvalued” kiwi.  The so-called kiwi decreased 1 percent to 81.84 U.S. cents.
The currency slipped 1 percent to 78.66 yen.  Mexico ’s peso rose the most among major emerging-market
currencies as the gain in U.S. retail sales boosted the outlook
for exports a day after  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on
the Latin American nation to positive. It climbed 0.1 percent to
12.4324 after reaching 12.3697, its highest level since
September 2011.  The Swedish krona declined the most against the greenback
in one month after Deputy Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak said the
currency’s appreciation hasn’t left the currency strong enough
to threaten the central bank’s inflation target. The krona
weakened 1.1 percent to 6.4269 per dollar.  Rand, Franc  The South African rand fell to its weakest level versus the
dollar since April 2009 after  retail sales  growth slowed in
January as job losses, high debt levels and inflation curbed
 consumer spending  in  Africa ’s biggest economy. The currency
depreciated 1 percent to 9.2614 per dollar.  Switzerland ’s franc gained for a third day against the euro
before the  Swiss National Bank ’s quarterly policy meeting
tomorrow. The SNB may consider measures to stem deflation and
boost growth,  Valentin Marinov , head of European Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London , wrote today in a
note to clients.  The franc was little changed at 1.2344 per euro after
posting its biggest gain since March 4.  Italy’s Debt  Italy sold 3.32 billion euros of a 2015 note at 2.48
percent, up from the 2.30 percent at the prior auction on Feb.
13. The Treasury sold 2 billion euros of securities maturing in
2028 at 4.90 percent versus with 4.805 percent when the bonds
were sold via banks on Jan. 15.  The 1.1 percent advance in U.S. retail sales exceeded all
projections in a Bloomberg survey and followed a revised 0.2
percent gain in January, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The median forecast was for a 0.5 percent
advance. Sales excluding the volatile categories of autos and
gasoline rose 0.4 percent.  “We only see definitive signs of recovery in the U.S. and
nowhere else,” Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro
Partners LLP, said at  Bloomberg Link ’s FX Debates in London.  The Your Party said today it will oppose Haruhiko Kuroda’s
nomination for BOJ governor and Hiroshi Nakaso for deputy, while
supporting Iwata. The Japan Restoration Party said it will
endorse Kuroda and Iwata and oppose Nakaso. The main opposition
 Democratic Party  of Japan said yesterday it opposed Iwata
because he advocates changing the central bank law to give the
government more control in setting policy.  Japan Politics  Current Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is due to step down
along with his two deputies on March 19. Iwata may be confirmed
without backing from the DPJ if Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can
secure the support of the smaller opposition parties.  Options traders turned bullish on the yen versus the dollar
yesterday for the first time since June 19, according to 25-
delta option risk reversal rates. Traders are paying a 0.14
percent premium for yen calls, or the right to buy the Japanese
currency versus its U.S. counterpart, relative to puts, which
allow for sales.  The yen has slumped 7.8 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 3.4 percent while
the euro added 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  