-- Dollar Rally on U.S. Growth Endorsed by Jen
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e ,   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-13T16:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/dollar-rally-on-u-s-growth-endorsed-by-jen.html
The dollar is likely to extend
gains as the U.S. economy outperforms its counterparts, moving
the Federal Reserve closer to ending its monetary stimulus, said
Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP.  “We only see definitive signs of recovery in the U.S. and
nowhere else,” Jen said at the  Bloomberg FX Debate  in London
today. “The dollar will perform quite well as risk capital is
attracted into the U.S. It’s very hard to short the dollar
now.” A short position is a bet an asset price will decline.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners, has climbed about 3.9 percent this year on signs of a
broadening economic recovery, after declining 0.5 percent in
2012. The currency is strengthening even as the Federal Reserve
buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt each month under
its so-called quantitative-easing plan designed to fuel growth.  BNP Paribas SA sees the dollar reversing its gains because
the central bank is likely to continue with its asset-purchase
plan through the end of next year, Michael Sneyd, a foreign-
exchange strategist at the bank, said at the conference.  “The rise we have seen in the dollar is premature,” Sneyd
said. “There’s scope for the dollar-bullish trends to unwind as
investors take on board the view that the Fed is going to be
doing QE for some time.”  ‘Natural Bid’  Based on Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the dollar
climbed 3.3 percent this year, making it the second-best
performer after Sweden’s krona among 10 developed-market
currencies.  “There’s a natural bid on the dollar,” said John Hardy,
head of currency strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in London. “It’s
possibly a bit overdone on the prospects of Fed tightening. Any
real exit scenario has to see equities trading lower. I don’t
see it being a positive for asset markets from where they are
now, a true exit from the Fed.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose for a fifth straight week through
March 8, its longest rally since June, as American employers
added more jobs last month than economists forecast, adding to
signs the U.S. recovery is outpacing other developed nations.  “People have got a bit ahead of themselves thinking about
the exit of QE,” said Michel Del Buono, an investment
strategist at Makena Capital Management LLC. “A lot of people
seem to confound the end of QE with the Fed hiking rates, I
don’t know that those two things are necessarily linked.”  Dollar Bulls  Still, strategists at Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch support’s Jen’s bullish view on the U.S. currency.  “In the short- and long-term we are bullish on the U.S.
dollar,” said Athanasios Vamvakidis, a currency strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “We may be in a world in which
data, particularly in the U.S., are improving and markets might
start pricing an earlier exit in the U.S.”  The Dollar Index extended gains today after a report showed
U.S. retail sales increased the most in five months in February,
exceeding all economist projections in a Bloomberg survey.  The relative monetary policy outlook has led to a selloff
in sterling and yen and may help the dollar to outperform, said
Valentin Marinov, head of European Group of 10 currency strategy
at Citigroup.  “In the rest of the world, central banks are going in the
opposite direction,” SLJ’s Jen said. “And the dollar, after
years of debasement by the Fed, is undervalued.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  