-- Drone Maker Among Smaller Firms Squeezed by U.S. Budget Cuts
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/drone-maker-among-smaller-firms-squeezed-by-u-s-budget-cuts.html
The Pentagon’s embrace of unmanned
aircraft propelled  AeroVironment Inc. (AVAV)  to the No. 1 producer of
small drones for the U.S. military.  Now,  Washington ’s automatic spending cuts have helped make
it one of the first companies in the federal supply chain to
report an unprecedented slowdown in government orders. Investors
are signaling concern that it won’t be the last.  AeroVironment is among 18 small to mid-sized contractors in
a  Bloomberg index  that has fallen 7.3 percent this year. That’s
compared with a 6.6 percent gain in an index of the top 10
Pentagon vendors, led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  Investors have
taken a “flight to size” to escape smaller defense firms more
vulnerable to the budget squeeze, said Mark Jordan, a St. Louis-
based analyst at Noble Financial Capital Markets.  “The wrong one or two contracts being radically truncated,
for a small company could be very meaningful,” Jordan said in a
phone interview. “For some of the larger ones it would kind of
get lost in the shuffle.”  The across-the-board spending cuts triggered on March 1
would total $85 billion in the remaining seven months of the
fiscal year, and $1.2 trillion over nine years, assuming
Congress and the president don’t agree before then on an
alternative.  The reductions would be divided equally between national
security and domestic programs. They would hit military
contractors the hardest, falling on top of $487 billion in
Pentagon cuts already planned over 10 years.  Vulnerable Vendors  AeroVironment, based in Monrovia,  California , is especially
vulnerable because it gets 83 percent of its  revenue  from the
federal government.  As demand surged from the Army, Marine Corps, Special
Operations Command and  Air Force , the company’s  revenue  more
than doubled to $325 million in the year ended April 30 from
fiscal 2006.  The firm surprised investors on March 5 by reporting a 35
percent drop in third-quarter revenue amid a slowdown in
military orders. Shares of the company plunged 9.8 percent the
next day.  “We’ve experienced acquisition delays in the past that
have impacted planned revenues within a period, but never of
this magnitude,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Conver said during
a conference call with analysts.  Contract Slowdown  Conver said executives had factored in “the government
budget process and sequestration uncertainty” as it planned for
the fiscal year. They knew there would be delays in government
contracting, he said.  Even so, the recent slowdowns are “way beyond our initial
conservative factoring,” Conver said.  The Defense Department, for example, had approved 2012
funding for AeroVironment’s hand-launched Raven drones. It
awarded a contract valued at as much as $65.9 million in May.  While the military has had that funding for more than 438
days, the contract has yet to be completed, Conver said. By
comparison, the longest wait time for its Raven drones in the
past four years was 161 days, he said.  Steve Gitlin, vice president of  investor relations  for
AeroVironment, declined Bloomberg’s request to interview Conver
about the effects of sequestration on the company.  Smaller companies are generally more susceptible to
downturns and delays in federal spending because their work is
mostly on a shorter cycle and tends to be focused on specific
products that are shipped soon after they’re booked, said
Michael Ciarmoli, an analyst with Cleveland-based KeyBanc
Capital Markets Inc.  “The Lockheed Martins, the  Northrop Grummans (NOC) , the
Raytheons -- their businesses are comprised of mostly long-term,
fixed-price contracts,” Ciarmoli said. “They’ve got the
ability to smooth out revenue volatility.”  ‘Cripple Entrepreneurs’  For smaller companies, the across-the-board spending cuts
will be another layer of hardship. They are on top of the other
defense cuts and on top of years of unstable federal spending in
which Congress has used stop-gap spending measures to keep the
government operating.  The new reductions promise to slice into supplies and
services, where smaller businesses “provide high value,”
Maureen Schumann, a Defense Department spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  “Sequestration will continue to erode the small business
industrial base, cripple entrepreneurs, and reduce areas where
the department needs to make investments to foster an
environment of innovation,” Schumann said.  Budget Volatility  At Jo-Kell Inc., a small distributor based in Chesapeake,
 Virginia , inventory has swelled as the military has delayed
orders for products such as circuit breakers and transformers.  “We’re concerned that contracts we have bid on might be
pulled out from under us,” Chief Executive Officer Suzy Kelly
said in a phone interview. “It’s not outside the realm of
possibility that they would do that.”  The budget volatility is especially tough on small business
owners now reluctant to expand their companies, said Kelly,
whose firm is based near the world’s largest naval station in
Norfolk, Virginia, and employs about 60 people.  Glenn Williamson, chief executive officer of engineering
contractor KinetX Inc., said the year leading up to
sequestration was “like water drip torture.”  Prime, or direct, contractors began putting “the squeeze”
on smaller suppliers like Tempe, Arizona-based KinetX to reduce
prices, said Williamson, whose company supplies engineers for
work on military satellite and drone programs.  “The primes were getting a little bit of a jump on the
game, if you will, with the supply chain,” he said in a phone
interview.  Pay Cuts  In response, top management at KinetX took a 50 percent pay
cut five months ago, he said. That came after a companywide, 10
percent salary reduction about a year ago, he said.  KinetX gets 85 percent of its revenue from prime vendors
that include Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   As federal agencies delay work, prime contractors are
putting off promises to subcontract, said Raj Williams, chief
executive officer of Annapolis, Maryland-based Green Sensitive
Design LLC.  “It’s a  chain reaction ,” Williams said.  Separately, her environmental consulting firm won a seat on
a multiple award contract in November with the  General Services
Administration  to provide energy consulting and maintenance
service. She hasn’t received any work yet.  “We’re all in a holding pattern,” Williams said.  -- Editors: Stephanie Stoughton, Mark Rohner  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  