-- Dubai Islamic Said to Set Profit Rate at 6.25% on Dollar Sukuk
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-13T12:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/dubai-islamic-said-to-set-profit-rate-at-6-25-on-dollar-sukuk.html
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC, (DIB)  the  United
Arab Emirates ’ biggest Shariah-compliant lender, will pay a
profit rate of 6.25 percent on a $1 billion Islamic bond it
plans to sell, said a banker familiar with the matter.  The profit rate per year is payable semi-annually in arrear
until the first call date in 2019, two bankers familiar with the
details said separately yesterday, asking not to be identified
because the matter is private. The rate will be reset on the
first call date and every six years thereafter to a new fixed
rate, they said.  Banks in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council are
seeking to build their Tier-1  capital ratios  as they attract
deposits and extend loans to support state investment programs
and retail demand. Dubai Islamic said on March 5 its
shareholders approved raising as much as $1 billion to boost its
Tier-1 capital, which includes common stock, retained earnings,
and perpetual preferred stock and debt.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB)  in November sold $1 billion of
the world’s first hybrid perpetual Tier-1 sukuk, which can be
treated as equity and thus used to supplement capital. Dubai
Islamic was placed on ratings watch at Moody’s Investors Service
in December because loan quality “remains very weak compared to
peers” and it hasn’t set aside enough money to cover losses.
Tier-1 capital is used to cushion lenders against this.  Shares Slip  The bank, which is taking over mortgage lender Tamweel
PJSC, last issued sukuk in May, when it raised $500 million from
the sale of five-year securities at a coupon of 4.752 percent.
The yield on those notes has since fallen to 3.45 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc, Emirates NBD
Capital,  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  and Dubai Islamic Bank
itself are joint lead managers of the perpetual sukuk sale.
Islamic bonds comply with the religion’s ban on interest and
instead pay profit rates.  The shares, which trade on Dubai’s DFM General Index,
decreased 0.5 percent to 2.1 dirhams at the close today, the
lowest level since Jan. 22, as it went ex-dividend. The index
declined today for the first time in five days, falling 0.9
percent to 1,922.04.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  