-- DuPont Trade-Secret Prosecutors Add Charges Against Liew
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-13T21:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/dupont-trade-secret-prosecutors-add-charges-against-liew.html
California  businessman Walter Liew
was charged with seven new crimes, including filing false tax
returns, in a revised indictment alleging he conspired to
provide  DuPont Co. (DD)  trade secrets to a Chinese company.  U.S. prosecutors filed the new charges today in federal
court in  San Francisco .  China ’s Pangang Group Co., Liew and two former DuPont
employees were charged last year with conspiring to steal
information about chloride-route titanium oxide, a white pigment
used in paint, plastics and paper.  Pangang runs the largest titanium complex in China and is
one of the country’s biggest titanium pigment producers,
according to its website.  Liew, of Orinda, California, and the other defendants sold
the confidential information to Pangang so it could develop a
large-scale titanium-oxide factory in Chongqing, prosecutors
allege. DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , is the world’s
largest manufacturer of titanium dioxide, and won’t sell or
license its technology to Chinese companies.  Liew, owner of now-defunct Oakland-based USA Performance
Technology Inc., has denied the allegations.  Liew has been in federal custody in Dublin, California, for
19 months. A trial hasn’t yet been scheduled in the case.  Cash Bond  U.S. Magistrate Judge Nathanael Cousins in San Francisco
agreed, over objections from federal prosecutors, to release him
from detention on a $2 million cash bond.  Cousins said Feb. 27 said that keeping him in custody may
violate his constitutional rights, noting that Liew is a U.S.
citizen who has lived in the San Francisco Bay area for 30
years. Cousins increased the bond from $200,000.  Prosecutors appealed Cousins’ order, saying Liew is a
flight risk and citing his family and financial ties to China
and lies he allegedly told investigators. U.S. District Judge
 Jeffrey White , who is presiding over Liew’s case, put Cousins’
release order on hold and scheduled a March 18 hearing on the
detention matter.  Simona Agnolucci , an attorney for Liew, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the new charges.  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 3:11-cr-00573, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 