-- Dust-Bowl Drought Seen Ending as Rain Aids U.S. Midwest Planting
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/dust-bowl-drought-seen-ending-as-rain-aids-u-s-midwest-planting.html
Rain through May will improve U.S.
corn-crop conditions for much of the Midwest, the main growing
region, as fields recover from last year’s drought, according to
AccuWeather Inc.  Above-normal snowfall from northwest Texas to northeast
Wisconsin combined with above-average rainfall from December to
March east of the Mississippi River eased the drought and
improved conditions for spring planting,  State College ,
Pennsylvania-based AccuWeather said in a statement. Above-normal
temperatures and dry weather will expand the drought from the
western Great Plains to California through August.  “The weather pattern is more favorable than last year,
when warm, dry weather from March to August wilted crops,”  Paul Pastelok , an AccuWeather senior meteorologist, said in a
telephone interview. “We expect ample moisture during most of
the growing season from southern Texas to New York.”  The worst U.S. drought since the Dust Bowl era of the 1930s
cut corn production last year by the most in 17 years and sent
soybean output to a four-year low. Prices surged to records as
supplies tightened. The U.S., the world’s biggest grower of both
crops, will produce record crops in 2013 as teh weather returns
to normal, the government said last month.  From  Alabama  to  North Carolina , rain during the past three
months has eliminated drought conditions that started last
summer, and the region will continue to have normal rain during
the growing season, AccuWeather said in its report.  Heat Risk  There will be at least a couple of hot, dry periods that
provide temporary risks of crop damage during June and July in
parts of the Midwest, Pastelok said. The biggest threat for corn
and soybeans, the two biggest U.S. crops, will be centered in
 Nebraska , where 100 percent of the state remains in severe to
extreme  drought . Parts of  Kansas , Colorado,  South Dakota , and
western regions of Iowa and Minnesota also may have periods of
dry weather, he said.  Warmer Gulf of Mexico water temperatures, a fading La Nina
weather event, and a more active upper-atmosphere jet stream
will help to trigger more frequent rain and prevent sustained
periods of heat and dryness, unlike last year, he said.  The lack of  snow  in the Sierra Nevada mountain range may
increase water-resource limitations in California, AccuWeather
said in a long-range forecast today.  “The biggest threat from dry weather this year may be lack
of irrigation for the fruit and vegetable crops in California,”
Pastelok said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  