-- Pope Francis’ Economic Philosophy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-13T16:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/the-new-pope-s-economic-philosophy.html
As Jorge Mario Bergoglio of
 Argentina , now known as Francis I, assumes leadership for the
world’s 1.2 billion Catholics, we won’t presume to tell him how
to think on matters religious. But for the sake of world
markets, we hope the new pope will act in the best tradition of
Catholic economic thought.  Ideally, that means recognizing the value of free markets
and free economies, and realizing that work and trade endow
humans with not just wealth but also dignity and freedom. It
also means understanding the dangers posed by excessive
inequality, the outsize burdens that technological advances and
environmental degradation will impose on the poor, and the
responsibility of the rich to help the underprivileged navigate
a turbulent economic transition.  Most important, as more and more economic activity -- from
finance to manufacturing to medicine -- is done by algorithms
and robots, we hope the new pope will be able to communicate the
church’s longstanding assertion that economics, to be moral,
must be grounded in concern for the individual.  Moral Order  Since Pope Leo XIII issued the encyclical “ Rerum Novarum ”
in 1891, Catholic social teaching has focused on ways to impose
moral order on economic activity and to mitigate the worst
effects of unrestrained commerce on the poor. The concern for
the individual -- and especially for those left behind -- has
been perhaps its most insistent theme.  Pope  John Paul II ’s landmark “ Centesimus Annus ” in 1991
extended this concern with the individual into the “complex
network of relationships” that make up modern economies. He
argued that a just society “is not directed against the market,
but demands that the market be appropriately controlled by the
forces of society and by the state so as to guarantee that the
basic needs of the whole of society are satisfied.”  Pope Benedict XVI’s contribution to this tradition,
“ Caritas in Veritate ,” was cryptic in some respects, but he was
quite clear that “Every economic decision has a moral
consequence” and that “The market is not, and must not become,
the place where the strong subdue the weak.”  Beyond his words, Benedict’s actions as pope were
consistent with a moral economic framework (his  grievous lapses 
elsewhere notwithstanding). He  argued  correctly that the roots
of the financial crisis were human greed and malfeasance, not a
flaw per se in the structure of capitalism. He also exuded a
consistent concern that  climate change  -- born of unbridled
consumption by rich nations -- will overwhelmingly affect the
poor, and he  sought  to turn  Vatican City  into the world’s only
carbon-neutral state.  Francis I will have to grapple with the same issues, and
plenty more. The temptations of unrestrained capitalism will
surely reawaken as the financial crisis ebbs. Environmental
degradation will probably accelerate. And the poor will always
be with us. Perhaps the greatest challenge for a putative
steward of moral economics in the next few decades, however,
will be technology.  The coming revolution in robotics and automation, as we’ve
 argued , could cause immense disruption for the world’s workers,
including wage stagnation, increased unemployment, growing
inequality, and the painful alienation that comes with finding
your skills obsolete or your job replaced by a machine. Imposing
an ethical framework on this new world will require the kind of
flexible thinking that hasn’t always come naturally to the
Vatican. Serious work by the Pontifical Academy of Sciences on
the moral implications of artificial intelligence, drones and
other worrisome phenomena of the digital age would be an
excellent start.  Effective Management  Of course, good economics should start at home. The next
pope has his work cut out for him there, too. The Vatican
bureaucracy has by many accounts grown too sprawling to
effectively manage, and many dioceses are still reeling from the
financial fallout of sexual-abuse lawsuits. Benedict made
progress toward  reforming  the Institute for Works of Religion,
better known as the Vatican bank, by replacing its president,
creating a financial-intelligence unit and agreeing to some
outside scrutiny. But the idiosyncratic institution still has a
ways to go before it will be comfortably within international
banking norms on transparency and money laundering.  And there are plenty of economic views the Vatican has
expressed over the years that we would disagree with -- for
instance, its call for a global finance authority, a tax on
financial transactions and a degree of government redistribution
that we would consider unwise.  Even so, it’s critical to have a powerful voice in the
world arguing for anchoring economics to morality, both from the
Chair of St. Peter and in the 220,000 Catholic parishes around
the world. Whether one believes in God or not, that voice should
serve as a reminder that markets, in the end, are collections of
people. And that an economic system untethered by ethical
consideration or concern for those left behind will be unstable,
dangerous and ultimately counterproductive.  Francis I, we wish you luck.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 