-- Egypt Ranks Last in World for Security in Tourism Industry Study
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-13T17:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/egypt-ranks-last-in-world-for-security-in-tourism-industry-study.html
Egypt  ranked last in terms of
security and safety on the  World Economic Forum ’s 2013  Travel
and Tourism Competitiveness Index .  The North African country ranked 138th out of 140 countries
for the business costs associated with crime, violence and
terrorism, and 135th for road traffic accidents, two elements of
the security classification, according to the report published
on the forum’s website. The study aims to measure the
attractiveness of tourism investment.  Egypt dropped 10 places to 85th in the overall ranking,
placing it behind countries including  Colombia  and the
 Philippines . The decline was “probably the result of the
continuing unrest in the country”, the WEF said. Switzerland,
Germany and Austria topped the list.  Protests and sporadic violence have persisted in Egypt more
than two years after the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in
2011. That has deterred tourists as well as investors, adding to
the difficulty of reviving an  economy  growing at the slowest
pace in two decades.  Tourism is one of the country’s main sources of foreign
exchange, and its decline has added to pressure on  currency
reserves , which are down more than 60 percent from before the
uprising. While revenue increased 20 percent to $10.1 billion
last year, it’s still almost 20 percent below the 2010 figure.  In the latest setback to the industry, at least 19 foreign
tourists died last month after a hot air balloon exploded in
mid-air during a sightseeing trip near the southern city of
Luxor, home to some of the most famous sites including the tomb
of Tutankhamen and the temple of Karnak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  