-- Heinz Borrows at Record Low in $3.1 Billion Junk-Bond Offering
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-03-22T21:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/heinz-plans-2-1-billion-of-bonds-for-buyout-by-berkshire-3g.html
H.J. Heinz Co., the ketchup maker
being acquired by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
3G Capital Inc., sold $3.1 billion of dollar-denominated bonds
at the lowest coupon on record for comparable debt issued by a
speculative-grade borrower.  The company’s 4.25 percent, 7.5-year second-lien, senior
secured notes yield 297 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The coupon
is the lowest in data going back to 2004 for similar-maturity,
secured debt sold by a junk-rated company, the data show.  The bonds are rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
ratings company said in a statement today.  The sale was increased by about 48 percent after the
company marketed $2.1 billion of debt last week, according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  Heinz canceled plans to distribute $2 billion of the $12
billion in loans backing the purchase in euros and pounds,
according to a person with knowledge of that transaction. Heinz
may fund the portion with bonds or loans denominated in dollars,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  The company reduced the rate on as much as $8.5 billion of
the loans backing the purchase, the person said. A six-year B1
loan will pay interest at 2.25 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate, down from 2.75 percentage points
to 3 percentage points originally proposed, and a seven-year B2
slice will pay interest at 250 basis points more than the
benchmark.  Wells Fargo & Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and
Citigroup Inc. managed the sale of the notes, which were issued
through Hawk Acquisition Sub Inc., Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net 
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  