-- Telecom Italia Issues 750 Million Euros in Hybrid Bond Deal
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-03-13T17:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/telecom-italia-offering-750-million-euros-of-hybrid-bonds-1-.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  sold bonds
combining features of debt and equity to shore up its
investment-grade rating, reviving a deal put on ice last month
in the run-up to the election.  Italy’s largest phone company issued 750 million euros
($970 million) of hybrid bonds priced to yield 7.875 percent and
maturing in 2073, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction. The notes, which can be redeemed after five years,
will carry a fixed coupon until 2018 and then reset to a
variable rate every five years, said the person, who declined to
be identified before the deal is complete.  Non-financial companies in Europe issued a record 11
billion euros ($14.3 billion) of hybrid securities this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as companies including
 Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  and Royal KPN NV lure investors with yields
higher than those on senior notes to prop up balance sheets.
Rome-based Telecom Italia held investor meetings about a
potential hybrid last month before putting the plans on hold
ahead of parliamentary elections.  “They made a bit of a splash talking about a hybrid and
then pulled back, so there was a bit of uncertainty,” said  Mark Chapman , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London . “It’s
reassuring to see them coming back. The price is certainly
designed to pique people’s interest.”  Francesca Valagussa, a spokeswoman for Telecom Italia, said
she had no immediate comment about the deal.  Telecom Italia’s 1 billion euros of 4 percent notes due
2020 issued in December yield about 4.3 percent, equivalent to
about 356 basis points more than German  government bonds  due the
same month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hybrid securities help boost creditworthiness in the eyes
of ratings firms because holders come behind senior investors in
the queue for payment in a default. Telecom Italia also has the
option to defer interest in certain circumstances, according to
the person with knowledge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  