-- Telecom Italia Talks to Spin Off Network Are Hurt by Economy
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-03-14T08:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/telecom-italia-talks-to-spin-off-network-are-hurt-by-economy.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s talks to spin
off its fixed-line network are running into difficulty and  Fitch
Ratings  said today Italy’s weak economy will weigh on the phone
company’s finances and debt ratings.  The negotiations continue and the Italy’s economic
environment isn’t favorable for a conclusion, Chief Operating
Officer Marco Patuano said at an event in Milan yesterday.
Telecom Italia hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  for advice on the spinoff
and told the bank to lead talks with state lender Cassa Depositi
e Prestiti SpA, which may acquire a stake in the network, a
person familiar with the matter said in December.  Telecom Italia, the former Italian monopoly, is shedding
assets and jobs as it looks for ways to reduce debt and raise
money for investments. The fixed-line network is worth 13
billion euros ($16.9 billion) to 15 billion euros, according to
Marco Fossati, whose family’s Findim Group SA is Telecom
Italia’s second-biggest shareholder.  Italy ’s largest phone company issued 750 million euros of
hybrid bonds priced to yield 7.875 percent and maturing in 2073.
The notes, which can be redeemed after five years, will carry a
fixed coupon until 2018 and then reset to a variable rate every
five years, said the person.  Fitch Cut  Fitch Ratings today confirmed Telecom Italia’s BBB rating,
the second-lowest investment grade, with a negative outlook.
Fitch last week cut Italy’s credit rating one level to BBB+ as
an inconclusive election in February produced political
paralysis that threatens the country’s ability to respond to a
recession and the  European debt crisis .  Telecom Italia shares rose 1.1 percent to 58.1 euro cents
at 9:24 a.m. in Milan trading. The stock had declined 16 percent
this year through yesterday.  Phone companies across  Europe  are fighting for more freedom
from regulators to consolidate as they cope with declining voice
revenue and contracting economies.  “Carriers won’t be able to create a single pan-European
network because of the difficulty of sharing investments in
different countries and deciding the allocation of capital
expenditure,” Patuano said in an interview yesterday.  The European Telecommunications Network Operators’
Association, which represents 37 carriers, was preparing to ask
the European Commission to allow more mergers within individual
countries in exchange for their backing for the regulator’s push
to develop a regional market, people familiar with the matter
said last month.  Telecom Italia is among phone companies cutting jobs to
lower costs. It agreed with unions yesterday that it won’t
separate the call-center operations into a new company for one
year in exchange for workers’ backing for 2,750 job cuts.
Employees had been concerned that carving out the business may
pave the way for a sale.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  last year sold its Atento
call-center division to Bain Capital Partners LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  