-- Mellanox Soars in Tel Aviv as Lazard Capital Lifts Target
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-13T08:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/mellanox-soars-on-lazard-capital-target-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  surged
to its highest in three months as analysts from Lazard Capital
Markets LLC to JMP Securities LLC said the six-month rout that
made the company the worst performer among Israeli stocks traded
in New York was overdone.  The shares of the maker of data transferral and storage
software climbed 5.3 percent to 236.1, or the equivalent of
$64.2, the highest level since Dec. 20, at 10:37 a.m. in  Tel
Aviv . The U.S.-traded shares jumped 14 percent to $65.55
yesterday, the steepest advance since July 19. The company led
gains on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest
Israeli stocks in the U.S., which rose for a sixth day in the
longest stretch of gains since November.  Lazard Capital boosted Mellanox’s price target by 11
percent yesterday, saying concerns over competing technology
from  Intel Corp . have been “overblown.” Lazard Capital expects
2013 sales to be as much as $459 million, above the $451 million
 mean  of 14 analysts’ estimates. Mellanox sank 57 percent in the
six months to March 6, the biggest decline on the Israel-US
gauge, on concern rivals will take market share and as
management issued two sales forecasts below analyst projections.  “The company has lowered expectations to the point where
we only go up from here,” said  Shebly Seyrafi , an analyst at
FBN Securities Inc. in New York who rates the stock the
equivalent of hold. “Mellanox has explosive potential.”  Better Prospects  Stock of Mellanox will climb 20 percent to $69 in the next
12 months from its March 11 close, according to  Daniel Amir , an
analyst at Lazard Capital in  San Francisco , who boosted his
price estimate from $62 yesterday. Amir is predicting revenue
for this quarter of $80 million, in line with the mean of 14
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re anticipating that business could be better than
expected for the second quarter,” Amir said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Shares have been under significant
pressure in the past. We’re expecting potentially better
business prospects.”  Alex Gauna, an analyst at JMP Securities, was the first to
upgrade his recommendation on Mellanox in a year, saying last
week that the company could maintain its competitive advantage
versus Intel, Broadcom Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. through 2015
as demand from data centers for its technology grows.  Mellanox  forecast  Jan. 23 first-quarter sales that trailed
analysts’ estimates by as much as 48 percent amid a build-up in
inventory by one of its customers. Sales for the three months
ending this month will reach $78 million to $83 million, the
company said. Earlier in January, Mellanox cut its fourth-
quarter revenue forecast on weaker demand and a product glitch.  Biggest Threat  Intel acquired QLogic Corp.’s product, which rivals
Mellanox’s technology, for $125 million in February 2012.
Competition over the next few years will be the biggest threat
for the company, according to Castle Union LLC.  “The economics are going to get worse for them even if
demand increases because InfiniBand is a niche market,” Toan Tran, a managing partner at the Chicago-based hedge fund, said
by phone yesterday. “It’s just a matter of when people start
discounting what happens with Intel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  