-- MEMC Slides on Forecast for First-Quarter Solar Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-03-13T20:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/memc-sees-7-8-rise-in-semiconductor-sales-changes-name.html
MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , the
second-largest U.S. polysilicon maker, fell the most in nine
months after forecasting a decline in solar project development
this quarter.  MEMC, which also announced plans today to change its name
to SunEdison Inc. and invest in more solar projects that use its
material,  dropped  13 percent to $4.70 at the close in New York,
the biggest decline since May 17.  The company sees sales of 10 megawatts to 38 megawatts of
solar projects in the first quarter, down from 52 megawatts in
the prior quarter. Total sales for 2013 will be 420 megawatts to
490 megawatts, a 28 percent increase from the 383 megawatts sold
last year, the St. Peters, Missouri-based company said in a
statement today.  “The decision to hold projects on the balance sheet
instead of selling them will be viewed negatively by some,”
Jeffrey Osborne, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  New
York , said in an e-mail. “It soaks up the use of cash with a
long-term financial return as opposed to a quick flip of a
project sale.”  MEMC makes polysilicon wafers that can be used in
semiconductors and solar cells. The company bought SunEdison
LLC, a solar project developer, in 2009. The proportion of
revenues that came from solar projects and materials climbed to
68 percent last year, from 59 percent in 2010, the company said.  Global Market  There may be $1 trillion in global solar project investment
through 2020, Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Chatila said at the
company’s investor meeting today. MEMC is targeting quarterly
project sales of 150 megawatts to 200 megawatts in what he
called “a hyper growth situation.”  The company said in a separate release today it plans to
form SunEdison Capital, a unit to finance and invest in the
solar  power plants  it’s developing. Carlos Domenech, an MEMC
executive vice president, will be president of the new division,
which will fund both internal and external solar projects and
may acquire new solar developments.  On the semiconductor side, MEMC forecast a slower first
half with an “industry recovery” in the second half boosting
sales. Revenue for the unit will be $940 million to $990 million
for 2013. The company reported $918 million in semiconductor
sales last year.  Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. is the biggest U.S. polysilicon
producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  