-- Emerging Stocks Drop on China Concerns as Brazil Sinks
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-03-13T21:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/emerging-stocks-drop-to-one-week-low-on-china-property-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a
one-week low, led by Chinese equities, on concern policy makers
will step up efforts to curb real estate prices and inflation.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa Index fell the most in three weeks.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  and Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science and Technology Co. slid at least 4 percent in Hong Kong
after the Sina.com news portal said the southern city of
Shenzhen banned developers from raising new home prices. OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, owned by billionaire  Eike
Batista , slumped to a record low after the company was cut by
firms including JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,049.08 in New York. The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index
retreated 2.5 percent to a three-month low.  China  should be on
“high alert” over inflation after February’s price gains
exceeded forecasts, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
today. Hungarian equities led losses among European stocks as
lawmakers backed policies that risk deepening a clash with the
European Union.  “The continued news flow that triggered concerns over
China’s property tightening are weighing on investors’
sentiment,” Kim Dae Young, a fund manager at KB Asset
Management Co., which manages about $28 billion in assets, said
by phone from  Seoul . “The government seems to be trying to
prevent the property market from overheating.”  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  exchange-traded fund, the
ETF tracking developing-nation shares, slipped a third day in
New York, losing 0.9 percent to $42.98. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 5.3 percent to 16.60.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 0.6 percent this
year, lagging behind a 6.8 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades
at about 11 times 12-month projected profit, compared with the
MSCI World’s 14.1 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nine out of  10 groups  in the emerging-markets gauge fell as
phone and raw material shares had the biggest losses, slumping
at least 1.5 percent. Technology companies rose.  The Bovespa Index dropped 1.4 percent as OGX was reduced to
the equivalent of sell at Banco Santander SA and Citigroup Inc.
and hold at JPMorgan.  Mexico ’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  slid 1.6 percent to the
lowest level since Dec. 14.  Russia, Hungary  Russia’s Micex Index dropped 0.4 percent in a second day of
losses.  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , the nation’s second-largest mobile-phone
operator, tumbled as much as 4.8 percent in  London , the most
since its initial public offering in November.  Hungary’s BUX Index fell 1.1 percent, declining for a third
day. The forint gained for the first time in four days after
Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi said the government had no
intention of weakening the currency.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1 percent to a two-month
low, its fifth day of declines. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  tumbled 2.3 percent. China Resources Land dropped the most
since March 4. Zoomlion Heavy, a Chinese construction equipment
maker, fell to the lowest since Oct. 8.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex sank 1 percent on speculation faster
inflation will limit the extent to which the central bank may
ease monetary policy.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest
software exporter, had the biggest drop in three months.  The South Korean won weakened for a fifth day, the longest
stretch of declines in 10 months, after a government report
showed that the country’s unemployment rate climbed to the
highest in a year.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries declined 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 281 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  