-- Lenders Expand HARP Loans to More Borrowers as Rules Change
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-03-13T13:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/lenders-expand-harp-loans-to-more-borrowers-as-rules-change.html
Lenders are becoming more willing
to offer new loans to borrowers who don’t have any home equity
after changes to the rules of the U.S. government’s Home
Affordable Refinance Program.  President  Barack Obama  has made expanding the reach of HARP
a centerpiece of his housing policy, most recently calling for
Congress to pass a bill making the program more attractive to
lenders in his Feb. 12  State of the Union  address. Senate
Democrats Barbara Boxer of California and Robert Menendez of New
Jersey introduced a bill in February that would implement the
president’s request.  Even without that legislation, policy changes that went
into effect last year and at the beginning of this year are
starting to help more borrowers, say analysts including Kevin Barker of Washington-based Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.  “At first we thought Boxer-Menendez would be the
catalyst” for banks to expand HARP lending to new clients,
Barker said in an interview, referring to the bill written by
the two senators. “However, it seems that the new rules have
made banks more willing to take the risk.”  HARP assists borrowers with mortgages backed by government-
owned  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  or Freddie Mac, allowing them to cut their loan
payments by refinancing at today’s low interest rates even if
they are stuck in homes that have lost value.  Many are paying
interest rates as high as 6 percent, compared with the current
average 30-year fixed rate of 3.52 percent.  Stumbling Block  The biggest stumbling block for borrowers has been lenders’
unwillingness to originate HARP loans for anyone other than
existing customers. That’s because banks were potentially liable
when new clients defaulted on HARP loans and weren’t liable when
existing customers were unable to make payments.  Typically, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac demand repurchases
when they find that defaulted loans had flawed underwriting. The
companies, which have been under U.S. conservatorship since
2008, buy mortgages and package them into securities on which
they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  The largest banks -- including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  -- charged a premium for
HARP loans to borrowers whose mortgages they serviced because
those people couldn’t turn anywhere else, according to an
analysis last year by Laurie Goodman of Austin, Texas-based
Amherst Securities Group.  Changed Rules  In September, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and their regulator,
the Federal Housing Finance Agency, changed the rules,
announcing they wouldn’t go after the banks for failing to
properly value a property when they originated HARP loans for
both new and existing clients, as long as the lenders obtained
an appraisal.  During an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters in
January, Quicken Loans Chief Executive Officer Bill Emerson
called the policy change a “line of demarcation” that
encouraged Quicken to do more HARP refinancing.  Between a quarter and a third of Fannie Mae HARP refinances
involve a borrower switching to a new servicer; at  Freddie Mac (FMCC) ,
it’s between 20 and 25 percent.  The proportion will probably continue to increase,
especially after another rule change that went into effect in
January, company officials say. Now, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
won’t force banks to buy back HARP loans that default as long as
the homeowners make 12 months of on-time payments, even if the
borrowers aren’t the banks’ existing clients.  HARP Surges  Through the first three quarters of 2012, there was “a
general upward trend in the different servicer business,” said
John Forlines, Fannie Mae’s chief credit officer for single-
family housing. “We continually hear from lenders that they’re
removing overlays particularly in the different-servicer
space.”  HARP loans began to surge last year and now account for
almost a third of all refinancings, according to the Mortgage
Bankers Association. Nearly 1.1 million borrowers used HARP last
year alone, equaling the 1.1 million in the first three years of
the program combined.  FHFA data show that servicers are offering HARP loans to an
increasing number of the riskiest borrowers. Overall, about a
quarter of HARP loans have gone to borrowers who owe more than
their properties are worth. In December, nearly half of HARP
 refinancings  were for such underwater borrowers.  There may be as many as 2 million eligible borrowers who
haven’t taken advantage of HARP yet, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analysts said.  To qualify, homeowners must have loans that were originated
before June 1, 2009, and be current on their payments. The
program is scheduled to expire at the end of this year.  Securities Yields  Changes in the program rules are just one explanation for
the growing reach of HARP. Another factor is that it’s getting
harder for lenders to make money originating traditional
mortgages.  The amount that lenders make from packaging loans into
securities and selling them to investors may be down as much as
40 percent from last quarter, Barker estimates. Meanwhile,
securities containing HARP loans bring higher yields because
borrowers are less likely to refinance again, preserving the
value of the investment.  “A HARP borrower is not as price-sensitive as a regular
refinance because they already have a high interest rate on
their loan and there are not many banks offering a HARP refi to
that particular borrower,” Barker said. “At the same time, an
originator can sell it into the secondary market for a higher
yield.”  Staff Increased  Meanwhile, banks have increased staffing in their lending
departments and are soliciting potential HARP borrowers for the
first time, Forlines said.  “They actually have the capacity to be able to handle more
volume, whereas many of them last year were more reactive to
whatever borrowers were calling in,” he said.  Even as the conditions for HARP begin to ease, lawmakers
are still moving forward with legislation. The Menendez-Boxer
bill would remove the risk that lenders would have to buy back
defaulted HARP loans issued to borrowers who aren’t current
clients. That goes further than the FHFA rule that removes the
risk after a year of on-time payments.  “While we’ve applauded the changes made to the HARP
program and believe they are a step in the right direction,
there still remains nearly 12 million Fannie and Freddie
borrowers current on their payments who could benefit from a
refinance,” Menendez said in a statement. “The successes of
the program to date illustrate the need to eliminate the
remaining barriers keeping borrowers from refinancing at today’s
low rates.”  The bill would also extend the deadline for applying for a
HARP refinancing by one year, to the end of 2014. Analysts say
they aren’t sure that’s necessary at the current rate that HARP
loans are being originated.  “We expect most of the eligible creditworthy borrowers to
be refinanced by the current deadline,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analysts wrote in a Feb. 8 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  