-- Enel Forecasts Little Profit Growth as EON Plans Asset Sales
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-13T17:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/enel-sees-little-profit-growth-until-2017-as-italy-spain-slump.html
Enel SpA (ENEL) , Italy’s largest utility,
said earnings sank 79 percent last year and won’t recover until
2017 as taxes and weakening power demand crimp growth and force
asset sales. German peer EON SE also announced disposals.  Enel’s  net income  fell to 865 million euros ($1.13 billion)
from 4.1 billion euros a year earlier following 2.5 billion
euros of writedowns at its Endesa unit, it said today in a
statement. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization dropped 4.9 percent to 16.7 billion euros and will
hold steady until rising to as much as 18 billion euros in 2017.  European utilities including Enel and EON are disposing of
assets to bolster balance sheets as economic stagnation curbs
energy demand. Rome-based Enel, writing down Endesa after buying
the power producer in 2007, has also seen profit margins
squeezed by new levies on electricity companies in  Italy  and
Spain, which are entering their second year of a recession.  “Short-term targets are very poor,” UBS AG analysts wrote
in a note today, maintaining a  sell  rating on Enel stock. Long-
term targets are “optimistic” as “fundamentals and disposals
imply almost no growth.”  Enel slumped 6 percent in Milan trading, the biggest one-
day decline in almost nine months, to close at 2.612 euros.  Asset Sales  Enel plans 4 billion euros of cost reductions in Italy and
Spain, including job cuts and capacity closings, Chief Executive
Officer Fulvio Conti said today in a presentation. The utility
also intends to sell about 6 billion euros of assets to lower
borrowings. Net debt shrank 3.8 percent to 42.9 billion euros
last year, and will drop to a targeted 37 billion euros in 2014.  EON,  Germany ’s largest utility, has sold assets to weather
the economic decline and the phaseout of nuclear energy at home.
The company, whose economic net debt fell to 35.9 billion euros
as of Dec. 31 from 36.4 billion euros a year earlier, plans to
raise more than 2 billion euros in two years selling regional
units and a stake in nuclear-fuel processing business Urenco.  “Our sales volume and earnings remain under pressure,
especially in conventional power generation,” CEO Johannes Teyssen said today. “In particular, our technologically
advanced, climate-friendly gas-fired power plants are currently
barely profitable.”  Gas Power  As  Europe ’s weak economy holds back electricity demand, gas
power stations are being undercut by cheaper coal, requirements
to buy renewable energy and the falling cost of carbon permits.
EON’s Irsching-5 plant in  Bavaria , a 400 million-euro facility
built three years ago, operated less than 25 percent of the time
last year as slumping prices made burning gas unprofitable.  EON and the co-owners of Irsching-5 will decide by the end
of March whether to shut the plant, Teyssen said at a press
conference. The company sees a temporary shutdown as the “only
economically viable solution” without “fair compensation” to
keep the site operating, he said.  EON, based in Dusseldorf, confirmed a January  forecast  that
Ebitda this year will be about 9.2 billion euros to 9.8 billion
euros, a decline from 10.8 billion euros in 2012. The  stock 
slipped 0.2 percent to 13.01 euros in  Frankfurt .  Both EON and Enel are looking to new countries to counter
weakening markets elsewhere. EON’s asset sales will provide
capital for expansion in emerging economies including Brazil and
 Turkey , while Enel plans to increase investments in eastern
Europe and Latin America following a 2.8 percent drop in Italian
power demand last year.  Capacity Cuts  “For the next five years, we confirm our current strategy,
which is focused on protecting margins and cash flows in mature
markets as well as development in growth markets and
renewables,” Conti said in today’s statement. Enel will reduce
capacity by 12 percent to 52 gigawatts by 2017, with most cuts
in mature markets, he said on a conference call.  The utility’s clean-energy division, Enel Green Power,
reported 2012 net income of 413 million euros yesterday, missing
analyst estimates of 453 million euros.  Enel, which sells electricity to 61 million clients in 40
countries, will distribute a dividend of 15 euro cents a share,
in line with analyst estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  