-- Energy Companies Lose Appeals Court Bid Over Parcel Leasing
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/energy-companies-appeal-in-parcel-leasing-case-dismissed-1-.html
A group of oil and gas companies
failed to persuade an appeals court to compel the U.S. to issue
parcel leases on which they were the high bidders within 60 days
of payment.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Denver said yesterday it lacks
jurisdiction over the matter because a lower court’s order was
not a “final decision.” U.S. District Judge Nancy D. Freudenthal in Cheyenne,  Wyoming , concluded that the secretary
of the U.S. Interior Department must decide whether to issue oil
and gas leases within 60 days of payment, not necessarily issue
the permits within that period, according to yesterday’s ruling.  The  Western Energy Alliance  claimed Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  misread federal law in concluding he has the authority
to deny or issue leases within 60 days of payment. The alliance
argued the Secretary is required to issue the leases within 60-
days of payment.  The Western Energy Alliance is a nonprofit trade
association of more than 400 oil and gas companies in the
western U.S., according to its website.  Joining the organization in the appeal was Samson Resources
Co., an oil and gas company based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and partly
owned by private-equity firm KKR & Co., Baseline Minerals Inc.
and Nerd Gas Co.  The appeals court relied on obscure jurisdictional principles 
to ``avoid ruling on whether a statute that plainly states 
`Interior shall issue leases within 60 days' means that Interior 
actually must issue leases within sixty days after receiving 
payment,'' Kathleen Sgamma, a spokeswoman for the Western Energy 
Alliance, said in an e-mail. The appeals court specifically 
didn't rule on the merits of the case, she said.  The case is Western Energy Alliance v. Salazar, U.S.
Department of the Interior, 11-8071, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the 10th Circuit (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  