-- Eni Approached by Potential Partners for Mozambique Gas Area
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-03-13T14:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/eni-approached-by-potential-partners-for-mozambique-gas-area-1-.html
Eni SpA (ENI)  has been approached by
potential buyers for part of its 70 percent share in a
 Mozambique  gas project that is the biggest discovery in the
Italian company’s history, an official from the producer said.  “With the share we have at the moment, it’s within our
discretion to carry on as we are, or to farm down” and sell a
stake, Steve Ratcliffe, Eni’s senior vice president for
liquefied natural gas, said today at a conference in Maputo.  Eni has discovered about 75 trillion cubic feet of gas at
Area 4. The country may have 250 trillion cubic feet of
reserves, according to Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos,
Mozambique’s state-backed energy company. ENH,  Galp Energia SGPS (GALP) 
and  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  each own 10 percent of Area 4.  Eni doesn’t have any specific requirements for a potential
partner in the project, Ratcliffe said. Any deal would need to
have the right pricing and strategic value for the Rome-based
oil company, he said.  “Within the partnership you have to have the execution
capability and the financial capability to do the investments,”
he said. “I believe we have the financial capability so that’s
not the main driver for us.”  China National Petroleum Corp., the nation’s biggest oil
company, is in talks with Eni for a stake in the project valued
at as much as $4 billion, two people familiar with the matter
said last week. Eni may sell a 20 percent stake to state-
controlled CNPC to share the cost of developing the project, the
people said. The companies had been in talks for at least six
months and terms haven’t been agreed on.  Mozambique’s offshore fields may hold enough gas to meet
world consumption for more than two years, according to the
national oil company. Eni and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the two
companies leading exploration in Mozambique, agreed last year to
build the world’s second-largest LNG export plant to start
sending fuel abroad in 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  