-- Lenovo Says No Specific Evaluation Taken for BlackBerry
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-13T01:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/lenovo-says-no-specific-evaluation-taken-for-blackberry.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  said it hasn’t
taken any action to assess  BlackBerry (BBRY)  as an acquisition after
Les Echos newspaper reported the computer maker may consider
buying the Canadian smartphone maker.  “There is not and has not been any specific evaluation or
activity underway regarding BlackBerry,” Brion Tingler, a
spokesman for Lenovo in New York, said in an e-mail today.  Shares (BB)  of BlackBerry, formerly known as Research In Motion
Ltd., rose 14 percent on March 11 after the French newspaper
quoted Lenovo Chief Executive Officer Yang Yuanqing as saying a
deal “could possibly make sense, but first I need to analyze
the market.”  BlackBerry began a review of its strategic options last
year after losing sales to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics
Co., raising speculation that it could be a takeover target. The
Waterloo, Ontario-based company announced its new BlackBerry 10
smartphone lineup in January as it tries to win back market
share that has slumped to about a quarter of its level three
years ago.  The remarks in  Les Echos  follow comments made in January by
Lenovo Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming, who told Bloomberg
News his company was assessing potential acquisition targets and
strategic alliances, including a deal with BlackBerry.  “We are looking at all opportunities -- RIM and many
others,” Wong said in the Jan. 24 interview in Davos,
Switzerland, before the company changed its name.  Beijing-based Lenovo, which bought International Business
Machines Corp.’s personal-computer unit in 2005, is the world’s
second-biggest maker of PCs behind  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Yang is expanding the company into smartphones and tablets
to compete with Apple and Samsung.  “We continue to focus on driving organic growth while at
the same time, as we have stated many times in the past, we will
consider M&A when it is aligned” with strategy, Tingler said in
the e-mail. “The company evaluates all growth opportunities on
a regular basis.”  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  