-- EON to Raise $2.6 Billion Selling Regional Units, Urenco
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-13T17:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/eon-plans-to-raise-2-6-billion-selling-regional-units-urenco.html
EON SE,  Germany ’s largest utility,
plans to raise more than 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in the
next two years selling regional units and a stake in nuclear-
fuel processing business Urenco.  The asset sales will help Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen cut debt and provide capital for expansion in  emerging
markets  including Brazil and  Turkey . Economic net debt fell to
35.9 billion euros as of Dec. 31 from 36.4 billion euros a year
earlier, according to an earnings statement today. Net income
was 2.22 billion euros last year compared with a 2.22 billion-
euro net loss a year earlier,  European utilities are contending with weaker demand and a
slower economic outlook ahead of Germany’s planned exit from
nuclear energy by 2022. EON, which scrapped previous profit
forecasts for 2013, plans to reduce  capital spending  and is
selling assets to cut costs. The Dusseldorf-based utility is
also studying whether to close unprofitable power plants.  EON may have to shut gas-fired stations in Germany unless
policy makers offer support because they’re losing money, in
part due to weak demand and high prices for the fuel, Teyssen
said.  “The market for most gas-fired power plants is dead,”
Ingo Becker, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said by phone
from Frankfurt. “They cannot operate profitably anymore. The
question is whether Germany can do without gas-fired power
plants. If not, there will have to be a political solution to
guarantee the security of supply.”  ‘Under Pressure’  EON confirmed a forecast, made in January, that  this
year’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will be about 9.2 billion euros to 9.8 billion
euros. That’s a drop from 10.8 billion euros in 2012.  “Our sales volume and earnings remain under pressure,
especially in conventional power generation,” Teyssen said.  The shares closed down 0.2 percent to 13.01 euros in
 Frankfurt  trading.  EON and the co-owners of Irsching 5 will decide by the end
of March whether to shut the three-year-old gas-fired power
plant, Teyssen said. “For us, a temporary shutdown is the only
economically viable solution.” He expects “fair compensation”
to continue operations.  Reduced Investments  EON will reduce its annual investments from 7 billion euros
in 2012 to about 6 billion euros this year and to 4.5 billion
euros in 2015, the company said today. It intends to sell its
regional Mitte and Westfalen Weser units this year, Chief
Financial Officer Marcus Schenck told reporters.  Schenck expects the completion of the Urenco sale next
year, or possibly this year. “We are holding talks with
interested parties,” he said.  Schenck didn’t rule out increasing EON’s 12 percent stake
in  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , whose majority holder is Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista .  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, said last week it
will sell its Dea oil and gas unit to cut capital spending after
scrapping a target for asset disposals of 7 billion euros by the
end of the year. The Essen-based company reported a 28 percent
decline in 2012 net income to 1.31 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  