-- EQT Said to Advance With IPO or Sale of Springer Science
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-14T12:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/eqt-said-to-press-ahead-with-ipo-or-sale-of-springer-science.html
EQT Partners AB is pressing ahead
with plans to sell or hold an initial public offering for
Springer Science & Business Media in a transaction that could
value the German academic publisher at as much as 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion), said people familiar with the matter.  The Swedish buyout firm part-owned by the Wallenberg family
plans to send documents to interested groups this month and
potential buyers have received non-disclosure agreements,
according to the people. EQT is weighing options for the
publisher following improved full-year results, they said.  The Stockholm-based buyout firm, which bought the company
jointly with the  Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  in
2009, is seeking offers of 3 billion euros to 4 billion euros,
people familiar with the matter said in January.  The sale comes as cheap borrowing costs help fuel an 18
percent increase in private-equity transactions this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There’s also been a
pick-up in IPOs. Companies in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa
have raised $4 billion in IPOs this year, compared with $567
million they sold in the same period in 2012, data show.  “The IPO market is very hot now and a lot is going on,”
said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in
 London . The $16 billion takeover of U.K. cable-TV provider
 Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  by Liberty Global Inc. last month was a
“trigger” for the market, which EQT is “responding to,” he
said.  ‘Risky Option’  An IPO is “the most risky option but the most valuable and
EQT possibly pursuing an IPO is quite a statement of intent on
the firmness of the market,” DeGroote said.  An official at EQT declined to comment. Springer Science
spokesman Eric Merkel-Sobotta said “there are discussions
taking place and there’s no time pressure.”  EQT and the Singapore government began working with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in October to prepare
a Springer IPO, which is their preferred option, people familiar
with the matter said then. Earlier this year some potential
buyers balked at the asking price, slowing the process, other
people said.  The business, which publishes 2,000 magazines and 7,000
books every year on subjects including science and medicine, has
attracted interest from companies such as media giant
Bertelsmann SE. The Guetersloh, Germany-based company said
yesterday that it’s no longer interested in Springer Science.  “For Bertelsmann, the area of business information is
considered one of our strategic growth platforms,” Christian
Steinhof, a spokesman for Bertelsmann, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Therefore we’re pursuing several investment options
here -- however Springer Science is not among them.”  London-based Candover Investments Plc and another private
equity firm, Cinven Ltd., formed Springer in 2003 when they
bought Kluwer Academic Publishers and BertelsmannSpringer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  