-- Merkel May Create Energy Ministry as Switch Becomes Vital
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-03-13T09:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/merkel-may-create-energy-ministry-as-switch-becomes-vital.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may set up
a national energy ministry as Germany’s shift from nuclear power
to renewables becomes the crucial task if she’s elected for a
third term in September, a key party ally said.  There will “surely be” an energy ministry or a special
office in the chancellery for energy, as there was for German
reunification after the fall of the  Berlin Wall  in 1989, Reiner Haseloff, state premier of Saxony-Anhalt, said in an interview.  Merkel seeks to more than triple the share of renewables to
80 percent of Germany’s power mix by 2050, with Europe’s biggest
economy set to shutter its nuclear reactors by 2022. The cost
and scope of the 550 billion-euro ($718 billion) project have
moved energy to the center of the political agenda as Merkel
runs for re-election on Sept. 22.  The German energy switch is “a strategic task and indeed
the most strategic task since German reunification in connection
with the economy,” Haseloff, who was his state’s economy
minister from 2006 to 2011, when he became premier, said in the
March 6 interview in Magdeburg. “I was energy and economy
minister for a long time, and on energy and economy themes she
listens especially closely because she knows that I have
specialized knowledge other than, say, a lawyer.”  Both he and Merkel gained doctorates in physics after
growing up in communist East  Germany . Merkel leads Germany’s
ruling  Christian Democratic Union  and Haseloff serves on its
executive committee.  The opposition  Social Democratic Party  has accused Merkel
of mismanaging the energy switch.  Peer Steinbrueck , the party’s
chancellor candidate, said in December that voters live in fear
of power outages and price increases because of government
missteps. Germany had the third-most expensive household
electricity in the 27-nation European Union in 2012 after
Denmark and Cyprus, according to EU  data .  No Fracking  Haseloff said that while he’s concerned about energy
prices, Germany won’t embrace fracking for natural gas because
of environmental concerns.  “I’ve seen it” in the U.S., he said. “Such a thing would
be unthinkable in  Europe  and Saxony-Anhalt,” Haseloff said,
adding that he expects U.S. voters to rebel against a massive
spread of fracking and that this will cause American gas and
energy prices to rise in the medium term.  Yet he acknowledged that current low energy costs in the
U.S. are a good way to push forward an industrial revival and
that high power prices in Germany are a concern.  “I just spoke with people from Dow, who have a facility in
Saxony-Anhalt and are facing a decision in their headquarters on
‘where do we go? Do we expand our plant in Schkopau or go to an
Arab country or do we go to the U.S., given the gas prices?’”
he said.  The  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , which has 5,400 workers at its plants
in Saxony-Anhalt, is the state’s second-biggest employer,
according to data from the premier’s office  “It’s an existential question,” Haseloff said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  