-- Tesco Buys Giraffe Chain as It Eyes Expanding Restaurant Offer
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-03-13T10:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/tesco-buys-giraffe-chain-as-it-eyes-expanding-restaurant-offer.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s biggest
grocer, agreed to buy the Giraffe restaurant group today for
48.6 million pounds ($72.7 million) in a bid to expand the
services offered to customers.  Tesco will gain 48 restaurants, it said, including
franchises in airports. The acquisition will help Tesco create
“compelling retail destinations where customers can meet, eat
and drink, as well as shop.” The first Giraffe to open next to
a Tesco store will be near London, it said.  Giraffe’s founders, Russel and Juliette Joffe, will
continue to work for the chain. Risk Capital Partners Ltd. and
 3i Group Plc (III)  have sold a combined stake and are no longer
involved in the business. 3i said it invested 10 million pounds
in the business in 2006 and that today’s sale earned it a
multiple of 1.6 times its investment.  “We invest in businesses that add value for our customers
online or offline,” Kevin Grace, Tesco’s group commercial
director, said on the company’s  website . “Giraffe is hugely
popular with a wide range of ages and particularly families –-
we think our customers will love it.” Giraffe sells “fresh,
seasonal” food including a “range of global dishes,” Tesco
said.  Tesco has been fighting back for share against upscale
chains including Waitrose and discounters Aldi and Lidl,
pledging to invest 1 billion pounds to add staff, refresh its
products and brighten stores. Kantar Worldpanel data released in
January showed that the retailer matched market growth for the
first time in 18 months. Tesco’s market share declined in
February.  Tesco’s shares fell as much as 0.8 percent and traded down
0.6 percent, or 2.45 pence, at 378 pence at 10:52 a.m. in
 London . The Telegraph newspaper had reported the Giraffe
acquisition before the market opened this morning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  