-- EU May Put Short-Term Bank Creditors in Firing Line for Losses
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-13T16:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/eu-may-put-short-term-bank-creditors-in-firing-line-for-losses.html
Overnight interbank loans may no
longer be safe from losses when a lender fails, according to new
European Union proposals to force costs on to creditors before
turning to taxpayers.  Liabilities of less than one month had been shielded from
EU plans to standardize how financial failures are handled
across the 27-nation bloc. Now nations are weighing changes to
EU financial services Commissioner Michel Barnier’s proposed
rules for imposing bank-creditor losses, according to the
document prepared by Ireland, which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The draft law should treat debts with the same level of
seniority equally as much as possible, according to the
document, dated Feb. 27. Regulators could be given some scope to
exempt certain classes of creditors from writedowns on a case-
by-case basis, and short-term liabilities could be added to
offset the effect of taking those exceptions out of the pool of
assets that can be targeted, the document showed.  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
European Parliament to agree on legislation setting out how
authorities should handle bank failures, including through so-
called creditor bail-ins. In the absence of such a system,
nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) into
their banking systems since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., according to European Commission data.  Senior bank bondholders are in the crosshairs as the
unsecured creditors who might be most affected.  ‘Extra Buffer’  The Netherlands, where three of the four biggest lenders
are receiving state aid, has put forward recommendations to
clarify and augment the original EU design. The Dutch approach
would create an extra buffer layer of cash, capital and debt
that could absorb losses ahead of senior bondholders.  “This extra buffer by no means implies a soft or watered
down approach, rather on the contrary,” the Dutch Finance
Ministry said today in a statement. “In the Dutch approach, an
extra buffer is introduced, but if this buffer is insufficient
to cover losses the remainder of the balance sheet should be
subject to bail-in.”  The Netherlands did not tap senior bondholders when it
nationalized  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  on Feb. 1. The Finance Ministry cited
the lack of harmonized EU rules, which are needed to create more
certainty for investors.  Governments have differing views on how to alter Barnier’s
bank resolution plan, according to the Irish presidency
document, which doesn’t identify national positions. Exemptions
could potentially be granted for assets including uninsured
deposits, derivatives counterparties and short-term funding
loans between banks.  Convertible Debt  Nations are weighing a proposal similar to the Dutch plan
that would allow regulators to require banks to hold a minimum
amount of a new class of convertible debt specifically designed
to absorb losses if needed, according to the paper. Some
countries want to go further and require such buffer layers for
all lenders.  Loss-taking rules will affect the size and scope of
government funds to handle resolution costs and reimburse
insured depositors, the paper said. Under current proposals,
countries would need to have separate, industry-funded
resolution and deposit-guarantee funds.  The Irish presidency document says that deposit-guarantee
funds could provide short-term funding when banks are shut down
as long as the banks are closed and losses recouped. Such funds
shouldn’t be used to help a bank recover, according to the
document.  A spokeswoman for Ireland’s EU presidency, who couldn’t be
named in line with official policy, declined to immediately
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  