-- EU Nears Deal on Boosting EBA Powers in ECB Oversight Talks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-13T14:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/eu-nears-deal-on-boosting-eba-powers-in-ecb-oversight-talks.html
The European Union is nearing a
deal to enhance the powers of the European Banking Authority, a
step that would pave the way for setting up a single supervisor
for euro-area banks.  Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and
European Parliament legislators are seeking an accord on
legislation to transfer bank oversight responsibilities to the
 European Central Bank  “by the end of March,” according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . Lawmakers in the assembly
have insisted that the step must be accompanied by safeguards
and upgraded powers for the London-based EBA, which coordinates
regulators across the 27-nation EU.  “Many of the concerns expressed by the European
Parliament” on the role of the EBA “have been met,” according
to the document prepared by Ireland and dated March 11.
Provisional agreements have been reached on an “extensive
overhaul of the EBA tasks and powers.”  EU leaders have said that a deal on ECB bank oversight is
essential to overcoming the bloc’s fiscal crisis, which has led
five euro-area countries to seek international aid. Governments
agreed last year that the establishment of the single supervisor
would unlock the possibility for the currency bloc’s firewall
fund to provide direct bailouts for banks.  A March deal on the supervisory legislation could allow the
ECB to fully assume oversight tasks by July 2014, according to
the document.  As part of the package, officials and lawmakers have
tentatively agreed to an “upgrade of the EBA role” in
approving so-called living wills for systemic banks and in
meetings of regulators overseeing multinational lenders.  The EBA would also be charged with developing a handbook
for national regulators. Talks are continuing on whether the EBA
should be obliged to “annually assess the need for conducting a
 stress test ” of the bloc’s banks, according to the document.  Irish officials and parliament lawmakers are scheduled to
hold further talks on the draft laws on March 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  