-- EU Parliament Outlines Negotiating Stance Over 2014-2020 Budget
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-13T11:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/eu-parliament-outlines-negotiating-stance-over-2014-2020-budget.html
The  European Parliament  signaled a
readiness to accept a lower seven-year budget ceiling demanded
by government heads last month in return for more flexibility
over annual spending and a mid-term review.  The European Union’s national leaders proposed at a Feb. 7-
8 meeting to fix the EU’s budget for 2014-2020 at 960 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion), which the bloc’s Parliament has said is
too little. The sum, down from an original proposal of 1.047
trillion euros and less than the 994 billion euros committed in
the current budget cycle, would mark the first shrinking of the
EU’s “Multiannual Financial Framework.”  “ This agreement , which will bind the union for the next
seven years, cannot be accepted without the fulfillment of
certain essential conditions,” the 27-nation EU assembly, which
is gearing up for negotiations with national governments on a
final deal, said in resolution today in Strasbourg,  France .  The Parliament demanded “the maximum overall flexibility
between and within headings, as well as between financial
years.” The 754-seat assembly, due to hold elections next year,
also urged a mid-term review of the 2014-2020 budget to give
newly elected members a say and to allow for possible changes
should  Europe ’s economic situation require.  The EU’s seven-year  budget guidelines , traditionally a
tussle between richer nations that are net contributors and
poorer countries mainly in eastern and southern Europe, are a
gauge of the bloc’s political mood and coherence. Regional and
agricultural aid soaks up around four-fifths of EU expenditure,
funding everything from transport networks to farmers’ incomes.  National Spending  European spending is about 1 percent of EU gross domestic
product compared with national spending in the bloc that is
around 50 percent of domestic GDP. The debate over 2014-2020 EU
spending has taken on added significance as the bloc seeks to
contain the three-year-old debt crisis that has threatened to
break up the 17-nation euro.  The accord struck in early February by EU government
leaders came at a gathering that lasted 25 1/2 hours and
followed a failed attempt in November. The richest EU countries
including  Germany  and the U.K. insisted on a reduction, saying
it would be consistent with efforts by national governments to
narrow their budget deficits.  EU Parliament members have argued that European expenditure
is a collective investment tool that becomes more important
during a time of national austerity. The assembly must approve
the 2014-2020 spending plan along with national governments,
which finance 70 percent of the EU budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  