-- Euro-Region Industrial Output Drops as Slump Persists: Economy
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-03-13T11:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/euro-area-january-industrial-output-declines-more-than-estimated.html
Euro-area industrial output fell
more than economists forecast in January, adding to signs that
the region’s recession extended into the first quarter.  Factory production in the 17-nation  euro zone  dropped 0.4
percent from December, when it rose a revised 0.9 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. The
median forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 32 economists was
for a 0.1 percent decline. Production fell 1.3 percent in
January from a year earlier.  The euro-region economy is struggling to regain momentum
after  five straight quarters  of contraction, with unemployment
at a record 11.9 percent. The economy will shrink again in the
first three months of 2013 before returning to growth, according
to a separate Bloomberg survey, while the  European Central Bank 
has forecast a 0.5 percent contraction this year.  It’s a “timely reminder that, despite the improvement in
business and financial  market sentiment , the region may have
remained in recession in the first quarter,” said  Ben May , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “With business
surveys still pointing to further falls in production, it
appears unlikely that the industrial sector is on the cusp of a
sustained recovery.”  The euro declined 0.1 percent against the dollar today and
was at $1.3017 as of 10:47 a.m. London time.  Manufacturing Index  Euro-area manufacturing remained weak in February,
according to Markit Economics Ltd. Its  monthly factory index 
held at 47.9 last month, below the 50 mark that divides
contraction from expansion. The gauge has been below that level
for more than a year and a half.  “The euro zone’s economic recovery is likely to be
excruciatingly slow,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “With growth so weak and
inflation likely to continue to fall toward low levels, we think
there is room for more stimulus and the ECB should be more
proactive.”  Industrial output in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
slipped 0.4 percent in January after a 0.8 percent gain in
December, today’s report showed. France reported a decline of
1.2 percent, while Spanish output rose 0.6 percent. The
statistics office didn’t report data for  Italy . Energy output
dropped 1 percent, while durable  consumer goods  slumped 1.4
percent and capital-goods production fell 1.2 percent.  Tensions Ease  “While sovereign debt tensions have eased markedly overall
since autumn 2012 and business and, to a lesser extent,  consumer
confidence  has improved, this is yet to really feed through to
lift economic activity in most euro-zone countries,” said
 Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in London.  In a sign of those reduced tensions, Ireland held its first
sale of 10-year bonds since a 2010 bailout today. It drew least
7 billion euros ($9.1 billion) of bids, according to people
familiar with the matter. Ireland is seeking to become the first
nation to leave a bailout program since the euro-area debt
crisis started.  Elsewhere, data showed  French inflation  cooled for a sixth
month in February. Consumer prices climbed 1.2 percent from a
year earlier on an EU harmonized basis, the slowest pace in
three years, down from 1.4 percent in January. In  Spain ,  core
inflation  accelerated to 2.3 percent from 2.2 percent. The rate
excludes energy and fresh-food prices.  China Alert  In China, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the
country should be on “high alert” over inflation after
February’s figures exceeded forecasts. Consumer-price growth,
distorted by the week-long Lunar New Year holiday, accelerated
to a 10-month high of 3.2 percent.  Monetary policy  is “no longer relaxed” and is
“relatively neutral” as demonstrated by a 13 percent target
for money-supply growth that’s tighter than expansion in the
last two years, said Zhou, head of the People’s Bank of China.
The comments add to signs that officials are tightening policies
even as the recovery in the world’s second-biggest economy shows
signs of weakness.  Sales at  U.S. retailers  probably rose in February for a
fourth month, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.5 percent advance would follow a 0.1
percent gain in January, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 82 economists. Retail sales excluding auto
dealers and gasoline stations probably rose 0.2 percent, the
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  