-- Ex-Credit Suisse Trader Higgs Is Cooperating, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-13T22:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/ex-credit-suisse-trader-higgs-is-cooperating-u-s-says.html
Ex- Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  trader
 David Higgs  may testify against Kareem Serageldin, the former
global head of the bank’s CDO business charged in a bonus-
boosting fraud scheme, U.S. prosecutors said.  Serageldin, who worked for Credit Suisse in  London , was
charged last year in federal court in New York with
masterminding a scheme to fake collateralized debt obligations.
Higgs is a former managing director of  investment banking  in
London who worked for Serageldin.  Higgs and Salmaan Siddiqui, a former colleague, pleaded
guilty to falsifying prices tied to CDOs at Serageldin’s
direction. Both men are cooperating with the U.S.  The men said that as the real-estate market began to
deteriorate in 2007, the valuations of mortgage-backed
securities also faced declines. Serageldin directed subordinates
to manipulate trading book positions to hide losses and boost
year-end bonuses, Higgs said.  “The defendant continues to cooperate with the
government,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Eugene Ingoglia said in a
letter to U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan. “The defendant may
be called upon to testify in  United States  v. Kareem
Serageldin.”  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen, was arrested in September by
London police as he was negotiating his surrender to U.S.
authorities. He was later released and his U.K. lawyer, Ben
Brandon, told a London court he was in plea talks with U.S.
authorities.  Serageldin’s Attorney  Sean Casey, a lawyer for Serageldin at Kobre & Kim LLP in
New York, declined to comment about the prosecutor’s letter.  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank said in 2008 it would
take writedowns on asset-backed securities after finding
“mismarkings” by traders.  Higgs and Siddiqui said they manipulated the profit and
loss targets at Serageldin’s direction to meet daily and monthly
goals and increase their compensation. The bank said the three
were fired in 2008.  The bank said it would write down $2.65 billion after a
review found pricing errors on residential mortgage-backed bonds
and CDOs made “by a small number” of traders who were
subsequently fired or suspended.  Serageldin was accused in an indictment unsealed in
February 2012 of conspiracy, falsification of books and records
and wire fraud. The conspiracy charge carries a maximum five-
year prison term. The other counts are punishable by as many as
20 years.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 1:12-cr-00088, U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 1:12-cr-00089, and U.S. v. Serageldin, 1:12-cr-00090,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 