-- Ex-Giants Quarterback Hostetler Takes High School Coaching Job
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-13T17:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/ex-giants-quarterback-hostetler-takes-high-school-coaching-job.html
New York  Giants Super Bowl-winning
quarterback Jeff Hostetler is returning to the football field as
a high school coach.  The 51-year-old has accepted the head coaching position at
 Trinity Christian School , a private school in his hometown of
Morgantown,  West Virginia , Superintendent Ken Howard said today
in a telephone interview.  Hostetler, who played at  West Virginia University  in
Morgantown prior to leading the Giants to a  Super Bowl  title
following the 1990 season, has been an active leader in the
community, making him a good candidate for a growing program,
Howard said.  “There is definitely a buzz -- lots of positive comments
from families and kids here in the school,” Howard said.  Howard declined say how much Hostetler would be paid. An e-
mail to the former National Football League quarterback seeking
comment on his new job wasn’t immediately returned.  The school’s football team competed in six-on-six contests
the past two years and will move up to 11-man junior varsity
this year, with a plan of becoming full varsity in 2014, Howard
said.  Jeff’s son Justin will be the assistant head coach, Howard
said. Football will be one of nine varsity sports offered by the
305-student school, which runs from kindergarten through 12th
grade.  Selected by the Giants in the third round of the 1984
draft, Hostetler spent seven seasons in New York, first as a
backup to Phil Simms and later as a starter. In 1990, after
Simms broke his foot, Hostetler led the team to the Super Bowl,
where he threw for 222 yards and a score in a 20-19 win over the
 Buffalo Bills .  Hostetler started his collegiate career at  Penn State  and
finished at West Virginia. He played four seasons with the Los
Angeles and Oakland Raiders before ending his career in 1997
with the  Washington Redskins .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  