-- Ex-Jefferies Trader Litvak’s Fraud Trial Set for February
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2013-03-13T21:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/ex-jefferies-trader-litvak-s-fraud-trial-set-for-february.html
Ex- Jefferies & Co. (JEF)  managing
director Jesse C. Litvak will go on trial in February on charges
that he defrauded customers of more than $2 million on trades of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Litvak, 38, of  New York , was arrested Jan. 28 and charged
with 16 counts including  securities fraud , fraud connected with
the Troubled Asset Relief Program and making false statements to
the federal government.  Alleged victims include “numerous” investment funds,
among them six established by the U.S. Treasury Department in
2009 as part of its response to the financial crisis, according
to Connecticut U.S. Attorney David Fein. Litvak, who has been
sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, is also
accused of defrauding private investment funds.  Jury selection in the case had been scheduled to start in
April. During a hearing in  New Haven  today, Judge Janet C. Hall
said she expects jury selection in the trial to begin in late
February of next year, giving both sides plenty of time to
resolve financial issues and to pore through 400,000 pages of
documents.  “You will go on trial in February -- whatever or high
water,” Hall said, adding that the trial will commence even if
the government issues new indictments that produce additional
defendants.  ‘Funding Issues’  Patrick J. Smith, Litvak’s attorney, said he needed more
time to “resolve the funding issues.” Litvak and Jefferies are
engaged in legal action over his termination agreement, and
Litvak needs the money in order to proceed, Smith said.  “We just can’t go out and get experts with the budget
we’re working on,” Smith said.  Litvak said in a Delaware Chancery Court filing in October
that he was under investigation by the U.S. attorney for
 Connecticut , the Office of the Special Inspector General for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, Finra and the SEC, and that he
was seeking money from Jefferies to cover his legal expenses.  The firm said in a court filing that the matter should be
resolved in arbitration, and a special master recommended
earlier this month that Litvak’s complaint be dismissed in
favor of arbitration. Litvak has opposed the special master’s
recommendation, and both parties have requested an expedited
hearing to consider Litvak’s proposed challenges.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Francis said the
government preferred to try the case later this year, adding
Litvak has made more than $8 million in his three years at
Jefferies.  “He has more than enough resources to prepare for his
defense,” Francis said.  The criminal case is USA v. Litvak, 3:13-cr-00019-JCH-1,
and the civil case is SEC v. Litvak, 13-cv-00132, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net :
 John Dillon  in U.S. District Court in New Haven, Connecticut,
at   jdillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  