-- Mexican Peso Gains for Fifth Day on Export Outlook; Bonds Rally
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-13T21:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/mexican-peso-rallies-most-in-emerging-markets-on-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso rose for a fifth day
as a gain in U.S. retail sales boosted the outlook for exports a
day after  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on the Latin
American nation to positive.  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent to 12.4324 per dollar at 3
p.m. in Mexico City, the strongest level on a closing basis
since September 2011. The stretch of daily increases is the
longest this year.  The peso’s rally is being fueled by “the good data in the
U.S.,” Roberto Galvan, a currency trader at Intercam Casa de
Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.  Today’s advance followed a 0.8 percent surge yesterday
after S&P said it may raise Mexico’s BBB credit rating. The peso
has been the world’s best-performing major currency against the
dollar since March 8, when policy makers said that their
reduction of the policy rate to 4 percent from 4.5 percent
“doesn’t represent the start of a cycle.”  Prospects for legislative changes that bolster the
country’s finances and fuel growth have improved, S&P said in a
report yesterday. It cut Mexico’s rating in 2009 one level to
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, as the economy
contracted 6.2 percent.  The peso rose today after the U.S. Commerce Department
reported that sales at retailers rose in February by the most in
five months, fueling economic optimism for the country that is
the destination for about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  While a stronger peso may eventually hurt exporters,
today’s U.S. retail sales report is positive for sellers of
Mexican goods abroad,  Mario Copca , a currency and fixed-income
strategist at Metanalisis SA in Mexico City, said by phone.  Yields on fixed-rate debt maturing in 2024 fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.88 percent, a record-low
close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  