-- Extra Support for South Korean Economy Eyed by Finance Nominee
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-03-13T03:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/extra-support-for-south-korean-economy-eyed-by-finance-nominee.html
South Korea Finance Minister
nominee Hyun Oh Seok said Asia’s fourth-biggest economy needs a
policy boost, speaking to lawmakers the day before a central
bank monetary-policy meeting.  The nation needs “short-term policy support” to spur
growth, Hyun, 62, head of the  Korea Development Institute , said
at a parliamentary confirmation hearing today. “We will
consider various policy measures including fiscal and financial
support as well as measures to spur the  property market .”  Investors are assessing the likelihood of fiscal stimulus
after President Park Geun Hye took office on Feb. 25 and as
weakness in the yen aids export rivals in Japan. The central
bank will leave  interest rates  unchanged tomorrow, according to
the median forecast of analysts in a  Bloomberg News survey .  “Fiscal stimulus is fast medicine,” said Wai Ho Leong, a
senior regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore, adding
that a package of such measures would have a more immediate
effect on the economy than a rate cut.  South Korea’s economy may grow in a 2 percent range this
year, Hyun told the lawmakers, an estimate that compares with
the 2.8 percent forecast of the Bank of Korea.  While Park doesn’t need lawmakers’ approval to appoint Hyun
as finance minister, their support is needed for him to be named
as deputy prime minister.  Hyun has a Ph.D. in economics from the University of
Pennsylvania and worked for the  World Bank  and South Korea’s
 finance ministry  before becoming head of a state-run research
organization, according to his profile from the finance
ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  