-- Exxon Sees North America Exporting 15% Gas, 5% Oil by 2040
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-03-14T00:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/exxon-sees-north-america-exporting-15-of-gas-5-of-oil-by-2040.html
  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest
U.S. oil company, said  North America  may be able to export 15
percent of its natural gas output and 5 percent of oil by 2040
as the region’s production surges and demand stalls.  North America probably will become a net energy exporter by
about 2025, after importing 35 percent of its oil in 2010,
Irving, Texas-based Exxon said in an energy outlook report
released today. Asia Pacific countries may import almost 40
percent of their total energy needs by 2040 as demand increases.  “After decades of relatively flat production, output of
oil and other liquid fuels in North America is projected to rise
by about 40 percent from 2010 to 2040,” Exxon said in the
report. Meanwhile, “overall U.S. energy consumption is expected
to gradually plateau and then decline by about 5 percent from
2010 to 2040.”  Technological advances have helped tap oil and gas from
shale-rock formations, as well as extracting it from  oil sands 
and deep-water prospects in North America. Monthly U.S. oil
production exceeded 7 million barrels a day in November, for the
first time in 20 years. The  International Energy Agency  said in
November the U.S. is poised to surpass  Saudi Arabia  as a crude
producer in the next decade.  U.S. liquefied natural gas exports will stay below 10
billion cubic feet a day, Bill Colton, Exxon’s vice president
for corporate strategic planning, said during a presentation on
the outlook at  Rice University  in Houston.  Emissions Price  Exxon assumes that at some point in the next 30 years
governments around the world will begin putting a price on
 carbon emissions , Colton said. Exxon sees a possible price of
$60 a ton of carbon dioxide emitted in the U.S. in 2030.  Under that circumstance, the price to burn coal to generate
electricity jumps well above gas, which has about 50 percent
fewer emissions, Colton said.  “Coal’s got a lot of environmental pushback, wind and
solar are growing but they’re limited from a practical
standpoint, nuclear is also limited from practical and political
considerations,” he said. “That provides this huge opening for
natural gas as sort of the fuel of choice for the future.”  More use of gas instead of coal and increased output from
nuclear and renewable energy sources will reduce U.S.
greenhouse-gas emissions, Exxon said. Carbon-dioxide emissions
may drop more than 25 percent by 2040 to the lowest levels since
the 1970s, the company said.  Blend Wall  Exxon wants the U.S. government to revise its rules for
blending ethanol into gasoline to cap the level at 10 percent of
total gasoline consumption, Colton said.  Automobile manufacturers aren’t comfortable with ethanol
making up more than 10 percent of fuel blend, he said.
Government regulations are calling for the total amount of
ethanol to be blended into gasoline this year to be greater than
10 percent of total expected gasoline demand.  “We call it the blend wall,” Colton said. “The problem
is, when they set those mandates and they have them growing, I
don’t think they realized demand for gasoline would be
shrinking.  ‘‘It’s just another reason why it’s difficult to make
gasoline, and frankly it puts cost pressures on making
gasoline,” he said. “So we think it’s in the general good to
cap it at 10 percent, and even less would be a bonus for
consumers.”  In December, Exxon released a broader report with its
global energy outlook, boosting its long-term estimate for
worldwide demand growth to 35 percent from 32 percent as
expanding populations in Africa and  India  use more electricity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  