-- Fabricato Investor Alianza Calls for Investor Coordinatio
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-03-13T18:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/fabricato-investor-alianza-calls-for-investor-coordinatio.html
Alianza Fiduciaria SA, manager of
Colombian trusts that became the biggest shareholders in
textile-maker Fabricato SA after the default of stock loans, is
calling for other investors stuck with the shares to coordinate
their exit plan.  “We and a lot of other people like us are in this same
situation as new  shareholders  in the company,” Alianza
President Luis Fernando Guzman said yesterday in an interview in
Bogota. “With a large enough group, we can look at what the
company has, how the market is developing.”  The textile maker was the target last year of a failed
control bid by an investor group backed by the financial firm
Interbolsa SA. Many of the traders had built up their stakes
using stock loans provided by other investors, according to
government officials.  Fabricato, whose shares were suspended by the stock
exchange in November, tumbled 71 percent last week after trading
resumed. Investors including Alianza were left holding Fabricato
shares received as collateral from traders who walked away from
their stock loans.  Bogota-based Alianza’s trusts were left with a 16 percent
stake, while closely-held Alianza holds another 2 percent as of
March 8, according to a  Fabricato filing .  “Our plan right now isn’t to sell or not to sell, it’s to
look and study, to expand the information we have about the
company in order to make our decision,” Guzman said. “We need
to look at what the company’s situation is and what alternatives
it has.”  Medellin-based Fabricato was unchanged at 11:15 a.m. today
in Bogota.  Interbolsa, based in Bogota, is being liquidated by the
Colombian government after its brokerage firm, formerly the
country’s biggest, collapsed last year.  For Related News and Information:
Top Stories:{TOP<GO  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  