-- Fed to Release Statment, Projections on March 20 at 2 PM
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-13T22:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/fed-to-release-statment-projections-on-march-20-at-2-pm.html
The Federal Reserve starting next
week will cut to 30 minutes the gap between the release of the
Federal Open Market Committee policy statements and the start of
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s press conferences.  The central bank will release the FOMC statement and the
Summary of Economic Projections at 2 p.m.  Washington  time,
followed by Bernanke’s briefing to reporters at about 2:30 p.m.,
 the Fed  said today in a statement. Prior FOMC statements were
released at about 12:30 p.m. on press conference days, with
Bernanke starting his briefing at 2:15 p.m.  The change will “better facilitate the release of
information in conjunction with the chairman’s quarterly news
conferences,” the Fed said in a statement today in Washington.  Fed officials, who are scheduled to gather March 19-20 in
Washington, are modifying their communications policy almost two
years after Bernanke began giving press conferences in April
2011. The Fed chairman has increased transparency in how the
central bank sets monetary policy as he deployed complex and
unorthodox tools to spur economic growth.  “It makes sense to have a shorter period between the time
a policy change is announced and  Chairman Bernanke ’s
explanation,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson
ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey. It’s “shortening the
period of uncertainty between the statement and press
conference.”  Town Hall  Bernanke during the past four years has sought out more
opportunities to directly speak to the public. He sat for
interviews with  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “60 Minutes” program in 2009 and
2010, and led a town-hall-style discussion on PBS television.  Bernanke toured a Philadelphia shipyard and a Tasty Baking
Co. cupcake factory in 2010 and traveled to El Paso,  Texas , in
2011 to speak to soldiers at Fort Bliss.  The Fed has also been disclosing more information. The
FOMC’s 19 participants at their January 2012 meeting began
releasing their projections for the path of the Fed’s target
interest rate. The committee in December agreed to link its
zero-rate policy to thresholds for unemployment and inflation so
investors and households know what conditions will prompt the
Fed to consider raising its record-low interest rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  