-- Fidelity to Rely on BlackRock’s IShares Line in ETF Push
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-03-13T17:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/fidelity-to-rely-on-blackrock-s-ishares-line-in-etf-push.html
Fidelity Investments , the asset
manager that watched from the sidelines as exchange-traded funds
went from zero to $1.4 trillion over the past 20 years, is
increasing its reliance on  BlackRock Inc.’s (BLK)  iShares to compete
in the business.  The number of ETFs from BlackRock’s iShares that can be
traded commission-free by Fidelity clients will more than double
to 65, according to a statement today from Boston-based Fidelity
and New York-based BlackRock. ETFs from iShares, the industry’s
largest provider, will be used within Fidelity’s managed
accounts later this year, and BlackRock will help Fidelity
develop ETFs tied to sector strategies. In exchange, BlackRock
will reach more U.S. retail investors directly.  The partnership shows how Fidelity, the 67-year-old firm
led by Edward C. Johnson III and known for such innovations as
direct sales to individual investors and income-oriented stock
funds, is getting more aggressive in trying to benefit from the
growth in ETFs even without its own lineup on the market. The
deal helps BlackRock vie for individual investors with such
firms as Charles Schwab Corp., which said last month it was
expanding commission-free trading in ETFs by partnering with
State Street Corp. and Invesco Ltd.  “Growth in the ETF marketplace has continued strongly and
is going to continue to grow over the next decade,” Kathleen Murphy, president of personal investing at Fidelity, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We want to make sure we provide
a compelling offer to our investors.”  Brisk Growth  The ETF business has grown rapidly over the past two
decades, benefiting money managers such as BlackRock, Vanguard
Group Inc. and State Street. In the 12 months ended Jan. 31,  ETF
assets  in the U.S. increased 24 percent to $1.4 trillion,
compared with about 3 percent for mutual funds, which hold $13.4
trillion, according to data from the Washington-based  Investment
Company Institute .  Fidelity, which managed $1.7 trillion in assets as of Jan.
31, said its operating income declined 29 percent last year as
pressure on fees, low  interest rates  and redemptions from its
active equity funds hurt revenue. Investors pulled a net $5.3
billion from Fidelity’s asset-management unit, including $35.3
billion from equity funds. BlackRock, which is the world’s
largest asset manager, saw its  operating income  rise 8.5 percent
in 2012. The firm’s stock and bond ETFs drew $82 billion in
client deposits last year, more than offsetting the $18 billion
in withdrawals from active stock funds, as total assets reached
a record $3.8 trillion.  Expanded Offerings  Fidelity has been working toward opening a series of
actively managed ETFs. The firm hired Anthony Rochte from State
Street to head the effort in March 2012 and filed a request with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in December to open a
wide range of active funds, starting with a bond fund.  “If you’re going to go to a battleship party, you’d better
bring a battleship,” James Lowell, editor of Fidelity Investor,
an independent newsletter in Needham,  Massachusetts , said in an
e-mail. “Fidelity’s lineup enables them to return the
broadsides launched by both Schwab and Vanguard and others,
while safeguarding their brand.”  BlackRock and Fidelity agreed to offer 25 iShares funds
commission-free to Fidelity’s clients in February 2010, and the
lineup was expanded to 30 a year later. The 65 funds now made
available without commissions include the 10 iShares core ETFs
that BlackRock introduced in October as well as products that
invest in other international and domestic stocks, fixed income,
commodities and specialized equities.  RIA Access  Registered investment advisers will also be able to access
the ETFs commission-free. The funds will be sold through
Fidelity’s retail brokerage business.  The companies don’t have a revenue-sharing agreement in
place, which is intended to defray servicing costs to provide
the funds without commissions, said Mark Wiedman, global head of
iShares. For iShares ETFs, Fidelity receives compensation from
the ETF sponsor, its affiliates or both as part of an exclusive,
long-term marketing program that includes promotion of iShares
funds and their inclusion in certain platforms, according to
today’s statement.  In 2012, BlackRock made changes to its ETF unit after
losing market share to Vanguard, which has boosted assets in the
funds with lower-cost products. BlackRock saw its U.S. ETF
market share fall 1 percentage point in 2012 to 41.8 percent,
compared with an increase of 2.1 percentage points for Vanguard
to 18.3 percent, according to  State Street Global Advisors .  Core Series  BlackRock in October created the iShares Core Series, which
is made up of six ETFs with lowered fees and four new ones, to
attract individual and institutional clients looking to invest
over the long term. It had earlier combined the sales teams for
iShares and BlackRock’s retail funds to increase market share.
The company also started a five-year branding campaign last year
and the latest iteration recommends investors put their money in
ETFs, high-quality stocks and products that generate higher
income.  “This is pulling together a fourth and critical plank to
service direct customers,” Wiedman said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “This is a big step in connecting with
that client base, which we don’t speak to today directly.”  BlackRock, which  acquired  iShares as part of its purchase
of  Barclays Global Investors  in December 2009, is unique among
money managers in having almost equally big businesses devoted
to passive and active strategies. BlackRock had $728 billion in
its iShares stock and bond funds as of Dec. 31. The firm had
about $944 billion in active stock and bond strategies, and $110
billion in alternatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  