-- Fisker Automotive Co-Founder Resigns as Chairman
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-03-13T21:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/fisker-automotive-co-founder-resigns-as-chairman.html
Henrik Fisker, the auto designer
who co-founded luxury plug-in hybrid manufacturer Fisker
Automotive Inc., said he resigned over disagreements with the 
company’s other executives.  Fisker’s resignation from the Anaheim, California-based
company as executive chairman was effective yesterday, he said
in an e-mail. Fisker, 49, confirmed his exit in a telephone
interview. The company, seeking investors to fund operations,
doesn’t expect the departure to affect that search, according to
an e-mailed statement from the automaker.  Henrik Fisker in his e-mail said he’s leaving because of
“several major disagreements” with the carmaker’s executive
management on its business strategy. He didn’t elaborate.  Fisker Automotive is weighing multiple bids from companies
willing to help it stay in business, including a $350 million
offer from Dongfeng Motor Corp. that would give the Chinese
carmaker majority control, people with knowledge of the matter
told  Bloomberg News  last month.  The maker of $103,000 Karma sedans has said it’s seeking
additional investment and potential partners to sustain and
expand sales of the Karma and the Atlantic, a lower priced plug-
in hybrid the company had wanted to build at a renovated factory
in  Delaware .  Plans Unchanged  “The company has a strong and experienced management team,
and its strategy has not changed,” the automaker said in its
statement yesterday. “Mr. Fisker’s departure is not expected to
impact the company’s pursuit of strategic partnerships and
financing to support Fisker Automotive’s continued progress as a
pioneer of low-emission hybrid electric powertrain technology.”  Work on the Delaware plant stopped a year ago, after Fisker
Automotive said access to a low-interest federal loan it
received for the plant project was blocked for failing to meet a
timetable agreed to with the Energy Department for delivery and
sales of the Karma. That vehicle is built under contract by
Valmet Automotive Oy in  Finland , and goes as far as 40 miles (64
kilometers) on electricity before a gasoline engine kicks in.  The resignation “certainly won’t do the company any
favors,” said Ed Kim, an auto industry analyst for AutoPacific
Inc. in Tustin,  California . “From a public perspective, it
would be taken as a sign of further unrest and some problems if
the founder leaves.”  Henrik Fisker, who had designed high-end  sports cars  for
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW and  Aston Martin , co-founded
Fisker Automotive in 2007 with Bernhard Koehler, who remains at
the company.  New Leaders  Henrik Fisker yielded the chief executive officer post in
February 2012 to Tom LaSorda, a past president of the
predecessor of Chrysler Group LLC.  Tony Posawatz , a former
 General Motors Co. (GM)  executive, took over as CEO in August.  The company was awarded a $529 million Energy Department
loan in 2009 to develop and build its vehicles. Bill Gibbons, an
Energy Department spokesman, yesterday declined to comment about
Henrik Fisker’s resignation.  Karma production halted last year following the bankruptcy
of battery supplier  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , maker of the lithium-ion
cells used in the Fisker Automotive model. Henrik Fisker said
last month at the Chicago Auto Show that production of Karmas
would resume “fairly soon,” without elaborating.  The company also said in August it would recall the Karma
to fix a flawed cooling fan linked to a California fire.  “Those problems would be tough if you were General Motors,
let alone if you are a small company with much more limited
funds,” said Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, a
consulting firm in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . Henrik Fisker
“brought the design expertise personally.”  Wanxiang Group Co. in January won approval from the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. to buy most of
A123’s assets. Wanxiang in January said it wants to support
Fisker, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  