-- Florida’s Lieutenant Governor Resigns in Setback for Scott
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-03-13T20:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/florida-lieutenant-governor-carroll-resigns-amid-investigation.html
Florida ’s lieutenant governor
resigned amid a racketeering investigation that resulted in
charges for 57 people, the latest setback for her boss,
Republican Governor  Rick Scott .  Jennifer Carroll’s resignation was spurred by a probe into
Allied Veterans of the World Inc. & Affiliates, Scott said at
news conference today in Tallahassee, the capital. Carroll, 53,
once counted the Jacksonville-based nonprofit -- which
authorities say was a front for gambling rather than a charity -
- among the clients of her public-relations firm.  Scott said that by resigning “she did the right thing for
the state and for her family.”  He picked Carroll, a former state representative who is the
first black person to hold the post, as his running mate in the
2010 election. Her resignation is the latest reverse for the
governor, the former chief executive of  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA)  who
spent $73 million to win his first political office.  Facing re-election in 2014, he was rebuffed this month when
his push to expand Medicaid under President  Barack Obama ’s
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was defeated in two
Republican-controlled legislative committees. Scott had opposed
the expansion before the November presidential election.  Losing Florida  Last year, Florida, a state both presidential campaigns
considered competitive, gave its electoral votes to Obama, who
became the first Democrat in 68 years to win it twice. Democrats
used Scott’s governorship to argue against voting Republican,
and his party lost seats in both the state House of
Representatives and Senate.  Scott began 2013 with an approval rating of 33 percent,
according to a poll taken between Jan. 11 to Jan. 13 by Raleigh,
North Carolina-based Public Policy Polling.  His struggles put him among the country’s most vulnerable
governors as 36 seats, including 22 held by Republicans, are up
for election this year and next.  Carroll, mother of Miami Dolphins defensive back Nolan Carroll, was interviewed yesterday by the Florida Department of
Law Enforcement about her work for Allied Veterans, Scott said.
She wasn’t charged.  Authorities issued warrants for 57 people in six states in
connection with a racketeering and money-laundering scheme
conducted at 49 gambling centers masquerading as Internet cafes,
according to the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office.  Passed Money  The company is accused of operating illegal  slot machines 
in Florida and defrauding public and government agencies,
according to an Internal Revenue Service affidavit filed in
Oklahoma federal court. The investigation also involves the U.S.
Secret Service and sheriff’s offices in three Florida counties,
according to court records.  Allied Veterans earned more than $290 million from 2007 to
2012. About 98 percent was directed to for-profit companies and
people who operated the nonprofit, according to the affidavit.  Scott said he’ll name Carroll’s replacement after the
legislative session ends on May 3. The case isn’t the first time
her entanglements have drawn attention.  A staffer, Carletha Cole, said during a 2011 polygraph
interview that she saw Carroll and another aide, Beatriz Ramos,
in a “sexually compromising position” in Carroll’s office,
according to a court filing. Cole said Ramos ordered her to book
adjoining hotel rooms when they traveled.  Carroll, who is married, denied the allegations, telling
WTSP-TV in Tampa that, “Usually black women that look like me
don’t engage in relationships like that.” She later apologized.  The polygraph was administered as part of an investigation
into Cole, who was charged with distributing a secret recording
of a conversation between her and Carroll’s chief of staff, Jon
Konkus. Cole disputed the charges, saying Carroll’s office
encouraged staff to secretly record conversations, according to
a court filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  