-- Forint Halts Slide as Foreign Minister Says No Plans to Weaken
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-13T16:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/forint-extends-slide-on-hungary-loan-conversion-rates-plans.html
Hungary ’s forint gained for the
first time in four days after Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi
said the government had no intention of weakening the currency.  The forint appreciated after Martonyi told reporters in
Bratislava that the cabinet isn’t pleased by forint weakness
because it increases the cost of servicing foreign-currency debt
owned by households, companies and the sovereign. The currency
plunged to the weakest in nine months earlier today after Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said yesterday that Hungary needs lower
 interest rates  to boost lending and must reduce the burden of
foreign loans and free up exchange rate policy.  The forint gained 0.3 percent to 305.02 per euro by 5:06
p.m. in Budapest, after reaching as low as 307.49. The cost of
insuring against non-payment on Hungary’s debt with credit-
default swaps rose five basis points to 343. CDS prices
increased 33 basis points in the last three days, set for the
biggest jump over such a period in 14 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The main thing is for the forint rate to be more or less
stable,” Martonyi said. “I wouldn’t name a precise range for
the  exchange rate  but there is no intention to weaken the
forint.”  Investors had speculated the government may want to
depreciate the forint to boost exports and revive the economy,
which shrank 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with
the same period of 2011, according to statistical office data.  Currency ‘Captives’  The cabinet, which has forced banks to take losses on
foreign-currency mortgages of households, is working on a plan
this year to help smaller companies convert their loans into
forint, Orban said yesterday.  “It’s in vain to have our own currency” if Hungary can’t
make use of its advantages because the foreign-currency loan
burden means “we are captives to an exchange rate policy,”
Orban said in Budapest yesterday.  Orban’s comments “strengthened the views of those market
participants who think the government would like to weaken the
forint,” Gergely Tardos and Levente Papa, Budapest-based
analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, wrote in a
research report today. “Hungary’s default risk premium jumped
in tandem with the forint’s slide.”  Inflation slowed more than analysts estimated to a seven-
year low of 2.8 percent, the statistics office in Budapest said
yesterday. Orban said the data showed Hungary had reached the
central bank’s 3 percent target.  ‘Cautious’ Policy  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank last month cut interest rates in
the seventh consecutive 25 basis point step to 5.25 percent,
matching a record low. That was the last rate-setters’ meeting
before the government this month appointed former economy
minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  as the bank’s president and deputy
state secretary Adam Balog as a vice president.  There is no reason to change the bank’s “cautious” rates
policy, Dow Jones reported today, citing a written interview
with Balog. The forint’s recent volatility is “unwelcome” and
not justified by Hungary’s fundamentals, Balog said, according
to the report.  Yields on the government’s 10-year forint-denominated bonds
rose five basis points to 6.58 percent, the highest since Dec.
10. Yields on dollar-denominated bonds maturing in 2023, which
the government sold on Feb. 12, rose three basis points to a
record high of 5.75 percent, compared with 5.22 percent when it
first started trading, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
benchmark BUX stock  index  slid 1.1 percent to the lowest close
this year.  Assets Slump  Hungarian assets slumped after Orban’s lawmakers passed
amendments two days ago limiting the power of the constitutional
court, which the German government yesterday said overshadowed
relations between the two countries.  Orban’s comments, including a call for majority local
ownership in the Hungarian banking system, may lead to further
drops in the forint and Hungarian stocks and increase CDS
prices, Carsten Hesse, a London-based analyst at Wood & Co. said
in an e-mailed report today. Orban’s decision to finance Hungary
without International Monetary Fund aid will make the country
more vulnerable, Hesse said.  The forint may depreciate to 320 per euro, within 4 forint
of the all-time low set in January 2012, Guillaume Salomon, a
London-based strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in an e-
mailed report today. The bank’s previous target for the
Hungarian currency was 308 per euro.  The forint’s decline is “absolutely temporary,” Antal
Rogan, the leader of ruling party lawmakers in Parliament, told
reporters yesterday, echoing comments from Economy Minister
 Mihaly Varga  the day before.  “In light of the price action in forint assets, the
government could choose to turn and change the tone of its
language,” Salomon wrote. “We are not very confident about
such a change of heart though.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  