-- Formula 1’s Smaller Teams Struggle as CVC Targets $7 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-03-13T15:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/formula-1-s-smaller-teams-struggle-as-cvc-targets-7-billion.html
Formula One co-owner CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. is rankling smaller teams as the buyout firm
cashes in on its investment in the auto racing series.  CVC began selling its 63.4 percent stake last year after
setting new terms with Red Bull, Ferrari and McLaren. Those
teams, the three most successful over the last 15 years, share
in $180 million of signing-on payments and each get a seat on
the board of the series, according to a prospectus for an
initial public offering that was suspended in June because of
market conditions.  At the other end of last season’s 12-team standings,
Spain’s HRT team folded and Marussia hasn’t agreed to terms for
the 2013 season, two people familiar with the situation said.
Giving the most powerful teams a more favorable deal is a
“disaster” because it discourages new investment in Formula
One, said Robert Fernley, deputy director of  seventh-ranked
Force India . The season opens this weekend in  Melbourne .  “CVC is not interested in developing the sport, it’s
interested in making as much money as possible and then selling
it,” Fernley said in a telephone interview. “The income split
doesn’t support Formula One.”  London-based CVC distributed $699 million of $1.5 billion
of Formula One’s income to teams in 2011, according to the
prospectus. The biggest teams typically get as much as 10 times
as much as the smallest, said Xander Heijnen, a partner at CNC
Communications & Network Consulting AG in Munich who has advised
carmakers about the series.  CVC spokesman James Olley declined to comment on the firm’s
distribution of income among other management issues.  Long-Term Look  Marussia said in a  March 1 statement  that it dropped
Brazilian driver Luiz Razia for  France ’s Jules Bianchi to help
secure its “long-term future.” Razia’s backers missed a
payment deadline to Marussia, which is relying on drivers to
bring sponsorships this year, autosport.com reported.  The team owned by Russian carmaker Marussia Motors was as
of March 12 holding talks with series Chief Executive Officer
Bernie Ecclestone about terms for the season, the people said.
They declined to be identified because the negotiations are
private. Ecclestone, 82, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment. In an e-mail, Marussia spokeswoman Tracy Novak
declined to comment.  To be sure, the biggest teams have for decades received
more revenue than the smallest squads according to the “jungle
law” in Formula One, Heijnen said.  “You’ll never get equality in Formula One, it’s a lovely
dream but it isn’t going to happen,” Paul Stoddart, who sold
the Minardi team in 2005, said. “All the teams know what
they’re getting into” when they join the racing series, he
said.  Stoddart said the compensation for middle-ranking teams
like Force  India  has tripled to about $35 million a year under
CVC’s ownership of the sport.  Hot Coals  “I would have crawled over hot coals to get” what Force 
India gets, Stoddart said.  As some teams struggle, CVC is cashing in on its 2006
acquisition of Formula One. It sold stakes worth $1.6 billion 
to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. (WDR)  and Norges Bank
Investment Management last year and, after suspending the IPO,
arranged $1 billion of dividends for shareholders with a bond
sale.  The buyout firm, which now owns 35.5 percent of the
business, has reaped more than $4 billion on its original
investment of $1 billion in 2006 and expects to make as much as
$7 billion, CVC partner Donald Mackenzie said in an Oct. 29
interview. Formula One’s revenue increased at an annual
compounded growth rate of 9.6 percent between 2003 and 2011,
according to the IPO prospectus.  Falling Ratings  Fernley, whose team shareholders Vijay Mallya and Sahara
India Pariwar are bankrolling the search for an Indian Formula
One driver, said CVC hasn’t invested enough on developing
Formula One. The series had falling television audiences in
 China ,  Russia  and the U.S. last season, according to its
internal broadcast report.  In 2011, CVC oversaw capital spending of 0.3 percent of
revenue, which was mainly spent on TV production equipment,
according to the IPO prospectus.  “You need to have an investor who gets a good return but
one that also has an interest” in Formula One, Fernley said.
“CVC has milked it and anyone investing in it should be looking
very closely at what they’re getting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  