-- Former FrontPoint Manager Monaco Said to Plan Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-03-13T01:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/former-frontpoint-manager-monaco-plans-financials-hedge-fund.html
Thomas Monaco, who helped manage
FrontPoint Partners LLC’s financial services investments, is
seeking to start a hedge fund focused on Asian financial stocks,
said four people with knowledge of the matter.  Monaco has named his company Nighthawk Capital Ltd.,
according to a company registration document. He has reached out
to investors who may be willing to put money into a new long-
short fund, which would bet on rising and falling prices, said
the people who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Monaco declined to comment.  Nighthawk would be one of a few hedge funds focused on a
single Asian industry outside of telecommunications, a sign that
the market for financial stocks in the region has become deep
enough for hedge funds to ply, said one of the people. The five-
year average annual trading volume of the  MSCI Asia-Pacific
Financials Index (MXAP0FN) , which tracks 228 banks, insurers, securities
and property companies in the region, was twice that in the
previous five years.  Monaco helped Steve Eisman manage the FrontPoint Financial
Services Fund in New York, according to a January 2007 report by
Hong Kong-based trade journal Finance Asia and biographical
information posted on the website of Hong Kong-based independent
research company  Forensic Asia Ltd. , his current employer.  Focusing Financials  The financial services fund was the larger of the two
managed by Eisman, who oversaw more than $1 billion at
FrontPoint by 2010. FrontPoint, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based
hedge fund company overseeing $7.5 billion by early November
2011, closed last year after allegations of insider trading by a
co-manager of its health-care fund led investors to pull money.  Monaco was a director of research and headed the Pan Asia
financial institutions research team at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. in Hong Kong from July 2011 through January this year,
according to the Forensic Asia biography and registration
 records  with the city’s Securities and Futures Commission.  He joined Forensic Asia as managing director in February,
according to regulatory licensing records. The research company
is owned by Jim Walker, ex-chief economist of CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, the brokerage unit that  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  is  selling 
to China’s Citic Securities Co.  Earlier in his career, Monaco worked as a senior bank
examiner at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and as an
analyst in New York, Hong Kong and  Tokyo , according to the
Forensic Asia website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  