-- Frontier Tields Lure Aberdeen as Demand to Spur New Fund
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-03-13T22:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/frontier-tields-lure-aberdeen-as-demand-to-spur-new-fund.html
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ,
Scotland’s largest money manager, plans to start a fund this
year to tap investor demand for bonds offered by the world’s
least developed countries.  Frontier markets, which have in the past depended on aid
from the international community, are now “looking to go to the
bond investor” as wealthier countries tighten budgets amid
slowing economies,  Kevin Daly , who oversees $11 billion of
emerging-market assets at the Aberdeen, Scotland-based fund
manager, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York today. “Rich countries are broke.”  Investors are searching for higher yields as the U.S. and
Europe hold benchmark  interest rates  near zero to fuel economic
growth. As  emerging markets  such as Brazil mature, limiting
potential returns, investors are boosting their tolerance for
the risks posed by smaller, less developed countries, Daly said.
Average emerging-market  bond yields  have fallen 97 basis points
from a June high, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  “That’s an opportunity for us,” he said.  Honduras, rated five levels below investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Service, tapped international debt markets
yesterday for the first time, selling $500 million of bonds due
in 2024 to yield 7.5 percent. Aberdeen bought some of the notes,
Daly said.  Rwanda, Uganda and Mozambique are also planning debut bond
sales, according to an Oct. 3 report from Moody’s. The average
yield on  frontier sovereign debt  is 5.84 percent, according to
JPMorgan’s Next Generation index. That compared with an average
yield of 4.74 percent for emerging markets.  Some of the frontier countries are overlooked by investors
and rating companies, keeping their bonds undervalued, Daly
said.  The new Aberdeen fund will also invest in local-currency
corporate bonds from emerging markets, he said.  Aberdeen’s existing $2.9 billion  Global - Select Emerging
Markets Bond Fund (ABESOAA) , gained 10.7 percent annually over the past
three years, outperforming 84 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Daly said Mexican bonds are among his favorites as
President Enrique Pena Nieto pushes through reforms in the
state-controlled  energy industry  to boost economic growth.
 Standard & Poor’s  signaled yesterday that it may upgrade the
country’s BBB rating.  Aberdeen has reduced holdings of Argentine bonds because of
rising litigation risks, Daly said. Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s administration is locked in a U.S. court battle with
a group of investors demanding payment on their holdings of
securities from the nation’s $95 billion default in 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  