-- Gamma FinSpy Surveillance Servers in 25 Countries
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2013-03-13T11:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/gamma-finspy-surveillance-servers-in-25-countries.html
Computers running U.K.-based Gamma
Group’s FinSpy surveillance tool, which can remotely take over
computers and phones, have been found in 25 countries, according
to an updated global scan of the Internet that mapped the
locations of servers that control infected machines. Research
published last year found what appeared to be FinSpy command
servers in at least 15  countries .  The findings, published today by the University of Toronto
Munk School of Global Affairs’  Citizen Lab , expand the
previously known reach of the product, which has been criticized
by human rights advocates as a tool for targeting political
dissidents. The increased number reflects the additional months
of work by the researchers, and doesn’t necessarily indicate new
sales of FinSpy.  FinSpy can be sent to people in spoof e-mails to secretly
monitor their computers -- intercepting Skype calls, turning on
Web cameras and recording every keystroke. Marketed by Gamma for
 law enforcement  and intelligence use, FinSpy sends its pilfered
data back to command servers controlled by government agencies.  The hunt for FinSpy’s global deployment was sparked in July
2012 when Citizen Lab research based on e-mails obtained by
 Bloomberg News  showed activists from the Persian Gulf kingdom of
Bahrain were targeted by the software.  Martin J. Muench, managing director of Gamma’s Munich-based
unit, Gamma International GmbH, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment.  Anonymous Traffic  He has previously said that because  Internet traffic  can be
made anonymous, the presence of what may appear to be a FinSpy
command server in a country doesn’t mean the computer ultimately
receiving data is in that nation.  Today’s report also says that discovery of servers in a
given country alone isn’t a sufficient indicator that the
product is in use by that nation’s agencies. “In some cases,
servers were found running on facilities provided by commercial
hosting providers that could have been purchased by actors from
any country,” according to the report.  Gamma’s Muench has also said that software samples studied
by the researchers have been demonstration copies, and not the
actual product sold to clients.  Muench has said Gamma complies with the export regulations
of the U.K., U.S. and  Germany .  New Evidence  The new study found evidence that FinSpy is being used in
 Vietnam  to target smartphones. A piece of malicious software
that the researchers identified as FinSpy Mobile, a product
meant to take over phones, connected back to a command computer
in Hanoi. The sample was also configured to work without an
Internet connection by connecting through a mobile device’s
text-messaging system to a phone number in Vietnam.  The Vietnamese Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  The researchers also analyzed a sample of FinSpy software
that communicated with a command server in  Ethiopia . That sample
used pictures of opposition figures as bait for recipients who
would unknowingly download the spyware on their machines, the
researchers said.  Ethiopian Communications Minister Bereket Simon said in a
telephone interview that he had no information about FinSpy. “I
cannot tell you what type of instruments we’re going to use or
not,” said Simon, who is the government’s spokesman. “I’ve no
idea, and even if I did, I wouldn’t talk to you about it.”  Today’s paper was written by a team of four security
experts and graduate students who have been tracking FinSpy for
the past year.  They are Morgan Marquis-Boire, a San Francisco-based
researcher who works at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and has done the research on
his own time; Bill Marczak, a computer science doctoral
candidate at the  University of California  Berkeley; Claudio
Guarnieri of Boston-based security risk-assessment company
Rapid7; and John Scott-Railton, a doctoral student at the
University of California Los Angeles’ Luskin School of Public
Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marcia Myers at 
Mmyers20@ bloomberg.net 