-- Gazprom Rises Most in Month on Sechin Interest: Moscow Mover
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-03-13T13:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/gazprom-rises-most-in-month-on-sechin-interest-moscow-mover.html
OAO Gazprom jumped the most in a
month after a report that OAO Rosneftegaz chairman  Igor Sechin 
wants to buy at least 8.2 billion rubles ($267 million) of
shares in Russia’s natural gas exporter on the market.  The shares rose as much as 3.4 percent and traded up 2.8
percent at 141.07 rubles by 5 p.m. in Moscow, the biggest gain
since Feb. 13. That raised the state-controlled company’s market
value to 3.34 trillion rubles. The 50-stock Micex Index gained
0.2 percent.  Sechin sent President  Vladimir Putin  a letter, seeking to
use 127.5 billion rubles from the sale of OAO Rosneft shares to
 BP Plc (BP/)  for the state holding company’s investment program,
Izvestia said today, citing an unidentified person in the
presidential administration. Rosneftegaz, which owns the
government’s stake in Rosneft and some Gazprom shares, plans
additional, large-scale investments in the gas producer, the
newspaper reported.  “Gazprom has been under pressure due to huge questions
about the European market,” Constantine Cherepanov, an analyst
at UBS in Moscow, said by phone today. “The stock’s been
oversold and the market is reacting now that we have Sechin
potentially stepping in as a buyer.”  Sechin is also chief executive officer of Rosneft.  Gazprom is struggling to maintain its share of European
markets against cheaper spot-gas prices and Norwegian supplies,
damping its shares. The Moscow-based company reduced shipments
to its most profitable market by 7 percent last year, and
recognized 133 billion rubles in retroactive discounts for
European customers under long-term contracts in the first nine
months of 2012.  Rosneft is buying TNK-BP from BP and its billionaire
partners for a total of about $55 billion,  Russia ’s biggest ever
deal. As part of the transaction, BP agreed to use $4.8 billion
of its proceeds to buy 5.66 percent of Rosneft from Rosneftegaz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  