-- GIC Adviser Says Fund’s Investments Free From Political Meddling
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-13T08:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/gic-adviser-says-fund-s-investments-free-from-political-meddling.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , which manages more than $100 billion of reserves,
operates without “political meddling” from the city-state’s
authorities, an adviser said.  The sovereign wealth fund’s biggest investments include
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and UBS AG, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The investments are made for the long term, said Ng Kok Song, who retired as GIC’s group chief investment officer in
January.  “Of course the government is concerned about our
investment policy, our investment strategy,” said Ng, who
invested the nation’s reserves in the past four decades and
remains an adviser at GIC. “But when it comes to particular
investments, we operate at arm’s length from the government. And
that’s very important because when there is political meddling,
then you compromise, you do things for non-commercial reasons.”  GIC’s 20-year annualized real return was 3.9 percent as of
March 2012, unchanged from the previous year. That meant the
government’s fund manager generated that return over the past
two decades on top of the global inflation rate, Josephine Teo,
minister of state for finance, said in Parliament today.  The annualized nominal rate of return in U.S. dollar terms
was 3.4 percent over five years, 7.6 percent over 10 years and
6.8 percent over 20 years, GIC said in July. The fund doesn’t
report an annual return or disclose the size of its portfolio.  The fund boosted its cash in the year ended March 2012 to
levels exceeding the 2008 global financial crisis as it pared
stocks and bonds, reducing its holdings in  Europe . Cash
allocation almost quadrupled to 11 percent of its portfolio,
while stocks fell to 45 percent from 49 percent as it pared
equities in developed markets. Bonds dropped to 17 percent from
22 percent, according to GIC.  GIC is owned by  Singapore ’s government and manages the
country’s foreign reserves. The fund’s aim is “to achieve good
long-term returns” for the government, according to the fund’s
 website .  Ng spoke at an Investment Management Association of
Singapore conference in the city-state today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  