-- GM Said to Shake Up Ad Agencies Undoing Ewanick’s Efforts
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-03-13T20:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/gm-said-to-shake-up-ad-agencies-undoing-ewanick-s-efforts.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest
U.S. automaker, is shaking up its advertising agencies just a
year after a joint venture was created for its Chevrolet brand,
according to two people familiar with the efforts.  The automaker, based in  Detroit , is working to shift the
bulk of Chevrolet’s advertising business to  Interpublic Group of
Cos. Inc. ’s McCann Erickson Worldwide, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the changes aren’t final. The
work has been handled by a joint venture between McCann and
 Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC) ’s Goodby, Silverstein & Partners.  The changes, along with a January announcement to replace
the brand’s Chevy Runs Deep tagline with Find New Roads,
essentially undo former Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick ’s
27-month reign at GM. The company ousted Ewanick in late July
over the cost of a sponsorship deal with the Manchester United
football team, people familiar with the move said at the time.  GM had said initially that there wouldn’t be any changes to
GM’s marketing plans under the joint venture, called
Commonwealth. As recently as Feb. 14 Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said on a conference call that Commonwealth “is still
operative, still in place, and the savings are still
projected.”  Cadillac Changes  GM has also started looking for a new ad agency to handle
its Cadillac luxury brand. Talks have begun with Interpublic’s
Campbell Ewald about getting the work, the people said. Cadillac
has been handled by Minneapolis-based Fallon Worldwide.  Pat Morrissey, a GM spokesman, declined to comment on
advertising changes. Jeremy Miller, a McCann spokesman, Meagan
Phillips, a spokeswoman for Goodby, and Carissa Warren, a
spokeswoman for Fallon, declined to comment.  GM slid 1.1 percent to $28.07 at the close in  New York . The
shares have slipped 2.6 percent this year while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index have risen 9 percent.  Alan Batey, the company’s interim marketing chief and head
of U.S. sales, has been pushing for changes in  Chevrolet ’s
advertising and anticipates McCann doing the bulk of advertising
work at Commonwealth, the people said. McCann will probably gain
control of the joint venture, one of the people said.  The automaker’s executives had grown increasingly
frustrated with Commonwealth’s Chevrolet advertising, the people
said. They believed the company had improved its cars and trucks
while it had been unable to build marketing momentum, one of the
people said.  Malibu Disappointment  A Chevrolet Malibu advertisement that highlighted the car’s
stop-start technology, for example, was seen as ineffective, one
of the people said. Malibu sales in the U.S. rose 3 percent last
year, compared with the industry’s 13 percent. Deliveries this
year are down 12 percent, in contrast with the industry’s 8.4
percent increase.  GM is introducing about 20 new vehicles in the U.S. this
year as it works to regain market share after falling to an 88-
year low in 2012.  GM’s decision to shift responsibilities for the upcoming
introduction of the redesigned Chevrolet Silverado pickup to
 Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s  Leo Burnett , which already had the
automaker’s GMC truck brand business, was a signal to
Commonwealth that changes were needed, one of the people said.
Batey confirmed the move in January.  Unusual Partnership  Ewanick in March 2012 announced the unusual creation of
Commonwealth with Goodby and McCann as partners to handle all of
Chevy’s advertising as part of an effort to save $2 billion over
five years. The plan was to consolidate the work through one
agency. GM’s largest brand by unit sales previously used 70 ad
agencies around the world, the carmaker had said.  Ewanick had been a strong proponent of Goodby’s U.S. work
and saw the joint-venture with McCann, which already had Chevy
business in Brazil and  China , as boosting Goodby’s capabilities
worldwide.  Commonwealth “is the agency of record. We love the work
they’re doing for us,” Chris Perry, vice president of Chevrolet
marketing in the U.S., said yesterday in an interview in  San
Diego . He declined to comment on the idea of McCann taking over
the Chevy work.  Akerson had already taken steps to restructure Cadillac as
a global brand in October when he named Bob Ferguson as its
chief, responsible for sales and marketing throughout the world.  Ferguson is asserting himself, re-examining how Cadillac
conducts its advertising, one of the people said.  The automaker said yesterday that it’s conducting a review
of its  advertising agency  for Cadillac. Fallon, which has the
account, will be invited to participate in the review with other
agencies, GM said in a statement on its website.  While the automaker didn’t disclose which other agencies
it’s talking to, GM executives have already been in
communication with Campbell Ewald about the Cadillac business,
two people familiar with the efforts said.  The agency is moving its headquarters back to  Detroit  after
35 years in suburban Warren,  Michigan , CEO Bill Ludwig said last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  