-- Gold Trades Near Two-Week High on Stimulus, Rising Asian Demand
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-03-13T07:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/gold-trades-near-two-week-high-on-stimulus-rising-asian-demand.html
Gold traded near the highest level
in almost two weeks on prospects for additional stimulus from
central banks in  Europe  and  Japan  and signs of increased
physical demand in  Asia .  Spot gold traded at $1,593.45 an ounce at 2:29 p.m. in
Singapore from $1,592.80 yesterday, when it climbed to $1,598.80,
the highest intraday price since Feb. 28. Gold for April
delivery was little changed at $1,591.90 an ounce on the Comex
after four days of gains, the best run since August.  The  European Central Bank  will maintain its accommodative
stance “as long as necessary,” according to Jens Weidmann, an
ECB council member and head of  Germany ’s Bundesbank. A report
yesterday that showed  industrial  output fell in January boosted
speculation the  Bank of England  may add to stimulus. In Japan,
two opposition parties said today they will endorse Kikuo Iwata
for  Bank of Japan  deputy governor, increasing the likelihood
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will win confirmation for his pro-
stimulus central-bank nominees as he seeks to end deflation.  “Easier global monetary policies have positive
ramifications for bullion,” Howard Wen, an analyst at HSBC
Securities (USA) Inc., wrote in a note. “The key support for
bullion prices has been the emergence of Chinese physical buyers.
Indian merchants noted that demand may pick up in April on the
resumption of the wedding and festival season.”  Daily volumes for the benchmark cash contract on the
Shanghai Gold Exchange have been more than double the average in
2012 since Feb. 18, when it reached a record 22,024 kilograms,
according to bourse data.  Spot gold is down 4.9 percent this year amid speculation
that the U.S. Federal Reserve may rein in its stimulus as the
recovery in the largest economy gains traction. Data today may
show U.S. retail sales advanced in February for a fourth month.
Assets in gold-backed  exchange-traded products  dropped to
2,472.891 metric tons yesterday, the lowest since September.  ETP holdings are a so-called key variable to watch, showing
how committed investors are to gold, Diego Parrilla, chief
investment officer of Singapore-based Nareco Advisors, said at a
conference in the city-state today.  Cash silver was little changed at $29.16 an ounce and spot
platinum fell 0.3 percent to $1,591.25 an ounce. Palladium lost
0.4 percent to $769.50 an ounce, declining for a third day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  