-- Gold Losing Luster as Price Drop May Curb Demand From China
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-13T17:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/gold-losing-luster-as-price-drop-may-curb-demand-from-china.html
Gold, which fell the past five
months in the worst run since 1997, is losing its luster and
lower prices may curb demand from China, according to Danske
Bank A/S and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Gold is unlikely to return to its September 2011 record of
$1,921.15 an ounce, Credit Suisse said Feb. 1. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said Feb. 25 bullion’s cycle has probably turned as
the  U.S. economy  recovers. It cut its three-month forecast by 12
percent to $1,615 that day and expects $1,550 in a year. Gold
fell 5.3 percent to $1,587.20 in  London  this year.  Bullion rallied the past 12 years in the best run in at
least nine decades as nations from the U.S. to China pledged
more action to bolster economies.  Hedge funds  are now their
least bullish since 2007 as growth accelerates and Federal
Reserve policy makers review stimulus. Investors have cut about
$8.1 billion from gold-exchange-traded products since holdings
peaked in December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Gold has lost its luster,” Christin Tuxen, a senior
commodities analyst at Danske Bank, said at  Bloomberg Link ’s FX
Debates in London today. “Some of the reasons investors had
last year to buy into gold are now gone. The focus will be on
 interest rates  not surging, but gradually moving higher,” which
will curb demand for the metal, she said, adding that she
estimates the “fair value” of gold now at about $1,250.  ETP Holdings  Holdings in bullion-backed ETPs dropped 106.2 metric tons
in February, the most since their creation in 2003, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors sold another 33.1 tons
since then and now own 2,472.9 tons, 6.1 percent below the
record set Dec. 20. Gold is still a “fairly” under-allocated
asset, Juan Carlos Artigas, global head of investment research
at the World Gold Council, said at the conference today.  Gold generally earns returns only through price gains, and
some investors buy it as a hedge against inflation and currency
declines. While prices have fallen this year, volumes traded on
the Shanghai Gold Exchange increased since last month. India and
 China  are the biggest bullion consumers, and demand from those
countries will rise at least 11 percent this year, the London-
based gold council said Feb. 14.  “Obviously there’s a lot of investment demand in China,”
Ric Deverell, an analyst at Credit Suisse, said at the
conference today. “A large part of why people in China bought
gold is because prices went up,” and a drop may now curb
demand, he said.  Commodities Prices  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added
0.1 percent this year. Gold is one of the index’s worst
performers, along with wheat and aluminum, while cotton,
gasoline and natural gas are among the best.  “My favorite trades in commodities would actually be a
couple of shorts,” said Deverell, referring to bets on lower
prices. “One of them would be shorting gold.”  Hedge funds  are 84 percent less bullish on gold than they
were the month before prices reached a record in September 2011.
Speculators held a net-long position of 39,631 futures and
options in the week ended March 5, the fewest since July 2007,
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  “I think the other one that is going to get absolutely
crushed is  iron ore ,” Deverell said. “You’ve had a very
substantial inventory rebuild in terms of Chinese steel, and
that’s probably about done. I think it will be a lot lower in
six months’ time.”  Ore with 62 percent iron content at the Chinese port of
Tianjin dropped 3.1 percent to $139 a dry ton today, extending
this year’s slide to 4.1 percent. Swaps to bet on, or hedge, the
commodity’s price in December traded at $115.50 a ton, according
to GFI Group, a London-based brokerage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  