-- Google Changes Leadership at Top of Android Mobile Business
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-03-13T20:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/google-says-sundar-pichai-to-lead-android-as-rubin-changes-jobs.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is changing the
leadership of the unit at the heart of its mobile-technology war
with  Apple (AAPL)  Inc., saying Sundar Pichai will succeed Andy Rubin at
the helm of the Android software business.  Pichai will keep oversight of the Chrome Web browser and
operating system while taking responsibility for Android, the
most widely used mobile software, Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  said in a blog today. Rubin has led the effort since 2005,
when Google acquired Android, the company he co-founded.  Under Rubin, Android surged ahead of Apple’s software to
command 70 percent of the operating systems on smartphones.
While Chrome has also gained ground against Microsoft Corp.’s
Internet Explorer browser, it has made scant headway as the
software running computers. The management change could help
Google weave together the products more closely and make it
easier for partners to integrate both into devices.  “Two separate compute platforms is somewhat faulty,” said
 Will Stofega , a program director at researcher IDC. “You want
developers to have a seamless experience.”  The move also lets Rubin -- whose expertise is building new
products from the ground up -- take a stab at another fledgling
business at Google, which is seeking new sources of revenue
alongside Web advertising.  Google slipped less than 1 percent to $825.31 at the close
in New York. The stock has climbed 17 percent this year, while
shares Cupertino, California-based Apple have fallen 20 percent.  ‘Aha! Moment’  At the same time, it lessens the probability that Android
and Chrome will move in conflicting directions, said  Carolina
Milanesi , an analyst at Gartner Inc. The two products aren’t as
closely integrated as Apple’s operating systems, she said.  “Some partners might be concerned, is Google going to take
a different trajectory” with regard to Chrome and Android,
Milanesi said. “From the user perspective, you need to have
that Aha! moment, the way users have” when they use Apple’s Mac
and mobile operating systems, she said.  Pichai, who joined Google in 2004, has led the effort to
roll out laptop computers that use the Chrome operating system.
The company announced a high-end version, called Pixel, last
month, complementing lower-end machines made by Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Acer Inc. (2353)   “Sundar has a talent for creating products that are
technically excellent yet easy to use -- and he loves a big
bet,” Page wrote in the blog. “While Andy’s a really hard act
to follow, I know Sundar will do a tremendous job doubling down
on Android as we work to push the ecosystem forward.”  Spurning Twitter  Pichai has stuck with Google even as other opportunities
arose. He was courted by Twitter Inc., the microblogging
startup, in 2010, Bloomberg Businessweek  reported in 2011 . He
previously held positions at  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  and McKinsey
& Co.  Google is seeking to widen its leadership in the wireless
arena against Apple, which helped pioneer the smartphone market
in 2007 with its introduction of the iPhone. More than 750
million Android-enabled devices have been activated globally,
Page said in the post.  “Having exceeded even the crazy ambitious goals we dreamed
of for Android -- and with a really strong leadership team in
place -- Andy’s decided it’s time to hand over the reins and
start a new chapter at Google,” Page said.  Rubin was among seven managers promoted to senior executive
positions in April 2011, not long after Page became CEO,
succeeding  Eric Schmidt . Android’s market leadership has given
it less room to grow and less incentive for someone like Rubin
to stay at the helm and manage day-to-day issues, said Carl
Howe, an analyst with the Yankee Group.  “It’s more of a job,” Howe said. “For an entrepreneur it
feels more like rolling the ball uphill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  