-- Graham Fisher Sees Parallels to Fannie Mae in JPMorgan
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-03-13T14:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/graham-fisher-sees-parallels-to-fannie-mae-in-jpmorgan.html
Joshua Rosner , co-author of a book
detailing Fannie Mae’s role in the housing crisis, said he sees
parallels between the failed mortgage-finance giant and the
strategies  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  uses to win government and
investor confidence.  JPMorgan, like Fannie Mae before its collapse in 2008, has
a reputation among industry executives and analysts for being
the best managed among its competitors, yet the bank still faces
more regulatory and legal actions unrelated to mortgages than
most of its rivals, Rosner, a 46-year-old analyst at Graham
Fisher & Co. in  New York , wrote yesterday in a 45-page note
titled “JPMorgan Chase: Out of Control.”  “JPM appears to have taken a page out of the  Fannie Mae 
playbook,” Rosner wrote, referring to the New York-based
company by its stock ticker. Fannie Mae “perfected the art of
cozying up to elected officials, dominating trade associations,
employing political heavyweights and their former staffers and
creating the image of American flag-waving, apple-pie-eating,
good corporate citizen.”  Rosner, who was one of the first analysts to say the
housing market was overheated in 2005, doesn’t suggest that
JPMorgan has an accounting problem akin to the one that toppled
Fannie Mae and led to its government rescue. Yet he said
regulators have gone easy on the firm, which escaped fines from
bank supervisors earlier this year over control weaknesses
related to at least $6.2 billion in losses at its chief
investment office in  London . The bank uses campaign
contributions and Washington influence to soften oversight,
Rosner said.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on Rosner’s report.  Early Warnings  Rosner was one of the first analysts to highlight
accounting and control problems about a decade ago at mortgage
finance companies Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  before each was
forced to restate earnings and oust management amid separate
earnings scandals. He was also among early analysts to warn of
an impending credit crisis in late 2006 in the residential
mortgage-bond markets.  JPMorgan had the second-largest corporate political action
committee and employed dozens of lobbyists, including former
Capitol Hill aides, at year-end, according to Rosner.  JPMorgan’s new global head of regulatory strategy,  Timothy Ryan , 67, rejoined the firm this year after running one of the
industry’s largest securities trade groups, the Securities
Industry & Financial Markets Association, for five years.  Senate Hearing  JPMorgan’s trading loss last year, caused by a derivatives
bet that Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, said
“violated common sense,” will be the subject of a March 15
hearing called by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. The panel is set to release a report tomorrow
detailing findings from a probe into the bets, which were
handled by Bruno Iksil, a trader known as the London Whale
because his positions were big enough to move markets.  The bank, which has stopped providing updates on the size
of the loss, said it totaled more than $6.2 billion in the first
nine months of 2012. At one point, the trade helped wipe out as
much as $51 billion in the value of the firm’s stock as its
market capitalization fell.  JPMorgan has spent at least $8.5 billion, or about 12
percent of  net income , to settle regulatory and legal disputes
from 2009 through 2012, Rosner estimated.  “We could not find another ‘systemically important’
domestic bank that has recently been subject to as many public,
non-mortgage-related regulatory actions or consent orders,”
Rosner wrote. “The firm’s pride in a disputable ‘fortress
 balance sheet ’ -- which underestimates their off-balance sheet
risks -- appears to have given investors false comfort.”  Record Profit  JPMorgan reported its third-straight year of record profits
with $28.9 billion in net income for 2012.  “I do want to remind people in spite of the fact that ’the
Whale’ happened during that time -- during that time we also had
three record years of net income,” Dimon told analysts on a
Jan. 16 conference call in talking about former Chief Financial
Officer Doug Braunstein’s service. “It’s something we’re very
proud of at this company.”  Rosner co-authored “Reckless Endangerment: How Outsized
Ambition, Greed and Corruption Led to Economic Armageddon” with
New York Times columnist  Gretchen Morgenson . The analyst focused
on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s accounting controls before they
were taken over by the U.S., and warned of a crisis before the
housing market collapsed, almost toppling the financial system.  Fannie’s Fate  JPMorgan’s reputation and too-big-to-fail size help it
avoid greater investor scrutiny, similar to Fannie Mae’s
position before it was forced to restate earnings and later
rescued, Rosner said.  Still, “we are not suggesting that JPM will meet the fate
that Fannie did, nor that its actions will result in accounting
problems,” he wrote. Fannie Mae and its sister mortgage firm
Freddie Mac have drawn almost $190 billion in federal aid since
they were seized by the U.S. government in 2008 amid soaring
losses.  JPMorgan’s trading loss highlighted flaws in the firm’s
internal controls and resulted in cease-and-desist orders from
the Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, neither of which appears “to have resulted from any
meaningful investigation,” Rosner wrote. He said most federal
investigations into complicated trading and accounting issues
generally take longer than eight months. The Securities and
Exchange Commission,  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and U.K.
Financial Services Authority, also are investigating the trades.  ‘Fixed CIO’  Dimon ousted the three London traders and managers involved
in the loss, shuffled senior managers and accepted resignations
from executives. “We obviously fixed CIO totally, 100%,” Dimon
said in January. “People in it, reporting, risk, controls,
committees, guidelines and we don’t do synthetic credit there at
all.”  Rosner called the lender’s internal analysis of the loss a
“whitewash,” arguing that it wasn’t more revealing in part
because it was too narrow in scope.  Michael Cavanagh , co-CEO of
the corporate and investment bank, led the review.  “The breakdowns in controls are not isolated” and may
lead to more shareholder losses, Rosner wrote, citing dozens of
open regulatory or legal cases against JPMorgan. Since 2009,
JPMorgan has been censured or settled claims by regulators for
knowingly executing fictitious commodities trades on behalf of a
client, violating position limits on futures contracts and
misleading investors in selling certain structured securities
contracts. It agreed to a $722 million settlement with the SEC
in 2009 over payments bankers allegedly made to help win
business with Jefferson County,  Alabama .  Municipal Contracts  In July, the company agreed to pay $211 million in a
separate settlement with state and federal regulators, admitting
that former employees had rigged bids of municipal-investment
contracts.  “JPMorgan’s list of regulatory violations over the past
five years is long, diverse and crosses legal and regulatory
jurisdictions,” Rosner wrote. “Many of these infractions are
for repeated violations of specific control failures, which the
company had previously agreed to remedy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  