-- Liberals Should Embrace the Ownership Society
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-03-13T22:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/liberals-should-embrace-the-ownership-society.html
Rising  inequality  in the U.S. and
 Europe  generates plenty of commentary nowadays, but not so many
compelling prescriptions. I’ve a simple theory for why this is.
The left really cares about the issue, but bars itself from
considering effective remedies. The right could come up with
some effective remedies, but doesn’t really care.  The left’s main problem is its endless fascination with the
very rich. In one way, admittedly, it’s justified, because the
increase in inequality is concentrated at the very top of the
income distribution: Once you exclude the top fraction of a
percentage point of high-income households, the change is less
dramatic.  This makes it plausible to focus, as progressives like to,
on raising taxes on the very rich. The problem is that the very
rich are good at avoiding taxes and, if worse comes to worst,
they’re mobile -- as  Gerard Depardieu  has been explaining to
 Francois Hollande , president of  France .  Granted, the U.S. tax authorities, noted for their
totalitarian instincts, reserve the right to collect taxes from
U.S. citizens living and working abroad. (Renouncing U.S.
citizenship -- and I say this as somebody seeking it -- remains
a possibility if the tax burden gets too punitive.) But the
basic point stands: Governments can drive down inequality only
so far by piling on the superrich.  Stagnating Middle  Lifestyles of the rich and famous should anyway be less of
a concern than the stagnating earnings of representative
households. America’s great postwar success was in creating an
enormous and upwardly mobile middle class, extending further
down the  income distribution  than was usual in Europe. That wide
center is no longer advancing. This should be the focus of
concern, and of action.  A recent Bloomberg View editorial looked at one cause of
stagnating middle incomes -- automation in factories and in
offices -- and suggested remedies that concentrate on promoting
a better-trained and more adaptable workforce. I’d like to
suggest an additional line of attack, one that both left and
right neglect, because, as I say, it brings a solution
conservatives might love to a problem that only liberals really
care about.  Unfortunately the label for this approach -- “the ownership
society” -- is so badly tainted it will be difficult to reclaim.
But here goes.  One of the forces pressing on the middle class is what
might be a persistent shift of income from labor to capital.
Policies to raise earnings by encouraging participation in the
 labor force , and by better-equipping workers to succeed once
they’re in it, are essential. But they should be complemented by
policies that give ordinary Americans a bigger stake in the
wealth that the economy keeps generating.  In a recent Bloomberg View op-ed, Mike Konczal of the
Roosevelt Institute went so far as to advise conservatives to
abandon their interest in the ownership society -- the misguided
basis, he argued, of all their bad economic and social-policy
ideas. My first reaction was, if only conservatives were as
interested as Konczal seems to think. My second reaction was,
why aren’t liberals interested?  Konczal’s mistake was to equate ownership with risk. In the
ownership society he envisages, instead of getting a pension
from the government when you retire, you get the accumulated
value of private investment in stocks and bonds. But stock
markets can crash, so that’s risky. Instead of getting
guaranteed health care financed out of taxes, you get a voucher
that you use to go shopping in a private health-care market. But
the voucher might fall short and the health-care market is a
jungle, so that’s risky, too.  Minimizing Risk  A squeezed middle class can’t handle more risk, he says.
When it comes to risk, it’s already maxed out. More ownership is
the last thing it needs or wants.  Well, I’d say that depends. It’s true that conservatives’
standard proposals for privatizing  Social Security  and
voucherizing Medicare would shift risk onto beneficiaries -- but
this plainly isn’t a necessary consequence of the basic
principle. I agree with Konczal that adequate insurance against
economic risk, underwritten by the government, is essential. I
also agree that most conservatives aren’t interested in
providing that guarantee. That’s exactly why liberals ought to
take up the ownership society themselves.  Ownership entails risk, it’s true, but insurance can
minimize it. Ownership also provides control, independence and
self-respect -- things it wouldn’t hurt liberals to be more
interested in. And when it comes to inequality and stagnating
middle incomes, ownership can give wage slaves a stake in the
nation’s economic capital.  Done right, an equity component in government-backed saving
for retirement could be the best idea liberals have had since
the earned-income tax credit (oh, sorry, that started out as a
conservative idea as well). The insurance component shouldn’t be
neglected, but recasting the Social Security system so that it
provides workers with a growing fund of equity over the course
of their working lives -- an investment that they own -- would
directly counter the drift of income from workers to capital.  Everyone a capitalist. It’s an idea progressives should
love.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 