-- IEA Sees Increased OPEC Crude Output Driven by Gains From Iraq
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-13T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/iea-sees-increased-opec-crude-output-driven-by-gains-from-iraq.html
OPEC crude output rose in February
to the highest level in at least three months, with  Iraq  and
Iran boosting production even as refinery maintenance damped
demand, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
countries pumped 30.49 million barrels a day in February, up
150,000 barrels from January’s output of 30.34 million, the
Paris-based IEA said today in its monthly oil market report.  “Increased supplies from Iraq as well as smaller
increments from Iran, Algeria,  Qatar , Nigeria and Libya offset
lower output from  Angola ,” the IEA said. “Demand for OPEC
crude remained subdued by cutbacks from refiners as the peak
spring turnaround period gets underway, especially at plants in
Asia.”  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
estimated that its members produced 30.31 million barrels a day
last month, based on secondary sources, according to a report
the group issued yesterday. The IEA, energy adviser to the
world’s richest industrialized nations, said  Saudi Arabia ,
OPEC’s biggest producer, pumped 9.25 million barrels a day in
February, unchanged from January.  Iraqi output rose 6 percent to 3.14 million barrels a day
in February, up from 2.97 million barrels the previous month,
according to the IEA. This was the first time in two months that
the nation’s output exceeded 3 million barrels a day, mostly as
a result of increased tanker exports from Basrah in southern
Iraq, the agency said.  Iran’s production grew by 70,000 barrels a day to 2.72
million barrels last month, with the “increased output
reportedly going to China and India,” the IEA said, without
saying where it got the information.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The group plans its next meeting in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  