-- Mighty Quinn’s, Briskettown Sell NYC’s Top BBQ: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-03-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/mighty-quinn-s-briskettown-sell-nyc-s-top-bbq-review.html
The beef rib at Briskettown in
 Brooklyn  weighs a pound, sometimes more. The soft meat, which
sticks to your fingers like glue, has a gentle gaminess. The
flavor is more livery than minerally, and that’s exactly what
you want. It costs about $21.  Yes, it’s just one rib. And yes, it’s just barbecue (which
used to be cheap before beef prices soared and everything went
artisanal). Still, the $21 rib is about as good as the $38
version at Il Buco Alimentari.  Doesn’t seem so expensive now does it?  It’s brought to us by Daniel Delaney, who sold 2,500 pounds
of brisket in 48 hours last spring during his “recipe
development series.” In November, he opened in South
Williamsburg with little more than a few tables, a butcher’s
block, a cashier and a piano.  As at any proper barbecue joint, you choose your meat and
pay before you eat. Everything is priced by the pound.  The brisket ($25 per pound) is legit. Even the leaner
slices are moist, the fat silky, never blubbery. The post oak
smoke is restrained; then again, so is the meat, perhaps a bit
too mild tempered. Pair with braised collards or beans mixed
with more pork and beef ($4) and there’s your meal.  Pork ribs ($19 per pound) occasionally veer towards overly
tender. Barbecue fans often prefer this cut with a bit more
heft; you want the meat to put up just a hint of a fight. Still,
these are quibbles.  The only real fault is the salt. Delaney doesn’t use
enough, not on the brisket at least. Ask for more and you get
the common salt-shaker variety. That’s not quite good enough for
this far-above-average spot.  Be sure to check the website before visiting, to find out
if there’s any meat left. Once Briskettown runs out, that’s it
for the day.  Mighty Quinn’s  Guests won’t encounter such Internet courtesies at Mighty
Quinn’s, another cafeteria-style venue.  You get in line and ask for a beef rib. “No beef rib,”
the butcher says. “How about chicken?” He shakes his head.  “How about those Yankees?” Don’t even try. This guy is
here to cut meat. And the good news is I’ve never seen Quinn’s
run out of brisket, which is, bar none, the best in town. Cost:
$8.50 for a single serving, or $22 by the pound.  Gorgeous Marbling  The smoke, a mix of cherry, oak and apple, is more
pronounced than at Briskettown. The beefiness is also amped up a
few more notches. The marbling is gorgeous; the meat pulls apart
like an accordion. And every order is finished with sea salt.  So where’s the beef from? Co-owner Micha Magid, previously
of JPMorgan and Basswood Partners, won’t say. Barbecue chefs are
big on secrets. What Magid and Quinn’s are clear about is the
style: a mix of  Texas  and Carolina barbecue, or “Texalina.”  That means your pulled pork ($18.75 per pound) is squirted
with vinegar sauce; the pig exudes a musky punch, as if it had
been dry-aged.  The Carolina influence also finds its way into the ribs
($23 per rack), spiced with a hint of chili. The meat is firm
and toothsome.  Smoked chicken ($8.50), with flabby skin and bland flesh,
is a sell. So is the $23 beef rib, which is heavily over salted,
with the exterior overcooked into a jerky-like consistency.
Sides range from bright beautiful edamame to saccharine pork and
beans.  So stick with meat and beer. You won’t go wrong.  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Full dinner for two under $100 at both.  Sound Level: Loud at Quinn’s; quieter at Briskettown.  Date Place: Briskettown is; Quinn’s is more of a mess hall.  Special Feature: $4 breakfast tacos at Briskettown.  Inside Tip: Take-out is the quickest route out of Quinn’s.  Back on My Own Dime: Yes, to both.  Briskettown is at 359 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn.
Information: +1-718-701-8909 or  http://delaneybbq.com/ . Mighty
Quinn’s is at 103 Second Avenue,  Manhattan . Information: +1-212-
677-3733 or  http://mightyquinnsbbq.com .  Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and Katya
Kazakina on hot  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in  New York  at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 