-- CEOs Tollerson, Dimon Join Obama at Cybersecurity Meeting
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-03-13T21:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/tillerson-joins-dimon-among-ceos-at-obama-cybersecurity-meeting.html
President  Barack Obama  gathered
chief executives from energy, finance and technology companies
to emphasize the threat posed by criminal and state-sponsored
hackers, which the administration regards as one of the nation’s
main security challenges.  The White House meeting with corporate leaders including
Honeywell Inc.’s David M. Cote and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Jamie Dimon followed a warning from the top U.S. intelligence official
that computer intrusions have moved past terrorism to become the
top global threat and a report that six banks were hit by
denial-of-service attacks.  “There is a consistent, persistent threat here that we
need to be concerned about as a country,” Cote said as he left
the closed-door meeting with Obama and his advisers. “Just
having this meeting, I think, was huge.”  Dimon called the session “very helpful, productive.”  The administration has been raising alarms that the
nation’s computer networks are vulnerable to hackers bent on
stealing personal information and corporate secrets or
interrupting vital industries such as energy, banking or
transportation.  Obama issued an executive order Feb. 12 outlining policies
for wider sharing of government data on hacking with companies,
particularly operators of vital infrastructure such as power
grids. The order directed the government to develop voluntary
cybersecurity standards for those businesses and instructs U.S.
agencies to consider adding the standards to existing rules.  Security Threat  James Clapper, the U.S. director of national intelligence,
told the Senate Intelligence Committee yesterday that hostile
hackers or an “isolated state” may succeed in breaching U.S.
computer networks and disrupting power grids and other vital
services in the next two years.  “What is absolutely true is that we have seen a steady
ramping up of cybersecurity threats,” Obama said in an
interview on ABC’s “Good Morning America” program broadcast
today. “Some are state-sponsored,” and “some are just
sponsored by criminals.”  Along with Cote and Dimon, the executives invited to the
afternoon meeting included: Nicholas K. Akins, CEO of American
Electric Power Company Inc.; Wesley G. Bush, CEO of Northrop
Grumman Corp.; Clarence P. Cazalot Jr., chief executive of
Marathon Oil Corp.;  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  CEO Rex Tillerson; United
Parcel Service Inc. CEO D. Scott Davis; David F. Melcher, chief
executive of Exelis Inc.; Brian T. Moynihan, CEO of Bank of
America Corp.; Eric Spiegel, CEO of Siemens Corp.; Randall Stephenson, CEO of AT&T Inc.; and Maggie Wilderotter, chief
executive of Frontier Communications Corp.  Obama Advisers  White House Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough , National
Economic Council Director Gene Sperling and Michael Daniel,
Obama’s cybersecurity coordinator, were among the White House
officials also in the session, according to the invitation.  “Everybody is very interested in the idea of cyber
security,” Cote told reporters. “This is a great place for
government and business to work together.”  Administration officials have cited  China  as a source of
cyber intrusions. Obama in the ABC interview said that the U.S.
will “have some pretty tough talks with them” about the issue.  Multiple banks came under denial-of-service attacks
yesterday, according to  Carl Herberger, a vice president for
the network security firm Radware Ltd. in Tel-Aviv. While he
declined to name them, JPMorgan spokesman Michael Fusco said an
attack blocked the bank’s website. Fusco said no customer data
had been affected. The site has been restored to working order.  A group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters
took responsibility for similar attacks on U.S. banks in
December. Denial-of-service attacks flood Internet sites with
traffic, blocking access. The group said in an online posting
yesterday it would keep trying to disrupt banks, naming eight
others as targets.  Separately, the Secret Service and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation have begun looking into the posting of purported
financial information of celebrities, government officials and
first lady Michelle Obama.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  