-- Illinois Sets $800 Million General-Obligation Bond Sale
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-13T13:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/illinois-sets-800-million-general-obligation-bond-sale.html
Illinois  plans to offer $800
million of tax-exempt and taxable general-obligation bonds in a
competitive sale April 2, its first since becoming  Standard &
Poor’s  lowest-rated U.S. state.  The $450 million of tax-exempt securities and $350 million
of taxable debt will be sold the same day, according to offering
documents released yesterday. The bonds will mature from 2014 to
2038 and proceeds will pay for road, rail and school projects.  The fifth-most-populous state postponed a $500 million
offering Jan. 30, five days after S&P cut the rating on its debt
to A-, six steps below AAA. It is the lowest grade among U.S.
states. The state cited unfavorable market conditions as reason
for the delay.  “After we postponed the sale earlier this year, we opted
to wait” until after Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  presented
his budget, Abdon Pallasch, assistant budget director, said in
an e-mail. The deal increased to $800 million because the state
has “more projects ready to get under way now at the start of
construction season.”  The state this week settled with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over fraud charges, the second state to do
so. The regulator said Illinois misled bond investors from 2005
to 2009 about shortfalls in retirement funds.  Illinois has the weakest pension system among U.S. states,
with just 39 percent of assets to cover projected obligations
for five major groups of public employees, according to the
Chicago-based Civic Federation, a nonprofit group that tracks
 government finance . The state also faces a backlog of $9 billion
in unpaid bills.  Illinois and its localities pay the highest interest rate
of 19 states tracked by Bloomberg. Investors demand a yield
penalty of  1.3 percentage points  above AAA securities to own
debt of Illinois issuers, almost seven times the average in
2005, when the SEC said the inadequate disclosure began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  