-- Import Prices in U.S. Climbed in February as Energy Costs Jumped
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-03-13T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/import-prices-in-u-s-climbed-in-february-as-energy-costs-jumped.html
The cost of goods imported into the
U.S. climbed in February by the most in six months, reflecting a
jump in energy expenses that is now receding.  The 1.1 percent increase in the import-price  index  followed
a 0.6 percent gain in the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The  median  forecast of 43 economists
in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.6 percent advance. Prices
dropped 0.3 percent over the past 12 months.  The increase in import costs is unlikely to be sustained as
global markets such as  Europe  remain weak, limiting demand for
commodities including oil. American companies also will have
little scope to raise prices as they compete with overseas
manufacturers to attract customers, helping to keep overall
inflation in check.  “We had a pretty substantial rise in  oil prices , but we’ve
come back,” Tom Simons, an economist at Jefferies LLC in  New
York , said before the report. His team ranked third among
forecasters of import prices over the past two years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. “Outside of oil, there really
isn’t a lot going on with import prices. They’re pretty stable
excluding the volatility due to oil.”  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of
0.2 percent to a gain of 2.1 percent. Compared with a year
earlier, import prices were forecast to decline 0.7 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers project prices will stay
within their goal. Inflationary pressures were “modest,” the
central bank said in its  Beige Book  released March 6. “Most
district contacts did not plan to increase prices.”  Imported Oil  The cost of imported petroleum increased 5.2 percent from
the prior month, the biggest advance since August.  Oil prices have shown large swings this year.  Brent crude 
traded on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  at an
average of $112.32 a barrel in January, jumped to $116.07 a
barrel in February, and dropped to around $110 a barrel as of
yesterday.  Excluding all fuels, import prices were little changed in
February from the prior month. They also showed little movement
from February 2012.  Costs of imported automobiles were little changed from the
prior month.  Consumer goods  excluding vehicles showed a 0.1
percent gain. The price of imported capital goods was down 0.1
percent in February from the prior month and fell 0.4 percent
over the past 12 months, the biggest year-to-year decrease since
July 2010.  Dollar Climbs  Import costs may remain restrained as concern about
Europe’s woes drives investors to prefer the safety of the
dollar. Fed data show the  currency  climbed 1.7 percent from the
end of last year through March 8, when measured against a trade-
weighted basket of currencies from its biggest trading partners.
The current level is still down from last year’s peak reached on
June 1.  Weak demand overseas and contained raw-materials costs make
it unlikely foreign manufacturers will be able to raise prices
of goods sent to the U.S.  Michelin & Cie. (ML) , Europe’s largest
tiremaker, said sales volume and earnings probably won’t grow
this year as a recession that hurt the region’s car and truck
industries held back profits in 2012.  “When it comes to raw materials, we mentioned that it
should still be positive for us this year, notably in the first
half,” Jean-Dominique Senard, chief executive officer of
Clermont-Ferrand, France-based Michelin, said on a Feb. 12
earnings conference call with analysts.  Other Gauges  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due
tomorrow, and the consumer-price index on March 15.  Today’s report showed the cost of goods from  China  rose 0.1
percent, the first increase since February 2012. The price of
imports from  Japan  dropped 0.4 percent, the most since September
2008. Goods from  Latin America  climbed 2.1 percent and those
from the European Union increased 0.7 percent. Prices of
Canadian imports climbed 1.5 percent, and goods from  Mexico  cost
1.3 percent more.  U.S. export prices increased 0.8 percent after advancing
0.3 percent the previous month, today’s figures showed. Prices
of farm exports rose 2 percent, while those of non-farm goods
were up 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  