-- Lincoln’s Cooper Shuns Shoot-For-Moon Funds After Goldman
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-13T13:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/lincoln-s-cooper-shuns-shoot-for-moon-funds-after-goldman.html
Ellen Cooper, the chief investment
officer hired by  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  from  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  last year, is shifting the insurer’s hedge-fund bets in her
first months on the job.  Cooper, who ran Goldman Sachs’s insurance asset-management
unit, said she is moving about $125 million from so-called
multistrategy funds to managers that employ individual
approaches with low correlation to stocks and bonds. The insurer
is invested in a customized pool of funds, and Cooper declined
to name the specific investments.  Cooper, 48, is working to boost yields on Lincoln’s
portfolio of $99.1 billion amid low interest rates spurred by
Federal Reserve stimulus policies. While bonds make up more than
80 percent of the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based insurer’s
investments, Cooper said that using  hedge funds  and other
alternatives to increase yields is among her most important
tasks.  “I’m looking for better performance and less volatility,”
she said in a March 8 interview in  New York . “I’m not looking
to shoot for the moon here and pray.”  Hedge funds  have underperformed the MSCI All-Country World
Index in five of the past seven years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Multistrategy funds  fell 5.7 percent last
year on average, while the MSCI index gained. Individual
strategies with low correlation to stock and bond markets can
include funds that bet on corporate events such mergers,
spinoffs and bankruptcies.  Seeking Income  Life insurers are seeking new sources of investment income
as bond yields drop.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  is issuing private
loans on toll roads and bridges, Chief Executive Officer Dean
Connor said last week.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  had
$18.9 billion in alternative investments at the end of 2012, or
about 5 percent of its portfolio.  Lincoln fell 2 cents to $32.98 at 9:46 a.m. in New York.
The shares have advanced 27 percent this year.  Lincoln had $869 million, or 0.9 percent of its portfolio,
in alternative investments -- a category that includes private
equity and hedge funds -- as of Dec. 31. That’s up from $807
million a year earlier and $696 million in 2009. The funds added
 $125 million  to profit in 2012, compared with $90 million the
prior year.  The insurer said it is seeking to have 1.4 percent of
assets in alternatives over time, with the majority in private
equity.  “On corporate bonds, the yields are falling,” Edward Shields, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said by
phone. “In this current low-interest-rate environment, there’s
not a lot they can do with traditional investments.”  Fed’s Moves  Cooper said Lincoln isn’t adjusting the duration of its
bonds to boost yields or prepare for an eventual end to Fed
stimulus efforts.  “My job is not to make a bet on what’s going to happen
with the Fed,” she said.  Dennis Glass, the insurer’s CEO, said in February that
Lincoln added $600 million to assets including hedge funds,
private equity, private placements and middle-market loans, and
estimated the investments would yield 2 percentage points more
than investment-grade corporate bonds. The insurer plans to
commit $400 million more to alternatives, Glass said.  “We’re not jumping into this,” he said on a Feb. 7
conference call with analysts. “We’re going to put it out over
time and be cautious.”  Cooper’s Career  Before joining Lincoln, Cooper was among executives at
Goldman Sachs who took over duties after Eric Kirsch left to
oversee the portfolio of  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest seller of
supplemental health coverage. Kirsch has favored U.S. corporate
bonds over Japanese government debt to boost yields at Aflac,
which is based in Columbus,  Georgia , and does most of its
business in  Japan .  Cooper, who studied actuarial science at  Temple University ,
was chief risk officer at  Aegon NV (AGN) ’s Americas business prior to
joining Goldman Sachs in 2008. New York-based Goldman Sachs
manages $131 billion in insurance assets, according to its
website.  Both Lincoln and Aflac hired Goldman Sachs to advise on
portfolios after adding investment chiefs. Glass said in
September that after working to avoid risk at Lincoln since
2008, he began examining ways to add riskier assets to boost
returns.  “My management team is not going to be a victim of low
 interest rates ,” Glass said. “What we are doing is looking
very carefully at ways to increase yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  