-- Inditex Reports Slowest Profit Advance in Five Quarters
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-13T14:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/inditex-reports-full-year-profit-advanced-22-percent.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s biggest
clothing retailer, reported profit increased at the slowest pace
in five quarters, missing analysts’ estimates as a weak Spanish
economy damped consumption in its home market.  Net income rose 12 percent to 705 million euros ($919.3
million) in the three months through January, the Arteixo,
Spain-based owner of the Zara chain said today. The average of
20 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 716 million euros. That’s
the second consecutive time Inditex failed to surpass analysts’
expectations after three years of beating them. The stock fell
as much as 4.8 percent.  “Quarterly earnings were a little bit disappointing,”
said  Anne Critchlow , a London-based analyst at  Societe Generale .
“The prior-year comparative had become tough for the first
time, and a slowdown had to happen.”  Inditex’s sales in  Spain , a market accounting for a fifth
of the total, fell 5 percent in the full year as the
 unemployment rate  reached 26 percent in December and the
retailer absorbed a 3 percentage point increase in value-added
tax from September. Inditex said its Spanish market share is
about 12 percent and it doesn’t plan to increase its store total
in that market this year.  ‘Difficult Situation’  “Spain remains in a difficult situation,” Chief Executive
Officer Pablo Isla told reporters in Madrid today. Still, Isla
predicted this will be a year of “strong growth.”  Inditex, controlled by billionaire  Amancio Ortega , today
forecast a slower pace of store openings this year as it focuses
on growth abroad, having added Chinese Zara online sales in
September, and bringing the Massimo Dutti label to the U.S. The
company doesn’t have plans to enter new markets this year as it
sees growth from the 86 countries where it already has stores,
according to Isla.  Inditex shares traded 3.8 percent lower at 104.35 euros as
of 3:03 p.m. in Madrid, having gained 58 percent in the year
through yesterday.  “Inditex’s share price means that high earnings growth has
become a must in order to satisfy investors,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said by
phone today.  Fourth-quarter sales rose 12 percent to 4.58 billion euros.
That matched the average analysts’ estimate. Store revenue at
constant exchange rates climbed 12 percent from Feb. 1 to March
11, it said.  Margin Shrinks  The gross margin, a measure of profitability, dropped to a
two-year low of 57.9 percent in the fourth quarter from 62.1
percent in the third quarter. That missed analyst  estimates  of
58.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Inditex
expects the full-year margin to change no more than 0.5
percentage point from last year’s 59.8 percent, Isla said on a
conference call with analysts.  “Gross margin was the weakest point in these results but
the company did a good job in cost control, which rescued the
quarter,” Critchlow said.  Fourth-quarter operating expenses rose 12 percent, in line
with sales, while the cost of goods sold rose 14 percent.  Massimo Dutti’s full-year operating profit declined 18
percent to 197 million euros as Inditex expanded the chain.
Sales rose 12 percent to 1.13 billion euros.  New York  The company in October opened its first  New York  Massimo
Dutti store, aiming to reach a more mature audience of customers
willing to shell out for silk skirts and leather briefcases. The
chain was Inditex’s most profitable in 2011, with a higher
operating margin than Zara’s.  Inditex said it plans 440 to 480 new stores this fiscal
year. The company boosted its total by 482 stores in the past
fiscal year. Inditex said it expects to invest about 1.25
billion euros this year.  Isla’s base pay rose 50 percent in 2012 to 6.48 million
euros.  The company, whose brands also include Bershka and Pull &
Bear, has jumped past rivals including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  with
ability to get stock like $59.90 mini skirts from its design
table to more than 6,000 stores worldwide within weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  