-- India’s Singh Demands Italy Return Marines Amid Lawmaker Protest
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-03-13T07:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/india-s-singh-demands-italy-return-marines-amid-lawmaker-protest.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said ties with  Italy  could suffer if it fails to return
two marines charged with killing fishermen in waters off the
southern tourist state of Kerala last year.  Confronted in parliament by angry lawmakers, Singh said the
European nation’s actions violated “every rule of diplomatic
discourse,” according to comments posted on his official
Twitter account. If the administration in  Rome  doesn’t “keep
their word, there will be consequences for our relations with
Italy,” Singh said.  India  yesterday summoned Italian ambassador Daniele Mancini
to protest the decision by his government not to send back the
men who are due to go on trial in New Delhi. In a petition to
India’s  Supreme Court , the Italian government had guaranteed
that the marines would return.  The prosecution of the Italians was the first attempt to
hold armed maritime guards accountable for the deaths of
innocent people in an anti-piracy operation. Relations between
the two countries were further strained by allegations that
bribes were paid by the AgustaWestland unit of Italy’s
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  to secure the contract to supply 12 civilian
helicopters to the Indian government.  India’s Central Bureau of Investigation today raided 14
properties in two cities as it probed the charges of graft.
Among those being questioned is the former chief of India’s air
force, S.P. Tyagi, the CBI said in a text message to reporters.  Finmeccanica Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi has been
arrested on accusations of corruption and tax fraud. The company
has denied the charges, as has Tyagi.  Piracy Operations  Mancini informed the Indian authorities that marines
Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone “won’t return to
India,” the European nation’s Foreign Ministry said March 11.
The Italian government said India failed to respond to a request
to negotiate a diplomatic solution.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  has accused
Singh’s government of working with Italy to end the diplomatic
standoff.  The marines were acting as guards on the Italian-flagged
 Enrica Lexie  tanker as it sailed to  Egypt  from Singapore, a
route that includes crossing the Indian Ocean, where Somali
pirates operate.  Their arrest triggered a diplomatic rift as Italy and India
presented different versions of the attack. Italy has argued
that the men shot the two fishermen in self-defense and that the
marines should be tried in their own country because the
incident occurred in seas outside of India’s jurisdiction. India
says the attack happened in its territorial waters.  Ferrari SpA, the Italian sports carmaker, even weighed in,
having two of its cars carry the flag of the Italian navy during
the Oct. 28 Formula One grand-prix race in  New Delhi .  India’s Chief Justice ruled in January that the two men
could be put on trial, ordering hearings before a specially
convened court in the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  