-- India’s Rupee Rises to Two-Week High After Exports, Output Climb
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-13T05:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/india-s-rupee-rises-to-two-week-high-after-exports-output-climb.html
India’s rupee advanced to the
highest level this month after reports showed exports rose the
most in a year and factory output beat estimates.  Overseas sales  climbed 4.2 percent in February from a year
earlier, helping narrow the trade deficit to $14.9 billion from
$20 billion, official data showed March 11. Industrial
production increased 2.4 percent in January, a report showed
yesterday, compared with the 1.3 percent gain forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The rupee’s advance will be
limited by questions on policy makers’ ability to revive annual
growth from the least in a decade, according to Barclays Plc.  “The recent rupee strengthening is largely due to the
better-than-expected data,” said Nick Verdi, a strategist at
Barclays in Singapore. “The trajectory of the currency will
depend on the central bank’s room to cut rates going ahead and
the ability of the government to raise revenue from untested
streams. I would struggle to get too excited on the rupee.”  The rupee advanced 0.1 percent to 54.1325 per dollar as of
10:16 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It touched 54.0175, the strongest level since Feb. 28. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.99 percent.  Consumer prices rose 10.91 percent last month, compared
with a 10.79 percent increase in January, official data showed
yesterday, even as  wholesale-price  inflation is seen easing to
the slowest pace since 2009. Wholesale prices increased 6.6
percent in February, according to the median of 28 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey before data due tomorrow.  Going Neutral  In the budget announced on Feb. 28, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram raised spending on the poor to court
support before elections, relying on higher taxes, including a
surcharge on wealthy individuals, asset sales and subsidy cuts
to trim the widest fiscal deficit in major emerging nations.  The budget “underwhelmed and disappointed” Brown Brothers
Harriman Ltd., which is going ‘neutral’ on the rupee from
‘positive’ last month. The timing of further interest-rate
reductions from the Reserve Bank of India is now more uncertain,
according to Brown Brothers and Barclays.  “There are no overwhelming reasons to be long on the rupee,
and it is not one of our favorite currencies in the region,”
Barclays’ Verdi said.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.26 per
dollar, compared with 55.39 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.20 versus 55.18. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  