-- Indonesia Tests Central Bankers as Rupiah Drops: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-14T05:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/indonesia-tests-central-bankers-as-rupiah-drops-southeast-asia.html
Indonesian lawmakers will assess
candidates to become the central bank’s deputy governor for
monetary operations today, seeking to fill a post that has been
vacant since 2011 as the nation grapples with a falling currency.  Commission XI, a parliamentary panel for financial affairs,
is due to vet Perry Warjiyo and Hendar, who goes by one name.
Both are  Bank Indonesia  executive directors for monetary policy,
while Warjiyo also oversees economic research. If the panel
rejects both of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s nominees,
he would need to submit new names.  The same committee will also examine the credentials of
Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  for the position of governor
in less than two weeks. At stake is safeguarding the central
bank’s leadership and curbing prolonged vacancies in an
institution wrestling with elevated inflation, a  trade deficit 
that widened to a record in October and one of the worst
performing currencies in  Asia  in the past year.  “For decision making, ideally the positions that need to
be filled ought to be filled as this concerns checks and
balances,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “The most immediate
challenge now is the current account because this deals with the
rupiah. So these two are the focus.”  The rupiah weakened by the most in almost two weeks today,
falling 0.2 percent to 9,708 per dollar as of 11:45 a.m. in
Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Jakarta Composite Index fell 1.3 percent, heading for its
biggest one-day drop since Aug. 30.  Improve Effectiveness  Indonesia ’s political system can pose challenges for speedy
central bank succession. Current Governor Darmin Nasution, 64,
assumed the top post in September 2010 after more than a year as
acting leader. It took the president about a year to nominate
him after the previous head, Boediono, resigned in May 2009 to
become Yudhoyono’s running mate in the presidential election.  The president last month named Martowardojo as his sole
candidate to succeed Nasution, whose term ends May 23. The
parliamentary committee has agreed to assess the finance
minister for the governor’s job on March 25.  Appointing a new deputy governor will improve the central
bank’s effectiveness in managing monetary operations, said
 Destry Damayanti , chief economist at PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta.
Warjiyo or Hendar must know how to balance policies that affect
inflation, the rupiah and economic growth while addressing the
external imbalance, she said.  “Both names are credible,” Damayanti said. “Perry is
more experienced with the monetary policy side, while Hendar is
more experienced in monetary management, such as when to
intervene. Whoever is selected can get along with Agus.”  Trade Shortfalls  The government is targeting economic expansion of 6.5
percent to 6.8 percent this year after gross domestic product
rose 6.1 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in more than two years.  Indonesia’s  inflation  accelerated to a 20-month high in
February and  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy has expanded above
6 percent for the past nine quarters, limiting the central
bank’s scope to cut  interest rates . Bank Indonesia held its
 benchmark  at a record-low 5.75 percent for a 13th straight month
in March. Widening trade shortfalls are a constraint to an
investment grade rating,  Standard & Poor’s  said last year.  Yudhoyono’s administration has sought to cut fuel subsidies
and allocate more spending to infrastructure to spur growth. It
limited the use of partially government-funded diesel in January,
after protests derailed plans to raise fuel prices in 2012.  Fourth Attempt  “The challenge for the deputy governor is quite
daunting,” said  Anton Gunawan , chief economist at PT Bank
Danamon Indonesia in Jakarta. “Especially when it comes to the
current account deficit and a shallow foreign exchange market.”  Bank Indonesia  has stepped up intervention to support the
rupiah and narrow the gap between local and overseas prices,
Hendar said in a Jan. 28 interview. The central bank may take
action on its key rate if the currency’s depreciation causes
inflation to quicken, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono has said.  Today’s so-called fit-and-proper test marks Warjiyo’s
fourth attempt at becoming deputy governor. Warjiyo, 54, has a
Ph.D. in monetary and international economics from  Iowa State
University , and was an executive director for the Southeast Asia
voting group at the  International Monetary Fund  from 2007
through 2009. He lost out to Sarwono in 2008, while in 2010 and
2011 Halim Alamsyah and Ronald Waas were picked.  Hendar, 55, has a Master’s degree in development economics
from  Williams College  in the U.S., and has never been tested for
the role. Lawmakers will likely choose Warjiyo, as he is
considered more senior and more qualified, Gunawan said.  Supervisory Role  Bank Indonesia is due to hand over its banking supervisory
role to the newly established Financial Services Authority,
which will oversee lenders starting next year. The central bank
currently has three deputy governors and one governor. The law
states the board consists of at least four deputy governors and
a senior deputy governor, besides a governor.  Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah, who oversees banking
supervision, took charge of monetary operations when Budi Mulya
took on a non-active position in October 2011. Mulya was removed
from the monetary role after he was investigated by the state
auditor over a 1 billion-rupiah ($103,000) loan he obtained from
the owner of PT Bank Century, which he said was personal. The
lender was bailed out during the 2008 global financial crisis.  As Yudhoyono adjusts his top policy making team, Indonesia
may be at risk from unpredictable policy making ahead of the
next presidential election due mid-2014, according to  Capital
Economics  Ltd.  “Policy making in Indonesia has become increasingly
haphazard,” said Gareth Leather, a London-based Asia economist
at Capital Economics. Martowardojo has clashed with the cabinet
over fuel-subsidy reform and the need for fiscal discipline, so
Yudhoyono’s move may be an attempt to sideline him from
government decisions and “open the door for a more profligate
approach to fiscal policy ahead of the election,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  