-- Insurers’ Wall Street Risks Hurt Investors, McKinsey Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-13T12:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/insurers-wall-street-risks-hurt-investors-mckinsey-says.html
U.S. life insurers underperformed
most industries after taking risks that should have been left to
Wall Street banks, McKinsey & Co. said in a report today.  Insurers were hurt by offering guaranteed returns on
products linked to stocks and bonds to compete with banks, tying
company profits to investment markets, McKinsey said. The firms
are better suited to manage risks apart from capital markets,
such as the chance that customers will die early, leading to
life insurance payouts.  “As a whole, the industry has been much better at poolable
risks, as opposed to Wall Street types of risk,” Guillaume de
Gantes, an author of the McKinsey report, said by phone.  Insurers were among the  worst-performing of 24 industries 
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index over the past decade, beating
only banks and financial firms. The group that includes  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  gained 8.1 percent in the 10
years through yesterday, while the  S&P 500 (SPX)  almost doubled.  The insurers that did best focused on managing the risks in
their product portfolios, said Vivek Agrawal, an author of the
report, which doesn’t name companies.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  shares lost more than 90
percent over the past decade as the seller of property-casualty
coverage and life insurance required a U.S. rescue beginning in
2008 after soured bets on real estate. New York-based AIG repaid
the bailout last year. Chattanooga, Tennessee-based  Unum Group (UNM) 
did the best among large insurers since March 2003, climbing
more than 300 percent.  ‘Real Differentiator’  Skill at managing liabilities was “the real differentiator
for a life insurer,” Agrawal said. “While it was true that a
life insurer could lose their shirt if they weren’t good at risk
management, it was very hard for a life insurer to consistently
outperform based on investment management.”  Insurers can grow by improving their ability to evaluate
risks in products, and by pricing the offerings appropriately,
according to the McKinsey report, which was based on evaluations
of both publicly traded and customer-owned firms. Insurers can
also expand by providing savings products to retirees, selling
more coverage outside the U.S. and offering additional products
to existing customers, McKinsey said.  Prudential Vice Chairman Mark Grier said Wall Street should
appreciate the fees the insurer makes on the retirement products
known as variable annuities.  “We’re getting more than 2 percentage points of fees from
the assets that are part of our annuity business,” Grier said
last week at a Citigroup Inc. financial-services conference in
 Boston . “In your businesses, you probably would dance in the
street over 40 or 50 or 60 basis points.” A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Hartford, Sun  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and Toronto-based
 Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  are among insurers that scaled back from
the retirement products known as variable annuities to limit
risk tied to interest rates and stock market volatility.  “We’ve significantly de-risked,” Sun Life Chief Executive
Officer Dean Connor said March 8 in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. “We want people to buy our stock not
as a call option on the S&P 500, but because they believe in”
the company’s plan to focus on asset management, group coverage
in the U.S., insurance in  Canada  and expansion in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  