-- Investors Ready to Help Solve Dutch Crisis, Adviser Says
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-03-13T09:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/investors-ready-to-help-solve-dutch-crisis-adviser-says.html
Dutch institutional investors are
ready to help reverse a slump in the housing market by financing
more mortgages, said Kees Dijkhuizen, chief financial officer of
lender NIBC Holding NV and a government adviser.  “Based on the talks I have had, I’m of the opinion that
there is a basis to come to a bigger involvement of
institutional investors in mortgage financing,” Dijkhuizen, who
was hired to advise on the lending, said in a letter published
on the government’s website yesterday. “It is desirable that
institutional investors in the Netherlands and abroad play a
larger role.”  The Netherlands had the outlook on its AAA credit rating
cut to negative last month by  Fitch Ratings , which cited banking
system problems and difficult economic conditions.  House prices 
slid more than 10 percent last year and have dropped 19 percent
since 2008, the national statistics agency said last month.  Under the plan proposed by Dijkhuizen, banks would package
most of their home loans that are considered safe in a national
mortgage body. The body will self-finance through the issuance
of covered bonds guaranteed by the Dutch state that would be
sold to pension funds and insurers, he said in the letter.  The proposal could help ease the burden on banks’ balance
sheets and become very important to the Dutch economy, Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem told RTL-Z in a televised interview
yesterday.  Household mortgage debt is extremely high and isn’t
compensated for by savings, Dijkhuizen’s said. Meanwhile,
pension funds have more than $1 trillion in assets, he said. The
plan would make it cheaper for people to get mortgages and
increase competition for lending, Dijkhuizen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  