-- IPhone Eyed by Small Carriers Backing Unlocked Devices
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-03-13T14:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/iphone-eyed-by-small-carriers-backing-unlocked-devices.html
Small wireless carriers see a new
path to scoring users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and other popular
handsets: the legalization of unlocking mobile devices.  Regional and rural wireless providers are backing several
bills in Congress that would let consumers unlock mobile phones
and tablet computers without carriers’ permission. Big phone
companies often land exclusive rights to offer the hottest
devices, and U.S. rules currently prohibit altering software to
let new phones from one carrier to work on other networks.  “Smaller carriers have a very difficult time getting
access to smartphones and handsets,” said Steven Berry,
president of the Competitive Carriers Association, which
represents such companies as  U.S. Cellular Corp. (USM)  and  Bluegrass
Cellular . “The unlocking is one way the consumer can make the
decision that I can try someone else who has better coverage in
the area where I live or play.”  The Washington-based trade group is seeking to undo a
Library of Congress decision, backed by largest U.S. mobile
providers Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) , barring consumers from
unlocking their handsets without their carrier’s approval. The
rules change, which took effect Jan. 26, reversed an earlier
exemption under copyright law.  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, a
Vermont Democrat, and Charles Grassley of  Iowa , the panel’s top
Republican, introduced a bill March 11 to overturn the Library
of Congress’s decision and direct the agency to consider adding
tablet computers to devices that consumers can unlock.  Lawmakers’ Proposals  “When consumers finish the terms of their contract, they
should be able to keep their phones and make their own decision
about which wireless provider to use,” Leahy said in an e-
mailed statement. “They should not be forced to stay with their
original provider due to software that restricts a phone to only
one network.”  Democratic Senators Ron Wyden of  Oregon  and Amy Klobuchar
of  Minnesota  have also introduced bills to unlock mobile phones.
House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican,
and John Conyers of  Michigan , the panel’s top Democrat, have
also announced plans to sponsor such legislation.  “The campaign to make unfettered mobile phone unlocking
the law of the land is understandably attractive to a mix of
wireless of carriers, especially those up against No. 1 Verizon
and No. 2 AT&T,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst with
Medley Global Advisors.  Verizon Wireless has about 98 million subscribers and AT&T
has 78 million; U.S. Cellular said in its  annual report  filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it has almost 6
million wireless subscribers. Some smaller companies have as few
as 2,000, according to the Competitive Carriers Association.  Online Petition  Unlocking phones isn’t the only thing standing in the way
of smaller carriers, who say they need more access to wireless
spectrum and cutting-edge handsets, and limits on consolidation
among the largest carriers, Silva said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration said March 4 that
consumers should be allowed to unlock smartphones and tablet
computers without risking criminal penalties,  citing  a White
House online petition endorsed by more than 114,000 people.  The Federal Communications Commission and the National
Telecommunications & Information Administration, a Commerce
Department branch that advises the president on airwaves policy,
will handle the issue, the administration said.  The Library of Congress’s Copyright Office, as part of a
periodic review, said changing software to let one carrier’s
phones work on other networks wasn’t among activities expressly
permitted under copyright law.  Steep Discounts  CTIA-The Wireless Association, with members including
Verizon, AT&T,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. had
argued that “locking cell phones is an essential part of the
wireless industry’s dominant business model” involving handset
subsidies and contracts, Librarian of Congress James Billington
said in the notice.  Major carriers such as AT&T and Verizon Wireless sell
locked phones at a steep discount -- or give certain models away
for free -- to entice customers to sign a service contract,
usually for a period of two years. IPhones accounted for 84
percent of AT&T’s total smartphone sales in the fourth quarter
and 63 percent of Verizon’s, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Handset makers and big-box retailers such as  Best Buy Co. (BBY) 
have begun selling unlocked devices that work with multiple
carriers. Partly because consumers have that option, unlocking
newly purchased devices doesn’t merit an exemption under
copyright law, Billington said.  “While we think the Librarian’s careful decision was
reasonable, the fact is that it has very little impact on AT&T
customers,” Joan Marsh, AT&T vice president of federal
regulatory, said in March 8 company blog  post .  ‘First Steps’  AT&T already will unlock a device for any customer whose
accounts have been active for at least 60 days and are in good
standing and who has fulfilled his or her service agreement,
Marsh said.  David Samberg, a spokesman for Verizon Wireless, referred
questions to CTIA-The Wireless Association. CTIA spokeswoman Amy
Storey declined to comment, referring to a March 4  statement 
from the group that carriers will unlock a phone at a customer’s
request when the contract terms are satisfied or for reasons
such as a trip outside the U.S.  Apple spokesman Steve Dowling didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  While the Senate bills are “excellent first steps,”
Congress needs to go further, Carri Bennet, general counsel for
Rural Telecommunications Group, a Washington association
representing rural carriers with fewer than 100,000 subscribers,
said in an e-mail.  “Innovation and consumer interests would be better served
if wireless devices were freely available and not tied to
wireless networks,” Bennet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  