-- Iran Oil Exports Seen Rising by IEA Even as Sanctions Widen
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-03-13T10:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/iran-oil-exports-seen-rising-13-by-iea-even-as-sanctions-widen.html
Iranian oil shipments advanced 13
percent last month even as the U.S. implemented new sanctions
against the Persian Gulf country, according to the International
Energy Agency.  Imports from  Iran  rose to 1.28 million barrels a day in
February from 1.13 million barrels in January, the Paris-based
adviser to 28 oil-consuming nations said in a report today. U.S.
rules took effect last month that require importers to pay in
local currencies kept in escrow accounts, the agency said.  The U.S. and allies are restricting Iran’s oil exports, the
country’s largest source of revenue, to pressure the government
in Tehran to stop enriching uranium. Negotiators will meet in
Kazakhstan next month to discuss steps toward an agreement on
Iran’s nuclear program, which the country says is for civilian
use while Western governments suspect a military intent.  “The only thing clear is that the current stalemate
between Iran and the West is unsustainable,” the IEA said in
the report. “Sooner or later, something has to give.”  Iranian exports are still down from an average of 1.5
million barrels a day last year and 2.5 million in 2011, before
sanctions intensified, IEA estimates show. The country’s output,
once the second-highest in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, also expanded last month, rising 2.6
percent to 2.72 million barrels a day, compared with 3 million
barrels a day in 2012, according to the IEA.  Secondhand Tankers  Iran bought secondhand tankers to take oil to  China , the
IEA said, citing industry reports. The country is also ordering
vessels to turn off transponders signaling ships’ locations,
destinations and depths in the water, complicating the
compilation of exports data, according to the agency.  The shipments estimates are based on import data submitted
by nations in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, information from customs agencies, and news reports
for individual countries, the IEA said. Tanker-tracking is the
only source of information for the most current month, according
to the report.  Exports will average 1.38 million barrels a day in the
Iranian fiscal year starting March 21, 2013, the IEA estimates.
That’s in line with the government’s budget expecting 1.3
million barrels a day, according to the report. Oil sales once
accounted for half of government revenue, according to the U.S.
Department of Energy.  Iran’s net oil export revenue dropped to $64 billion for
the first 11 months of 2012, compared with $95 billion for all
of 2011, the department’s Energy Information Administration said
in a Dec. 21  report .  The U.S. sanctions that took effect in February block Iran
from repatriating oil payments, effectively forcing Iran to use
the money to buy goods in the importing country, the IEA said.
Countries that violate the rules risk being banned from the U.S.
financial system, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  