-- Irish Banks Face Penalties for Failing to Tackle Arrears
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-03-13T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/irish-banks-face-penalties-for-failing-to-tackle-arrears.html
Irish lenders, including units of
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , may be
penalized if they fail to tackle “unprecedented levels” of
mortgage arrears, the central bank said.  Banks may have to write down loans more than 90 days in
arrears that haven’t been properly restructured by the end of
2014 to their repossession value, the Dublin-based central bank
said in a statement today. Irish home prices have fallen by half
from their 2007 peak, according to the Central Statistics
Office.  “Now is the time to see real delivery from banks,”
Matthew Elderfield, deputy governor at the central bank, said in
the statement. “We are therefore setting performance targets
for the banks to end the impasse on arrears and to ensure that
sustainable solutions are put in place for borrowers.”  Prime Minister Enda Kenny said last week he’s seeking “to
accelerate a solution” to the nation’s mortgage crisis. Some
11.9 percent of the nation’s 792,096 owner-occupier loans were
at least three months behind in payments at the end of December,
while arrears on buy-to-let loans provided to landlords were
18.9 percent, the central bank said on March 7.  Unemployment Tripled  Irish banks bad loans have soared following the collapse of
the nation’s real estate market and tripling of the unemployment
rate since 2007. The jobless rate stood at 14.1 percent in
February, according to the central statistics office.  Lenders have so far largely relied on temporary measures,
such as switching borrowers to interest-only payments and
lengthening the term of loans, to avoid recognizing losses.  The central bank is setting quarterly targets for banks to
put troubled loans on a “sustainable” basis. It defines this
as an arrangement “which is likely to enable the customer to
meet the original or, as appropriate, the amended terms of the
mortgage” over its lifetime.  Banks must make loan restructuring proposals for 20 percent
of customers in arrears by the end of the second quarter, rising
to 50 percent by the year end, according to the central bank.  The central bank may also require banks to hold additional
capital if their “mortgage resolution strategies are not well
executed,” it said.  Banks’ solutions for loans include permanent interest-rate
reductions and split mortgages, where some of the loan is hived
off until a borrower’s circumstances improve.  Terms Eased  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s largest mortgage
lender, is beginning to write off some irrecoverable debts as it
eases terms on 2,000 mortgages a month, David Duffy, chief
executive officer, said in an interview last month. He said the
bank “will have long-term restructuring in place by the end of
the year, bar a small percentage.”  The central bank said that in some cases, particularly for
buy-to-let loans, “legal action for repossession may be
required.”  Ireland’s housing crash has differed from the U.S. subprime
bust as banks have been reluctant to foreclose on properties, a
cultural taboo dating to memories of 19th century evictions by
British landlords.  While 11.9 percent of loans on Irish private homes were at
least three months in arrears in December, repossessions amount
to 0.11 percent of all mortgages. By contrast, while 2.89
percent of U.S. home loans are in arrears, Banks’ inventory of
repossessed homes was equivalent to 3.74 percent of their loan
book during the same time period, according to Mortgage Bankers
Association in Washington D.C.  Bailout Program  Duffy,  Bank of Ireland Plc  CEO Richie Boucher and KBC Bank
Ireland CEO John Reynolds have each said in the past month that
the level of repossessions needs to rise, even as they seek to
keep owner-occupiers in their homes.  The government has committed under its bailout program to
drafting laws by the end of March to close a legal loophole
hindering repossessions in Ireland.  Before December 2009, lenders used a 1964 law as the basis
to seize homes. This was repealed and replaced in 2009, which
applied only to loans taken out after Dec. 1 2009, due to a
drafting oversight.  Separately, the central bank is also proposing to amend an
industry code on mortgage arrears, including the lifting of a
restriction on banks contacting troubled borrowers more than
three times a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  