-- Italian Billionaire Says Bankers Must Follow Lawmakers Out Door
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/italian-billionaire-says-bankers-must-follow-lawmakers-out-door.html
Italian billionaire Diego Della
Valle, head of shoemaker  Tod’s SpA (TOD) , welcomed the wave of public
disgust that swept established politicians from parliament last
month and said it’s time to dislodge some top bankers as well.  “It’s clear that people said, ‘That’s enough, it’s time to
change, show us a decent country,’” Della Valle said March 6 in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “That also has to happen in
the world that we represent, finance and business and the civil
society that guides the country.”  Della Valle, 59, is picking fights with finance executives
as banks curb lending and Italy slides deeper into recession.
His own wealth has grown, with the market value of Tod’s more
than  tripling  since the end of 2008, as Della Valle boosted
 sales  in Italy and abroad. In the interview, he renewed his
campaign to prod  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  Chairman Giovanni Bazoli,
80, to retire, saying Italian firms need lenders with a global
vision.  “These are people who put in their time without producing
anything interesting for a serious country,” Della Valle said,
speaking from Sant’Elpidio a Mare, where Tod’s is based. “We
have to take the situation in hand and start saying with a nice,
big chorus of voices capable of breaking through to these
people: ‘Stop it, please, step aside because you have already
caused enough trouble for the country.’”  Banking Foundations  Italy’s top financial-company managers are supported by a
base of politically controlled non-profit investors known as
banking foundations. At  Banca Monte Dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the
bailed-out lender, one foundation accounts for 38 percent of its
shareholding. The  top five investors  at Milan-based Intesa
Sanpaolo, Italy’s second biggest bank, are banking foundations.  Della Valle is taking inspiration from the Feb. 24-25
general election to push for a broader change across boardrooms
to shake Italy from its economic stagnation. Unemployment, which
has risen to a 13-year high, fueled the upstart campaign of ex-
comic Beppe Grillo and denied re-election to career politicians
like Chamber of Deputies Speaker Gianfranco Fini.  “If we don’t put the brakes on this and ask these people
with the respect to step aside it will all start again as it was
before,” said Della Valle, who gave up a directorship at
Assicurazioni Generali SpA, Italy’s biggest insurer, last year.  Tod’s was the  biggest gainer  on 40-stock  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB) 
from the end of 2008 through yesterday on sales of its signature
loafer with rubber spikes on the sole and brands like Hogan and
Fay. Intesa Sanpaolo fell 47 percent over the same period, while
UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank fell 59 percent. Monte
Paschi is down 84 percent in that time.  Seeking Re-election  The Intesa chairmanship is up for election at the bank’s
 annual meeting  on April 22. Bazoli’s mandate started in 1982
when he was  handed control  of Nuovo Banco Ambrosiano, a
predecessor to the company he now oversees. Della Valle  called 
for Bazoli to step aside in December. An Intesa spokesman didn’t
have a comment.  Della Valle has retreated from financial company
investments in the last two years. His resignation from Trieste,
Italy-based Generali followed a clash with the insurer’s former
chairman, Cesare Geronzi. In October 2011, Della Valle exited
the shareholder syndicate controlling Mediobanca SpA,  Italy ’s
biggest publicly traded investment bank.  Della Valle retains board seats at Ferrari SpA, newspaper
publisher RCS Mediagroup SpA and an Italian banking unit of BNP
Paribas SA. Di Vi Finanziaria, an investment vehicle controlled
by Della Valle, owns a $2.4 billion stake in Tod’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Rotondi in Trento at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Trento at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 