-- J.C. Penney to Reverse ‘Huge Miss’ With Core Customer, CF
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/j-c-penney-to-reverse-huge-miss-with-core-customer-cfo-says.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  aims to reverse its
“huge miss” with core customers last year by expanding
private-label lines such as St. John’s Bay and reviving
promotions, said Chief Financial Officer Ken Hannah.  “We’ve done a number of things inside the stores that have
allowed us to attract a new customer, and in some cases, that’s
been at the expense of our core, and we cannot allow that to
happen,” Hannah said yesterday at a consumer and retail
conference held by Bank of America Corp. in New York. It was a
“huge miss” to remove private-label items such as St. John’s
Bay khaki and basic denim without offering alternatives, and
those will return in April, he said.  Hannah’s comments came two weeks after J.C. Penney reported
that annual revenue slid 25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest
since at least 1987, during the first year of a transformation
plan under Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson. The department-
store company has lost longtime J.C. Penney shoppers by
experimenting with a shift to everyday-low prices, making
marketing missteps and replacing classic products with trendy
new brands. Ultimately, Johnson plans to turn most of the
chain’s stores into a cluster of about 100 boutiques.  The timing of the transformation “is going to depend on
how quickly we’re able to connect not only with the new, but
with that core customer that we’ve somewhat alienated,” Hannah
said. “We have to make sure everything we do is tied first and
foremost to ensuring that the core customer is coming along with
us, and then we want to be able to grow with new customers, but
it can’t be at the expense of the core.”  Credit Line  The Plano, Texas-based company hasn’t  tapped  a $1.85
billion revolving credit line, and while it could raise $1
billion in debt markets, Hannah said he would be “much more
comfortable doing that” once the company can show improving
traffic and a return to growth. He reiterated that J.C. Penney
still plans to self-fund the transformation.  The  shares  were unchanged in New York yesterday. The shares
fell 11 percent to an almost four-year low earlier this month
after  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , previously the second-biggest
shareholder, sold almost half of its stake in the company.  Steven Roth, Vornado’s chairman who also sits on J.C.
Penney’s board, didn’t “give any of us any indication that he
was going to do anything with his shares,” Hannah said at
today’s conference. Roth was supportive and constructive in a
board meeting prior to the Feb. 27 earnings release, and made no
mention of the impending share sale afterwards, Hannah said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  