-- Japan Stock Futures Rise as U.S. Retail Sales Top Forecasts
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-13T23:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/japan-stock-futures-rise-as-u-s-retail-sales-top-forecasts.html
Japanese stock index futures rose,
indicating the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  will rebound from its
first two-day slide in two weeks, as faster-than-forecast growth
in U.S. retail sales bolstered optimism in the global recovery.  American Depositary Receipts  of Seiko Epson Corp. gained
6.6 percent after the printer maker forecast profit will grow 67
percent by 2015 from its forecast for this year.  Chiyoda Corp. (6366) 
may be active after the Nikkei newspaper reported the
engineering firm’s estimate for full-year profit, below
analysts’ estimates.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  advanced 4.8 percent
after profit at Australia’s largest department-store company
topped forecasts.  Futures on  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 12,260 in Chicago yesterday, up from 12,200 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
12,260 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.1 percent before the release of employment data
at 11:30 a.m. local time. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.4
percent.  “I am confident that economic growth, and the stock market,
will be better in the long term,” said Shigeru Oshita, Tokyo-
based  fund manager  at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, which has $790
billion in assets under management. “We can expect more of the
same pro-growth policies from Abe. To succeed in winning the
upper house elections in July, he must create a feel-good
factor.”  BOJ Leadership  Japan’s lower house will today vote on  Bank of Japan 
nominees. Two opposition parties said they will support Kikuo
Iwata for BOJ deputy governor, reducing the risk that Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will fail to win confirmation for all three
of his central bank appointments. Abe needs opposition lawmakers
to secure the new central bank leadership team, as the ruling
coalition lacks an upper house majority.  U.S. Commerce Department data showed sales at U.S.
retailers rose 1.1 percent in February, the most in five months
and more than twice the median estimate of economists.
Industrial production declined 0.4 percent in January in the 17-
nation euro area, exceeding a 0.1 percent decline forecast by
economists, and adding to signs that the region’s recession
extended into the first quarter.  Japan’s Topix Index rallied 43 percent since elections were
announced on Nov. 14 amid optimism a new government will do more
to beat deflation and press the central bank to expand monetary
easing policies.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, traded yesterday at 14.7 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14.1 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  extended its longest
rally since 1996 yesterday following the release of the retail
sales data.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 1 percent in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  