-- Jyske Bank Considers New Benchmark Bond Issue as Rates Decline
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-13T15:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/jyske-bank-considers-new-benchmark-bond-issue-as-rates-decline.html
Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , whose benchmark
euro bond due 2015 soared to a record high today, is considering
issuing a similar note later this year.  “The funding gap is closing, so out of pure liquidity
aspects, we don’t really need to do any funding, but we prefer
to maintain a solid profile,” Merete Poller Novak, head of
strategic funding at Jyske, said in a phone interview. “We are
keen on keeping a rare but regular presence in the debt capital
markets aiming at one public benchmark a year.”  Jyske Bank, Denmark’s second-largest listed lender, may
sell bonds for as much as 5 billion kroner ($870 million) later
this year, Novak said. The steady issuance will help the bank
hold investors’ attention, she said.  Jyske, which last month  reported  a 21 percent increase in
full-year net income, funds most of its lending through
deposits. At the end of last year, savings covered 92 percent of
its loan portfolio, the Silkeborg, Denmark-based lender said
Feb. 26. The bank taps the interbank market, issues commercial
notes, does private placements and sells bonds for the rest.  Jyske sold 500 million euros ($647 million) in floating
rate bonds in November, after getting almost 800 million euros
in offers, according to its annual report. The bond, which was
sold at a discount, is now trading above par at 100.827,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In case markets remain attractive, we could be looking at
issuing a new public 2.5 to 3-year benchmark toward the end of
2013,” Novak said.  Funding Costs  Jyske Bank predicts its funding costs will ease once it’s
named a systemically important financial institution. Denmark’s
government-appointed Sifi committee is due to release its report
tomorrow. Jyske has a long-term  rating  of Baa1 from Moody’s
Investors Service and an issuer credit rating of A- from
Standard & Poor’s.  “A Sifi stamp will be positive,” Novak said. “We are
already living up to the expected requirements but we won’t see
any upside until we get the official stamp.”  The Danish Business Ministry will release its report on
Sifis tomorrow at about 9 a.m. local time, followed by a 10 a.m.
press briefing, spokesman Soeren Moeller Nielsen said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  