-- Kazakhmys Nears Four-Year Low Ahead of FTSE Exit: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-03-13T12:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/kazakhmys-nears-four-year-low-ahead-of-ftse-exit-london-mover.html
Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) , the biggest copper
producer in Kazakhstan, fell for the eighth day in 10 on concern
that production costs will continue to rise as slowing economic
growth squeezes margins.  The  shares  dropped as much as 4.6 percent and traded at
528.5 pence at 12:21 p.m., close to a four-year low. Kazakhmys
is due to leave the FTSE Index in two days after losing almost
750 million pounds ($1.1 billion) of market value over 10 days.  Mining stocks account for the four worst performers in the
 index  over the past 12 months, hurt by concern about falling
commodity prices and rising costs. They also have the potential
for the biggest returns in the coming year based on the
difference between their current share price and the average 12-
month price target of analysts tracking the stocks, according to
Bloomberg data.  Seven of the eight stocks in the index with the biggest gap
between the two are miners, headed by  Evraz Plc (EVR) , a Russian iron
ore and coal miner. Based on yesterday’s closing price, the
potential one-year gain is 34 percent.  Kazakhmys, the biggest faller in the FTSE 100 today, has
extended its decline to 21 percent since it said Feb. 28 that
costs will rise about 14 percent in 2013 on flat production.
Some tracker funds that are only allowed to hold stocks in the
benchmark may be selling the shares after FTSE International
said March 6 the miner would drop from the benchmark index.  The company, based in  London , ranks as the second-worst
performer on the index in the past 12 months, down 46 percent,
behind  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , which has fallen 50
percent.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ,  Polymetal International Plc (POLY) ,
 Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , Eurasian Natural Resources and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , the
world’s second biggest mining company, are all trading at least
18 percent below analysts’ price targets.  Rio Tinto is analysts’ third most-favored company in the
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  based on 24 buy, five hold and two sell
recommendations, according to Bloomberg data. The price of  iron
ore  could fall to $100 a metric ton by September 2014, Sydney’s
Herald Sun newspaper said March 4, citing Vivek Tulpulé, Rio
Tinto’s chief economist. It’s currently priced at $143.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  