-- Kenya’s Muthaura Didn’t Bribe, Threaten Witnesses, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-13T13:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/kenya-s-muthaura-didn-t-bribe-threaten-witnesses-lawyer-says.html
Former International Criminal Court
suspect Francis Muthaura didn’t intimidate or bribe witnesses to
escape prosecution on charges of fomenting violence after a
disputed Kenyan election in 2007, his lawyer said.  The Hague-based court’s prosecutor Fatou Bensouda on March
11 withdrew her case against the 66-year-old former head of the
public service, who was co-accused with President-elect Uhuru Kenyatta of ordering an outlawed militia to carry out attacks.
Violence in 2008 killed more than 1,100 people and forced
350,000 to flee their homes.  Bensouda said the case against Muthaura fell apart because
a key witness withdrew his testimony after being given money,
while others died, were killed or are too afraid to speak.  “Nothing can be further from the truth,” Karim Khan,
Muthaura’s lawyer, told reporters today in the capital, Nairobi.
“Those allegations are but a smoke screen of the inescapable
reality that this case collapsed from within because it was
baseless.” If the court had found evidence of criminal
misconduct it would have led to arrests, said Khan.  Bensouda said she plans to move forward with crimes against
humanity charges against Kenyatta, 51, who is scheduled to face
trial in July. He’s accused of being an “indirect co-
perpetrator” on counts of rape, murder and displacement.  Kenyatta’s lawyers urged the ICC to withdraw the charges
against him because the prosecution was relying on the same
testimony for his investigation, calling the case “utterly
flawed.”  Kenyatta’s running mate  William Ruto , 46, and radio
presenter Joshua Arap Sang, 37, are facing charges in a separate
case of organizing attacks. All of the suspects have repeatedly
denied the charges.  Kenyatta, the son of  Kenya ’s first president, Jomo Kenyatta
and an outgoing deputy prime minister, is scheduled to be sworn-
in on March 26.  His main rival, departing Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , 68,
said he’s planning to lodge a challenge against Kenyatta’s
election at the  Supreme Court .  t  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  