-- Kiwi Drops Versus Peers as Drought Worsens Ahead of RBNZ Meeting
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-03-13T06:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/kiwi-dollar-touches-6-week-low-versus-aussie-as-drought-worsens.html
New Zealand ’s dollar dropped
against most of its major peers on speculation the nation’s
worsening drought will weigh on the economy and back the case
for the central bank to keep  interest rates  at a record low.  The so-called kiwi touched its weakest level in six weeks
against Australia’s dollar after a private report showed
 consumer confidence  in the larger nation rose to a more than
two-year high. Official data from New Zealand showed food prices
declined last month, as the nation’s  Reserve Bank  prepares to
hold a meeting on monetary policy tomorrow.  “The drought continues to worsen on an almost daily basis,
placing downward pressure on the New Zealand dollar,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand in
Wellington. “There’s no doubt that growth in the first half of
this year will be weaker as a result of the drought.”  New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.2 percent to 82.51 U.S.
cents at 4:53 p.m. in Sydney. It dropped 0.6 percent to 78.96
yen. Against its Australian counterpart, it touched NZ$1.2535,
the weakest since Jan. 30, before trading at NZ$1.2501, down 0.1
percent.  The Aussie slid 0.1 percent to $1.0315, following a 0.9
percent gain over the past two days. I declined 0.5 percent to
98.72 yen.  New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said yesterday
the dry weather could hurt economic growth. Drought declarations
were extended to most of  North Island  last week, including the
nation’s biggest milk-producing region. Food prices fell 0.3
percent last month after increasing 1.9 percent in January,
official data showed today.  RBNZ Meeting  The drought could delay interest-rate increases from the
central bank as it drags on the economy, Steven Englander, head
of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York,
wrote in a research note today.  The RBNZ will keep its benchmark borrowing cost unchanged
at 2.5 percent, according to every economist in a Bloomberg News
 survey . New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made
to receive a flowing rate, fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.96 percent.  RBNZ Governor Graeme Wheeler will repeat his concern over
what he called “the overvalued New Zealand dollar,” according
to a note today by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  senior currency
strategist  Sean Callow  in Sydney.  In Australia,  consumer confidence  rose to the highest since
December 2010, according to a survey from Westpac and Melbourne
Institute released today. A gauge of home loans fell 1.5 percent
in January, compared with a revised drop of 2.1 percent for the
previous month, government data showed.  RBA Policy  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 82 percent chance the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will keep
the overnight cash rate target at 3 percent when policy makers
next meet on April 2. That’s up from 75 percent odds a week ago.  “The economy in Australia has stabilized,” said Bank of
New Zealand’s Jones. “The process of paring bets for RBA cuts
is supportive of the Aussie. We changed our interest-rate call
to two more interest-rate cuts instead of three this year. The
risk is that it’s even less.”  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest,
increased its investment in Australia’s government debt fourfold
in 2012. The 4.08 trillion kroner ($716 billion) Government
Pension Fund Global held 18.1 billion kroner of Australian
federal  government securities  as of Dec. 31, according to a
report released on March 8, up from 4.11 billion kroner a year
earlier.  Australia’s  10-year bond yield  slipped four basis points to
3.58 percent, after climbing to as high as 3.64 percent
yesterday, the most since May 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  