-- Kubota Sees Yen Pushing Sales to Record as It Chases Deere
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-03-14T06:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/kubota-expects-yen-to-push-sales-to-record-as-it-chases-deere.html
Kubota Corp. (6326) , the Japanese farm-
tractor maker seeking an overseas purchase of as much as $2
billion, said the weakening yen will push sales to a record in
the next fiscal year and won’t curb its acquisition appetite.  The boost to exports from the yen’s slide, combined with
more demand from  North America  and Southeast Asia, will probably
lift revenue by about 20 percent to 1.4 trillion yen ($14.6
billion) in the fiscal year starting April 1, President Yasuo Masumoto said March 11 in an interview in  Tokyo . His target is
13 percent higher than the  mean  of 19 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The yen’s depreciation is driving up our top line,”
Masumoto said. “We have high expectations on the impact from
gains in the currency in the coming year,” he said.  The 11 percent decline in the yen since Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe took office Dec. 26 is alleviating cost pressures at
Japanese exporters ranging from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to  JFE
Holdings Inc. (5411)  Mechanization in Thailand and more sales in the
U.S. to consumers involved in gardening and renovation are also
boosting demand for Kubota’s equipment, Masumoto said.  In the U.S., work began on 613,000 single-family homes at
an annualized rate in January, the most since July 2008,
according to a Feb. 26 release from the Commerce Department in
Washington.  Shares Gain  Kubota climbed as much as 4.5 percent and closed up 2.7
percent to 1,258 yen in Tokyo trading, the  highest  since Feb.
26, 2007. The stock has gained 28 percent this year. Iseki &
Co., a Tokyo-based  farm-equipment  maker, also gained 8.2
percent, the highest since November, 2009.  Deere (DE)  & Co., the world’s biggest maker of farm equipment,
has  risen  5.7 percent since Jan. 1.  The yen’s decline in the past three months will be fully
reflected in earnings next quarter, according to Kubota. The yen
traded at 95.97 to the  U.S. dollar  as of 3:31 p.m. in Tokyo
after touching 96.71 on March 12, the weakest since August,
2009.  As a negative, the weaker yen increases costs for Japanese
companies when they invest in overseas assets, reducing their
purchasing power. Kubota’s need to capitalize on growth in the
global market for agricultural equipment means the lower yen
won’t alter its ambitions for acquisitions, Masumoto said.  Kubota, which specializes in smaller tractors and combines
for wet paddy fields, is seeking to add large tractors powerful
enough to plow big fields that grow wheat and corn -- a market
dominated by Deere,  CNH Global NV (CNH)  and  Agco Corp. (AGCO)   Deere  Masumoto has approached acquisition targets that own large
tractors and aims to settle a deal by the end of the year, he
said, without naming any companies.  The company last year completed its purchase of Kverneland
ASA, a Norwegian maker of tractor ploughs and grass-processing
products, as a step to speed  overseas expansion .  Kubota has so far used its experience in selling
agricultural equipment to expand in rice-growing regions in
 Southeast Asia  and China, where economic growth has boosted
incomes.  Masumoto wants Kubota to become the world’s top producer of
farm equipment by overtaking Deere in the long term.  “Ten years from now, we want to be seen as a real threat
to Deere,” the president said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  