-- Kuroda Seen Clearing Second-Nomination Hurdle for Bank of Japan
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-03-13T08:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/kuroda-seen-clearing-second-nomination-hurdle-for-bank-of-japan.html
Haruhiko Kuroda will appear before
parliament again even if he’s confirmed this week as  Bank of
Japan (8301)  governor as a technicality in the nomination process means
lawmakers will vote twice on his candidacy.  Kuroda will serve the remaining three weeks of Masaaki Shirakawa’s term if he’s approved, after the outgoing BOJ chief
said he’d step down early on March 19. Kuroda must be confirmed
again to serve for the regular five-year period beginning April
9, according to the BOJ.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe needs opposition support to
secure his nominees for the BOJ leadership as the ruling
coalition lacks an upper house majority. Rejecting Kuroda after
supporting him the first time carries risks for the main
opposition Democratic Party of  Japan , which yesterday said it
reserves the right to oppose him next time.  “It’s an empty threat,” said Jun Okumura, senior adviser
for the Eurasia Group in  Tokyo  and former trade ministry
official. “There’s no reason for the DPJ to not support Kuroda
again. It would be seen as nakedly partisan.”  Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Tokyo, and Robert Feldman, head of Japan economic research at
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo, said that the
second vote is a technicality.  The lower house will vote on Abe’s nominations for the BOJ
leadership tomorrow, while the upper house will vote on March
15, Genichiro Sata and Mitsuhide Iwaki, ruling party lawmakers
who head the steering committees for each chamber, told
reporters today.  The timing of a second round of voting will be decided by
parliament, according to the BOJ. Abe’s nominees for the two
deputy governor positions, Kikuo Iwata and Hiroshi Nakaso, won’t
face another vote.  Your Party  Your Party, which has 12 lawmakers in the upper house, will
oppose Kuroda for the first nomination and reconsider his
candidacy based on his actions at his first policy meeting,
scheduled for April 3-4, party leader  Yoshimi Watanabe  told
reporters in Tokyo today.  The yen climbed today as a lack of unity among lawmakers on
the BOJ nominees damped expectations for accelerated monetary
easing. The currency was 0.5 percent higher at 95.58 per dollar
as of 4:49 p.m. in Tokyo, while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
closed lower for a second day.  “I’m increasingly convinced Kuroda will go ahead with
aggressive measures sooner rather than later because the
market’s movements are almost wholly based on expectations,”
Okumura said. “It could trigger a negative response if he
doesn’t act quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  