-- Wheeler Sees RBNZ Rate on Hold in 2013 After Extending Pause
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-03-13T22:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/n-z-holds-benchmark-rate-at-2-5-expects-to-pause-for-2013.html
New Zealand ’s central bank expects
to keep  borrowing costs  at a record low until next year and
signaled it may reduce its benchmark rate if the local dollar
rises more than the economy justifies. The kiwi fell.  “The overvalued  New Zealand dollar  is undermining
profitability in export and import competing industries, and
worsening drought conditions are creating difficulty in much of
the country,” Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a
statement released today in Wellington after keeping the
benchmark rate at 2.5 percent. “We expect to keep the official
cash rate unchanged through the end of the year.”  New Zealand’s dollar dropped to the lowest level this year
after Wheeler said he’s set to extend the RBNZ’s two-year pause
amid an “uneven” economic recovery. Unexpected strength in the
currency -- which has climbed 11 percent in the past two years -
- could provide room to lower borrowing costs, he said.  The statement “was more dovish than the market expected,”
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s Auckland-based strategist  Imre Speizer 
said in a research report after the decision. “Indeed it
included an alternative scenario where easing could occur if the
NZD appreciates above its forecast.”  New Zealand’s dollar declined as much as 1.3 percent to
trade at the lowest since Dec. 26. It bought 81.89 U.S. cents at
11:02 a.m. in Wellington compared with 82.68 cents immediately
before the statement. The yield on the two-year government bond
dropped to 2.59 percent, from 2.64 percent.  “If the  exchange rate  rose for reasons not justified by
New Zealand’s economic fundamentals, all other things equal,
this would lead to a lower-than-expected OCR,” the RBNZ said in
its quarterly monetary policy statement also published today.  Rates Survey  The rate decision was  forecast  by all 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Seven had been predicting a rate rise
this year, while nine saw no change until 2014.  Wheeler indicated confidence the economy will rebound, led
by stronger global growth, a lift in residential investment and
reconstruction of earthquake devastated Christchurch. The
eventual boost to demand may drive up labor costs and other
prices, which have been contained by the stronger kiwi.  Still, the labor market remains weak and fiscal tightening
will also act to slow overall demand, Wheeler said today.  The central bank forecast the three-month bank bill yield
will be 2.8 percent in the second quarter next year from an
estimated 2.7 percent in the current quarter. The outlook, which
is seen as a guide to the direction of the cash rate, suggest no
increase in the benchmark until mid 2014.  Drought Conditions  Dry conditions are weighing on farm production and if they
persist or intensify “they could substantially reduce economic
output more generally,” the central bank said in the statement.  New Zealand has declared drought in several North Island
regions including Waikato and Taranaki, the largest dairying
provinces.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the world’s biggest
dairy exporter, last month revised lower its forecast for milk
collection citing the dry conditions.  The drought may pare back economic growth, Finance Minister
 Bill English  said in response to questions in parliament this
week. Economists at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. lowered their
projections for first-half economic growth to 1.1 percent from
1.3 percent because of the drought.  The  central bank  left its economic growth projections
little changed. It predicts gross domestic product will increase
1.9 percent in the year ending March 31, 2013. Growth will
accelerate to 3.3 percent by March 2014 then slow to 2.8 percent
a year later, it said.  Christchurch Quake  New Zealand suffered its deadliest earthquake in 80 years
in February 2011 when a temblor struck the city of Christchurch,
killing 185 people and wrecking roads, homes and commercial
property. The nation faces an estimated NZ$30 billion ($24.5
billion) rebuild.  “The Canterbury rebuild is gaining momentum,” Wheeler
said today. “Residential investment and business and  consumer
confidence  are increasing.”  Wheeler reiterated his Jan. 31 message that he is watching
 house prices  closely.  “The bank does not want to see financial stability or
inflation risks accentuated by housing demand getting too far
ahead of supply,” he said.  House prices  rose 6.3 percent in February from a year
earlier, Quotable Value New Zealand, a government-owned property
research company, said this week. The central bank expects
annual house price inflation will peak at 8.5 percent in 2014.  Banking Curbs  Wheeler this month sought submissions on new tools he may
apply to counter a housing-led credit boom that may threaten
bank stability. They include increasing minimum deposits for
borrowers and requiring lenders to raise more capital. The tools
would have the effect of damping demand for houses, he says.  Recent increases in housing demand have been supported in
part by an easing in credit conditions, the central bank said
today. Mortgages with a high loan-to-value ratio have been
increasing and household credit growth is picking up, it said.  The central bank has left the cash rate unchanged since
March 2011 to allow the economy to recover from the earthquakes,
and to revive confidence after  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
curbed global demand. Exporters were also buffeted by near-zero
 interest rates  in the U.S. and Europe which helped boost the New
Zealand dollar.  Inflation Outlook  Sluggish growth and the rising currency slowed inflation to
0.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, beneath
the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range.  Wheeler, who took over from Alan Bollard in late September,
signed an agreement with English in which he undertook to keep
inflation near the 2 percent midpoint of the target range.  Inflation will accelerate to 1.3 percent by the end of 2013
and 1.7 percent a year later, the RBNZ forecast today. It isn’t
projected to reach 2 percent until the third quarter of 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  