-- Napolitano Asks Judges to Ease Strain After Berlusconi March
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-13T13:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/napolitano-asks-judges-to-ease-tension-after-berlusconi-protest.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano urged judges to help ease tensions with lawmakers
after Silvio Berlusconi’s political allies protested outside of
a Milan courthouse against the former premier’s criminal trials.  “We have to avoid destabilizing tensions for our
democratic system,” Napolitano said late yesterday in an e-
mailed statement after meeting with the heads of an association
of judges. “There is unfortunately at the moment a new and
alarming exchange of arguments among voices coming from the one
side and from the other.”  Napolitano is intervening as prosecutors in Milan seek to
scuttle Berlusconi’s requests for trial delays and make way for
verdicts as early as this month in his sex-with-a-minor case and
his appeal of a tax-fraud conviction. While earlier yesterday
Napolitano reprimanded the lawmakers who rallied on Berlusconi’s
behalf, the president said in his subsequent statement that he
understood their concerns.  Napolitano, 87, was criticized today by Beppe Grillo, head
of the third-biggest parliamentary force, for giving an audience
at the presidential palace to the leaders of the protest.
Napolitano met with Berlusconi’s chief allies, including
Angelino Alfano, general secretary of the People of Liberty
party, or PDL, before his appointment with the judges.  Napolitano listened “with great attention” to the PDL’s
concerns, said Alfano, the justice minister in Berlusconi’s most
recent government, in a posting on Twitter Inc.  ‘Poor Country’  “Poor country, where the president instead of going on
primetime television to condemn an act of enormous subversion
like the sad procession of parliamentarians in the halls of
justice, receives Alfano,” Grillo  said  in a blog post.  Berlusconi, 76, finished second in inconclusive general
elections last month and is set to negotiate with rival
political forces in an attempt to cobble together a
parliamentary majority. Napolitano will arbitrate the talks and
appoint a prime minister.  Berlusconi, a billionaire and three-time premier, won
delays to his trials in Milan after entering the hospital and
demonstrating to court-appointed doctors that he was prevented
from attending hearings by an eye ailment. Closing arguments are
due to be made in the trial that has Berlusconi accused of
paying for sex with a minor as well as the appeal to his four-
year prison sentence for tax fraud. He has denied the charges.  Berlusconi is free pending appeal of the March 6 conviction
in a wiretapping case, stemming from the publication of
transcripts of bugged phone calls relating to the 2006 battle
for control of  Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA . He is under
investigation in Naples on suspicion of corruption tied to a
senator who switched parties to support the PDL in a previous
legislature.  He has denied the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  