-- National Australia Bank Plans A$800 Million in Cost Savings
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-03-13T06:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/national-australia-bank-plans-a-800-million-in-cost-savings-2-.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
country’s largest lender by assets, announced changes to its
senior management team and said it plans to cut annual costs by
A$800 million ($825 million) within five years.  The lender will simplify products, reduce duplication
across the business and invest in new technology to make the
savings, it said in a statement to the stock exchange today.
Executive Director for Finance Mark Joiner will retire by the
end of 2013 after seven years at the bank, while  Steve Tucker 
will be replaced as head of NAB Wealth by Andrew Hagger. Lisa Gray, head of personal banking, will take on the new role of
group executive for enterprise services and transformation.  National  Australia  Bank is joining rivals in seeking to cut
expenses after full-year profit fell for the first time since
2009. The bank’s shares rose 11 percent in the five years
through yesterday, the worst performer among the top four
Australian banks.  The effective cost savings will be about A$550 million
after higher amortization and investment spend, Deutsche Bank
analysts led by James Freeman said in a note to investors today.  “In recent years NAB has already been delivering a higher
level of productivity savings than this, and as such the market
may be disappointed by the extent of the savings,” they said.  NAB’s shares dropped 1.9 percent to A$30.95 at the close of
Sydney trading, the lowest in a week. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index dropped 0.5 percent.  Technology Costs  The planned savings will be partially offset by higher
software amortization charges, reinvestment and implementation
costs, NAB said in the statement. Upfront technology costs make
it less likely for the bank to keep expense growth below revenue
expansion in 2013, it said.  “The changes announced today, combined with continued
investment in the business of over A$1 billion per annum, will
reduce complexity and duplication,” Chief Executive Officer
Cameron Clyne said in the statement.  Competitors have already cut staff and pay to protect
profit. Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. slashed
1,000 jobs in the year to Sept. 30, and last week announced
plans to pare 50 positions in its institutional unit.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  eliminated more than 500 roles early
last year and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
biggest lender by market value, said in July it would freeze
base salaries for people making A$150,000 or more in its
institutional banking and markets division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  