-- Netanyahu Allies Threaten New Elections as Coalition Talks Stuck
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-03-13T07:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/netanyahu-allies-threaten-new-elections-as-coalition-talks-stuck.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s political allies are threatening new elections as
talks to form a new government are stuck over Cabinet posts
ahead of U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s visit next week.  “This is not new politics, it’s old extortion,” said
 Danny Danon , a parliament member from Netanyahu’s Likud party,
referring to demands from the Yesh Atid party for the education
ministry. “There are other alternatives, such as forming a
government with ultra-Orthodox parties, or calling new
elections,” Danon said today in an interview with Army Radio.  Netanyahu has until March 16 under Israeli electoral law to
put together a coalition. Obama is due to arrive for a three-day
visit beginning March 20, his first to  Israel  while in office.  Netanyahu’s Likud party, running jointly with Foreign
Minister Avigdor Liberman’s Yisrael Beitenu faction, emerged as
the biggest parliamentary group in Jan. 22 elections. The prime
minister is seeking to put together a coalition with Yesh Atid,
the second-biggest party, and the Jewish Home faction. Together,
the three parties account for 62 of the 120 seats in Israel’s
parliament, or Knesset.  Yesh Atid leader Yair Lapid, who is slated to become
finance minister, also wants the education ministry for his
party. Likud currently holds the education portfolio under
minister Gideon Sa’ar, a close Netanyahu ally.  Netanyahu has already signed a coalition agreement with the
six-seat Hatenuah faction, whose leader, former foreign minister
 Tzipi Livni , will be appointed justice minister and chief
negotiator with the Palestinians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  