-- New Pope Elected as White Smoke Rises Over Sistine Chapel
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-03-13T18:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/new-pope-elected-as-white-smoke-rises-over-sistine-chapel.html
A new pope was elected by Roman
Catholic cardinals on the second day of their secret conclave as
white smoke rising over the Sistine Chapel and the chiming of
church bells signaled their decision.  The new pontiff, who will take over from retired Benedict XVI, is likely to be presented within an hour on a balcony over
the main doors of St. Peter’s. “Habemus Papam,” Latin for “we
have a pope,” will be announced before faithful gathered in the
square below.  The new pope was elected after five ballots over two days
by the 115 voting cardinals under the age of 80. Benedict was
chosen in four votes over two days in 2005. The quickest modern-
era conclave came in 1939, according to Vatican Today website,
when Pope Pius XII won in three ballots over two days.  “Each of us must work to build up the unity of the
church,”  Italy ’s Angelo Sodano, the highest-ranking cardinal,
said at a mass before the so-called princes of the church began
voting yesterday in the 15th-century Sistine Chapel, which is
adorned by Michelangelo’s famed fresco of the Last Judgment.  Hailing from six continents, the red-hatted cardinals were
called to elect a new leader after Benedict, 85, became the
first pope in 600 years to abdicate. He retired on Feb. 28,
after saying he no longer had the strength to guide the world’s
1.2 billion Catholics.  Church Challenges  The new pontiff must tackle challenges including priestly
sex abuse, overhauling the Vatican bureaucracy and reconciling a
waning church presence in  Europe  and  North America  amid its
continued expansion in  Asia  and  Africa .  While Italian Cardinal Angelo Scola was seen as the
favorite in the latest odds by betting company Paddy Power Plc,
non-Europeans dominated the rest of the rankings. Scola, who as
archbishop of Milan is viewed as a Vatican outsider, had 11-to-4
odds of being named pope after Benedict’s Feb. 28 abdication.
Turkson was second at 7-to-2.  Brazilian Cardinal Odilo Scherer was third at 5-to-1,
followed by Austrian Cardinal Christoph Schonborn at 6-1,
Canadian Cardinal Marc Ouellet at 7-to-1 and Cardinals Sean O’Malley and Timothy Dolan of the U.S. at 10-to-1 and 20-to-1,
respectively. Filipino Cardinal Luis Tagle was also seen with
20-1 odds, the same as Cardinal Gianfranco Ravasi of Italy.  On entering the conclave, a Latin term that means “with
key,” cardinals and supporting staff took a vow of secrecy.
Under rules updated by Benedict, violating the pledge brings
automatic excommunication.  Of the 115 cardinal electors, 67 were created by Benedict
and 48 by  John Paul II . They spent the last week with cardinals
above the voting age discussing challenges facing the church and
sizing up papal candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  