-- Nigeria Banks Rise Most in Month Before Earnings: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-03-13T14:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/nigeria-banks-rise-most-in-month-before-earnings-lagos-mover.html
Nigerian  banks  climbed the most in
more than a month on investor expectations that improved
earnings will generate better dividends.  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index (NGSEB10) , which tracks the
performance of the 10 largest lenders by market value in
 Africa ’s most populous country, advanced 1.1 percent, the
biggest gain since Feb. 5, to 422.3 at the 2:30 p.m. close in
Lagos, the commercial capital, the highest level since Feb. 6.
The measure has added 24 percent this year.  “There’s a lot of focus on the part of investors on
recovery,” Adeolu Omotola, an equity analyst at Asset and
Resource Management Company Ltd., said by phone today from
Lagos. “Of course you’re talking about improved dividend yields
because a lot of them you’d expect would have to increase
payout.”  Nigeria implemented banking reforms following a debt crisis
in 2008 and 2009. The central bank fired eight chief executives
of the country’s 24 banks and set up a company to buy lenders’
bad debts and stabilize the industry. The Asset Management Corp.
of Nigeria, or Amcon, spent 5.6 trillion naira ($35.2 billion)
in 2011 to acquire non-performing loans, Chief Executive Officer
Mustafa Chike-Obi said in December.  United Bank for Africa Plc , the West African nation’s fifth
biggest bank by market value, jumped 9.8 percent to 9 naira, its
highest close in almost three years. The lender’s nine-month
profit surged five-fold to 39.1 billion naira, it said in
October.  Skye Bank Plc (SKYEBANK)  shares increased 4.3 percent to 6.57
naira, their strongest price since July 2011.  Nigerian stock “valuations are generally more attractive
for banks, which have yet to report for quarter four,” Gregory Kronsten and Olubunmi Asaolu, strategists at FBN Capital Ltd.,
wrote in a note to clients today.  The All-Share index of Africa’s biggest oil producer and
second-largest bourse has jumped 19 percent this year, the
fifth-best performer globally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  