-- Nigerian Growth Will Spur Banks After Loan Clean-Up, S&P Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-03-13T15:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/nigerian-growth-will-spur-banks-after-loan-clean-up-s-p-says.html
Nigerian political stability and
economic growth after a loan clean-up by a state company created
to buy bad debt will spur expansion in the country’s banking
industry this year, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  “Nigerian banks have good prospects in 2013 thanks to
strong economic growth and currently broad political
stability,” S&P analysts, led by Matthew Pirnie in
Johannesburg, wrote in a report today. “We believe the banks
will enter an expansionary phase in 2013, spurred by increasing
competition and relatively clean balance sheets.”  Africa’s biggest oil producer and most populous nation
implemented banking reforms following a debt crisis in 2008 and
2009. The central bank fired eight chief executives of the
country’s 24 banks and set up the Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria to buy lenders’ non-performing loans and stabilize the
industry. Amcon spent 5.6 trillion naira ($35 billion) in 2011
to acquire the debt, Chief Executive Officer Mustafa Chike-Obi
said in December.  Nigeria ’s economy will probably expand 6.8 percent this
year, compared with an estimated 6.6 percent in 2012, the
National Bureau of Statistics said last month.  For lenders, “such expansion carries risks, however,
including a dilution of capital if loans are extended rapidly,”
said S&P. “Credit risks may mount, too, exacerbating the risk
of foreign-currency lending, real-estate price bubbles, and
corporate concentrations, although we don’t believe these risks
are likely to materialize this year.”  The  Bloomberg Nigerian Stock Exchange Banking 10 Index (NGSEB10) ,
which tracks the performance of the West African nation’s
largest lenders by market value, has advanced 24 percent this
year and gained 1.1 percent to 422.30 by the 2:30 p.m. close in
Lagos, the commercial capital.  “Corporate governance is a long-standing constraint on
ratings, and low transparency would in our view raise risks,”
according to S&P. “Nigeria’s narrow economic structure also
exposes the economy, and the banking sector, to a fall in  oil
prices  or production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  