-- Noble Dollar Bonds Add to Hong Kong’s Busiest Quarter in a Year
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-13T05:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/noble-dollar-bonds-add-to-hong-kong-s-busiest-quarter-in-a-year.html
  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , Asia’s biggest
listed commodity supplier, is marketing dollar-denominated
bonds, adding to Hong Kong borrowers’ busiest quarter of sales
in the U.S. currency since the three months ended March 2012.  Noble Group, based in Hong Kong, is offering five-year
notes at a yield premium of about 310 basis points more than
Treasuries, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set. Issuers
in the city have sold $7.95 billion of notes this year, the most
since $9.63 billion in the first quarter of 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wheelock & Co., a Hong Kong property developer, was the
latest to issue dollar notes, raising $500 million in a sale of
3 percent securities on March 11, the data show. Dollar
 borrowing costs  in Hong Kong were little changed at 3.44 percent
yesterday, 78 basis points less than a year ago, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  Yields in Asia  have fallen 62.5 basis
points over the same period to 3.63 percent, the indexes show.  “Although issuance has slowed after a really busy January,
Asia’s bond market has had a very active first quarter and Hong
Kong corporates are part of that,” said Shankar Narayanaswamy,
the Singapore-based global head of credit strategy at Standard
Chartered Plc. “It’s a trend you see across the board as there
is more reliance on capital markets rather than loans.”  Noble Group, which is listed in Singapore, last publicly
sold dollar notes in October 2010 when it issued $350 million of
8.5 percent perpetual bonds, Bloomberg data show. The company
has the equivalent of  $3.51 billion  of notes outstanding.  Falling Loans  Sompo Japan Insurance Inc. hired banks to arrange a series
of investor meetings in the U.S., Europe and Asia, with a dollar
offering possibly following, a person familiar with the matter
said today.  Syndicated loan volumes in the Asia-Pacific region outside
Japan total $35.9 billion this year, 17 percent less than the
$43.1 billion of facilities signed the same period of 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan climbed 2 basis points to 103 basis
points as of 8:15 a.m. in Hong Kong, Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The measure is headed for its
highest close since March 7, according to data provider CMA.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 2 basis points
to 106 as of 11:18 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The gauge is headed for its first rise in eight
business days after closing yesterday at its lowest since May
2011, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 0.5 of a basis point
to 99.75 as of 9:11 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show.
The benchmark, which reached a high this year of 148.1 basis
points on Jan. 4, is set for its first increase since Feb. 26,
according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  