-- Nomura Said to Reduce Saudi Equity Swap Staff in Cost Cut
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-14T13:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/nomura-said-to-reduce-saudi-equity-swap-staff-in-cost-cut.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the Japanese
lender seeking to save $1 billion in costs, is cutting staff at
a business that allows foreigners to invest in  Saudi Arabia ’s
equities market, a person familiar with the matter said.  The bank closed out positions in November and two of nine
employees at the  Riyadh  office have been let go, the person
said, asking not to be identified as the matter hasn’t been made
public. The employees were responsible for offering the so-
called total-return swap product, which Japan’s biggest
brokerage started in  February 2012 , the person said. The
mechanism allows foreigners to invest in Saudi shares while
adhering to restrictions on direct investment by non-Saudis.  Nomura is cutting jobs while competitors such as  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and Credit Suisse Group AG boost their presence to meet
investor demand for greater access to the $381 billion stock
market.  John Burbank , founder of $3.7 billion San Francisco-
based hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, said in February that
Saudi Arabia is the top emerging market and direct foreign
investment in equities may attract as much as $30 billion.  A spokeswoman for Nomura in London, who asked not to be
named citing corporate policy, declined to comment.  Paring Costs  Nomura is seeking to pare costs after it bought Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian units in 2008. The
bank is overhauling its operations to make all overseas
businesses profitable by the year ending March 2015, Chief
Executive Officer Koji Nagai said in December.  Saudi Arabia, which last year said it will open up the
market gradually, only allows non-resident foreigners outside of
the six-nation  Gulf Cooperation Council (BGCC200)  to invest in its listed
companies through equity swaps and exchange-traded funds.  HSBC Holdings Plc, the biggest underwriter of bond sales in
Saudi Arabia last year, sees the nation’s equity market opening
up as early as next year, Simon Cooper, chief executive officer
of HSBC’s Middle East business, said yesterday.  The benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.6 percent at
the close in Riyadh yesterday, bringing this year’s gain to 3.3
percent. That compares with a decline of 0.7 percent for the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  as of 5:19 p.m. in Dubai. Saudi
Arabia’s bourse is closed today for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  