-- Nordea Has Ample Room to Raise Dividends, Wahlroos Says
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-14T12:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/nordea-has-ample-room-to-raise-dividends-wahlroos-says.html
     March 14 (Bloomberg) -- Nordea Bank AB Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos said Scandinavia’s biggest lender is generating so much
surplus capital that it can start paying more to shareholders.  Though the bank hasn’t yet set a higher dividend payout
ratio, Wahlroos said in an interview that he “is sure we will
look at that. Our policy is to distribute at least 40 percent,
so in that sense there is quite a lot of room for raising the
dividend.” Nordea probably will generate “significant extra
capital” in coming years, he said yesterday at the bank’s
Stockholm headquarters.  As other banks in Europe cut costs, scale back lending or
scrap dividends to meet stricter capital requirements, Nordea
and its Swedish peers  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , SEB AB and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  already exceed Sweden’s reserve rules, which
are tougher than those targeted elsewhere. The excess capital
gave them the freedom to raise shareholder payouts by an average
of 46 percent for 2012.  “The fact is that we generate so much capital that with
the present rather slow growth in credit demand the bank is,
together with some internal actions taken on capital allocation,
rapidly generating more capital than it actually needs,” said
Wahlroos. “Clearly, raising the dividend was the first step in
a process where we will eventually repatriate capital to our
shareholders, either through dividends or share buybacks.”  Preferred Option  While the bank will seek shareholder approval at today’s
annual general meeting to buy back stock this year, dividends
have been the preferred option in the past “and I see no reason
why they wouldn’t be the preferred way in the future as well,”
Wahlroos said. A share buyback would be an option if the bank’s
stock price is undervalued, he said.  Nordea jumped  as much as 2.4 kronor, or 3.1 percent, to
79.3 kronor in Stockholm trading, its highest level since Feb. 2
2011 and its steepest intraday advance since Feb. 5 this year.
It was up 2.9 percent at 1:35 p.m. local time, with volumes at
84 percent of the daily average in the past three months. The
stock was the fourth-biggest gainer on the 40-member Bloomberg
 index  of European financial companies, which rose 1.8 percent.  Wahlroos is also chairman at Nordea’s largest shareholder,
Sampo Oyj. The Finnish company held 860.4 million shares, or
 21.4 percent  of Nordea’s share capital, at the end of February.  The bank’s 44 percent payout ratio resulted in a dividend
of 0.34 euro per share for 2012, versus 0.26 euro for 2011. It’s
likely to rise to 0.40 euros for 2013 and 0.45 euro and 0.5 euro
in 2014 and 2015, respectively, according to  Bloomberg dividend
forecasts . Swedbank raised its 2012 payout ratio to 75 percent
from 50 percent while SEB will distribute 40 percent or more of
profit, compared with a previous target of “about” 40 percent,
the lenders said in their annual reports.  ‘Good Margin’  Sweden’s banks are stepping up dividends after Financial
Markets Minister Peter Norman said the industry shouldn’t amass
too much capital. In a January interview, he praised the banks
for exceeding regulatory requirements by “a good margin.”  Nordea, Swedbank, Handelsbanken and SEB must set aside at
least 10 percent core Tier 1 capital of risk-weighted assets
this year, with the minimum requirement rising to 12 percent in
2015. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision sets a 7
percent minimum by 2019.  Nordea, which is partly owned by the state, said Jan. 30
its core Tier 1 capital ratio rose to 13.1 percent at the end of
December, from 12.2 percent at the end of the third quarter, and
11.2 percent at the end of 2011. The bank targets a ratio above
13 percent in coming years, it said.  The government of Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt ear-
marked Nordea for divestment back in 2006, as part of a broader
strategy to sell off holdings in assets including Sweden’s
largest phone company,  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , and mortgage lender SBAB.
The government reduced its stake in Nordea to 13.5 percent from
19.8 percent in February 2011 after selling shares at 74.5
kronor each, resulting in net proceeds of 19 billion kronor.  State Sale?  Nordea’s shares closed at 76.9 kronor yesterday, its
highest level since the days leading up to the state’s February
2011 sale. The stock’s  24 percent  increase this year has fueled
speculation in Swedish media that the government is close to
selling part of its remaining stake.  “My impression is that the Swedish government has in no
way changed its intention on its privatization policy and
therefore I am sure they’re monitoring the situation,” Wahlroos
said. Finding one single investor that would acquire the entire
stake “is not usually how it plays out,” he said.  The Swedish state’s ownership of Nordea traces its roots to
the nation’s banking crisis in the early 1990s, when the
government nationalized the bank’s predecessor, Nordbanken,
after loan losses wiped out its equity. Nordbanken was later
 merged with other Nordic banks  to create Nordea.  Sampo Ownership  Nordea’s profit jumped 19 percent to 3.12 billion euros
($4.05 billion) last year, after net interest and net fee and
commission income increased by 5 percent. Its loans to the
public fell 2 percent to 346.3 billion euros in the fourth
quarter, compared with the three months through September.  Sampo would consider buying a part of the Swedish state’s
stake in Nordea when it comes up for sale, Wahlroos said.  “We like Nordea and think there is still quite a lot of
value, even at present share prices, so we might buy some of it,
but on the other hand, our stake in Nordea is already worth
close to 8 billion euros,” he said. “This is a very sizeable
investment and there really is no need for us to go much beyond
our present ownership. We’re not going to do anything big.”  Sampo (SAMAS) , which also owns the Nordic region’s largest property
and casualty insurer, If, and a stake in Danish non-life
insurer,  Topdanmark A/S (TOP) , has as much as 5 billion euros of
excess capital, Wahlroos said. While the Helsinki-based company
would use that money for investments should opportunities arise,
Sampo “is very value-oriented,” Wahlroos said.  Excess Capital  “We’re in a position, because of our excess capital, to
actually benefit from some aspects of the financial crisis,” he
said.  As chief executive officer and then chairman of Sampo,
Wahlroos used part of the proceeds from the sale of Sampo’s
banking arm to  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in 2007 to build a stake in
Nordea. While it owns 21.4 percent of Nordea today, Sampo held
only 1.34 percent in late 2006 and 9.2 percent at the end of
2007.  “We like to have a lot of capital and are not capital-
minimizers, but the other aspect is that it provides you with
opportunities,” Wahlroos said. “We are opportunistic and we
have acted both as buyers and sellers of assets from time to
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  