-- North Sea Crude Exports to Korea to Fall on Tax Change, JBC Says
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-13T10:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/north-sea-crude-exports-to-korea-to-fall-on-tax-change-jbc-says.html
North Sea  crude shipments to  South
Korea  are likely to drop next month as the Asian nation
considers cutting rebates paid to domestic refiners for
exporting oil products, according to JBC Energy GmbH.  The South Korean government asked  oil companies  to submit
comments on the proposed tax revisions by March 18, officials at
the Korea Customs Service, SK Innovation Co. and the Korea
Petroleum Association, which represents the country’s four oil-
processing companies, said yesterday, asking not to be
identified, citing department and company policies.  Under proposed changes scheduled to take effect April 1,
refiners that import North Sea crude would receive smaller
rebates on their exports of oil products, according to the
officials.  “We can expect fewer flows of North Sea crude to the  Far
East  from April, and those that do make the trip will likely
reflect the mechanisms of arbitrage more clearly,” a JBC Energy
team of analysts led by  David Wech  in Vienna said in a report
today. “However, full clarification of the impact on North Sea
crude will only be possible once concrete information emerges.”  At least 58 million barrels of North Sea crude has been
loaded or scheduled for shipment to the Asian nation since South
Korea and the European Union signed a free-trade agreement in
July 2011. The accord exempts Korean buyers from a 3 percent tax
on EU imports.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  was the latest company to
book a tanker to South Korea, chartering the Abqaiq to load
275,000 metric tons on April 1 from Hound Point in the U.K.  South Korea  imported  24.8 million barrels of crude from the
U.K. last year, compared with 3.06 million barrels in 2011,
according to data from the Korean National Oil Corporation. It
purchased 18.8 million barrels of Norwegian crude in 2012, up
from 2.1 million barrels the previous year, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  