-- Norway Fund Lifts Aussie Debt Holdings, Raises BHP Stake
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-03-13T02:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/norway-fund-boosts-aussie-debt-holdings-four-times-adds-states.html
Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the
world’s largest, almost doubled its investments in Australian
bonds and equities last year, boosting sovereign debt fourfold
and adding provincial debt securities.  The 4.08 trillion kroner ($715 billion) Government Pension
Fund Global held 18.1 billion kroner of  Australian federal
government securities  as of Dec. 31, according to a report
released on March 8, up from 4.11 billion kroner a year earlier.
The fund also owned notes worth 3.09 billion kroner from
Queensland, 1.43 billion kroner from New South  Wales  and 380.8
million kroner from Victoria. It hadn’t held any bonds from
Australian states at the end of 2011.  Australia is one of just 10 sovereigns with AAA credit
scores from all three major rating companies and has the highest
benchmark borrowing costs among major developed economies, both
factors that attract investors. New South Wales and Victoria
also carry top grades from Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s . Queensland, Australia’s biggest provincial
issuer, is one step lower.  The  report  also showed the Norwegian fund cut holdings last
year of debt issued by the U.K. and France and boosted
investments in  emerging markets  including Turkey, Russia and
Taiwan.  Buying BHP  Government Pension Fund Global’s holdings of fixed-income
securities from all Australian issuers, including corporate
borrowers, climbed to 29.8 billion kroner from 11.3 billion
kroner, according to the report. Its holdings of Australian
equities swelled to 53.3 billion kroner from 31.8 billion
kroner.  The fund’s stake in Australian listed shares of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, more than
doubled to 5.05 billion kroner. It also holds a 11.6 billion
kroner stake in U.K.-listed shares of the firm. The value of its
shares in  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the operator of Australia’s main stock
exchange, gained 34 percent to 282.8 million kroner.  The fund’s largest stock holding at the end of the year was
 Nestle SA (NESN)  at a value of 30.1 billion kroner, followed by  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and HSBC Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  