-- Norway Faces Reputational Damage as Gas Investors Escalate Fight
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-03-13T16:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/norway-faces-reputational-damage-as-gas-investors-escalate-fight.html
Funds that have invested $5.6
billion in Norway’s gas pipelines escalated their fight to keep
their tariffs intact, pleading with the prime minister to
intervene in a plan to slash shipment costs by 90 percent.  The investors, owned by Canadian pension funds,  Abu Dhabi ’s
sovereign wealth fund, Allianz SE and a UBS AG infrastructure
fund, appealed in a letter to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s
chief of staff, saying the proposal risks damaging Norway’s
reputation. The letter was obtained by Bloomberg through a
freedom of information request.  The companies have demanded a meeting to appeal the January
plan by the Petroleum and Energy Ministry. They own 44 percent
of the gas pipeline network, buying stakes for about 32 billion
kroner ($5.6 billion) from producers such as Royal Dutch Shell
Plc,  Statoil ASA (STL) , Total SA and Eni SpA. Norway is western
 Europe ’s largest gas producer.  “We obviously wouldn’t have invested in Gassled in
2010/2011 if we had reason to believe the ministry would cut
tariffs by 90 percent,” said Trygve Pedersen, chief executive
officer of Solveig Gas  Norway  AS, said in the letter to Karl-
Eirik Schjoett-Pedersen. “There’s reason to be concerned about
how international investors will judge Norway if it appears
investments in Norway can no longer be based on the same trust
as before.”  Fallout Spreads  The companies say the proposal to cut tariffs on gas
volumes booked after May 1 could lower expected returns by 50
percent. The hearing period on the proposal ends on March 15,
after which the ministry will decide.  A spokesman for Norway’s prime minister, Hans Kristian
Amundsen, said the matter was being handled by the Petroleum
Ministry and declined to comment.  The ministry has argued the cuts will help make natural-gas
discoveries more profitable and boost exploration and recovery
rates, saying higher-than-expected returns based on existing and
past contracts would offset lower income and preserve
“reasonable” real pretax returns of 7 percent.  Other investors include Infragas Norge AS and Njord Gas
Infrastructure AS and Silex Gas Norway AS. Solveig is owned by
the  Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board, Allianz Capital
Partners, a subsidiary of  Allianz SE , and Infinity Investments
SA, a unit of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. Infragas is a
unit of Canada’s Public Sector Pension Investment Board while
Silex is owned by Allianz. Njord is a subsidiary of UBS
International Infrastructure Fund and CDC Infrastructure SA.  Standard & Poor’s placed Solveig and Njord on negative
watch in January, while Solveig was placed on review for a
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service in February.  “We consider the matter to be so serious that we would
like to explain why we are reacting so strongly,” Knud Noerve,
chief executive officer of Infragas, said today in a phone
interview from Oslo. “It may have wide-ranging effects that go
beyond oil and gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  