-- Novatek Says Mitsubishi, Mitsui Interested in Yamal LNG Project
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-03-13T09:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/novatek-says-mitsubishi-mitsui-interested-in-yamal-lng-project.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,
 Japan ’s two biggest trading companies, are interested in joining
 OAO Novatek (NVTK) ’s $20 billion liquefied natural gas project, the
Russian company’s Chief Executive Officer Leonid Mikhelson said.  The plan to build the plant on the Yamal Peninsula in
Russia’s arctic region will be discussed with officials at
Mitsubishi, Mitsui,  Itochu Corp. (8001) , Tokyo Electric Power Co. and
Tokyo Gas Co., Russian billionaire Mikhelson said in an
interview in Tokyo. Novatek is visiting Japan with Russian
Energy Minister Alexander Novak.  Novatek, which holds 80 percent of the Yamal project with
French company  Total SA (FP)  owning the rest, plans to build the LNG
plant by 2017. The company is seeking additional investors in
Europe and  Asia , though it plans to keep at least 51 percent of
the venture.  “We are considering projects in various countries,” said
Tokyo Gas spokesman Minoru Iwashita when asked about its
interest in the Yamal project. He declined to elaborate. The
Yamal venture is among projects under consideration, said an
Itochu official, who asking not to be identified citing internal
policy.  Spokesmen at Mitsui and Tokyo Electric said they weren’t
able to immediately comment on Yamal when contacted by phone.
Hiroshi Shibuya, a spokesman for Mitsubishi, wasn’t immediately
available.  Novatek may offer a stake in the Yamal project to Chinese
companies, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
February. Novatek is also in talks with companies including
Electricite de France SA about participating, Mikhelson said in
January.  The Russian company is in an advanced talks on LNG sales
from Yamal and about 80 percent of the gas is ready for signing
contracts, Mikhelson said on a March 11 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  