-- Obama’s Approval Ratings Drop as Stalemate Over Cuts Drags On
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-03-13T18:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/obama-s-approval-ratings-drop-as-stalemate-over-cuts-drags-on.html
President  Barack Obama ’s approval
rating has dropped below 50 percent as the public sours on the
debate over $85 billion in automatic spending cuts, according to
a poll released today.  The president’s approval rating has declined to 48 percent,
down from a pre-inauguration high of 54 percent in the poll by
Greenberg, Quinlan and Rosner Research in  Washington . Forty-nine
percent said they disapproved of how Obama’s handling his job,
according to the  survey  of 950 registered voters taken March
9-12.  Congressional Republicans  received even lower marks. They
have a 27 percent approval rate and a 66 percent disapproval
rate in the poll. Still, that shows an improvement from their 23
percent approval rate and 73 percent disapproval number in the
last Greenberg survey, released Jan. 14.  The poll has an error margin of plus or minus three
percentage points.  The decline in Obama’s approval rating since he won re-
election is reflected in other recent polls and comes as the
economy is showing some signs of strength. Sales at U.S.
retailers climbed twice as much as forecast in February, showing
improving job prospects are helping consumers and the economy
overcome higher taxes and gasoline prices, according to figures
released by the Commerce Department today.  The  unemployment rate  last month dropped to 7.7 percent,
the lowest since December 2008, according to the Labor
Department.  Economic Impact  Obama and administration officials have warned that the
automatic spending cuts, which were mandated as part of a 2011
deal to increase the U.S. debt limit, will trim growth and cost
jobs if they’re allowed to continue. Democrats and Republicans
are at a stalemate over how to replace the cuts.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today that
recent polls showing the president’s approval rating declining
reflects public dissatisfaction with the deadlock over taxes and
spending.  “When Washington is dysfunctional everyone in Washington
looks bad,” he said.  Obama’s approval rating stood at 50 percent in ABC News-
Washington  poll  released today, down five percentage points from
a poll taken before his inauguration in January. The president’s
18-point advantage on Republicans over handling the economy in
the ABC-Post poll shrunk to four points, according to the poll.  Approval of Congress was at 16 percent in the survey.  A McClatchy-Marist poll released yesterday gave the
president a 45 percent approval rating among registered voters
and a 48 percent disapproval score.  The McClatchy survey also found that 46 percent of those
surveyed blamed for letting the automatic spending cuts take
effect, while 37 percent faulted the president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  