-- OCI Workers in Cairo Protest Tax Charge Citing Religious Bias
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-03-13T12:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/oci-workers-in-cairo-protest-tax-charge-citing-religious-bias.html
Hundreds of workers from  Orascom
Construction Industries (OCIC)  protested against the Egyptian
government’s accusation that the company owes 14 billion pounds
($2.1 billion) in back taxes, a charge they say threatens their
livelihoods.  OCI,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded company, is due to
resume talks with officials today over the tax claim, which
concerns the 2007 sale of its cement business to  France ’s
 Lafarge SA. (LG)  Billionaire Nassef Sawiris, OCI’s chairman, and his
father, Onsi, were banned this month by Egypt’s prosecutor
general from traveling and placed on an arrivals watch list. The
company denies violating any laws.  The workers rallied outside the company’s Cairo
headquarters, blocking traffic from a section of the corniche
that leads from the banks of the Nile to Tahrir Square. Dressed
in florescent yellow and orange jackets, they held banners that
read: “Oh Finance Minister, where is social justice?”,
“Bread, Freedom, Sawiris is not a tax evader,” and “100,000
families will lose their income.”  “By asking for this tax, the government wants to close the
company and take it over,” said protester Magdi Saber, 35, who
has been working at OCI since 2005. “The owner will be forced
to pay for it through our livelihoods. The company is being
oppressed by the government. We’re here to say: leave this man
alone.”  OCI’s shares  fell 4.6 percent at 1.30 p.m. in Cairo, the
most in three months. That extended their decline since
President Mohamed Mursi signaled the tax inspection in October
to 18 percent.  Gates Purchase  OCI is in the process of transferring its shares to
Amsterdam from Cairo, with Bill Gates leading a group of U.S.
investors that have committed $1 billion for a stake in OCI NV,
the new construction and fertilizer company to be formed. The
Egyptian regulator says the company has yet to meet the
requirements for relocating.  Nassef’s brother, Naguib Sawiris, has accused the Islamist
government led by Mursi of creating a hostile environment for
investors, and targeting his family for political reasons. He
sold his stake in the ONTV television channel last year after
his family said political positions taken by the broadcaster
sparked the tax allegations against them.  The Sawiris family are Coptic Christians who made their
fortunes in construction and telecommunications. Naguib Sawiris
co-founded a secular political party after the 2011 uprising
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak .  Investors ‘Afraid’  “It is a shame what the government is doing to
investors,” said protestor Saeed Khalaf. “Any foreign investor
will be afraid to come to Egypt, if they see that this is what
we do to our own people.” Girguis Azmi, a Coptic protester who
said he has been working at OCI for 15 years, asked why the
family is being targeted because it is Christian.  The front page of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice newspaper today carried a picture of Naguib Sawiris, who
is not on the Orascom Construction board, with the headline:
“14.4 billion pounds is the right of the people from Orascom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  