-- Tod’s to Focus on Expanding Current Brands, CEO Della Valle Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-13T18:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/tod-s-to-focus-on-expanding-current-brands-ceo-della-valle-says.html
Tod’s SpA (TOD)  Chief Executive Officer
Diego Della Valle said he’ll focus on developing brands he
already owns in the next two years, while ruling out selling a
stake in the Italian maker of $1,595 handbags and $425 loafers.  “We have a lot to do at home,” Della Valle said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television, calling Tod’s structure
“perfect as it is.” While his family’s “DNA is more buyer
than seller,” he said, “our focus for a couple of years” is
on Tod’s existing brands that have high growth potential.  Tod’s, which today reported a 7.6 percent increase in 2012
earnings and said initial results were “positive” in 2013, cut
wholesale distribution in  Italy  by about 20 percent last year to
reduce exposure to  Europe ’s fourth-largest economy, which is
mired in recession. Tod’s plans to open more Hogan and Fay
stores outside the country and increase sales from leather goods
as it seeks to become more profitable like Hermes International,
according to Exane BNP Paribas.  Della Valle and his family  own  about 57 percent of Tod’s,
the Sant’Elpidio a Mare, Italy-based leather-goods maker that
also creates products under the Hogan, Fay and Roger Vivier
brands. The executive’s other investments include 15.6 percent
of New York-based retail chain  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and an 8.7 percent
stake in  RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS) , the Milan-based publisher of
Italy’s biggest newspaper. Billionaire  Bernard Arnault , CEO of
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , owns 3.5 percent of Tod’s.  Industry Consolidation  Strong balance sheets and excess cash are likely to drive
further consolidation in the luxury business, Citigroup analysts
have said.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  this year acquired Harry Winston
Diamond Corp.’s watch and jewelry unit for $1 billion while PPR
SA, the French owner of Gucci, is among companies said to be
interested in buying Italian jeweler Pomellato SpA.  Consumer spending in Italy, where Tod’s gets about half of
its  revenue , is “very weak” and is unlikely to improve in the
short-to-medium term, Della Valle said in the March 6 interview
at Tod’s headquarters.  “Thankfully, we’re doing very well in the world, not only
in Asia, and this allows us to manage the development” of the
company, he said, adding that revenue hasn’t slowed in  China .  Tod’s will open a minimum of 20 to 30 stores in 2013, at
least half of which will be in Asia, Della Valle said. The rest
will be in the Americas with a few in Europe, including Italy.  “We’ve always had a policy that is aggressive, yet
prudent,” Della Valle said of Tod’s retail expansion. “We’re
not going to change it.” Investments this year include hiring
“hundreds” more staff and building a new factory that will be
ready in 2014, he said.  Growth Trend  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization climbed to 250.2 million euros ($324 million) in
2012 from 232.4 million euros a year earlier, Tod’s said today
in a statement. Analysts expected the shoemaker to report Ebitda
of 249.2 million euros, according to the average of 23 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Following an 8.2 percent rise in same store sales in the
first 10 weeks of the year, “I am confident that also in the
current year our group will keep its growth trend,” Della Valle
said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  