-- Lodestone’s Linderum Said to Be Arrested in FSA Probe
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-13T15:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/lodestone-s-linderum-said-to-be-arrested-in-fsa-probe.html
Carl Linderum, a founding partner
of hedge fund Lodestone Natural Resources, was one of the three
men arrested last month in London on suspicion of  insider
trading , according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Linderum was arrested on Feb. 27, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information hadn’t been
publicly disclosed. Carl Esprey, 33, who has worked as a
portfolio manager at GLG Partners Inc., was also detained in the
same insider-trading probe.  Linderum is currently listed as “inactive” on the
Financial Services Authority register. He started his career as
a trainee at Morgan Stanley in 2003, according to the register,
and subsequently worked at Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP.  “The FSA has launched a criminal insider-trading
investigation,” Elizabeth Robertson, a partner at K&L Gates LLP
in London who represents Linderum, said in an
interview. “We will be contesting the FSA’s allegations.”  Ben Belldegrun, another of Lodestone’s founding partners,
declined to immediately comment.  The investigation is part of a push by the FSA to crack
down on insider trading by employees at  London ’s biggest
financial companies after having previously targeting lower-
profile individuals. The U.K. regulator arrested five people
including a Schroders Plc equity trader in another insider-
trading investigation last month and last week won a two-year
prison term against former Legal & General Group Plc equities
trader Paul Milsom for passing inside information on block
trades to an independent stockbroker.  The regulator and London’s Metropolitan Police also
executed six search warrants last month on homes and offices in
the British capital and the surrounding areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  