-- Thomas Cook Seeks to Deepen Savings, May Expand Easyjet Ties
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-13T10:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/thomas-cook-plans-more-disposals-as-cost-cutting-plan-expands.html
Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , the U.K.
tour operator, plans to raise as much as 150 million pounds
($224 million) from disposals and may expand ties with low-cost
carrier  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  to gain airliner capacity.  Another 50 million pounds have been added to a savings plan
to bring profit improvement to 350 million pounds, Chief
Executive Officer Harriet Green said on a call today. “We
expect more to come,” she said. The stock gained as much as 19
percent in London trading, the most in more than a month.  Thomas Cook is midway through a three-year turnaround and
last week said it began a 90-day consultation period to cut
2,500 jobs, or 16 percent of the workforce, as it closes
underperforming stores in the U.K. The group has also
consolidated its airline operations to achieve savings.  “We are ahead in our transformation schedule,” Green
said, adding that the company has already achieved 60 million
pounds of its 350 million pound profit improvement target.  Thomas Cook  gained as much as 17 pence to 104 pence, and
traded at 95.5 pence as of 9:30 a.m. in London. Before today,
the  stock had surged  81 percent this year after tripling in
price in 2012. That’s after a 92 percent decline in 2011.  This year’s prospects are “robust and summer trading is
progressing well with improved margins,” the company said in a
statement today. The 171-year-old tour operator, which last year
agreed to buy seats on flights provided by EasyJet, also said it
is “taking steps to optimize procurement of third party
capacity and reviewing the balance between our in-house and
third party capacity.”  EasyJet Ties  Discussions continue about developing ties with EasyJet
with the existing partnership accounting for less than 5 percent
of Thomas Cook passengers, Green said. Talks have not expanded
to include other carriers, she said.  “I would expect that further consolidation of Thomas
Cook’s  airline business will see it look for more seats on
EasyJet flights,” said Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers . “These kind of transactions support the on-going
earnings growth momentum and margin expansion story at
EasyJet.”  The company will undertake a review of its capital and
update investors in May, Green said. The review may lead Thomas
Cook to issue debt or new equity.  Thomas Cook said it is targeting new product revenue of
more than 500 million pounds in 2015, with more than half coming
from online transactions that currently represent about 34
percent. Margins for the U.K. business should exceed 5 percent
in 2015, the company said.  The strategy review has largely flushed out what units to
sell, with a large portion coming from the U.K. business that
has been hit harder than German and Scandinavian operations,
Green said. She would not name disposal targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  