-- Homebase Sees Pickup in Garden Sales on Better Weather Prospects
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-03-13T18:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/homebase-sees-pickup-in-garden-sales-on-better-weather-prospects.html
Home Retail Group Plc’s (HOME)  Homebase
chain expects garden sales to pick up this year on the prospects
of better summer weather and will keep offering promotions in a
difficult market, Managing Director Paul Loft said.  “We would be budgeting for better weather,” Loft said in
an interview at the Retail Week Conference in London today.
“Last year was the worst summer since 1912, and anyone selling
garden products will not have budgeted to replicate last year’s
poor weather. There will be some small pickup in sales in garden
because of that.”  Homebase, whose revenue dropped 0.9 percent to 1.54 billion
pounds ($2.3 billion) last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, is struggling to turn around sales as Britons curb
spending on home improvement. Gardening is about 20 percent of
its revenues, Loft said. The executive expects housing
transactions, which stimulate spending, “won’t pick up much”
this year and sees “no change” next year as well.  Home Retail  will report  fourth-quarter same-store sales
tomorrow. The median estimate for five analysts is for a decline
of 3 percent at Homebase. Home Retail also owns the Argos
catalog chain.  “Our view is while the market stays at it is, promotional
activity will stay where it is,” Loft said. “We see the market
as staying flat and difficult and promotions is a way of trading
within that environment.”  New Kitchens  The retailer is focusing on improving stores with space
given over to “home enhancement,” like paints and tiles while
as much as 30 percent less space is for do-it-yourself products,
like repairs and maintenance. Loft is also spending six to eight
times more than he ever has on Homebase’s multi-channel offer,
for projects such as introducing Wifi in stores and adding
information to its website, such as ideas and inspiration for
new kitchens.  Home enhancement will grow faster than do-it-yourself sales
as housing transactions slow, Loft said. Britons tend to buy a
lot to get homes ready for sale and then spend two to five times
their typical annual amount in the first year of owning a new
home on kitchens and do-it-yourself, he said.  Homebase’s Habitat line, which is now available in 200
stores, has been “tremendously successful,” Loft said. The
chain also sells the Schreiber brand of bedroom and kitchen
furniture as well as Qualcast powertools and lawn mowers from
Bosch and is interested in acquiring more such brands “that
mean something to customers” as a starting point rather than
inventing something “no one has ever heard of,” the executive
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  