-- Tony Hawyard’s Genel May Find Oil in Somaliland, Minister Says
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-03-13T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/tony-hawyard-s-genel-may-find-oil-in-somaliland-minister-says.html
Somaliland is optimistic that a
search for oil by  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , run by former BP Plc Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , will find commercial quantities
of crude, Mines and Energy Minister Hussein Abdi Dualeh said.  The company has completed about 95 percent of an airborne
geophysical study and plans to conduct a two-dimensional survey
of a 4,000-kilometer (2,485-mile) area in the semi-autonomous
northern Somali region, Dualeh said in an interview yesterday in
Ankara, the Turkish capital. Patrick D’Ancona, a spokesman for
London-based Genel, declined to comment beyond its annual
results statement issued on Feb. 28.  The “initial map shows big, promising basins,” Dualeh
said, adding that Genel hasn’t interpreted all of the data yet.
“That does not mean there is oil there. There is still a lot of
work to do: 2-D seismic, exploratory drilling, a lot of
processes. It looks promising.”  The hunt to develop energy resources in  East Africa  has
gained pace since  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  made the decade’s
biggest natural gas discovery off the coast of Mozambique. Finds
in Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya and Ethiopia have also raised the
region’s energy profile. Demand in China and India helped spark
a bidding war last year between  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
Thailand’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  for Anadarko’s
partner Cove Energy Plc.  Licensed Blocks  Somaliland has licensed one-third of its oil fields where
the Anglo-Turkish company Genel operates in five blocks, with
plans to drill a first well by mid-2014, said Dualeh.  Ophir
Energy Plc (OPHR)  of the U.K. is also in negotiations for a 2-D seismic
contract and may start drilling in 2015, he said.  “It is a no brainer, there is oil” said Dualeh. “It is a
matter of finding commercial qualities.”  Somalia, particularly its northern regions of Somaliland
and Puntland are a “southward extension of the lucrative
geologic framework of the Arabian Gulf” that includes  Saudi
Arabia , according to Osman Salad Hersi, an associate geology
professor at the University of Regina in Canada. Saudi Arabia is
the world’s biggest oil producer.  “The country, Somalia, including Somaliland, can
potentially be the Saudi Arabia of East Africa,” Hersi said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “But the instability of the
country within the past 30 years or so hindered any meaningful
hydrocarbon exploration.”  No Recognition  Somalia has been wracked by more than two decades of civil
war since the fall of Mohamed Siad Barre’s dictatorship in 1991.
Somaliland declared independence after Barre was removed from
office and the former British protectorate has yet to gain
recognition as a sovereign nation by any other country or
foreign institution.  “Lack of international recognition for their unilateral
secession and not being part of the internationally-recognized
Federal Somalia of Mogadishu puts Somaliland in limbo,” said
Hersi.  Somaliland is negotiating with other unidentified
international  oil companies  hoping to sign exploration contracts
in 2013.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the state-owned Chinese  oil company , and
Canadian and Australian companies are already forging oil deals
with the Somali government and that of the semi-autonomous
region of Puntland.  “We have not had any active exploration on such a scale
until now,” said Dualeh. “Genel is really leading the charge
in really putting together a very aggressive big exploration
campaign to really evaluate the potential of Somaliland.”  Hayward resigned from BP, Europe’s second-biggest energy
company, in October 2010 following the  Gulf of Mexico  disaster.
He teamed up with financier  Nathaniel Rothschild  to create
Vallares Plc, a shell company that raised 1.33 billion pounds
($1.98 billion) through an initial public offering in London in
June 2011. Vallares agreed to merge with Genel in September 2011.  Shares in Genel fell less than 0.1 percent to 794.50 pence
in London yesterday. The stock has gained 1.9 percent so far
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  