-- Horsemeat-Free Morrison Fails to Cash In as Profit Seen Slipping
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-03-13T10:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/horsemeat-free-morrison-fails-to-cash-in-as-profit-seen-slipping.html
WM Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  is one
of only two major British grocers not proven to have sold
horsemeat mislabeled as beef this year. Even that -- a big
advantage with tainted meat dominating headlines -- has done
little to halt a market share slide for the company.  Two years into a push to remodel stores and emphasize fresh
produce, Britain’s No. 4 supermarket chain is losing price-
conscious buyers to  Germany ’s Aldi and online shoppers to bigger
rivals like  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and J  Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)   While Morrison’s meat sales have risen slightly in recent
months, its share of Britain’s 163 billion-pound ($242 billion)
grocery market fell 0.4 percentage point in the four weeks ended
Feb. 17, according to Kantar Worldpanel data obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Over the past year, its stock has dropped 11
percent while Sainsbury, the other grocer to escape unscathed,
is up 15 percent.  “We would have expected Morrison to be one of the
beneficiaries last month,” said Barclays Capital James Anstead.
The horse-meat saga “should be playing to Morrison’s
strengths.”  The company is expected to report its first profit decline
in six years when it posts annual results tomorrow. Analysts
expect pretax profit to slip to 889 million pounds from 947
million pounds, according to the median of 12 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Chief Executive Officer Dalton Philips aims to turn the
company around with an emphasis on fresh produce. After Philips
became CEO in March 2010, he vowed to lure recession-wracked
customers away from tonier chains like Waitrose, part of John
Lewis Partnership Plc, and J Sainsbury Plc with lower prices,
more attractive stores, and an expanded presence in the south of
the U.K.  Pig Brains  “This year is a make or break” for Morrison, said  Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail.  To trumpet the shift, Morrisson has hired comedy duo Ant &
Dec, who have made a career out of convincing unsuspecting
victims to eat oddities such as cricket biscuits and pig brains.
The bits feature Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly gamboling
around the British countryside with a Morrison butcher, noting
that the chain’s fresh meats are “100 percent British,”
perceived as a dig at competitors like Tesco struggling with the
fallout from equine-tainted burgers made from imported meat.  Morrison’s roots lie in Northern  England ’s former
industrial heartland. The company was founded in Bradford, West
Yorkshire, in 1899 as a market stall by egg-and-butter merchant
William Morrison. In 1961, Morrison’s son, Ken, opened the first
in what has grown to a chain of 489 supermarkets across Britain.
The company went public in 1967.  Wooden Crates  Philips has so far remodeled about 100 outlets with in-
store butchers, fishmongers, cheese counters and produce
presented in wooden crates and baskets. Under the plan, Morrison
sources almost half its fresh food directly from farmers and
processes it in its own facilities. U.S. chain  Kroger Co. (KR)  has
gained market share with a similar approach.  By cutting out middlemen, Morrison has avoided European
suppliers that added horse meat to beef products sold by Tesco,
Aldi, Ikea, and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco Bell chain.  Philips’s changes have alienated core customers in the
north of England without attracting substantial numbers of new
ones in the south, said Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital
in Liverpool.  Longtime shoppers are now “faced with this visually
beautiful merchandise -- cupcakes and bunches of lemongrass --
that is not what they are about,” Black said. “Morrison’s
strategy is right, but it moved too quickly.”  Morrison says it has been “very conscious” of keeping
prices low enough for its core shoppers. The company declined to
make Philips available for an interview.  Neglected Core  In November the company ousted Commercial Director Richard Hodgson after blaming declining revenue on a lack of shopper
understanding of its new offerings. That hasn’t silenced
detractors, a group that includes   Ken Morrison , who criticized
management for “neglecting the core business” with the
upmarket push, he told the Sunday Telegraph last year.  The chain has also failed to follow shoppers as they move
beyond the supermarket to the Web and to smaller stores. Online
grocery sales in the U.K. will double to 11.1 billion pounds by
2017, according to the Institute for Grocery Distribution, while
the convenience-store market will expand by 29 percent over the
same time period, faster than the 18 percent growth expected
from the broader sector.  So far, Morrisons’ only move online has been buying a 10
percent stake in U.S. Internet grocer FreshDirect. Morrison
plans to unveil its U.K. online strategy tomorrow.  Blockbuster, HMV  Philips has damped expectations of immediately going head
to head with Tesco and Sainsbury. If a retailer can’t charge a
premium for picking and delivering the goods, “you can end up
subsidizing your online shopper by charging your core customer
more,” he said in a March 4 interview with BBC Radio 4.  The company is also expanding a fledgling convenience store
business called M local. Last month, it bought 60 stores from
collapsed retail chains Blockbuster, HMV Group Plc and Jessops
Plc, and it plans to turn them into neighborhood shops.  By contrast, Tesco opened its first convenience store in
1994 and now operates almost 1,500 of them. Sainsbury has more
than 500 small shops and plans to open between one and two a
week this year.  The push onto the Web and into smaller stores presents a
dilemma for Morrison, said  Richard Black , who helps invest about
400 billion pounds at  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the biggest
manager of U.K. pension assets, which holds shares in British
retailers via  index funds .  Supermarkets “are being cannibalized by online and
convenience, both of which provide lower returns,” Black said.
“If they don’t offer online and convenience, customers won’t
shop there - so what should they do, lose market share or
cannibalize their stores?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  