-- Los Angeles Gasoline Premium Surges After BP Said to Cut Rates
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-13T21:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/los-angeles-gasoline-premium-surges-after-bp-said-to-cut-rates.html
Spot gasoline in Los Angeles jumped
to a one-week high against futures after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Carson
refinery was said to cut rates and stockpiles of the fuel in the
state dropped to the least since December.  Carson’s fluid catalytic cracker, which processes vacuum
gasoil into lighter crude products such as gasoline, may run at
lower rates for several days during maintenance on a compressor,
a person with knowledge of the work said late yesterday. BP’s
refinery is the second-largest in  California .  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob,  supplies  tumbled 5.5
percent in the week ended March 8 to 6.24 million barrels, the
lowest level since Dec. 28, the state Energy Commission’s
website shows. Output of the fuel also dropped last week, down
3.2 percent to 6.01 million barrels.  Carbob in Los Angeles surged 6 cents to a discount of 10
cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange at 4:03 p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s the highest level since March 6. Prompt delivery
gained 5.21 cents to $3.0423 a gallon.  The  Carson plant  supplies 25 percent of Los Angeles’s
gasoline and produces half the jet fuel used by Los Angeles
International Airport, according to BP’s website. Scott Dean, a
BP spokesman in Warrenville,  Illinois , didn’t immediately return
telephone and e-mailed requests for comment on the cracking
unit’s status.  Chevron Work  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo refinery,
the largest in California, has extended work on its own fluid
catalytic cracker until at least the end of the month, a person
with knowledge of the plan said last week. The maintenance,
which began in mid-January, had been expected to last 54 days.  Carbob in San Francisco rose 5 cents against futures to a
discount of 12 cents a gallon, the highest level since March 1.  The  spread  between the fuel in San Francisco and Los
Angeles narrowed 1 cent, with San Francisco at a 2-cent-a-gallon
discount to Los Angeles. The gap reached a record 32.5 cents a
gallon on Jan. 14.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles and San
Francisco weakened to premiums of 4.5 cents and 6.5 cents a
gallon against Nymex heating oil futures, respectively.  CARB diesel  stockpiles  rose for the third straight week,
increasing 2.8 percent to 2.44 million barrels, the state Energy
Commission said. Production of the fuel jumped 3.1 percent to
1.97 million barrels.  Portland Diesel  In  Portland ,  Oregon ,  low-sulfur diesel  dropped 2 cents to a
premium of 15.5 cents a gallon versus futures. Conventional, 84-
octane gasoline in Portland tumbled 4 cents against futures to a
discount of 16 cents a gallon, a seven-week low.  Gasoline inventories  on the U.S. West Coast, known as the
Padd 5 region, fell 3.5 percent in the week ended March 8 to
31.4 million barrels, the lowest level since November, the
Energy Information Administration said today. Production of the
fuel slid 2.6 percent to 1.49 million barrels a day, according
to the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Distillate fuel oil stockpiles on the West Coast tumbled
3.9 percent to 13 million  barrels  last week, the lowest level
since Nov. 23, the EIA said.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles gained for the
first time in three days, rising $1 to $17.33 a barrel at 4:06
p.m. New York time. The spread, a measure of refining
profitability, hit a one-year low of $3.86 a barrel in December.  -- Editors:  Charlotte  Porter, Margot Habiby  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  