-- Hostess Says Justice Department Reviewing Flowers Deal
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-03-13T17:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/hostess-ceo-says-flowers-deal-getting-justice-department-review.html
Hostess Brands Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Greg Rayburn said  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO) ’s bid to buy most
of the bankrupt baking company’s bread brands is going through
U.S. Justice Department review.  Hostess is working closely with the department to clear
“hurdles,” Rayburn said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  Flowers, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , made the only
qualified offer for Hostess’s Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride,
Merita and Nature’s Pride brands, as well as 20 bread plants, 38
depots and other assets. Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas ,
declared the $360 million bid the highest and best, eliminating
the need for the scheduled Feb. 28 auction.  A March 19 hearing has been set in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 White Plains ,  New York , for review and approval of the purchase.
The deal is also subject to regulatory approvals, including
clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act
of 1976 and closing conditions, Flowers said in a Feb. 28
regulatory  filing .  Flowers, established in 1919, produces and markets packaged
baked goods for retail and food-service customers. The company’s
top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  The planned sales of most of Hostess’s bread business
shouldn’t be approved as currently structured because the buyers
would be improperly released from liabilities and legal
obligations, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
March 1 objection to agreements reached with Flowers and  Grupo
Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA) , which plans to buy the Beefsteaks brand for about
$31.9 million.  Environmental Laws  “The proposed sale order, as currently drafted, would
diminish or eliminate the government’s ability to enforce
generally applicable police and regulatory statutes and
regulations, and diminish or eliminate the buyer’s and debtor’s
obligations to comply with environmental, health and safety
laws,” Bharara said in a court filing.  A standoff with striking union workers triggered
liquidation auctions of Hostess’s brands, recipes, plants and
other assets. The bakers union went on strike Nov. 9 after U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain imposed contract concessions
opposed by more than 90 percent of the union’s members.  The Flowers bid offers no guarantees for workers, the
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers
International Union, which represents the bakers, and their
pension fund said in court papers filed Feb. 25.  ‘Best’ Offer  “Any consideration of the ‘highest and best’ offer” for
the bread businesses “must include consideration of the
bidder’s commitment to the preservation of jobs, recognition of
the rights of workers, and compliance with  labor laws ,” the
union and pension fund said in court papers.  “I do not think any of the buyers have engaged with the
unions in terms of any go-forward plans,” Rayburn said today.
“That is an issue that is strictly up to the buyers.”  Hostess received stalking-horse bids of more than
$56 million for Drake’s and four bread brands that it plans to
auction on March 15. Other offers for those brands are due at
5 p.m. today.  “I expect we will get other bids,” Rayburn said.  McKee Foods Corp., maker of Little Debbie snacks, agreed to
pay $27.5 million for Drake’s. United States Bakery Inc. offered
to buy the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish Farms and Grandma
Emilie’s bread brands, four bakeries and 14 depots, plus certain
equipment, for $28.9 million, according to court papers.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  