-- Total Buys Three Forties Lots; Gabon Issues Crude Force Majeure
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-13T17:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/total-buys-three-forties-lots-gabon-issues-crude-force-majeure.html
Total SA bought three cargoes of
North Sea Forties crude as the price rebounded from its lowest
in 11 months. The Paris-based company failed to buy Russian
Urals grade and CPC Blend.  Gabon declared force majeure on exports of its Rabi and
Mandji grades yesterday, according to the country’s Petroleum
and Energy Minister.  North Sea  Total bought Forties lot F0318 from Royal Dutch Shell Plc
at a discount of 60 cents a barrel to Dated Brent for loading
March 28 to March 30, a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window showed.  The company also purchased F0401 from BP Plc at 65 cents
less than the cash cost of Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk
crudes in May and consignment F0315 from Trafigura Beheer BV at
minus 55 cents to Dated Brent, according to the survey.  Those deals compare with yesterday’s trade at minus 75
cents to the benchmark, which was the lowest since April 19.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days dropped to a discount of 56 cents to Dated Brent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
discount of 51 cents yesterday and is the lowest since June 22.  Brent for April settlement traded at $108.65 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $109.81 in the previous session. The May
contract was at $108.28, a discount of 37 cents to April.  Mediterranean/Urals  Statoil ASA failed to find a seller for Urals for a second
day at $2.20 a barrel less than Dated Brent on a delivered basis
to Rotterdam, according to the Platts survey. That’s 35 cents
less than it’s offer yesterday, which was the smallest discount
since Feb. 15.  Total bid for 80,000 metric tons at a discount of $2.10 to
Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy , the survey
showed. That’s the highest since Feb. 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  BP offered CPC Blend at minus 40 cents to the benchmark
without finding a buyer while Total bid for the grade at minus
85 cents, without finding a seller, the survey showed.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
widened by 5 cents to $2.45 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $1.84 a barrel,
compared with $2.38 in the previous session. That’s the
narrowest since Feb. 20.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. bought 1 million barrels of Libyan
El Sharara crude for loading in April from Total, said three
traders who asked not to be identified because the information
is confidential.  The Indian refiner paid about $1.85 a barrel more than
Dated Brent for the cargo, two of the traders said.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell by 4 cents to $3.35
a barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show. That’s the
lowest since Feb. 28.  Gabon hopes to raise its force majeure, a legal clause that
allows them to miss contracted deliveries due to circumstances
beyond their control, before the end of the week, Energy and
Petroleum Minister Etienne Ngoubou said today in an interview in
the capital, Libreville. The halt was triggered by a workers’
strike.  Shell’s operations in the West African nation were
unaffected by the strike, a London-based official said today by
phone, asking not to be identified, citing corporate policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  