-- House Votes to Block Waivers for Welfare Work Standards
-- B y   C a i t l i n   W e b b e r
-- 2013-03-13T21:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/house-votes-to-block-waivers-for-welfare-work-standards.html
The Obama administration would be
blocked from granting waivers for work requirements in states
that want to experiment with their welfare programs under
legislation that the House passed, 246-181.  The legislation, H.R. 890, also would extend that program,
Temporary Assistance for  Needy Families , through Dec. 31. It’s
scheduled to expire March 27.  Republicans said that any waivers would undermine the
program’s employment goals. The administration said waivers
would allow states flexibility to design welfare programs to
improve job prospects for welfare recipients.  “Without any thought of consulting Congress as is required
by law, the administration saw fit to unilaterally waive the
work requirements and risk the progress that has been made in
the last 16 years,” House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  of
Michigan said, referring to TANF’s creation in 1996.  The bill would prevent the Obama administration from
carrying out a July 2012 memorandum that would allow states to
seek exemptions from TANF work standards for the first time.  The TANF program provides states with block grants for cash
assistance to poor families. It requires states to meet certain
work performance standards or risk losing grant funding.  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on the  Ways and Means
Committee, said Republicans who want to block state flexibility
are being “worse than contradictory.”  “This is an effort in 2013 to validate a fallacious
political ad of the year 2012,” Levin said referring to a
campaign advertisement by Republican presidential nominee  Mitt
Romney  that called TANF waivers “a plan to gut welfare
reform.”  No Applicants  The administration said the policy change was in response
to states’ concerns that TANF rules and paperwork requirements
were impeding the program’s goals. No states have applied for
the waiver, although eight states have expressed interest in
them, according to the Government Accountability Office.  Republicans said the the administration had tried to bypass
Congress by releasing the policy change in a memorandum, rather
than a regulation.  “When you’re trying to change the law, you don’t just send
a letter,” Camp said.  In the previous session of Congress, the House passed a
related measure largely along party lines that also would have
nullified the welfare work exemptions. The Senate never took up
that bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caitlin Webber in Washington at 
 cwebber4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  