-- House Curb Concerns Sink SouFun in U.S.: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-13T20:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/house-curb-concerns-sink-soufun-in-u-s-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell to a three-
month low in New York, as speculation property curbs will be
tightened sank  SouFun Holdings Ltd.  and Suntech Power Holdings
Co. tumbled on prospects the government won’t offer a bailout.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 1 percent to 92.09 yesterday,
the lowest close since Dec. 4. SouFun, owner of China’s biggest
real estate information website, slumped to the lowest level in
almost three months, as  E-House China Holdings Ltd.  slid the
most in five weeks.  Suntech , a solar-panel maker that announced
a forbearance agreement this week for $541 million of debt, sank
24 percent, leading declines on the gauge.  Property stocks  retreated in China yesterday after Sina.com
said Shenzhen housing authorities had been told to ensure zero
new home price increases, a report the city’s Urban Planning
Land and Resources Commission later denied. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
told cities with “excessively fast” price gains this month to
step up limits on home purchases through measures such as higher
down-payment requirements for second mortgages.  “The biggest concern in China is property and the
volatility in that sector given what happens with the
administrative measures,”  Clement Miller , an investment
strategist at Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors Inc., which
manages $70 billion in assets, including Chinese equities, said
by in a phone interview from Baltimore. “The property market
curbs are not going to help the equities. Those are going to
constrain earnings growth expectations and valuations.”  ETF Sinks  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slid 1.7 percent to $37.34 in
New York, dropping for a third day. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  added 0.1 percent to 1,554.52. Shares on the China-US gauge
 traded  at 12.9 times estimated profits, the cheapest level this year,
while the valuation for the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
dropped to a three-month low of 8.1.  SouFun, based in Beijing, fell 4.2 percent in its fourth
day of declines to $23.48, the lowest close since Dec. 19. E-
House, a Shanghai-based real estate agent, slipped 3.9 percent
to $4.70, sliding the most since Feb. 4.  Shenzhen housing authorities said in a statement yesterday
they haven’t introduced a new round of housing curbs in the southern 
city, denying an earlier report on news portal Sina.com. The city 
has continued to implement the central government’s policies to 
ensure prices don’t rise too quickly, they said.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index fell 2.5 percent to the lowest in three months yesterday,
posting the biggest decline among the five industry groups on
the benchmark. China’s  consumer prices  climbed 3.2 percent in
February from a year earlier, the fastest pace in 10 months.  ‘High Alert’  China should be on “high alert” over inflation after
February’s price gains exceeded forecasts, central bank Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said yesterday at a press conference during the
annual gathering of the National People’s Congress. The nation’s
monetary-policy stance is “no longer relaxed” and is
“relatively neutral”, Zhou said.  Suntech, the biggest solar-panel maker in 2011, plunged to
83 cents, with the stock trading below $1 for the first time in
three months. LDK Solar Co., the second-biggest wafer maker
globally, tumbled 12 percent to $1.39, sinking the most since
October.  Suntech may be required to pay bondholders who haven’t
agreed to a forbearance agreement which allowed a two-month
delay in payments on its $541 million in convertible debt due
March 17. About 60 percent of the note holders have agreed to
wait until May 15 before exercising their rights, Wuxi, Jiangsu-
based Suntech said in a March 11 statement.  No Rescue  China’s government “won’t intervene and shouldn’t” rescue
Suntech from its creditors, as officials in Beijing want to pare
excess manufacturing capacity, said Li Junfeng, director of the
climate-change strategic research division at the government’s
National Development and Reform Commission.  Suntech should “not rely on government assistance,” said
Meng Xiangan, vice chairman of the China Renewable Energy
Society, a liaison between the industry and the state.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd.  fell for the first
time in five days, losing 9.6 percent to $12.62. The Beijing-
based company said March 7 it agreed to acquire Bond Corp. in a
$73 million deal.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. , an Internet software
developer, also based in Beijing, slid 5.7 percent to $29.56,
the lowest price since Dec. 28.  Renren Inc. , the Beijing-based owner of a real-name social
media site, climbed 4.6 percent to $3.21. The shares had the
biggest advance on the China-US gauge.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  fell 2.3 percent to a
three-month low of 11,037.41 yesterday, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index  of domestic Chinese shares slipped 1 percent to
2,263.97, sinking for a fifth day in the longest stretch of
declines since November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  