-- Outdoor Channel to Be Acquired by Kroenke for $227 Million
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-03-13T21:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/outdoor-channel-agrees-to-be-bought-by-kroenke-for-227-million.html
Outdoor Channel Holdings Inc. (OUTD) , the
owner of a cable-TV network with hunting and fishing programs,
agreed to be bought by Kroenke Sports & Entertainment LLC for
about $227 million, spurning an earlier offer from InterMedia
Outdoors Holdings LLC.  The all-cash offer for $8.75 a share represents a 16
percent premium over Outdoor Channel’s stock price on March 1,
before the bid was first disclosed, the Temecula, California-
based company said today in a statement.  Kroenke outbid InterMedia, which previously entered into a
merger agreement with Outdoor Channel. InterMedia had offered
investors a choice of $8 cash a share, a new share of the new
company or a combination of $4.46 in cash and 0.443 of a share.  “Our board of directors has unanimously determined that
the proposed all-cash merger with KSE offers superior value for
our stockholders,” Tom Hornish, Outdoor Channel’s chief
executive officer, said today in the statement.  Outdoor Channel shares  fell 1.1 percent to $8.74 at the
close in New York. The stock had climbed as high as $9.21 in the
past week, suggesting that investors were expecting bidding to
go higher. It has risen 15 percent this year.  Sports Teams  Closely held Kroenke, based in Denver, owns and operates
the  Denver Nuggets  of the  National Basketball Association  and
the  Colorado Avalanche  of the  National Hockey League , in
addition to the Pepsi Center, where both teams play, and other
sports teams and venues.  Lazard served as Outdoor Channel’s financial adviser, while
 Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  was the legal adviser.  InterMedia had intended to create a new publicly traded
company combining its Sportsman Channel and 15 magazines with
Outdoor Channel.  The company said today its proposed merger was a better
deal for Outdoor Channel, despite the outcome.  “Unfortunately, Outdoor Channel determined that they would
prefer to take cash rather than participate in the significant
combined future upside this combination provided,” InterMedia
said in an e-mailed statement. “Outdoor Channel presented an
attractive merger partner for us, but our first duty is to our
investors and there are prices at which some deals stop making
sense. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  