-- How Benjamin Franklin Invented the Mail-Order Business
-- B y   W e n d y   W o l o s o n
-- 2013-03-13T17:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/how-benjamin-franklin-invented-the-mail-order-business.html
In her 1996 autobiography “An Eye
for Winners,” the catalog pioneer Lillian Vernon credited
 Benjamin Franklin  with introducing the “American institution” of
mail-order retailing.  Undeniably, Franklin is responsible for many innovations
(the first successful circulating library, bifocals and the
lightning rod, to name a few). But mail order?  In 1744, Franklin published “A Catalogue of Choice and
Valuable Books, Consisting of Near 600 Volumes, in most
Faculties and Sciences,” whose title page laid out the terms of
sale for the titles he offered, which ranged from treatises on
law and philosophy to works of poetry. His sale was to start at
9 a.m. sharp on April 11, and would last for three weeks “and no
longer.” Terms were cash only. Notably, the printer, publisher
and postmaster allowed people outside of town the opportunity to
purchase the books, as well: “Those Persons that live remote, by
sending their Orders and Money to said B. Franklin, may depend
on the same Justice as if present.”  Franklin didn’t specify how, precisely, his remote
customers were to receive their books, and according to James N.
Green, an expert on Franklin and the librarian of the  Library
Company of Philadelphia  -- the subscription library founded by
Franklin -- there is no evidence of bound books being sent by
post riders during this era, which would have qualified the
shipments as “real” mail order. According to Green, “they
probably would have been sent by whatever wagon was going that
way, like other freight.”  Sending Seeds  It wasn’t until the 1830s that businesses commonly accepted
and sent orders by mail and published catalogs so that customers
could request exactly what they wanted.  Perhaps not surprisingly, the first enterprises to embrace
mail order in the modern sense were seedsmen and nurserymen,
whose customers were scattered across the U.S. and in its
unsettled territories. Small and relatively non-perishable,
seeds could be sent almost anywhere.  William Mann, a seller of seeds and forest trees, promised
in an 1839 issue of the periodical the Yankee Farmer, “orders
post paid, will be promptly attended to, and faithfully
executed,” all the way from Bangor,  Maine .  Western  New York  nurseryman B. Hodge had perfected his
shipping methods by the time of his 1842 notice in the New
Genesee Farmer guaranteeing that his trees and plants were
“packed in superior order and shipped at Buffalo on board of any
steamboat, vessel or canal boat required.” He added, “Catalogues
gratis to every applicant.”  Descriptive catalogs, in fact, were as important to mail-
order operations as reliable shipping. People in the plant
business produced some of the earliest product catalogs, and
theirs would also become among the most lavish, taking advantage
of emerging techniques in chromolithography that rendered rich,
full-color illustrations of flowers, fruits and vegetables.  By the 1840s, book publishers began embracing the mail-
order concept, sending their printed catalogs to individual
customers living remotely or, more often, to local sales agents
who placed bulk orders for groups of people organized into
clubs. Book agents could profit if they amassed enough orders,
but they also had to absorb the onerous cost of postage
themselves, prompting publishers to give them incentives such as
free books and prizes if they met minimum quotas.  Within Reach  A series of postage-rate reductions from 1845 to 1851
further encouraged the mail-order business, and by the end of
the Civil War any number of  consumer goods  were within easy
reach of those living far away from active markets and dry-goods
stores.  In a late 1865 issue of her Mirror of Fashions, Mme.
Demorest promised to ship “any thing from a pin to a piano.”
People could even remotely order ready-made clothing via the
“country order system,” which provided them with detailed self-
measurement systems so they could purchase clothes without
visiting a tailor. The advent of standard clothing sizes,
developed for soldiers’ uniforms during the Civil War, made
ordering personal garments by mail even more reliable.  Baldwin the Clothier, of  New York City , had by 1877
established an entire department dedicated to filling orders by
mail, which came from all regions of the country: “Our sample
rooms have been enlarged, and the work now requires the constant
attention of a regular correspondent, and a number of careful
men whose duties relate almost entirely to the filling of orders
from near and remote places.” Baldwin even offered a money-back
guarantee.  Although rarely acknowledged, these early businesses paved
the way for the more successful and long-lived mail-order
operations we are familiar with today. Aaron Montgomery Ward,
who is credited with establishing the modern mail-order
industry, began in 1872 and, ingeniously, established a
relationship with the National Grange of the Order of Patrons of
Husbandry (aka the Grange), supplying remote farm families
across the country with all manner of goods. By 1884, Ward’s
catalog was 240 pages, and by the early 1890s it offered some
24,000 items.  Richard Sears launched his company in 1886 and by the early
20th century boasted that it was “The Largest Supply House in
the World.”  Further reforms in postal rates made mail order even more
successful. The 1 cent advertising postcard was introduced in
1871, and in 1898 Americans enjoyed rural free delivery, which
brought mail right to the doors of those living in the
hinterlands. Rural parcel post arrived in 1913. By then, mail-
order catalogs were as familiar in American living rooms as the
goods within them.  Due to the rise of Internet commerce, along with higher
printing, publishing and postage costs, many retailers are now
forgoing printed catalogs. But even though e-commerce has
changed the way we place orders, it still operates on the
traditional mail-order model: We can order almost anything we
want from almost anywhere in the world with the expectation that
it will appear on our doorstep within days, often postage paid.  ( Wendy Woloson  is an independent scholar and consulting
historian. Her most recent book is “In Hock: Pawning in America
From Independence Through the Great Depression.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Wendy Woloson at
 wendy@repositoryofusefulknowledge.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 