-- Paris Wheat Heads for Bear Market as EU Production Rebounds
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-13T16:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/paris-wheat-heads-toward-bear-market-as-eu-production-rebounds.html
The European Union’s largest wheat
crop in five years probably will send Paris futures into a bear
market even as excess rain threatens to curb yields in the U.K.
and northern  France .  Wheat output in the bloc may rise to about 140 million
metric tons in the season that starts July 1, up 6.2 percent
from a year earlier and the highest since the 2008-09 marketing
year, the European Commission said last week. Farmers in  Europe 
boosted planting of winter crops last autumn after milling wheat
on NYSE Liffe in Paris rose 27 percent in 2012, outpacing gains
among all 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge.
Yields in southern and eastern Europe also may recover after
drought, said Nick Higgins of Rabobank International.  “Acreage will be up near the 2008 highs, but most of the
gain comes from increased yields,” Higgins, a London-based
analyst at Rabobank, said by phone March 11. “We would look for
harvest pressure on prices, in recognition of those conditions,
and to see prices make a final decline in the fourth quarter.”  Paris milling wheat prices tumbled 16 percent since closing
at 277 euros ($360) a ton on Nov. 9, the highest settlement
since February 2011. The grain, which would need to close below
221.60 euros to fall 20 percent, deemed a  bear market  by many
investors, may extend declines to average 204 euros during the
third quarter, Rabobank estimates. The bank expects Paris wheat
to average 197 euros in the fourth quarter, the lowest since the
three months through March 2012.  Croatian Production  The estimate by the commission, the EU’s executive arm,
includes durum and soft wheat and accounts for  production  in
 Croatia , which will become the bloc’s 28th member when it joins
in July. In the previous season, the Croatian wheat harvest
totaled 800,000 tons, 0.6 percent of the 27 current EU states’
combined output, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. The EU is the world’s largest wheat grower and
second-biggest exporter, after the U.S., according to the USDA.  EU  farmers  may plant 26.35 million hectares (65 million
acres) of soft wheat and durum this year, up 2.5 percent from a
year earlier, the commission said March 11. Soft wheat yields
may rebound about 3.2 percent from a year earlier to 5.58 tons a
hectare, while durum yields may climb 7.1 percent, according to
the report. Rabobank expects the biggest increases in production
to come in  Spain  and  Romania , which had dry weather last year,
as well as  Germany .  Winter Crops  In France, Europe’s biggest producer, farmers will plant
4.98 million hectares of soft wheat, up 2.4 percent from a year
earlier, FranceAgriMer said March 8. In Germany, the second-
biggest EU wheat grower, winter crops are in “very good”
condition, Hamburg-based trader Alfred C. Toepfer International
said Feb. 21. Germany’s winter soft wheat harvest may climb 9.1
percent to 23.3 million tons because of increased planting, farm
group Deutscher Raiffeisenverband e.V. said today.  Still, the French crops office  rated  66 percent of the
country’s soft wheat in good or excellent condition as of March
4, down from 74 percent in early December. Crops in southern
France are generally in good shape, while northern regions had
too much wet weather, said Jake French, a Bartlow, England-based
consultant at French farm adviser Offre et  Demande Agricole .  In the U.K., winter wheat planting in  England  and  Wales 
probably plunged 25 percent from last year to 1.394 million
hectares, after the country had its second-wettest year on
record last year, and soggy conditions persisted in 2013, the
Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board said March 8.  “We’re not bearish just yet, but we’re becoming less
bullish,” French said. “We’ve still got huge weather risks.”  Global Inventories  Before the next harvest begins, world inventories of wheat
may drop to a four-year low at 178.23 million tons because of
dry weather in  Russia  and eastern Europe in the past season and
increasing demand for the grain in livestock feed after drought
hurt U.S. corn yields, the USDA estimates.  EU wheat exports from the past season’s crop may be 19.5
million tons, 18 percent higher than a year earlier, according
to the USDA. Shipments may drop to 17 million tons as Russian
and eastern European output rebounds, pressuring wheat prices in
Paris, Rabobank’s Higgins said.  Global wheat  production  may rise 4.3 percent from last year
to 690 million tons, the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization said March 7, led by a 39 percent jump in Russian
output and respective increases in Kazakhstan and Ukraine of 48
percent and 23 percent. The FAO pegs the EU crop at 138 million
tons, up 4.5 percent from the previous year.  “Europe in general seems to be in a good situation this
year,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at the FAO in  Rome ,
said by phone March 6. “Why you see wheat prices under pressure
is prospects have improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 