-- PBOC Chief Says China Should Be on ‘High Alert’ on Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-13T10:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/pboc-s-zhou-says-china-should-be-on-high-alert-on-inflation.html
China should be on “high alert”
over inflation after February’s figures exceeded forecasts,
central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said, signaling a
heightened focus on controlling prices.  Monetary policy is “no longer relaxed” and is
“relatively neutral” as demonstrated by a 13 percent target
for money-supply growth that’s tighter than expansion in the
last two years, Zhou, head of the  People’s Bank of China , said
at a press conference today during the annual gathering of
China’s National People’s Congress.  Zhou’s comments add to signs that officials are tightening
policies even as the recovery in the world’s second-biggest
economy shows signs of weakness. While the central bank has left
 interest rates  and lenders’ reserve requirements unchanged since
July last year, the government this month intensified a campaign
to control home prices.  “The central bank has always attached great importance to
consumer prices,” Zhou said. “Therefore we will use monetary
policy and other measures to hopefully stabilize
prices and inflation expectations.”  China ’s new leaders including Li Keqiang, set to become
premier this week, inherit the task of sustaining a recovery
from the slowest growth in 13 years while reining in asset
prices and credit. February inflation, distorted by the weeklong
Lunar New Year holiday, accelerated to a 10-month-high of 3.2
percent.  Tighter Policy  “Zhou is indicating that monetary policy is being
tightened to shift from loose to neutral,” said Shen Jianguang,
chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong.  New lending in February and  retail sales  and industrial
production in the first two months of 2013, all of which missed
analyst estimates, fanned concerns that a rebound in the world’s
second-largest economy may be moderating.  Hong Kong stocks extended losses after the remarks on
inflation. The Hang Seng  Index (HSI)  lost 1.5 percent for the day.  China this year will keep stable credit growth, which must
be in line with goals for gross domestic product and consumer
prices, Zhou said.  A 13 percent increase in  money supply  would be the smallest
since 12.3 percent in 2000. M2, the broadest measure, expanded
13.8 percent in 2012 and 13.6 percent in 2011. Last year’s
target was 14 percent.  Stable Prices  Commenting on this year’s goal, “compared with the real
figures in the past two years, it is a bit tighter, indicating
our emphasis on keeping prices basically stable,” Zhou said.  The remarks from Zhou “are clearly hawkish, and more so
than expected,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and
strategist with Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “The PBOC has
shifted its focus to fighting inflation and seems to be quite
concerned about price stability.”  Zhou, 65, the longest-serving PBOC governor, said he
doesn’t know whether he will remain in the position and that any
decision on the post has its procedures. He was named a vice
chairman of the nation’s top government advisory body on March
11 amid speculation his tenure as central bank chief will be
extended.  Asked if market-oriented changes to interest-rate and
exchange-rate policies will continue, Zhou said such policies
may be extended whether or not he stays governor. “Generally
speaking, continuity and stability of the correct policies
definitely should be maintained,” Zhou said. He said he made
some mistakes, without elaborating.  Senior Adviser  Zhou was among 23 people elected as vice chairmen with the
Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference. The national
legislature will decide March 16 on positions including PBOC
governor.  The party plans to keep Zhou as head of the central bank,
with the CPPCC vice chairman position allowing him to serve
beyond retirement age, a person with direct knowledge of the
discussions told Bloomberg News last month.  Retaining Zhou would provide stability at a time when the
central bank is grappling with sustaining an economic recovery
while reining in inflation and credit. Zhou was omitted from the
Communist Party’s new 205-member Central Committee in November,
fueling speculation that he would step down as he approached
retirement age.  Asked about regional government loans, Zhou said that while
a large portion of debt from China’s local government financing
vehicles is safe and backed by projects, about 20 percent is
risky.  Pay Attention  “This portion of LGFV loans is what we pay high attention
to and they also are prone to risks,” he said, citing loans
that aren’t backed by income-generating projects and must rely
on other sources of revenue.  Dong Dasheng, a deputy director with the National Audit
Office, said yesterday that local-government debt is at about
the same level as the 10.7 trillion  yuan  given in a 2010 report
published by his office. The total of all government debt,
including central and local, ranges from 15 trillion yuan to 18
trillion yuan, Dong said.  --Zhou Xin, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Aipeng Soo and
Huang Zhe in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  