-- Perion Jumps as CEO Affirms Sales View: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-03-14T08:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/perion-jumps-as-ceo-affirms-sales-view-israel-overnight.html
Perion Network Ltd. (PERI)  rallied to a
one-month high in  New York  as the Israeli maker of Internet
tools affirmed a record sales forecast six weeks after  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  limited use of its search engine in the company’s products.  Shares of Perion, which makes desktop programs for e-mail,
photo sharing and web security, jumped 4.2 percent to $10.03
yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 6. Trading volumes were
triple the average over the past three months. The  Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-traded Israeli companies in
the U.S. slipped for the first time in seven days, led by
 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)   Chief Executive Officer Josef Mandelbaum said yesterday
that Perion is sticking with the $110 million revenue forecast
for 2013 issued in January, even after Google halted automatic
software downloads Feb. 1. Perion has lost as much as 30 percent
this year on concern fewer people will use its products that
come packaged with the search engine that the Tel Aviv-based
company says accounts for 62 percent of sales.  “There were a lot of questions on investors’ minds whether
these policy changes will negatively impact Perion’s revenue,”
 Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC who
rates the stock buy, said in a phone interview yesterday in New
York. “The company addressed that by saying the policy changes
have been implemented. The company reassured investors.”  Rules  at Google to improve transparency now require users
understand a software product by reading the terms and agreeing
to them, instead of the product automatically downloading. These
policy changes will reduce the number of Perion’s products
installed, said Chardan’s Srivatsa.  Sales Forecast  Perion advanced 4.2 percent to $10.03. Shares traded in Tel
Aviv increased 0.3 percent to 36.71 shekels, or the equivalent
of $9.94, at 10:33 a.m. in  Israel .  Perion’s sales forecast represents an 83 percent increase
from last year’s $60.2 million. Fourth-quarter  sales  was $21.4
million, doubling from a year ago. It will probably report
adjusted income of 33 cents a share for the first quarter, a 50
percent increase from the year-ago period, according to the
average estimate of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The contract with Google was extended on Jan. 31 to the end
of May. Perion’s CEO Mandelbaum said on the conference call
yesterday that he was confident it would be renewed.  One of the biggest risks to Perion is if they “hit a
wall” with Google in the future, Daniel Kurnos, an analyst at
New York-based Benchmark Co., said in a telephone interview
yesterday. Perion announced on Feb. 6 that it entered into a
distribution agreement with Bing, the search engine of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , as a way of diversifying its offerings.  ‘True Visibility’  “At this point, it’s just a question of how much investors
believe management’s story,” said Kurnos, who has a buy rating
on Perion shares. “People are shorting the stock on the
strength because they continue to disbelieve that the Google
deal will get done in May and that management has any true
visibility into the impact of the policy changes.”  Perion’s short interest more than doubled between Jan. 31
and Feb. 15, according to data compiled by Markit on Feb. 28, a
London-based research firm.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Index added 0.8 percent to 90.77
yesterday, the biggest slump in two weeks. Israel’s benchmark
TA-25 Index this morning added 0.3 percent to 1,243.45.  Mellanox slumped 8.8 percent to $59.78 in New York. The
shares in  Tel Aviv  today fell 3.2 percent to 220.4 shekels, the
equivalent of $59.67. Chief Financial Officer Jacob Shulman said
the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based company’s first-quarter
performance will be impacted by “inventory accumulation.”  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  advanced 2.3 percent to $38.99 after
Israel’s largest non-governmental defense company swung to
profitability as sales grew even as U.S. and European  defense
spending  declined.  The company reported a quarterly profit of $57.2 million,
compared with a loss of $13 million in the year-earlier period
when it had a one-time expense, Elbit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  