-- Philip Morris Names Calantzopoulos CEO Seeking China Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-03-13T20:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/philip-morris-names-andre-calantzopoulos-as-ceo.html
Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) 
named Andre Calantzopoulos as chief executive officer, replacing
Louis Camilleri, as the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
company works to expand in China and develop new products.  Calantzopoulos, who also was nominated for election to the
board, will become CEO after the annual meeting of shareholders
on May 8, the New York-based maker of Marlboro cigarettes said
today in a statement. Camilleri will remain chairman of the
board, Philip Morris said.  Calantzopoulos, 55, takes charge five years after Philip
Morris was spun off from  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , enabling it to
accelerate acquisitions and expand into  emerging markets . He and
Camilleri introduced new varieties of Marlboro into  Russia , the
world’s second-largest cigarette market, to boost its global
share of tobacco sales to a record 28.8 percent last year,
excluding the U.S. and  China .  “The move recognizes the increasing role that Andre has
played after he and Louie worked together to gain market
share,” said Tom Russo, a partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner,
who oversees more than $6 billion, including about eight million
Philip Morris shares.  Philip Morris  fell  0.4 percent to $90.55 at the close in
New York. The shares have risen 8.3 percent this year.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  As executive chairman, Camilleri, 58, will have more time
to focus on “the big imponderables” for the company, such as
boosting sales in China and developing next-generation products
less harmful than cigarettes, Russo said today by telephone from
Lancaster,  Pennsylvania .  He will give up the day-to-day responsibilities for
“stacking high and selling more” cigarettes that he has shared
with Calantzopoulos, Russo said. “I’m glad we get to keep
both.”  Camilleri has served as CEO of Philip Morris and its former
parent for 11 years. The shares have jumped 83 percent since
March 17, 2008, when Philip Morris was spun off, compared with a
22 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Camilleri said at a Morgan Stanley conference in November
that China and  Vietnam  represent “untapped growth
opportunities” and an “exciting future of next generation
products.”  China Sales  China is world’s largest tobacco consumer. Cigarette sales
in China will expand an average of 13.5 percent a year to reach
2 trillion  yuan  ($321 billion) by 2016, according to London-
based Euromonitor International.  The company’s sales tumbled in  Europe  in the fourth quarter
as the region’s debt crisis and high unemployment prompted
smokers to cut back or switch to roll-your-own-smokes.  Calantzopoulos has served as Philip Morris’s chief
operating officer since 2008. He joined the company in 1985,
working across Central Europe, and became CEO of the
international division in 2002.  The company has boosted its  dividend  each year for a total
increase of 85 percent from the spinoff through year-end 2012.
It has returned more than $50 billion to shareholders in
dividends and stock buybacks during that period, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  