-- Poland Bond Yields Decline to Month-Low Before Inflation Data
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-13T15:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/poland-bond-yields-decline-for-second-day-before-inflation-data.html
Poland ’s government bond yields
fell to the lowest in more than a month before the publication
of inflation data tomorrow.  Yields on two-year bonds declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.33 percent as of 4:28 p.m. in Warsaw, the
lowest since Feb. 5. The zloty depreciated less than 0.1 percent
to 4.1434 per euro after weakening as much as 0.2 percent
earlier.  Inflation slowed to an annual rate of 1.5 percent, matching
the lowest since August 2007, in February from 1.7 percent in
January, according to the  median estimate  of 36 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Poland’s central bank cut  interest rates 
50 basis points to a record low of 3.25 percent last week. It is
ready to reduce them further if economic data is worse than
forecast in its projection, central bank Governor Marek Belka
said on March 6. The bank assumes economic growth will slow to
1.3 percent this year and inflation will fall to 1.6 percent.  The zloty will “weaken slightly” in the coming months as
the Monetary Policy Council will return to “soft rhetoric” and
because of ‘disappointment with poor data”, ING Bank Slaski SA
economists, led by  Rafal Benecki , wrote in a note today. They
expect the currency to weaken to 4.18 per euro in the next one
to three months and to 4.22 per euro in the next six months.  Poland is still seeing inflows of foreign capital into its
debt and does not see a risk of investors exiting, deputy
Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk told reporters in Warsaw
today, after international investors increased their holdings of
local-currency  government bonds  and bills by 5.1 billion zloty
($1.6 billion) to a record 195.6 billion zloty in January.  Polish monetary policy remains “restrictive,” even after
150 basis points of interest-rate cuts, and may require a
further reduction in borrowing costs this year, policy maker
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch told TVN CNBC in an interview yesterday.  The inflation data will be published by Poland’s  Central
Statistical Office  at 2 p.m. tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  