-- Polish Inflation Probably Slowed to Lowest Since 2007
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-14T08:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/polish-inflation-probably-slowed-to-2007-low-as-demand-waned.html
Polish  inflation  was probably the
slowest in more than five years last month as the flagging
economy curbed demand, providing scope for further  interest-rate 
cuts even after borrowing costs were trimmed to a record low.  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in February, matching the
lowest level since August 2007, compared with a 1.7 percent
advance the previous month, according to the median estimate of
36 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The statistics office will
publish the data at 2 p.m. today in Warsaw.  The central bank is signaling a pause in its easing cycle
after cutting the main interest rate by 50 basis points to 3.25
percent last week amid the steepest economic slowdown in 12
years. Inflation will stay near the lower end of policy makers’
1.5 percent to 3.5 percent tolerance range through 2015,
according to the bank’s March forecast.  “Weaker demand is continuing to damp price pressures,”
 Rafal Benecki , chief economist for  Poland  at ING Groep NV, said
yesterday by phone from Warsaw. “The Monetary Policy Council
doesn’t seem to believe the projection and the hard data may
convince them to soften their language and cut rates again.”  The zloty, which has lost 1.2 percent against the euro this
year, the sixth-worst performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, gained 0.1 percent to 4.1430 at
9:08 a.m. in Warsaw.  Rate Cuts  The central bank has delivered five interest-rate
reductions since November as the euro-area recession curbed
exports while rising unemployment hurt consumer spending.
Private consumption, which accounts for 62 percent of gross
domestic product, fell 1 percent from a year earlier in the
fourth quarter, the first contraction since 1996 in the European
Union’s largest eastern economy.  Inflation has also eased this year as gas monopoly  Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  sealed a 10 percent reduction
in fuel prices from  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, allowing it to offer
cheaper energy starting Jan. 1.  Governor  Marek Belka  and fellow policy maker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said yesterday interest-rate cuts are still
possible. Further reductions “could happen if it turns out
economic growth and inflation diverge from our projections,”
Belka told reporters on the sidelines of a banking conference.  The current rate level allows the rate-setters to “adopt a
short-term ‘wait-and-see’ stance,” although they will react if
inflation gets “better or worse,” another policy maker, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, told TVN CNBC late yesterday.  Derivative Bets  That’s consistent with expectations from derivatives
traders, who’re betting on a quarter-point reduction by the end
of December, based on the spread between nine-month forward-rate
agreements and the Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “There seems to be a group on the council that wants to
cut rates further,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE
Bank SA, said yesterday by phone from Warsaw.  Inflation will continue to slow through June before picking
up “slightly” in the second half, Deputy Finance Minister
Janusz Cichon told reporters yesterday. Consumer-price growth
will average less than 2 percent this year and further monetary
easing is “necessary,” he said.  The February data will include an annual revision in the
so-called inflation basket to reflect changing consumption
patterns. While the statistics office will reduce the weighting
of food prices, the effect on the headline figure “won’t be
large,” according to Piotr Kalisz, chief economist at Citigroup
Inc.’s Polish unit.  “Inflation will continue to creep lower to 1.1 percent in
April,” he said yesterday by phone from Warsaw. “A couple of
months of worse economic releases may still convince the central
bank to cut again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  