-- Polish Rates Are Still ‘Restrictive,’ Chojna-Duch Tells CNBC
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-03-13T14:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/polish-rates-are-still-restrictive-chojna-duch-tells-cnbc.html
Polish monetary policy remains
“restrictive,” even after 150 basis points of  interest-rate 
cuts, and may require a further reduction in borrowing costs
this year, policy maker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch told TVN CNBC.  The central bank must observe the economy for “a month or
two,” after which “anything is possible,” TVN CNBC cited
Chojna-Duch as saying yesterday in an interview.  Policy makers cut the main interest rate 50 basis points
last week to a record low, more than economists predicted, with
Governor  Marek Belka  citing the need to react to new data about
the deteriorating state of the economy. Central bank forecasts
projected the only European Union economy to dodge a recession
in 2009 will expand 1.3 percent this year, the worst performance
since 2001 and down from 2 percent in 2012.  “The real interest rate is positive,” Chojna-Duch was
quoted as saying. “So you can say rates are still in the realm
of restrictive monetary policy.”  The zloty, which has lost 1.4 percent against the euro this
year, traded little changed at 4.1412 at 2:53 p.m. in Warsaw.
The yield on the government’s two-year zloty bond fell one basis
point to 3.34 percent.  As the economy loses steam, consumer-price growth will
decelerate to 1.6 percent this year, near the lower end of the
bank’s tolerance range of 2.5 percent plus or minus one
percentage point, with a “sustained” slowdown to occur through
2015, according to the central bank forecasts.  “Let’s take a month or two for observation,” Chojna-Duch
said, according to TVN CNBC. “This is important in a situation
where we’ve taken action over several months to bring our main
rate to 3.25 percent. This must have an impact and we want to
see what it is. As for our next decision, that will depend on
the economic recovery and inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  