-- Pound Extending Drop Leads Kames to Treasuries Without Hedge
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-13T08:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/pound-extending-drop-leads-kames-to-buy-treasuries-without-hedge.html
Kames Capital , a U.K.-based manager
of about 29 billion pounds ($43 billion) of fixed-income assets,
bought U.S. Treasuries without a currency hedge, betting the
pound will decline further against the dollar.  While returns on Treasuries this year have been negative as
the  U.S. economy  shows signs of recovering, the prospect of the
pound rallying are “remote,” meaning investors can profit when
converting the investment back into the U.K., said  Stephen Jones , co-head of fixed income at Kames.  The firm, a unit of Dutch insurer  Aegon NV (AGN) , has been buying
U.S. government bonds with “some of them unhedged relative to
sterling, and that’s been quite a good source of performance,”
Jones said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Edinburgh office on
March 11. “We like the exposure they give to the dollar.”  Britain’s currency has slipped 8.1 percent against the
dollar this year amid concern that the U.K. economy will slip
back into recession. Sterling fell yesterday to the weakest
level since June 2010 as a government report showed U.K.
industrial production unexpectedly dropped in January.  The pound gained 0.3 percent to $1.4944 at 8:31 a.m. London
time, snapping five days of declines. It was 0.2 percent
stronger at 87.33 pence against the euro. Britain’s currency has
fallen 6.9 percent versus the euro this year.  Kames, whose unhedged position means it bought Treasures
without using instruments that guard against swings in exchange
rates, also favors U.S. bonds because it expects the  Federal
Reserve  to keep its monetary stimulus, Jones said.  Treasuries have declined 0.9 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. In pound terms, though, they have
risen 8.1 percent, the gauges show.  “The total return from the  bond market  out of the U.S. is
a little negative, but if you had some of it unhedged you can
mitigate some of that reasonably,” Jones said. “A stance that
favors dollars, certainly against sterling, and other currencies
is implemented in our portfolios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  