-- Pound Strengthens on Speculation Slide Overdone Before Budget
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-13T16:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/pound-strengthens-versus-dollar-before-u-k-government-debt-sale.html
The pound climbed the most in two
weeks against the euro amid bets its 6.5 percent slide this year
has been excessive amid the possibility the government will
delay fiscal austerity measures in its budget next week.  Sterling strengthened against all but two of its 16 major
counterparts. It snapped a five-day drop versus the dollar after
a weekly gauge of its relative strength dropped to the lowest
level since November 2008, signaling the currency was poised to
rally. The 10-year break-even rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations, matched a 4 1/2-year high on speculation the  Bank
of England  will sacrifice its 2 percent inflation target to
boost growth. Gilts were little changed.  “There’s some position adjustment, people trying to pick
the bottom because we have gone a long way and a lot of bad news
is in the price,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International in  London . “I would still favor
selling the rallies in sterling.”  The pound appreciated 0.7 percent to 86.81 pence per euro
at 4:49 p.m. London time after gaining 0.9 percent, the steepest
intraday advance since Feb. 25. Sterling rose 0.1 percent to
$1.4919 after strengthening as much as 0.5 percent. It fell to
$1.4832 yesterday, the weakest level since June 23, 2010.  Foley recommended selling the U.K. currency at levels
around $1.50, betting that it will weaken further before
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget.  ‘Positive’ Surprises  “Chances for positive data surprises could increase if
Chancellor Osborne uses the Budget on March 20 to announce the
delay of some fiscal austerity measures,”  Valentin Marinov ,
head of European Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc.
in London, wrote today in a note to clients. “We see any
sterling upside from here as temporary and would use it as an
opportunity to add our bearish medium-term view.”  The pound has dropped 6.1 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro rose 1.2 percent and the dollar gained 3.4 percent.  Sterling’s 14-week relative strength index against the
dollar fell to 24.6, the lowest since November 2008 and below
the 30 level that some traders see as a signal an asset has
fallen too rapidly and may be due to reverse course.  The U.K. economy shrank 0.1 percent in the three months
through February, the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said yesterday, raising the specter of a triple-dip
recession and adding weight to calls for additional Bank of
England stimulus.  ‘Structurally Weaker’  “The pound is going to be structurally weaker and the
reason is the situation of the U.K. economy, which is lacking in
growth and has a monetary policy which is not helping the
pound,” said Giordano Lombardo, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $221 billion as chief investment officer at
Pioneer Investments in Milan,  Italy . He spoke in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .  Investors are too pessimistic on the U.K. currency,
according to  Geoffrey Yu , a senior currency strategist at UBS
AG. He sees $1.41 and 95 pence per euro as the lows for
sterling, he said at the Bloomberg FX Debate in London today.  The 10-year gilt yielded 1.96 percent after dropping nearly
10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, during the past two
days. The price of the 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022
was at 98.16.  The 10-year  break-even rate , which measures the yield
difference between gilts and index-linked securities, was little
changed at 3.35 percent, after rising to 3.36 percent, matching
yesterday’s high, which was the most since September 2008.  Easing Bias  “We have seen some weaker data over the past couple of
weeks,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at
Investec Bank Plc in London. “That’s been driving the yield
levels lower again. The BOE still have a bias towards further
easing rather than tightening. It’s reasonable for investors to
want to look for inflation protection.”  The Debt Management Office sold 1.5 billion pounds of gilts
due in July 2052 at an average yield of 3.434 percent. It last
auctioned the securities on Nov. 15 at 3.219 percent.  U.K. government bonds lost 1 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds dropped 0.7 percent and Treasuries fell 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 