-- Pound Is BOE’s Main Transmission Mechanism, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-13T15:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/pound-is-boe-s-main-transmission-mechanism-morgan-stanley-says.html
The pound has become the main
transmission tool for the Bank of England to loosen monetary
policy because the link between U.K. bond markets and households
is weaker than in the U.S., according to  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “In the U.K., the transmission mechanism is in fact
sterling, so we now see sterling coming under pressure as we see
the monetary policy interpretation changing,” said Ian Stannard, head of European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley
in London. In the U.S., “the Treasury market is the main
transmission mechanism, particularly given that the U.S.
household is directly linked to the Treasury market,” he said.  The pound has slumped 8.2 percent against the dollar this
year amid concern Britain’s economy will slip back into
recession and prompt the central bank to extend monetary
stimulus. The U.K. currency was little changed at $1.4923 as of
3:31 p.m. London time after falling to $1.4832 yesterday, the
weakest since June 2010.  The use of exchange rates by central banks “has become a
very hot topic” as policy makers seek other ways to stimulate
economies after pushing interest rates to record lows, Stannard
said at the Bloomberg FX Debate in  London . “Central banks are
having to look at other tools, monetary policy tools, so we’ve
seen quantitative easing taking place in several countries and
this starts to bring the foreign exchange into play,” he said.  The change in policy has pushed foreign-exchange reserves
in some countries up to “levels that are perceived to be a
risk,” he said, citing International Monetary Fund guidelines.
“Within the Group of 10 we are seeing some countries
approaching those kinds of levels. The Swiss National Bank is
one example” after the country imposed a currency cap, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  