-- Putin Names Aide Nabiullina to Head Russian Central Bank
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-03-13T07:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/putin-names-aide-nabiullina-to-head-russian-central-bank.html
President  Vladimir Putin  picked a
member of his inner circle to lead  Russia ’s central bank after
government calls for lower borrowing costs fell on deaf ears.  Putin nominated  Elvira Nabiullina , 49, a former economy
minister, to take over from bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, who
retires June 23 when his third and final term ends. If approved
by lawmakers, she’ll become the first woman to head a Group of
Eight monetary authority.  Nabiullina will need to navigate a clash between the
government and the central bank over  interest rates  as Russia’s
$2 trillion economy expands at the weakest pace since a 2009
contraction and officials look for ways to boost growth. Putin,
who brought her with him to the Kremlin when he switched from
his role as prime minister last May, has said borrowing costs
“substantially” higher than inflation are a source of concern.  Nabiullina is “very aligned” with the president, said  Tim McCarthy , head of asset management at Valartis Bank in Geneva,
which has more than $1 billion invested in  emerging markets .
“Putin has been pressing for easier monetary policy. Nabiullina
may make moves in that direction.”  The ruble fell after the announcement yesterday. The
currency was 0.1 percent weaker against the dollar at 30.7210 as
of 11:08 a.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index of 50 stocks fell a
second day, dropping 0.3 percent to 1,496.73.  ‘Huge Argument’  Ignatiev’s replacement will have to bridge a widening gap
between the central bank’s efforts to fight inflation and calls
for monetary easing by top government officials including Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  and First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov . The regulator’s reluctance to cut interest rates
has sparked a “huge argument” with the government, Shuvalov
said in a Jan. 18 interview.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.4 percent in 2012, down
from 4.3 percent a year earlier as investment sagged and the
country recorded $56.8 billion in net capital outflows. Consumer
prices rose 7.3 percent from a year earlier in February, the
fastest pace in 18 months.  Nabiullina was born in Ufa, capital of the republic of
Bashkortostan in the southern Urals Mountains, almost 1,200
kilometers (750 miles) east of Moscow. In 1986, she graduated
from Moscow State University with a degree in economics.  In the early 1990s she worked at the Russian Union of
Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, a lobby group for the
country’s biggest businesses. From 1995 to 1998, she served at
the  Economy Ministry , rising to the rank of deputy minister
before leaving for jobs in the private industry.  Putin’s Policy  She returned in 2000, working until 2003 as a first deputy
to then-Economy and Trade Minister Herman Gref before becoming
head of the Center for Strategic Research, which helped develop
Putin’s economic policy during his first two terms.  As minister from September 2007 to May 2012, Nabiullina
helped conclude Russia’s talks to join the  World Trade
Organization  last year after an almost two-decade wait.  “I want to thank you for the trust you’re placing in me
with this nomination, understanding how responsible, difficult,
and professional this work is,” Nabiullina said yesterday at a
meeting with Putin and Ignatiev.  BOJ, BOE  Her nomination comes at a time of transition at the top of
G-8 central banks. Those of  Japan , the U.K. and  Canada  will
shortly change hands, while Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s second term ends in January and former colleagues say
it isn’t likely he’ll want to stay.  Elsewhere in eastern Europe, Hungarian Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s decision to install his former Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  to lead the country’s central bank has helped
push the forint to a nine-month low on concern over the
direction of monetary policy.  Putin selected Ignatiev, ranked last year as Europe’s best
central banker by Global Finance Magazine, to take over Bank
Rossii in 2002 as inflation was running at 17 percent. In his 11
years at the regulator, the bank has committed to switching its
focus from the ruble exchange rate to price growth and plans to
begin formal inflation targeting in 2015.  A proposal for central banks to adopt a target of nominal
GDP, aired by Bank of England Governor-designate  Mark Carney  in
December, was discussed on the sidelines of the Group of 20
finance ministers in Moscow last month, Russian official Ksenia
Yudaeva said Feb. 21.  Rates Held  Bank Rossii held the  refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent for a
fifth month in February, warning of the threat of faster
inflation and defying government calls for lower borrowing
costs. It meets March 15 and will probably leave rates unchanged
again, according to a Bloomberg poll of 28 economists.  While Nabiullina’s nomination over a central bank insider
such as First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  suggests “an
enhanced risk” of a change in monetary policy, it’s too early
to tell what direction the bank will take under her stewardship,
according to Jacob Nell, chief economist for Russia at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in Moscow.  “She is a good economist and listener, and her
institutional role has changed, so I think it would be premature
to jump to any strong conclusions,” he said by e-mail.  Ulyukayev Bypassed  Ulyukayev, who’d been seen as the most likely nominee by
nine of 15 economists polled by Bloomberg before Nabiullina’s
candidacy had been revealed, said yesterday that he hoped for
continuity in monetary policy, the state-run RIA Novosti news
service reported. Ignatiev will stay on as an adviser to
Nabiullina at her own request.  As investors wait to see what her appointment will bring,
the assumption will probably be looser monetary policy,
according to  Benoit Anne , London-based head of emerging-market
strategy at  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   “This is probably going to reinforce expectations of a
more dovish policy bias, which is positive for local bond
exposure,” he said by e-mail. It may “undermine the ruble, at
least in the near term, as lower interest rates decrease the
carry-trade appeal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  