-- Transparency Effort Wins Award, Loses White House Embrace
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/transparency-effort-wins-award-loses-white-house-embrace.html
Two Environmental Protection Agency
employees won an award this week for building a website to shed
light on how the U.S. government operates. The workers behind
the design are being hidden from view.  The EPA informed the sponsoring group that the two
designers who created a web portal, Tim Crawford and Larry
Gottesman, can’t accept the honor in person, said Rick Blum,
coordinator of the Sunshine in Government Initiative, a
coalition of media groups that sponsor the award.  The decision may be an embarrassment for President  Barack Obama  during Sunshine Week, an annual public awareness campaign
to promote transparency in government. Advocacy groups say the
administration also may be missing an opportunity to save about
$200 million in processing costs over five years, if adopted
across all agencies to manage public document requests.  “My concern is they don’t understand it or they want to
block it,” said Blum, whose members include the American
Society of News Editors and the Radio Television Digital News
Association. “The FOIA portal should be promoted.”  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, is also getting a
Sunshine in Government Initiative award for his “commitment to
the flow of news and information,” according to a Sunshine in
Government Initiative news release.  The portal -- FOIAonline.regulations.gov --  is aimed at
improving the process by which citizens seek and obtain
documents under the  Freedom of Information Act , a process often
faulted as slow and cumbersome. Open government groups such as
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington say the
administration should be embracing the portal as a mechanism for
reaching its transparency goals.  Citizen Frustration  “There is such a sense of frustration,” Anne Weismann,
chief counsel to the Washington-based group, said in an
interview. “People see the portal as the right direction to be
going in.”  The EPA is a main sponsor of the website, along with the
National Archives and Records Administration. The Commerce
Department and two smaller agencies have signed on along with
some offices within the Treasury Department. The FOIA covers at
least 100 executive branch departments and agencies. Congress
and the  Supreme Court  are exempt.  The website idea is winning fans in Congress.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, and
 Elijah Cummings , a Maryland Democrat, introduced legislation
this week that would direct the White House’s Office of
Management and Budget to establish a single access point, such
as FOIAonline, for FOIA requests.  Releasing Information  The bill also would require agencies to process requests
with the presumption that information should be released, and
only withheld if releasing it would cause foreseeable harm, a
standard the administration says it already applies in
responding to citizens.  Issa is the chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, and Cummings is the panel’s top Democrat. The
committee holds a hearing today on government transparency.  Individuals now apply to agencies in filing FOIA requests
for documents. While many offices offer an electronic platform,
others don’t. Citizens often file requests with the wrong
agency, which can delay the process for months or longer.  Blum said creating a single electronic platform for all
federal agencies would improve communications within government,
reducing bottlenecks. Citizens also would be able track the
status of their requests, in much the same way they can follow
the process of packages delivered by  FedEx Corp. (FDX)   Searchable Database  The FOIAonline site also would become a central repository
for previously released FOIA documents, offering visitors a
searchable database.  Sean Moulton, director of open government policy at the
Center for Effective Government, a Washington-based group,
called the FOIAonline website a “significant innovation.”  “It’s not everything people wanted, but it is a good first
step,” Moulton said in an interview.  The biggest thing missing, he said, is agency
participation.  On his first full day in office in 2009, Obama  ordered 
federal officials to “usher in a new era of open government”
and “act promptly” to make information public. His
administration pledged to improve the FOIA process and to use
technologies to increase transparency.  The White House calls FOIA “the most prominent expression
of a profound national commitment to ensuring an open
government,” in a March 11  blog posting  promoting Sunshine
Week.  Turf Battle  Open-government groups are baffled the administration
hasn’t embraced the site.  Some see a turf battle within the bureaucracy as thwarting
the project. Transparency advocates said the  Justice Department ,
which maintains an FOIA website, has resisted its development.
The department’s Office of Information Policy has a site,
FOIA.gov, to track response times, backlogs and the types of
exemptions used to deny requests using the law.  Tracy Russo, a spokeswoman for Justice’s information
office, said the department supports any effort to make FOIA
work faster, and offered advice to the developers on ways to
improve the site.  “Many agencies have online request-making capabilities and
are exploring other uses of technology to further enhance the
FOIA process,” Russo said in an e-mail. “The department looks
forward to seeing the impact of the FOIAonline on the
participating agencies’ FOIA programs.”  Centralized System  Weismann said OMB has been reluctant to embrace the site
because it’s built on an existing platform, regulations.gov,
that some users find clunky and difficult to navigate.  “We hope to learn from their experiences, and particularly
whether and how a single centralized FOIA administration system
can be successfully integrated on a wider scale,” the OMB said
in a statement. “However, integrating a single technology
across agencies is a huge undertaking, and has a number of
challenges. While we are following this pilot project closely,
OMB is not currently requiring agencies use FOIAonline.”  Miriam Nisbet, director of the Office of Government
Information Services, a part of the  National Archives  that acts
as a FOIA ombudsman, said some agencies wanted to see how the
site worked before joining. She said a number have expressed
interest in the five months that FOIAonline has been active.  Existing Contracts  Moulton said some agencies are locked into contracts with
developers of their own FOIA electronic systems and breaking
those to join FOIAonline would cost money.  Sponsors see the project as a way to save money, as
agencies search for ways to trim $85 billion in the next seven
months under automatic cuts called sequestration.  According to a briefing given to federal agencies,
FOIAonline could save the government as much as $200 million
over five years, compared to the $1.3 million it took to build
the site and $500,000 to $750,000 in annual operating and
maintenance costs.  The savings are based on participation by more agencies and
come from trimming the time to process FOIA requests.  “This is something the president himself should be
standing in the  Rose Garden  and saying his government is
improving transparency and saving money,” Blum said. Bloomberg
News editors are members of ASNE, which is part of Blum’s
coalition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  