-- Travelport Resolves Flight-Data Dispute With AMR
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-03-13T16:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/travelport-resolves-flight-data-dispute-with-amr.html
American Airlines , a unit of
bankrupt  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , settled claims that Travelport Ltd. colluded
with other reservation systems to stifle competition in
providing flight data to travelers.  The companies reached a new distribution agreement that
will require the approval of the court presiding over AMR’s
bankruptcy, according to a joint statement issued today. No
specific terms of the settlement were given. The accord resolves
all litigation between the companies, according to the
statement.  The settlement leaves only  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  as a
defendant in an antitrust suit American Airlines filed in
federal court in  Fort Worth , Texas, in April 2011. The carrier
accused several online reservation systems of conspiring to
block it from entering the electronic flight-data and
reservations market.  The dispute was touched off when Fort Worth-based American
moved to provide flight reservation data and service directly to
travel agents rather than going through data providers such as
Travelport, Orbitz and Sabre Holdings Corp.  Illinois Case  American and Travelport, which is based in Atlanta and
controlled by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , settled the federal case and
related litigation that Travelport filed in a Cook County,
Illinois, state court in November 2010, according to Alan
Phillips, an airline spokesman.  In October, American resolved its disputes with Sabre. In
February, Chicago-based Orbitz told U.S. District Judge Terry Means in Fort Worth that it too had reached a binding settlement
with the airline. The judge rejected that contention and agreed
with American that the two had only held inconclusive settlement
discussions.  Means has scheduled an in-chambers conference for April 23
at which a trial date will be set, according to a court order.  The federal case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport
Ltd., 11-cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Fort Worth); and the state case is Travelport v. American
Airlines 10-CH-48028, Circuit Court of Cook County,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  