-- RBA Rate Cut Needed to Weaken Aussie Below $1, Grain Trader Says
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-03-13T00:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/rba-rate-cut-needed-to-weaken-aussie-below-1-grain-trader-says.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
should consider interest-rate cuts to weaken an “overvalued”
local currency as the mining boom peaks, said Emerald Group
Australia Pty., the country’s fifth-largest grain marketer.  The so-called Aussie should be trading at 80 to 90 cents to
the  U.S. dollar  and it has remained above parity because the
central bank is holding up interest rates, Chairman Alan Winney
said in an interview in  Melbourne .  “We’re tailing off in the mining boom,” said Winney,
whose company is half owned by  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , in an interview.
“A number of our industries are really struggling. Productivity
in Australia is low, costs are too high, our manufacturing
industries are suffering significantly, a number of our other
service-type industries are suffering. We could have a
correction in Australia if things continue.”  The Australian dollar, which has held above $1 for a record
stretch of more than eight months, rose 2.2 percent in the past
month, the biggest gainer after the greenback among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Index. The nation’s central bank kept its benchmark
rate unchanged at a half-century low this month, saying policy
remains appropriate amid signs the economy, which expanded 3.6
percent last year, is improving.  Highest Rate  Australia has the highest benchmark  interest rate  among
major developed economies even after the RBA cut rates by 1.75
percentage points over the past two years to 3 percent. The so-
called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, was at
$1.0323 as of 11:25 a.m. in Sydney, compared with its average of
about 75 cents since it was freely floated in 1983.  Companies posted a fifth quarterly decline in profits in
the three months through December amid weaker demand in the
mining, manufacturing and construction industries, a government
report released on March 4 showed.  “Australian interest rates being held where they are is
keeping the dollar up and we could probably do with slightly
lower interest rates,” said Winney. “The Aussie dollar is
certainly not helping exports out of Australia in terms of
agriculture products. I think it is overvalued and it’s causing
more damage to many of the other Australian industries other
than mining.”  A drop in commodity prices last year has weighed on the
earnings of Australia’s biggest miners, with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
seeking to cut costs after first-half net income slumped 58
percent. Resource companies account for about 19 percent of
Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  