-- RBC Sees Kiwi Tumbling as Drought Worsens Ahead of RBNZ Meeting
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-03-13T09:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/rbc-sees-kiwi-tumbling-as-drought-worsens-ahead-of-rbnz-meeting.html
New Zealand’s dollar is poised to
weaken as a worsening drought spurs the nation’s central bank to
take a more dovish stance at tomorrow’s policy meeting,
according to Royal Bank of  Canada .  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler will
probably highlight that the overvalued kiwi dollar is preventing
a rebalancing in the economy away from the domestic sector to
the external sector, said  Sue Trinh , RBC’s Hong Kong-based
senior currency strategist.  “When a central bank is faced with a much higher exchange
rate than it would like, its first point of defense is to
jawbone, and the second is actually doing something about it,”
Trinh said today. “There is already evidence they are doing
smoothing at the margins.”  New Zealand’s dollar has climbed 2.5 percent in 2013
against a basket of 10 developed market currencies measured by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. That’s the third-biggest
advance after the Swedish Krona and U.S. dollar. The kiwi traded
at 82.52 U.S. cents as of 9:20 a.m. in  London , down 0.2 percent
from the previous close.  The dry weather is threatening production of milk and other
agricultural commodities, and may reduce economic growth,
Finance Minister Bill English told parliament this week.  RBC’s view contrasts with firms including Citibank Inc. and
UBS AG predicting the RBNZ will use the meeting to signal a
tightening in monetary policy. None of the 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News  predicted  the central bank will
change its rate from the record low 2.5 percent tomorrow.  Wheeler speaking about the drought “does appear likely,
but you have to balance that against developments like a more
encouraging international backdrop and rising house prices,”
Todd Elmer, the Singapore-based head of Group of 10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Citigroup, said by telephone today.
“Overall I expect a hawkish tone.”  Home Prices  Home prices in New Zealand rose in February at the fastest
pace since March 2008, giving the central bank further reason to
eventually raise interest rates, according to  Geoffrey Yu , a
senior currency strategist at UBS in London.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s Auckland-based strategist  Imre Speizer  said in a report today that Wheeler’s Monetary Policy
Statement will likely repeat its “on hold” outlook for
interest rates and that “housing could dominate the inevitable
negative commentary on the high NZD and the drought.”  At the previous policy meeting on Feb. 20, Wheeler said the
central bank was prepared to intervene to “smooth the peaks”
in the “overvalued” kiwi.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg show traders see a 26 percent chance that the central
bank will increase its rate by at least a quarter percentage
point by its October meeting.  “The key thing is the interest-rate market is pricing in
rate hikes too soon,” said RBC’s Trinh, who predicts the RBNZ
will hold on rates for the rest of 2013. “Given current
pricing, the risk is we see rate expectations get cut back
sharply in one fell swoop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  