-- Treasury Official Defends Risk Council Approach on Transparency
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-03-13T22:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/treasury-official-defends-risk-council-approach-on-transparency.html
A U.S. Treasury Department official
defended a council of financial regulators after a Government
Accountability Office report said the panel should be more
transparent.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council “must continue
to find the appropriate balance between its responsibility to be
transparent and its central mission to monitor emerging threats
to the financial system,” Amias Gerety, deputy assistant
secretary for the council, said in testimony obtained by
 Bloomberg News  that was prepared for a U.S. House hearing
tomorrow.  “Council members frequently discuss supervisory and other
market-sensitive data during council meetings, including
information about individual firms, transactions and markets
that require confidentiality,” Gerety said in the testimony for
the House Financial Services Committee’s oversight and
investigations panel. Protection of non-public data “is often
necessary to prevent destabilizing market speculation,” he
said.  Gerety’s testimony responded to a GAO report from September
saying public information on the council’s decision making is
limited. The council, known as FSOC, was created by the Dodd-
Frank law to help prevent another financial crisis. It is led by
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and includes Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  ‘Reasonable’ Transparency  The hearing will examine how the FSOC and the Office of
Financial Research, which collects and analyzes data for the
council, are working and whether the council “is providing
reasonable transparency,” subcommittee Chairman  Patrick McHenry , a North Carolina Republican, said in an interview
yesterday.  The FSOC is responsible for coordinating financial
regulators on oversight of financial markets “and we want to
see if they’re doing their job,” McHenry said. He said the
subcommittee will “dive deeply” into the question of whether
some U.S. banks remain “too big to fail” and would need a
bailout if faced with a crisis.  Nicole Clowers, a GAO official testifying at the hearing,
said in prepared testimony that the FSOC and the research office
“have taken steps to build mechanisms to identify potential
threats to financial stability.”  “However, additional actions could strengthen the
accountability and transparency of these efforts,” she said.  The council can designate non-bank financial companies as
systemically important. Designated companies will be subject to
Fed oversight, including tougher standards for capital and
liquidity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  