-- Refiner Delek Cleaning Up 5,000-Barrel Spill in Arkansas Bayou
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-03-13T22:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/refiner-delek-cleaning-up-5-000-barrel-spill-in-arkansas-bayou.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency and  Delek US Holdings Inc. (DK) , a refiner that owns a plant
in El Dorado,  Arkansas , are working to clean up a 5,000-barrel
oil spill about 20 miles north of the Louisiana border.  The EPA has removed about 4,200 barrels of crude from the
March 9 spill that fouled about three miles of Little Cornie
Bayou near Magnolia, Arkansas, Jennah Durant, a spokeswoman for
EPA Region 6, said in a telephone interview today. Work to clean
up the remaining barrels has been stalled by rain and freezing
temperatures, according to an EPA incident report yesterday.  The release, more than five times bigger than a 1,000-
barrel oil spill in the Yellowstone River caused by a 2011  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  pipeline rupture, stems from the failure of a pump
that transports crude to an underground transmission line,
Durant said.  “The recovery crews are still continuing to work to get
the rest of it,” Durant said. “That should continue this
evening and tomorrow as well.”  The facility where the spill occurred is owned by Delek’s
logistics unit. The spill has not affected delivery of crude to
Brentwood, Tennessee-based Delek’s El Dorado refinery and the
company can’t estimate potential costs or liabilities, according
to a regulatory filing yesterday.  “Based on information currently available to us, we
believe these total costs and liabilities will not be material
to our operations or financial results,” the company said in
the filing. Assi Ginzburg, a company spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  