-- Refusal to Expand Medicaid May Cost Employers $1 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-13T18:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/refusal-to-expand-medicaid-may-cost-employers-1-billion.html
Governors who refuse to expand
their Medicaid programs for the poor may cost employers in their
states as much as $1.3 billion in federal fines, a  study  found.  A clause in the 2010 health-care overhaul penalizes some
employers when their workers aren’t able to obtain affordable
medical coverage through the company. Employers can avoid those
fees if their workers qualify for Medicaid as part of an
expansion that as many as 22 states have rejected, according to
a report today by Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc.  Without Medicaid, a “shared responsibility” payment of as
much as $3,000 may be triggered for each employee who can’t get
insurance through their company. In  Texas , the largest state to
refuse to increase Medicaid, employers may be liable for as much
as $448 million in fines, the study found. In  Florida , where the
legislature has refused an expansion supported by Governor Rick Scott, employers may pay as much as $219 million.  “A lot of businesses have taken the position that they
oppose a Medicaid expansion because it would increase their
taxes,” Brian Haile, senior vice president for health policy at
Jackson Hewitt in Parsippany, New Jersey, said in an interview.
“The irony of this, or the paradox, is that the opposite may be
true, at least for some businesses in some states.”  Under the Affordable Care Act, states are expected to
expand Medicaid, the joint federal-state health plan for the
poor, to cover every person earning wages close to the poverty
level. Medicaid’s expansion is one of two core provisions in the
law’s mission of extending health coverage to about 27 million
uninsured people. The Supreme Court said in June the federal
government can’t force states to expand the program.  Shared Responsibility  With as many as 22 states potentially opting out, more
workers will have to rely on the other core provision of the
law, subsidized insurance sold through health exchanges. That
would trigger the shared responsibility payment for each
employee who can’t get insured through their company and in turn
qualifies to use the exchanges.  Employers wouldn’t have to pay the penalties if their
workers enroll in Medicaid. Under the law, a family of four
making about $32,500 this year would be eligible for the
program.  The shared responsibility clause applies to companies that
offer health insurance and have at least 50 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  