-- Welker’s Move to Denver Pushes Broncos Past Patriots in NFL Odds
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-14T04:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/reggie-bush-signs-four-year-contract-with-nfl-s-detroit-lions.html
Wide receiver  Wes Welker ’s move to
Denver made the Broncos the new favorite to win the 2014 Super
Bowl, moving them past his old team, the  New England Patriots .  Welker, 31, agreed to a two-year deal with the Broncos,
giving quarterback Peyton Manning a target who led the  National
Football League  in receptions three of the past six seasons.  The move yesterday made Denver an 11-2 favorite to win the
next NFL championship, up from 8-1 a day earlier, according to
Las Vegas-based handicapping information website Pregame.com.
The Patriots, who had been favored at 6-1, slipped to 25-4. The
San Francisco 49ers are second in the odds at 23-4.  “Excited to have Wes join the Broncos,”  John Elway , the
team’s executive vice president of football operations, said on
his Twitter account. “His production and toughness will be a
great asset.”  Welker was one of the top unrestricted free agents
available and headed to Denver on the same day  Reggie Bush 
agreed on a four-year contract with the Detroit Lions, safety
Dashon Goldson moved to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and kicker Josh Brown joined the  New York  Giants.  In acquiring Welker, the Broncos add to a receiving corps
that includes  Demaryius Thomas  and Eric Decker while taking away
one of the most productive players from a top rival in the
American Football Conference. Welker led the Patriots in
receptions each of the past five years and teamed with
quarterback  Tom Brady  to average 112 catches a season since
joining the Patriots in 2007.  Wallace’s Move  The Broncos didn’t disclose financial terms of Welker’s
contract, which came a day after former Steelers wide receiver
 Mike Wallace  joined the Miami Dolphins with a five-year contract
the Miami Herald said is worth between $60 million and $65
million. Wallace, who scored 32 touchdowns in four seasons with
the Pittsburgh Steelers, will bolster a receiving corps that had
an NFL-low three touchdowns last season.  The Broncos also agreed to terms with defensive tackle
Terrance Knighton, 26, who had spent the previous four seasons
with the Jacksonville Jaguars.  Bush, 28, led the Dolphins in rushing the past two seasons
and was the first top free-agent running back to sign. The
Arizona Cardinals followed by signing former Steeler Rashard Mendenhall to a one-year deal, while the Tennessee Titans signed
ex-New York JetShonn Green for $10 million over three years,
according to ESPN.  The Lions went 4-12 last season, tied with the  Philadelphia
Eagles  for the worst record in the National Football Conference.
While their offense ranked second in the NFL in passing yardage
behind quarterback Matthew Stafford and All-Pro receiver  Calvin Johnson , Detroit was 23rd among 32 teams in yards rushing.  ‘Balanced Attack’  “That’s one of the reasons I wanted to come here, to bring
a balanced attack and take some of the pressure off Matthew and
Calvin,” Bush said at a news conference.  Bush rushed for 986 yards and six touchdowns last year
after a career-high 1,086 yards in 2011. The second pick in the
2006 draft, Bush started all but one game for Miami the past two
seasons and caught 78 passes for 588 yards and three scores.  The Lions didn’t disclose financial terms of Bush’s
contract, though Pro Football Talk said he’ll get $16 million
over four years. Steven Jackson,  Michael Turner , Beanie Wells
and  Ahmad Bradshaw  are among free-agent running backs still
available. Mendenhall, 25, replaces Wells in Arizona after
leading the Steelers in rushing three of the past four years,
while Greene, 27, joins three-time Pro Bowl running back  Chris Johnson  in the Titans’ backfield after rushing for more than
1,000 yards for the Jets each of the past two seasons.  The Giants’ signing of Brown probably signals the end of
 Lawrence Tynes ’s stay with the team after six years and two
Super Bowl titles.  Kickers’ Statistics  Brown, 33, appeared in four games for the Cincinnati
Bengals last year after an injury to Mike Nugent and made 11 of
12 field-goal attempts. He was beaten out by  Nick Folk  for the
 New York Jets ’ kicking job before the season.  Brown has made 81.3 percent of 284 career field-goal
attempts, while Tynes -- an unrestricted free agent -- has made
81.5 percent. Tynes, 34, sent the Giants to two Super Bowls by
making overtime field goals that won NFC championship games
following the 2007 and 2011 seasons.  Tennessee also signed offensive lineman Andy Levitre, a
four-year starter in Buffalo, to a six-year, $46.8 million
contract that includes a $10.5 million signing bonus, according
to Pro Football Talk.  Goldson left the NFC-champion 49ers after six seasons to
sign a five-year contract in Tampa Bay that ESPN says is worth
$41.25 million, with $22 million guaranteed.  The 49ers signed defensive lineman Glenn Dorsey to a two-
year contract, while the Steelers re-signed long-snapper Greg Warren to a one-year deal, the teams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  