-- Renault Agrees With Unions on Job-Cut, Wage-Freeze Plan
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-13T15:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/renault-agrees-with-unions-on-job-cut-wage-freeze-plan.html
Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-biggest
carmaker, finalized a deal with unions to cut its French
workforce by 17 percent and freeze wages in exchange for not
closing any plants in the country for three years.  “It gives Renault the means to revive competitiveness in
France,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said today of the
deal during a press conference near the company’s headquarters
in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt.  European carmakers including  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Fiat SpA (F) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are cutting jobs and closing factories with
auto sales forecast to fall for the sixth straight year in 2013.
Renault, whose sales dropped more than any other major carmaker
in the region last year, has committed to keeping all its plants
in France open until at least 2016 in exchange for the agreement
from workers to increase productivity.  Three of the four main unions at Renault, representing
about 64 percent of its workforce, last week said they approved
the deal. The CFDT, FO and CFE-CGC unions backed the plan, while
the CGT, representing about 25 percent of employees, didn’t sign
it. Renault has 44,642 French workers.  The agreement is “exemplary because it’s a consensual one,
signed by organizations representing more than two-thirds of the
employees in a country that is more used to arm wrestling with
unions,” Ghosn said.  Eliminating Jobs  The deal enables Renault to eliminate 7,500 jobs by 2016
through attrition. Labor leaders also agreed on a wage freeze
this year and to increase the average number of weekly working
hours to 35 from 32. The company targets annual savings from the
cuts of 500 million euros ($653 million), Gerard Leclercq, head
of Renault’s French operations, said on Jan. 30.  In addition to refraining from plant closures in France,
Renault vowed to increase auto production in its home country by
34 percent to 710,000 vehicles by 2016. Volume will increase by
making 80,000 cars for partners, such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  The
French manufacturer hasn’t specified details of the vehicles to
be produced.  “This accord underlines the industrial return of Renault
in France,” Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said in a
statement.  Peugeot is clashing with workers over plans to close its
Aulnay plant in the northern suburbs of Paris. The CGT union has
succeeded in temporarily blocking the proposal in court. The
carmaker plans to reduce its French automotive workforce by
11,200, or 17 percent, in the next two years.  Europe ’s second-largest automaker said on Jan. 17 that it
planned to open negotiations with unions to reach an agreement
to increase the productivity of its plants. Peugeot employs
76,137 workers in France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  