-- Revel Casino Appoints Interim CEO to Handle Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-13T21:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/revel-casino-appoints-interim-ceo-to-handle-bankruptcy.html
Revel AC Inc., the  Atlantic City ,
 New Jersey , casino operator planning to file for bankruptcy this
month, appointed Jeffrey Hartmann, a gambling consultant, as
interim chief executive officer while it reorganizes.  Revel AC Chairman Kevin DeSanctis will hand over the CEO
title and day-to-day operations of the casino to Hartmann once
New Jersey gambling regulators approve the move, the company
said today in a statement. DeSanctis will remain CEO and
chairman of Revel AC’s holding company, Revel Group, the
developer of the casino property.  Dennis Stogsdill  of Alvarez &
Marsal Inc. was hired as chief restructuring officer, the
company said in an e-mail.  “I will continue to support Revel’s management team and
board of directors in an advisory capacity,” DeSanctis said in
an e-mail. “Beyond that, I look forward to dedicating my
efforts to the continued expansion of the Revel Group brand.”  Revel AC plans to file for bankruptcy around March 22 as
part of a deal with a majority of its creditors, according to
the statement. Under the plan, creditors will swap debt for
equity and Revel Group will no longer own the casino. Revel AC
may be out of bankruptcy by early summer, the company said.  Development Agreement  Revel Group will sign a development agreement with Revel AC
to oversee the construction of new amenities planned for the
casino, including a high-limit slot lounge and a beach version
of the resort’s HQ nightclub. Both are slated to open in time
for the summer season, the company said.  Revel Group will keep in place a licensing agreement so the
casino can continue to use the Revel name, the company said.  Revel, the first new casino in New Jersey in nine years,
opened in April at cost of $2.6 billion. The project was the
centerpiece of Governor  Chris Christie ’s efforts to revitalize
gambling in the state after six years of decline. Christie, a
Republican in his first term, jumpstarted the project with
$261 million in state tax incentives.  The property, which features 14 restaurants and more than
1,800 hotel rooms, posted the third-lowest gaming revenue among
the state’s 12 casinos, according to New Jersey Division of
Gaming Enforcement data compiled by Bloomberg Industries
analysts. Revel said last month that it reached an agreement
with lenders to reduce its debt load by more than $1 billion
through a debt-to-equity conversion.  Morgan Stanley  Michael Garrity, Revel AC’s chief investment officer, will
also step down. Garrity spearheaded the Revel development at
Morgan Stanley before the New York-based investment bank walked
away from the project, according to testimony he gave to casino
regulators last year.  A group of Revel AC’s lenders will provide the company with
$250 million in so-called debtor-in-possession financing. About
$45 million of that loan will provide a new infusion of cash,
the company said last month in a statement.  Revel AC had about $1.3 billion of debt and about
$57.7 million of credit capacity on Sept. 28, according to a
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  