-- Roku 3 Remedies Stupid Smart TVs: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-03-13T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/roku-3-remedies-stupid-smart-tvs-rich-jaroslovsky.html
If TV manufacturers were doing
their job well, there’d be little use for the new  Roku 3 
streaming-video set-top box.  Just about every set maker has its own “smart TV” system
for connecting to the Internet to access programs from  Netflix (NFLX) 
and other online services.  And just about every one of these “smart TVs” is pretty
stupid, with clumsy interfaces, limited choices and sometimes
painful set-up processes. The most recent one I grappled with, a
 Panasonic (6752) , had me debugging DHCP problems. If you don’t know
what that means, trust me, you’re better off.  By contrast, the $100 Roku is a model of simplicity and
choice, with a relatively painless set-up process and a new,
easier-to-navigate interface.  Getting up and running with the unobtrusive, hockey-puck-
like Roku 3 took me about 20 minutes. I connected it to an HDMI
input on my TV, plugged it in and, following the on-screen
instructions, introduced it to my Wi-Fi network. (There’s also
an Ethernet port for wired networks.)  The most laborious part of the process was enabling my
existing programming services, which required me to log into
each one through a web browser on my computer or mobile device
and enter a code generated by the Roku on the TV screen.  Unfortunately, Roku comes with its own remote -- no one
wants yet another remote to juggle. But Roku’s has something to
ease the pain: a headphone jack. Plug in a headset, and the TV’s
speakers are immediately silenced as the audio output is
transferred to the remote.  Silent Viewing  It’s a neat feature, allowing you to watch in bed without
the sound disturbing a sleeping partner. Roku even includes a
set of earbuds, though I would have preferred the company skip
them -- I have enough of those already -- and instead include
the HDMI cable you’ll need.  A number of companies make products that access online
programming, including  Western Digital (WDC)  (the WD TV Play) and  D-
Link (2332)  (the Boxee Box). But Roku’s most important competitor by
far is the $99  Apple TV , which offers fewer choices but better
integration with  Apple (AAPL)  devices and content -- including the
ability, through Apple’s AirPlay technology, to stream movies
and TV shows directly from computers and iDevices.  Wi-Fi Scheme  Roku is working on adding a similar feature, using a new
Wi-Fi scheme called  Miracast , but no telling how long that will
take or what devices it will work with.  Both boxes offer access to pay services including Netflix,
Major League Baseball games and Hulu Plus. And each has some
important video sources missing from the other:  Amazon (AMZN)  Instant
Video only on Roku, iTunes and  Google (GOOG) ’s YouTube only on Apple
TV.  But Roku has a far larger selection, more than 700, the
company says, many of them free and/or highly specialized in
nature: the Indian Food channel; Hypnosis TV; and Rustavi 2,
which provides “a diverse range of top quality TV programming”
in “the native language of the Republic of  Georgia .”  It also comes with the Angry Birds in Space game built in,
the remote doubling as a handheld controller.  In terms of performance, the Roku 3 has a more powerful
processor and better Wi-Fi than its top-of-the-line predecessor,
the Roku 2 XS. I’m not sure how much difference that makes in
practical terms, since I never had serious performance issues
with previous models, but it may allow for additional
capabilities later.  Hi-Def Streaming  Like the 2 XS and the $80 2 XD, the new Roku streams video
at up to 1080p full high-definition. (Two cheaper models, the
$50 LT and $60 HD, top out at 720p.) The new interface is indeed
less cumbersome than the old one -- it will be offered on the
previous models as a software update -- and moves along smoothly
on the 3.  There are, of course, many other ways to connect your TV to
the Internet, including via gaming consoles like  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s
Xbox and  Sony (6758) ’s Playstation. Every one of them poses the
implicit question: Why should you need a separate device at all?  But until the TV makers get smarter about smart TVs, or
Apple delivers its long-rumored set, Roku is one of the easiest
and most elegant ways to add intelligence.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Martin
Gayford on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter: www.twitter.com/richjaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 