-- Russian Stocks Slump as China Woes Pull Down Mechel, Norilsk
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-03-13T15:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/russian-stocks-fall-second-day-as-china-concern-curbs-appetite.html
Russia (INDEXCF) ’s benchmark stock index
dropped for a second day as metal producers OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  and OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel sank on concern  China ’s policy makers will
step up property curbs.  The Micex Index retreated 0.4 percent to 1,496.37 by the
close in Moscow. Of 50 stocks, 23 rose and 27 decreased. Moscow
United Electric Grid Co. gained 4.7 percent. The dollar-
denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  declined 0.7 percent to 1,531.14. Mechel
dropped 3.2 percent, while Norilsk lost 2.1 percent. Both
companies export metals to China.  Emerging-market stocks dropped to a one-week low after
Chinese real estate and construction companies retreated. The
Micex trades at about 5.5 times  estimated earnings  and has added
1.5 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of 11 times
for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which dropped 0.4 percent
over the same period.  “The Russian market is stuck in a rut and bogged down by
weak Chinese growth and subdued commodity prices,” Julian Rimmer, who trades Russian and Turkish stocks at CF Global
Trading UK Ltd., said by e-mail. “There are no inflows or
outflows and retail sentiment is abject so  Russia  isn’t really a
suitable vehicle for expressing any market view at present.”  Gazprom Rallies  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s natural gas export monopoly, jumped
as much as 3.4 percent before closing up 2.5 percent at 140.58
rubles, the highest level since Feb. 5. The stock has the
 second-biggest weighting  on the Micex at 14 percent.  OAO Rosneftegaz, a state-owned energy holding, plans to
spend more than 8.2 billion rubles ($267 million) buying at
least 0.23 percent of Gazprom stock, Izvestia reported, citing a
letter by Rosneftegaz Chairman  Igor Sechin  to President  Vladimir Putin . Gazprom’s Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  met today
with the management of China National Petroleum Corp. to discuss
supplies from Russia’s eastern gas fields to China, according to
a press release.  “Investors get excited over any news about the China
deal,”  Alexei Kokin , an analyst at UralSib Capital in Moscow,
said by phone. “This is a new market for Gazprom. Exchange-
traded funds were probably buying the stock today.”  Gazprom has been negotiating a deal to transport as much as
68 billion cubic meters of gas a year to China, the world’s
fastest growing major economy, since the two companies signed a
cooperation deal in 2004. The talks have stalled repeatedly
because of price disagreements.  MegaFon Drops  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , Russia’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
tumbled as much as 4.8 percent in  London , the most since its
initial public offering in November.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) 
placed 1.6 million depositary receipts, selling a stake worth
about $48 million, according to terms obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  The amount of shares traded was about 2.6 million,
equivalent to about 3 times the three-month average. The  Russian
Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  retreated 0.6 percent, led by depositary
receipts of OAO Novolipetsk Steel.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, declined 1.2 percent to $28.92
yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the index futures, was steady at 20.90.  Oil in  New York  added 0.6 percent to $93.13 a barrel, the
fifth day of increases. Crude and natural gas account for about
50 percent of Russia’s budget revenue. Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of raw materials was steady at 649.67. The  Bloomberg
Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the 14 most-traded Russian stocks in
the U.S. lost 1.3 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  