-- Russia to Hold Rates Before Pro-Growth Putin Ally Takes Helm
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-03-14T14:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/russia-to-hold-main-rate-before-pro-growth-putin-ally-takes-helm.html
Russia will probably leave
borrowing costs unchanged for a sixth month as the central bank
resists government pressure to trim rates before President
Vladimir Putin’s economic aide takes charge of monetary policy.  Bank Rossii will hold the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
tomorrow at a meeting in Moscow, according to all 28 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The overnight and one-week repurchase
rates will stay at 5.5 percent, while the overnight deposit rate
will be kept at 4.5 percent, separate surveys showed.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is leading a charge
against inflation, which has surged to the fastest pace in 18
months, prioritizing price growth even as officials call for
monetary stimulus to revive a flagging economy. Putin, who’s
said all state institutions should be steered toward promoting
growth, selected his own economic aide, Elvira Nabiullina, to
take the reins when Ignatiev steps down in June.  “Inflation won’t start to decelerate before April,” Maria Pomelnikova, an analyst with ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said
yesterday by phone. “The central bank may start to ease
monetary policy that month.”  The ruble, which has weakened 1.2 percent against the
dollar this year, was little changed at 30.7960 against the U.S.
currency at 5:37 p.m. in Moscow. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose for the
first time in three days, gaining 0.3 percent to 1,501.80.  Faster Inflation  While Russia’s economy is growing at the weakest pace since
a recovery began in 2010,  inflation  has gathered speed, stoked
by a bad harvest and higher excise taxes and transport costs.  Gross domestic product rose 1.6 percent from a year earlier
in January, compared with 2.4 percent in December, less than the
5 percent growth goal set by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
Consumer prices advanced 7.3 percent in February, accelerating
from 7.1 percent in January and 6.6 percent in December.  Economic output remains near full capacity, while inflation
will probably exceed policy makers’ target range of 5 percent to
6 percent until the second half of the year, the central bank
said Feb. 12.  The appointment of a Putin ally to lead the central bank
will probably stoke expectations of looser policy, Benoit Anne,
head of emerging-markets strategy at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in
London, said March 12. Ignatiev will remain chairman through the
end of his term until June 23, Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov,
was cited as saying today by state-run RIA Novosti.  Easing ‘Risk’  The central bank’s monetary-policy approach “isn’t likely
to shift drastically with Nabiullina, but there’s the risk of
rate cuts because she’s from Putin’s team and headed the Economy
Ministry, which is more concerned about growth than inflation,”
Dmitry Polevoy, an economist for Russia and Kazakhstan at  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  in Moscow, said yesterday by phone.  Still, borrowing costs were likely to be trimmed even
without the change of stewardship as price growth fades,
according to Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at Alfa
Bank in Moscow.  “An interest-rate cut will take place regardless of the
selection of the new governor,” they said yesterday in an e-
mailed note. “We expect inflation to slow after reaching a peak
in April-May and anticipate a 25 basis-point rate cut in June-
July as soon as the new governor is appointed.”  Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a quarter-point
reduction in the refinancing rate in the second quarter and
another in the fourth. Ignatiev, who’ll stay on at the central
bank as an adviser, said Feb. 15 that he “hopes” inflation
will start to slow in the coming months and with slower price
growth, rate cuts are “possible.”  Protecting Credibility  The central bank may begin easing monetary policy before
Nabiullina assumes her new role to “protect her credibility,”
according to Moscow-based VTB Capital’s chief economist for
Russia Maxim Oreshkin, the only analyst to correctly predict a
quarter-point reduction in the cost of swapping foreign currency
into rubles and an increase of that amount in the deposit rate
at the central bank’s Dec. 10 meeting.  “We think Nabiullina would bring a slightly more dovish
bias, but are keeping our base-case scenario almost unchanged,”
he said yesterday in an e-mailed note, predicting 75 basis
points of rate cuts in the second and third quarters. “At the
same time, we do not expect any front-loaded policy easing, as
she will try to win more credibility in the first months of her
governorship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  