-- S. Africa Credit Outlook Negative at S&P on Fiscal Pressure
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-13T16:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/s-africa-credit-outlook-negative-at-s-p-on-fiscal-pressure.html
South Africa’s credit outlook was
kept at negative by  Standard & Poor’s , signaling that the
nation’s rating may be cut amid concern over the budget and
current-account deficits and a possible slowdown in growth.  The current-account gap, near a four-year high, makes South
Africa more vulnerable to fluctuations in external financing,
Christian Esters, a Frankfurt-based analyst at S&P, said in an
e-mailed statement today. S&P lowered South Africa’s rating one
level to BBB, the same as Mexico and  Brazil , in October.  “Gradual fiscal consolidation remains on track but may
become exposed to pressures from public-sector wages,
development needs, and lower-than-projected economic growth,”
Esters said. “Recent lackluster economic performance,
increasing external imbalances, and potentially resurging labor
tensions could affect South Africa’s macroeconomic policy
framework beyond our current expectations.”  South Africa  delayed plans to narrow its budget gap as
revenue collection slowed because of an economy struggling to
recover from a 2009 recession. Mining strikes last year cost the
economy about 15 billion rand ($1.6 billion), and a recession in
the euro-area nations curtailed demand for manufactured exports.
Manufacturing and mining account for about 20 percent of the
economy.  “The rating opinion did not take adequate account of the
positive developments over the past 6 months since the previous
rating announcement,” the National Treasury said in an e-mailed
statement after the S&P announcement.  The rand dropped 0.9 percent to 9.2477 per dollar at 5:42
p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  