-- S. Africa Court Exempts Chinese-Owned Plants From Rules
-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 2013-03-13T15:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/s-africa-court-says-chinese-owned-plants-exempt-from-wage-rules.html
Textile companies owned by Chinese
and Taiwanese families in Newcastle, in  South Africa ’s eastern
KwaZulu-Natal province, won an exemption from an industry pay
agreement, allowing them to ignore a regulated minimum wage.  Factories that aren’t members of the National Bargaining
Council, where union and business representatives negotiate
wages for industries, can hold separate talks with their workers
on pay levels, Pietermaritzburg High Court Judge Piet Koen said
in a written ruling today.  The judgment may make it easier for companies to afford
employees in a country where one in four is jobless. It could
also undermine the power of labor unions that have demanded
higher minimum wages and reduce pay to those already employed.
The factories pay on average 350 rand ($38) to 400 rand a week
before performance bonuses, compared with an industry minimum
wage of 479 rand, Alex Lui, president of the Newcastle Chinese
Chamber of Business said in an interview yesterday.  “We want to return the power of negotiation to the shop
floor,” Lui said. “We don’t want wages set by some
organization based in Johannesburg that treats all employers the
same whether they are large or small.”  A union membership fee and contribution to the provident
fund is deducted from the pay, he said.  The nation’s labor laws, training costs and lack of skilled
workers discourage hiring,  Mark Cutifani , the chief executive
officer of Johannesburg-based  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , said last
year.  Below Minimum  The mostly family-owned companies threatened to cut jobs or
close down the factories if they were forced to abide by
national labor rules. Already, the number of clothing plants in
the town have dropped to 20 from 80 factories in 1997 and
employment has halved to about 4,000 people, according to Lui.  The businesses started in the region after the government
tried to lure foreign textile companies and other industrial
plants through investment incentives when the coal mines that
built the town in province in the country’s east closed down.  In 2004, then South African Labour Minister Membathisi Mdladlana said all employers were bound by wage deals agreed to
by the National Bargaining Council, Lui said. The agreements
weren’t enforced until 2010, he said.  The clothing companies employ about 30 percent of the
town’s workforce, said Newcastle’s director of  Economic
Development , Ferdie Alberts, who was part of the campaign to
bring textile companies from  China  and  Taiwan .  ArcelorMittal
South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , Africa biggest steel producer, operates a
plant in Newcastle.  Labor Laws  Unemployment is about 29 percent in the town, excluding
people who have given up looking for work, Alberts said.  South Africa is struggling to cut a 24.9 percent  jobless
rate , the highest of 39 emerging-market nations monitored by
Bloomberg. The National Development Plan, a 20-year blueprint to
boost investment adopted by the government, calls for a change
to labor laws to boost hiring.  Its proposal to link wage increases to productivity is
opposed by the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the
nation’s biggest labor federation that’s in a political alliance
with the ruling  African National Congress . Cosatu is demanding
that companies stop hiring temporary workers as a way to bypass
 labor laws .  South Africa’s textile industry, centered around  Cape Town ,
employed about 108,000 people in 2010 and accounted for about
0.7 percent of gross domestic product.  Harden Attitude  The South African Clothing and Textile Workers Union, a
Cosatu affiliate, is studying the decision and is yet to decide
whether it will appeal.  The court ruled that the labor ministry’s extension of the
National Bargaining Council’s agreements to non-party companies
in 2010 wasn’t done properly and hasn’t scrapped the
industrywide pay agreement, General Secretary Andre Kriel said.  “All that they have now done is to harden Sactwu’s
attitude towards them,” he said. “We will now ensure that the
legitimate non-compliance writs held against them will be
executed more vociferously.”  Fighting between unions over negotiation rights and pay
spread from  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  platinum mine, at which about 46 people
died in violence in August, to other precious metal mines.
Farmworkers, truck drivers and coal miners have also struck in
recent months.  Unemployment is higher in rural areas where businesses
can’t afford the wages paid in cities, according to the  Centre
for Development and Enterprise , a independent research group
based in Johannesburg.  “The struggle of the Newcastle clothing producers to
remain in business is symptomatic of the difficulties involved
in promoting labor-intensive growth in South Africa,” it said
in a report released in January. “The firms have to contend
with minimum wages set in bargaining councils dominated by
unionized businesses in metropolitan areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  