-- Christie Budget Again Based on Optimistic Goals, S&P Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-03-13T19:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/s-p-says-new-jersey-revenue-forecast-may-be-challenging-to-meet.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget proposal is “structurally imbalanced” for a
second year because it’s based on revenue goals that may not be
met even after recent revisions, Standard & Poor’s said today.  The $32.9 billion plan for fiscal 2014 relies on “new and
untested revenues” and a recovery from  Hurricane Sandy  whose
timing and financial impact is uncertain, S&P said in a report.
The company has had a negative outlook on New Jersey’s debt
since September because of concerns about Christie’s forecasts.  The governor, a 50-year-old Republican seeking a second
term, is counting on a 4.9 percent revenue gain to balance his
budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1. That’s a smaller
increase than he projected last year, when his forecast for more
than 8 percent growth was challenged by Democrats and S&P.  “Although fiscal 2014 revenue-growth projections are more
moderate than we observed for the fiscal 2013 budget, they rely
on meeting revised revenue baselines for fiscal 2013 that might
not materialize,” said John Sugden, an S&P analyst in  New York .  Sandy Reconstruction  Bill Quinn, a spokesman for state Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-
Eristoff, said the report was short-sighted.  “In rushing to judgment,  Standard & Poor’s  has published a
shallow analysis that reflects a fundamental lack of
understanding as to how Governor Christie’s administration has
brought New Jersey back from the brink of fiscal ruin after
years of mismanagement,” Quinn said in a statement.  S&P maintained an AA- rating, the fourth-highest investment
grade, on New Jersey’s general-obligation debt, along with the
negative outlook. The rating could be lowered if revenue falls
short of projections, Sugden said.  Sugden said there is the potential for “above-average”
income-tax collections and a “very aggressive reconstruction
effort” to help Christie meet his revenue forecast.  “However, in our view, future budgets could be pressured,
absent sustainable economic growth, as fixed costs continue to
climb and the revenue impacts of one-time economic events
fade,” S&P said.  ‘Fiscal Strength’  Christie’s positive steps have included reducing taxpayer
costs for public pensions and benefits and slowing the pace of
new borrowing, “all things that portend long-term fiscal
strength and balance for the state,” Quinn said.  “The last two years represented the best private-sector
 job creation  since 1999-2000,” Quinn said. S&P, though, pointed
out that the job gains haven’t been enough to overcome growth in
the  labor force . New Jersey’s unemployment  rate  was 9.6 percent
in December, up from 9.0 percent at the start of 2012, though
down from an August peak of 9.9 percent.  “New Jersey continues on a difficult path to economic
recovery,” S&P said.  Christie’s budget reduces the state’s reliance on one-time
measures to $1 billion, about 3 percent of the budget, from 4
percent. Assemblyman Vincent Prieto, a Democrat from Secaucus
and chairman of his house’s budget committee, said that’s still
cause for concern.  “Next year you still have the same amount you need and you
don’t have the one-shot again,” Prieto said by telephone.  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little
Silver who serves as his party’s budget officer, said the report
repeats concerns from last year that proved unfounded.  “We’re going to be within striking distance of the
governor’s numbers when it’s all said and done” in the current
budget year, O’Scanlon said. “I’m going to continue to put my
faith in the governor and in the treasurer because they’re the
ones who’ve been the closest all along.”  The average yield on New Jersey state and local bonds
maturing in 10 years rose yesterday to 2.58 percent, the highest
since Sept. 24, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  