-- TSA Seen as Shunning Furloughs of Airport Security Workers
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-03-13T22:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/tsa-seen-as-shunning-furloughs-of-u-s-airport-security-workers.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  is trying to avoid furloughs as it absorbs its
share of across-the-board U.S. budget cuts, a union
representative said.  The agency will focus first on freezing hiring, cutting
overtime and eliminating bonuses and travel for training, said
Stacy Bodtmann, a regional vice president who represents TSA
workers at the American Federation of Government Employees, the
largest federal-employee union.  The trade-off may still lead to longer lines at airport
security checkpoints, Bodtmann said today at a press conference
in  Washington . The agency relies on overtime to fill gaps in
staffing, and the hiring freeze promises to exacerbate the
situation, she said.  “I see it already -- little increases in wait times -- and
it’s eventually going to get worse,” said Bodtmann, a TSA
screener at  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty International Airport,
which she said is short as many as 75 workers due to hiring
freezes.  Bodtmann said she was aware of the agency’s plans from
conversations with officials at the Homeland Security
Department, which includes the TSA.  The automatic spending cuts triggered March 1 would total
$85 billion in the remaining seven months of the fiscal year,
and $1.2 trillion over nine years, assuming Congress and
President  Barack Obama  don’t agree before then on an
alternative. The reductions would be divided equally between
 defense  and domestic programs.  Airport Lines  TSA will freeze hiring, reduce overtime and make other cuts
across the agency, said Marsha Catron, a Homeland Security
spokeswoman.  The TSA hasn’t discussed any immediate plans for furloughs.  The hiring freeze is expected to result in as many as 1,000
transportation security officer vacancies by the U.S. Memorial
Day weekend and as many as 2,600 by the end of the fiscal year,
Catron said. The agency has about 45,000 security officers.  “As the hiring freeze and reductions in overtime take
effect, travelers can expect to see lines and wait times
increase, particularly during the busy summer travel season,”
Catron said.  Travelers probably won’t see immediate effects at airport
checkpoints, “but lines and wait times will increase as
reductions to overtime and the inability to backfill positions
for attrition occur,”  David Castelveter , a TSA spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Federal agencies such as the TSA rely on overtime, said J.
David Cox Sr., national president of the Washington-based
federal union.  Working “overtime is a way of life” for many federal
employees, Cox said at the press conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  