-- SAP as Most Valuable German Company Validates Deals Spree
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-03-14T18:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/sap-as-most-valuable-german-company-validates-deals-spree-tech.html
When  SAP AG (SAP)  changed leadership in
2010, the software maker had just been through its first major
job cuts in 38 years, clients were upset with price increases,
and analysts considered the company a takeover target.  There’s little chance of a takeover now. SAP’s stock has
gained 94 percent since  Bill McDermott  and Jim Hagemann Snabe
took over as co-chief executive officers. SAP has vaulted past
 Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to become  Germany ’s most valuable
company despite revenue that’s 10 percent of Volkswagen’s and
one-fifth that of Siemens.  McDermott, 51, and Snabe, 47, have made key acquisitions in
cloud-computing and mobile applications, invested in a database
that can analyze mountains of numbers in seconds, and hastened
the development of new products. That has helped SAP increase
sales to clients ranging from automakers to central banks to the
National Football League.  SAP “oils the engine of the economy and lends it better
momentum,” said Stephan Thomas, a portfolio manager at
 Frankfurt  Trust, which oversees about $21 billion in assets and
has recently increased its holding in SAP.  With a market capitalization of $104 billion, SAP is the
world’s ninth-most-valuable technology company and the only
European in the top 10. SAP’s price-to-earnings ratio, a gauge
of how much investors are willing pay for the stock relative to
profit, is the highest of the top 10. At 27.3 times earnings,
SAP’s P/E exceeds  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s 24.3 and 16.9 for archrival
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Technology Spending  SAP shares  rose  to the highest price in 13 years today,
closing up 1.3 percent at 64.79 euros in Frankfurt trading.  At the CeBIT technology trade fair in Hanover, Germany,
last week, SAP scheduled twice as many customer meetings as it
did last year, Snabe told Bloomberg Television. “That’s a good
sign that we have tremendous momentum,” he said.  Portfolio manager Thomas cautions that SAP remains
vulnerable to the lousy economy. If growth slows in key markets,
companies might delay tech spending, which would cut SAP’s
profits. And the company must avoid unsettling investors with
setbacks such as one a year ago, when revenue fell in the
Americas after a reshuffling of responsibilities kept
salespeople from closing deals, Thomas said.  Lacking the  home market  enjoyed by U.S. rivals, SAP has
long sought to make sales abroad, building software development
centers around the world. Today it has sites with thousands of
coders at its headquarters in Walldorf, a half-hour drive from
Frankfurt, and in Bangalore,  Shanghai , and  Palo Alto ,
 California . And it has smaller centers in seven other countries.  Exposed Concrete  Writing software in so many locations has helped SAP in
unforeseen ways. In Bangalore, the company once received almost
100,000 job applications, overwhelming its human resources
staff. After developing a program to process the flood of data,
the company is now selling that software to customers.  To increase its agility, SAP has created what it calls its
AppHaus project. This involves building stripped-down offices
outfitted with Ikea desks and exposed concrete floors. The goal
is to let developers work in a loose, startup-style environment
to develop consumer-focused programs, part of a push to get SAP
programs in the hands of 1 billion people by 2015.  At the AppHaus in  Los Altos , California -- more than half a
dozen worldwide -- $8 shower backings from Home Depot serve as
whiteboards. Coders pull chairs and tables into impromptu
clusters, where they work on bite-sized programs such as an
iPhone app that alerts consumers to vehicle recalls.  Acquisition Spree  SAP rode a wave of business process re-engineering in the
1990s, working with accounting firms and persuading businesses
to use SAP programs as they redesigned workflows. But under
former CEOs Henning Kagermann and  Leo Apotheker , morale began to
flag. Web-based software to attract smaller enterprises failed
to take off, and during the financial crisis in 2009, SAP for
the first time let go employees.  With the acquisition of Business Objects SA in 2007, SAP
ventured beyond its traditional business, adding analysis tools.
Then, under McDermott and Snabe, it purchased Sybase Inc. to tie
mobile devices into the system, get a better grip on databases,
and boost ties to  Wall Street .  To serve clients who don’t want to maintain their own
equipment, SAP a year ago acquired cloud-software provider
SuccessFactors Inc. And last October SAP bought Ariba Inc.,
which operates a marketplace akin to an eBay for corporations
where companies make $400 billion in deals every year. Today,
SAP uses leads garnered from that market to find buyers for its
corporate software.  NBA Statistics  SAP’s top weapon is homegrown. Hana, a database that the
company says is the fastest-growing product it’s ever sold, cuts
the time needed to analyze data and carry out transactions by
orders of magnitude. Hana applications -- mostly developed with
customers and startups -- range from weather simulations to
predicting track conditions for Formula One racing teams to
planning cancer treatments.  In October, SAP used Hana to help the  National Football
League  overhaul its fantasy football offering, including an
online dashboard to determine the player of the year. And pushed
by co-CEO McDermott, a passionate basketball fan, SAP is
providing the  National Basketball Association  with software to
parse decades of statistics.  Hana is also beginning to be used by central banks to
supervise lenders. SAP says analysts at its 55 central bank
customers can analyze data from commercial banks to find
potential risks and weaknesses in seconds, versus poring over
financial reports to spot trends.  Punch Cards  Hana, which started as a tool to speed data analysis, now
also underpins SAP’s flagship business-management suite, which
still accounts for the bulk of its revenue. With some
applications running more than 10 times faster, SAP expects Hana
to help it displace Oracle, International Business Machines
Corp. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in databases, a market where it has
long been a bit player.  SAP got its start in 1972, when five IBM employees --
including current Chairman  Hasso Plattner  -- began programming
payroll and accounting software to replace traditional punch
cards for Imperial Chemical Industries Plc. Plattner still
wields great influence and is involved in all big decisions as
well as many smaller ones.  This year, SAP’s net income is projected to reach 3.7
billion euros ($4.8 billion), more than double its level in
2009, while revenue will probably reach 18 billion euros,
doubling from 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s become like an octopus,” said Heinz Steffen, an
analyst with Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg, Germany. “If you’re
trying to make your processes more productive, you’ll have a
tough time avoiding SAP.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  