-- HSBC Mideast CEO Joins Saudi Bulls Predicting Market Opening
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-03-14T07:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/hsbc-middle-east-ceo-joins-saudi-bulls-predicting-market-opening.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the biggest
underwriter of bond sales in Saudi Arabia last year, sees the
country’s equity market opening to foreigners as early as next
year amid rising demand for assets in the largest Arab economy.  “There’s tremendous appetite,” Simon Cooper, chief
executive officer of London-based HSBC’s  Middle East  business,
said in an interview. “I’d say 12 to 18 months. Steps are being
taken at the appropriate places to open the market up.”  Cooper, head of HSBC in the Middle East since 2009, joins a
rising number of bankers predicting that the biggest oil
exporter will allow direct overseas investment in its $387
billion  stock market .  John Burbank , founder of $3.7 billion
hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, said the market may attract as
much as $30 billion of inflows and could open within a year.  “I think there’s a strong desire to see it happen from
both sides - buyer and seller,” Cooper said at HSBC’s offices
in Dubai. “Saudi has got a very strong regulatory environment -
that means they do things properly and take their time.”  Saudi Arabia only allows non-resident foreigners outside of
the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to invest through equity
swaps and exchange-traded funds and last year said it would only
open the market on a gradual basis.  In February the country replaced the head of its Capital
Market Authority with Mohammad Al al-Sheikh, who represents
 Saudi Arabia  at the  World Bank . Al al-Sheikh holds a law degree
from  Harvard University  and specializes in mergers and
acquisitions,  capital markets  and project finance, according to
the website of U.S. law company Latham & Watkins, which
practices in Saudi in association with Al-Sheikh’s law office.  ’Well-positioned’  HSBC, which owns 40 percent of Riyadh-based Saudi British
Bank, is “well positioned” to capture any foreign flows that
may come into the country as the market opens up, Cooper said.  “If you look at economies in the world that are growing
that have both the wealth and plans to invest in their economy
then Saudi is a logical place to invest in,” he said. “We’re
well placed to be part of that growth.”  Banks are boosting their presence in Saudi Arabia as
investors seek greater access to the Arab world’s largest bourse
and most important economy.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Credit Suisse
Group AG are shifting their regional equities bases to  Riyadh 
from Dubai, while VTB Capital Plc, the investment banking unit
of Russia’s second-largest lender, said in January it may set up
an equities business in the Saudi capital.  “That’s where the excitement is,” Cooper said. “When the
market opens up and foreigners can buy shares then you get
liquidity coming and the market grows.”  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange has a market capitalization
of 1.44 trillion riyals ($384 billion), compared with $129
billion for gauges in the United Arab Emirates and $317 billion
for  Turkey , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Saudi Tadawul All Share Index includes  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest petrochemicals company, as
well as  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC) , the Middle East’s largest phone
company by revenue and market value.  ’Key Market’  HSBC is prioritizing Saudi Arabia as one of five key
markets in the Middle East and North Africa along with the
United Arab Emirates,  Egypt , Oman and Qatar. It earned $377
million, or more than a quarter of regional profit, from the
country last year, according to its annual report. The bank
helped arrange about $7.7 billion in Islamic bonds for Saudi
borrowers last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An opening up of the Saudi market would allow foreigners to
tap one of the world’s fastest growing economies. Saudi Arabia’s
economy grew 6.8 percent last year after raising its 2013
expenditure target by almost a fifth to a record 820 billion
riyals ($219 billion). That beat the 5.6 percent median estimate
of 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Jamal Alkishi, chief executive officer of Deutsche
Securities Saudi Arabia, said in a Feb. 11 interview that he was
“optimistic” that the Saudi market would open up soon.  The benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.6 percent at
the close in Riyadh yesterday, bringing this year’s gain to 3.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  