-- Scene Last Night: Davos Piano Man for Homeless World Cup
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-13T15:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/scene-last-night-davos-piano-man-for-homeless-world-cup.html
Barry Colson , who plays the Hotel
Europe piano bar during Davos, had the same jokes and songs last
night at the  Gansevoort Park Avenue .  “Except in Davos, Randi Zuckerberg takes the mike and
starts singing,” said Nancy Lublin, chief executive officer of
DoSomething.org, right before breaking into “American Pie.”  Colson was brought to  New York  for the night by the Rock
Art Love Foundation, one of whose founders is Davos regular Rich Stromback, a venture capitalist. The other is marketing
executive Nichole Rhodes.  Julian Jaeger , who worked for the
 World Economic Forum  before joining  Clinton Global Initiative ,
is also helping out.  The idea of the foundation is to be a “philanthropic
platform” that produces events for different causes, driven by
music, art and compassion, Rhodes said. The first event last
night, the  Rock Art Love Ball , benefited the Homeless  World Cup ,
a  soccer tournament  in which competitors are homeless.  Stromback met the founder of the Homeless World Cup, Mel Young, at a dinner during Davos and was so inspired that he
followed him to Mexico City last summer for the tournament,
where the idea for the ball was hatched.  Cocktails, dinner and an auction took place at the Angel
Orensanz Center. There the highest-wattage Davos regular was
 Arianna Huffington , accompanied by her sister, Agapi
Stassinopoulos, who has a book out about Greek wisdom and
unconditional love, and Jimmy Maymann, chief executive officer
of the Huffington Post Media Group.  Restaurant Openings  Many tables were filled by sponsors of the event, including
 ic! Berlin , which hand-makes eyeglass frames without screws in
Berlin, and the restaurant group  Maison Dellos , which is opening
two restaurants in New York in the next two months.  Singers Roberta Flack,  Chaka Khan  and Valerie Simpson, 
actor Cuba Gooding Jr., and director Lee Daniels all took turns 
on stage. The stick-thin Israeli-born violinist Miri Ben-Ari 
performed a piece inspired by  Martin Luther King Jr ., as guests 
sampled chicken and waffles by Chef Roble & Co., of the Bravo 
reality show that chronicles his adventures as a caterer.  Lublin, who was honored, said she is founding a new
organization called the Crisis Text Line, “a 911 for teens.”  Re-creating some of the magic of Davos around the piano was
the highlight of the night.  “I skipped Davos this year so I’m in heaven right now,”
Lublin said.  Joined by DoSomething.org colleagues, she sang  Billy Joel ’s
“Piano Man,” Queen’s “Bohemian Rhapsody,” and Irene Cara’s
“What a Feeling.” Colson’s song list is seven pages long,
ranging from Fats Domino to Styx to the Eurythmics.  “The more you drink, the better I sing,” Colson said,
around 1 a.m.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  Ryan Sutton  on New York
restaurants and  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 