-- Senator Would Bar Voiding Military Sex-Assault Verdicts
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   L a r r y   L i e b e r t
-- 2013-03-13T15:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/senator-would-bar-voiding-military-sex-assault-verdicts.html
A senator said she’ll offer
legislation to strip U.S. military commanders of power to
overturn court-martial convictions in sexual-assault cases.  “Giving military commanders with no legal experience the
ability to completely nullify a jury’s verdict without even
requiring justification is against everything that we believe
about justice in this country,” Senator Claire McCaskill, a
Missouri Democrat, said today in a statement.  The move was a response to a case at Aviano Air Base in
Italy, where a conviction of aggravated sexual assault reached
in a court-martial last year was overturned by Air Force
Lieutenant General Craig Franklin, the so-called convening
authority in the case.  The case has added to debate about whether the military
does enough to protect personnel from sexual assaults and acts
forcefully enough when it prosecutes wrongdoing. McCaskill
serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee, which held a
hearing on the subject today where victims testified.  The Defense Department has estimated there are about 19,000
sexual assaults a year in the military, based on anonymous
surveys of the active-duty force, although the number of
reported cases is smaller. There were 3,192 reported assaults in
2011.  In the Aviano case, Lieutenant Colonel James Wilkerson was
convicted by a military jury last year after he allegedly groped
a physician’s assistant as she slept in a guest bedroom at his
home. Franklin, who convened the court-martial as commander of
the Third Air Force, dismissed the case last month, calling the
evidence insufficient.  ‘Don’t Bother’  “It looks to me like he is protecting one of his own,”
Kimberly Hanks, who identified herself as the victim of the
attack, said  in an interview  on NBC’s “Today Show.” She said
the message to other women who have been sexually assaulted in
the military is “it’s not worth it. Don’t bother.”  Wilkerson’s lawyer, Frank Spinner, told NBC that lawmakers
were engaged in “political grandstanding” and that he hoped
others would “recognize that some women make false claims of
sexual abuse.”  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in a letter to lawmakers
this week that the Pentagon will review whether U.S. military
commanders should continue to have the power to overturn such
convictions.  Hagel directed the secretary of the Air Force and the
Pentagon’s acting general counsel to review the Aviano case to
determine whether changes should be made to the Uniform Code of
Military Justice, he said in a letter to senators released March
11. The role of the convening authority also will be reviewed by
an independent panel that will examine the prosecution of sexual
assault crimes, he said.  Under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, the decision of
the convening authority is final and can’t be changed by the
secretary of defense, Hagel said in his letter.  In the Aviano case, Hagel said Franklin “concluded that
the entire body of evidence was insufficient to meet the burden
of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.”  Wilkerson, a former inspector general of the 31st Fighter
Wing at Aviano, was found guilty in November of aggravated
sexual assault and sentenced to a year in jail, forfeiture of
all pay and dismissal from the Air Force. Franklin overturned
the verdict last month.  The Air Force was rocked by a sexual-assault scandal last
year at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas, which
provides training to all Air Force recruits. At least five
military instructors have been convicted of sexual assaults or
unprofessional relationships with trainees or students. An
investigation identified 23 alleged offenders and 48 alleged
victims, according to a report by the Air Education and Training
Command.  For Related News and Information:
Wingman Rule to Curb Sexual Abuse Adopted by U.S. Air Force  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  