-- Shanghai Ups Checks on River After Dead Pigs Double to 6,000
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-13T04:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/shanghai-ups-checks-on-river-after-dead-pigs-double-to-6-000-1-.html
Shanghai said it’s increasing the
frequency of water quality checks after the number of dead pigs
found upriver from  China ’s largest commercial city more than
doubled from the previous tally to almost 6,000.  The government pulled 5,916 hogs from the Huangpu River as
of 3 p.m. yesterday and said the discovery of new carcasses has
slowed, according to a statement on its website. It’s
accelerating construction of barriers along parts of the river
to prevent more pigs from floating downstream, after preliminary
investigations showed the hogs originated from neighboring
Zhejiang province.  The discovery of the hogs is the latest safety scare in
China, where leaders have come under criticism for the handling
of public health and environmental issues. The government
announced a plan March 10 for a regulator with broader authority
to ensure food and drug safety and said the agriculture ministry
will oversee the quality of farm products, underpinning its
pledge to crack down on violations and better protect consumers.  “The impact on sentiment is big when you see floating pigs
along this river,” Jean-Yves Chow, an analyst at Rabobank
International, said in an interview in Hong Kong. “It’s come to
a situation where the government has to do what they need to
make some improvements and create transparency among farmers.”  Shanghai Bund  The  Shanghai  government said March 10 it’s investigating
why so many dead pigs were found in the river. People in the
Zhejiang city of Jiaxing have been dumping pigs in the river
since March 4, the official Xinhua News Agency said, citing the
Shanghai information office. Xinhua said authorities in Jiaxing
acknowledged dead pigs had been dumped into the water.  The Huangpu River cuts through the center of China’s
financial hub, running past Shanghai’s historic waterfront Bund
area. The districts of Songjiang and Jinshan, where many of the
pigs were found, are more than 30 kilometers (18 miles)
southwest of the city center, which is home to the country’s
largest stock market and the China headquarters of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   A common disease among hogs, porcine circovirus, was found
in a sample taken from the river, Shanghai’s agriculture
department said on March 11, citing the city’s animal disease
control authorities. Tests conducted hourly on the river, which
provides drinking water for some of the municipality’s 23
million residents, were negative for other diseases including
foot-and-mouth, swine fever, hog cholera and blue ear, it said.  There’s no evidence that porcine circovirus is a safety
risk or  causes illness in humans , according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention’s  website .  Bad Idea  “If there are dead animals in a water supply, then it’s
unlikely to be a good idea to drink that water because of the
risk of bacteria or other kinds of infections,” said Ben
Cowling, associate professor of infectious disease epidemiology
at the University of Hong Kong’s  School of Public Health .
Consumers should boil the water to kill any bacteria as “it
wouldn’t be a good idea to drink the river water in Shanghai
directly even if there weren’t dead pigs,” he said.  Shanghai authorities had said in an earlier statement it
had restored clean water to parts of the river in Maogang, where
the carcasses were first discovered. Investigations by food
regulatory authorities show that there’s no sign diseased pork
has entered the city’s markets, according to a posting on the
city’s  website .  Concerns about Shanghai’s water follows a public apology
issued by by  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC food chain, in
January after a probe found excessive levels of antibiotics in
its chicken supplies. Other food-safety scares have included
chemicals is liquor and tainted milk that lead to the death of
at least six babies in 2008.  ‘Peace of Mind’  “One of the key issues with food is the issue of quality
and peace of mind for consumers,” Jean-Luc Lowinski, head of
China at Sanofi and a trained veterinarian who used to run
Bayer’s global animal health division, said in Shanghai today.
“More and more consumers will ask for traceability and quality
in their food.”  The official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday that ear
tags from 14 of the hogs showed they originated from Jiaxing, a
major pig-farming region in Zhejiang province. Investigations
conducted since the carcasses were first discovered showed no
sign of a “serious” epidemic among the livestock in the city,
according to Xinhua.  The mortality rate of hogs in Jiaxing is currently within
“normal” limits, Xinhua said, citing Jiang Hao, a deputy
director of the Jiaxing husbandry and veterinary bureau. There
may have been many factors that contributed to the deaths of
these pigs, including farming techniques, environmental
conditions, climate and illness, Jiang was cited as saying.  Pig Farmers  Jiaxing has more than 100,000 pig farmers and about 4.5
million hogs are slaughtered there each year,  Xinmin.cn  reported
separately, citing Jiang. Farmers caught discarding dead pigs
irresponsibly may face fines of as much as 3,000  yuan  ($482),
according to the newspaper.  China had more than 460 million hogs in inventory as of
December, according to data from the Ministry of Agriculture.
The nation is the world’s biggest consumer and producer of pork.
Wholesale  pork prices  have fallen almost five percent since Feb.
1, according to Ministry of Commerce data.  Prices “are going down because of the seasonal effect
after Chinese New Year and prices will continue going down in
the second and third quarters,” said Rabobank’s Chow. Carcases
in the river “may put off some consumers for a few days, but
keep in mind that pork is still a key staple meat in China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  