-- Shanghai Finds 6,600 Dead Pigs as Farm Confesses to Dumping
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-14T02:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/shanghai-retrieves-6-600-dead-pigs-as-farm-confesses-to-dumping.html
The number of dead pigs found in
 Shanghai ’s Huangpu river climbed to at least 6,600 as the
official Xinhua News Agency reported a farm in neighboring
Zhejiang province confessed to dumping carcasses in the water.  The municipal government pulled 685 hogs from the river
yesterday, adding to the 5,916 it had retrieved earlier,
according to a statement on its  website . A farm in Jiaxing
admitted to discarding dead pigs in the river, after 70,000 of
the animals died in the city from crude raising techniques and
extreme weather at the start of the year, Xinhua said yesterday,
citing the Jiaxing authorities. The Xinhua report didn’t specify
whether other farms were involved in the dumping.  The discovery of the hogs comes as  China ’s legislature
addresses food safety and citizens become more vocal on  public
health  and environmental issues. The government said March 10 at
a National People’s Congress meeting that it plans to create a
regulator with broader authority to ensure food and drug safety
and said the  agriculture ministry  will oversee the quality of
farm products.  “The impact on sentiment is big when you see floating pigs
along this river,” Jean-Yves Chow, an analyst at Rabobank
International, said in an interview in  Hong Kong . “The
government has to do what they need to make some improvements
and create transparency among farmers.”  Shanghai Bund  China’s Agriculture Ministry is leading the investigation
into the dead pigs, China National Radio reported today, citing
Environment Minister Zhou Shengxian.  The Huangpu River cuts through the center of China’s
financial hub, running past Shanghai’s historic waterfront Bund
area. The districts of Songjiang and Jinshan, where many of the
pigs were found, are more than 30 kilometers (18 miles)
southwest of the city center, which is home to the country’s
largest stock market and the China headquarters of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   A common disease among hogs, porcine circovirus, was found
in a sample taken from the river, Shanghai’s agriculture
department said on March 11, citing the city’s animal disease
control authorities. Tests conducted on the river, which
provides drinking water for some of the municipality’s 23
million residents, were negative for other diseases including
foot-and-mouth, swine fever, hog cholera and blue ear, it said.  There’s no evidence that porcine circovirus is a safety
risk or  causes illness in humans , according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention’s  website .  Bad Idea  “If there are dead animals in a water supply, then it’s
unlikely to be a good idea to drink that water because of the
risk of bacteria or other kinds of infections,” said Ben
Cowling, associate professor of infectious disease epidemiology
at the University of Hong Kong’s  School of Public Health .  The city’s water authorities conducted “close”
inspections on the six water inlets and nine water plants in the
affected area yesterday, according to the government’s weibo
posting. Tests showed “stable” readings for factors such as
bacteria levels and odors at the inlets, and that the water
plants fulfilled national quality standards, it said. The
facilities supply about 22 percent of the city’s water.  Shanghai authorities had said in an earlier statement it
had restored clean water to parts of the river in Maogang, where
the carcasses were first discovered. Investigations by food
regulatory authorities show that there’s no sign diseased pork
has entered the city’s markets, according to a posting on the
city’s  website .  ‘Peace of Mind’  Concerns about Shanghai’s water follows a public apology
issued by by  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC food chain, in
January after a probe found excessive levels of antibiotics in
its chicken supplies. Other food-safety scares have included
chemicals in liquor and tainted milk that lead to the death of
at least six babies in 2008.  “One of the key issues with food is the issue of quality
and peace of mind for consumers,” Jean-Luc Lowinski, head of
China at Sanofi and a trained veterinarian who used to run  Bayer
AG (BAYN) ’s global animal health division, said in Shanghai yesterday.
“More and more consumers will ask for traceability and quality
in their food.”  Separately, Xinhua reported today that 38 dead pigs were
found at a river in the central Chinese province of Hubei. The
carcasses were disinfected and disposed, Xinhua said, citing the
local government.  Diseased Pork  Xinhua reported yesterday that a court in  Zhejiang  jailed
46 people for selling diseased pork, following a campaign that
started in April 2012 to clamp down on the illegal act. The
court said that 6,218 kilograms of products that tested positive
for various viruses were seized and will be destroyed, according
to Xinhua.  Shanghai retrieved 14 ear tags from the dead hogs, of which
one was tied to the Jiaxing farm that eventually confessed,
according to a statement on the Shanghai government’s  website 
that cited Jiaxing authorities. Seven of the tags proved
untraceable and investigations are ongoing into the remaining
six, it said.  Jiaxing has more than 100,000 pig farmers and about 4.5
million hogs are slaughtered there each year,  Xinmin.cn  reported
this week, citing Jiang Hao, a deputy director of the Jiaxing
animal husbandry and veterinary bureau. Farmers caught
discarding dead pigs irresponsibly may face fines of as much as
3,000  yuan  ($482), according to the newspaper.  China had more than 460 million hogs in inventory as of
December, according to data from the Ministry of Agriculture.
The nation is the world’s biggest consumer and producer of pork.
Prices of marbled pork fell 4 percent in March 1-10, compared
with late February, while pork-leg prices slipped 3.9 percent in
the same period, the National Bureau of Statistics said today.  Prices “are going down because of the seasonal effect
after Chinese New Year and prices will continue going down in
the second and third quarters,” said Rabobank’s Chow. Carcases
in the river “may put off some consumers for a few days, but
keep in mind that pork is still a key staple meat in China.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  