-- Shenzhen Housing Authority Denies Order to Cap Housing Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-13T12:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/shenzhen-housing-authority-denies-order-to-cap-housing-prices.html
Shenzhen housing authorities said
they haven’t introduced a new round of policies to curb  home
prices , attributing the recent abnormal fluctuations in the
housing market to the success of existing cooling measures.  While the city hasn’t introduced a new price cap, it has
continued implementing the central government’s policies to
ensure prices don’t rise too quickly, after a number of high-
priced properties started sales or made plans to start sales
this year, the Urban Planning Land and Resources Commission of
Shenzhen Municipality said in a  statement . The authority has
strengthened oversight of pre-sale approvals, and is taking
steps to guide developers in setting reasonable prices.  Developers in the southern  China  business hub bordering
 Hong Kong  have been ordered to have “zero price increase” for
new homes, news portal Sina.com reported today, citing
unidentified officials at local developers. Wang Youpeng, head
of the housing authority, said he’s “not aware” of the rule to
ban developers from raising new home prices, Caixin Online
reported today.  Local governments must respond to new policies issued by
the central government on March 1, including home-price control
targets, by the end of the month. Policy makers had ordered the
central bank to raise down-payment requirements and  interest
rates  for second mortgages in cities with excessive price gains,
enforced the payment of a 20 percent tax on property sales, and
told cities to tighten home-purchase limits.  Home prices in Shenzhen rose 2.6 percent last month from
January, the biggest gain among China’s 10 major cities,
according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s largest real
estate website owner, which monitors 100 cities.  District-level Caps  “We’ve heard among industry peers that the new policy may
cap monthly sales price gains of individual projects, but it’s
not formally announced yet,” said Lin Jianhui, general manager
of SouFun’s Shenzhen division. “We’ve seen price-target caps at
the district level, but never at the project level.”  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite
Index fell 2.5 percent to the lowest in three months at the
local close. It was the biggest decline among the five industry
groups on the benchmark.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s biggest
developer, dropped 2.4 percent to 10.95  yuan  in Shenzhen
trading, while  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  lost 4.6 percent to 6.05 yuan, the
lowest level since Dec. 21.  The price cap in Shenzhen requires the month-on-month
growth in the average transacted prices of all new homes to be
zero, Deutsche Bank AG analysts  Tony Tsang  and Jason Ching said
in a note today.  The reported “price cap” is not new and has been in place
since 2011, the analysts said, after checking with the city’s
housing authority.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  