-- Slovenia Set to Avoid Early Vote as Party Gives Premier Majority
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-03-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/slovenia-set-to-avoid-early-vote-as-party-gives-premier-majority.html
Slovenia’s Citizens’ List party
will join Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s government, a move
that may help the nation avoid early elections as it struggles
with a recession and a banking crisis.  The party’s inclusion, announced by leader Gregor Virant in
Ljubljana late yesterday, gives Bratusek, who replaced Janez Jansa in a Feb. 27 parliamentary vote, a majority in the
legislature. A confirmation vote on the new government will
probably take place next week.  Slovenia, which is grappling with its second recession
since 2009 and widening losses at its banks like Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d., is looking to avoid early elections as
it works on measures to spur economic growth and avoid becoming
the sixth euro member to require an international bailout.  “There is likely to be a lot of uncertainty as the
government won’t have a strong mandate needed to implement wide-
ranging reforms,”  William Jackson , an emerging-markets
economist at Capital Economics Plc in  London , said by phone
yesterday. “We may see further slippage in fiscal consolidation
and delays in support for banks.”  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated benchmark bond
maturing in 2022 rose to 5.3482 percent, the highest this year,
on Feb. 27 when Jansa’s Cabinet was ousted. The yield has since
dropped and was at 5.0420 percent at 5:17 p.m. yesterday in
Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank Plan  Jansa’s administration, which took power in February last
year, devised a plan to recapitalize the nation’s banks by
swapping their bad loans for state-guaranteed bonds totaling as
much as 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion). Lawmakers also confirmed
pension changes and a labor market overhaul that are meant to
improve the country’s competitiveness.  Bratusek’s new Cabinet, formed by parties that opposed the
bad bank plan with a referendum motion that was struck down by
the  Constitutional Court  last year, may slip in the overhaul
drive, according to Jackson.  “A delay in reforms and bank support might not be punished
by the markets, meaning Slovenia could get away without a
bailout, in the near-term anyway,” he said.  Slovenia will probably have to apply for aid at some point
to recapitalize its banks, Christoph Weil, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in a March 6 note to clients.
Euro-region finance ministers would approve the aid request in
return for a bailout program with tough conditions, he said.  Shrinking Economy  The nation’s two largest banks owned by the state, Nova
Ljubljanska Banka and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR)  d.d., had a
combined loss of 480 million euros in 2012 on surging loan-loss
reserves.  Abanka Vipa d.d. , the third-biggest bank, is
struggling to raise fresh capital after two failed attempts.  Slovenia’s economy will shrink the most in the European
Union after Greece and Cyprus this year on weakening investment,
a rising jobless rate and faltering domestic consumption, the
European Commission said in a report last month. The economy is
forecast to decline 2 percent this year after gross domestic
product shrank 2.3 percent in 2012.  A recovery of 0.7 percent can be expected next year,
depending on a “swift” resolution of the banking crisis and a
successful restructuring of the over-indebted corporate sector,
the EU’s executive arm has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  