-- Snowmobiler Death Spurs ESPN to Discontinue X Games Trick Events
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/snowmobiler-death-spurs-espn-to-discontinue-x-games-trick-events.html
ESPN has decided to discontinue
snowmobile and motocross trick competitions at its X Games after
a snowmobiler died in January following a crash.  The event in which the fatal accident occurred wasn’t cut
from the schedule while it remains under review.  Caleb Moore, a four-time X Games medalist, was critically
injured Jan. 24 at the Winter X Games in Aspen,  Colorado , when
he was struck by his 450-pound machine while attempting a
backflip in the finals of the snowmobile freestyle competition.
He died seven days later. Another rider in the Best Trick
Competition in Aspen lost control of his snowmobile, which
veered toward fans after its throttle stuck.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN network, which owns and televises
the winter and summer X Games, said in a statement yesterday
that snowmobile and moto X best trick competitions would no
longer be staged, while officials are still reviewing whether to
discontinue the snowmobile freestyle competition.  “This change reflects our decision to focus on motor
sports disciplines which feature athletes who also compete in
multiple, world-class competitions reflecting the highest degree
of athlete participation, competitive development and the global
nature of our X Games franchise,” ESPN said.  ESPN said it has made more than 60 changes to its
competition lineups over 18 years of the X Games.  The network said last month that it would conduct a
thorough review of the snowmobile events following Moore’s
death. The skis on Moore’s snowmobile clipped the ground upon
hitting the landing ramp after a backflip, throwing him
headfirst over the handlebars. The machine then struck Moore,
who was knocked unconscious.  Moore was diagnosed with a concussion and doctors later
discovered bleeding around his heart. A family spokesman told
ESPN that the cardiac injury led to a secondary complication
involving Moore’s brain and he died on Jan. 31 at the age of 25,
the first fatality in X Games history.  Moore had received a silver medal in the best trick
competition at the 2012 X Games, when he broke his pelvis and
tailbone in a crash during practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  