-- Sovereign Funds’ Assets to Gain 60% by 2016, UBS’s Castelli Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-13T01:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/sovereign-funds-assets-to-gain-60-by-2016-ubs-s-castelli-says.html
Sovereign wealth funds will
increase their assets by 60 percent over the next three years,
bolstered by rising income from commodities and exports,
according to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   State funds will manage about $8.6 trillion in 2016, up
from $5.3 trillion now, according to Massimiliano Castelli, head
of strategy at Global Sovereign Markets, the unit of UBS Global
Asset Management that services sovereign institutions worldwide.
Sovereign investors will also add more assets in  emerging
markets  and cut holdings denominated in currencies such as the
euro and the Japanese yen, he said.  “The main drivers of this growth are commodity prices,
expected to remain at current levels over the next few years,
and continuing current account surpluses of exporters,”
Castelli said in a March 11 interview from Zurich, where he is
based. There’s also a “rising number of new state funds being
established,” he said.  Assets managed by sovereign wealth funds have risen
fourfold in the past decade, making these state-owned investment
vehicles bigger than private-equity and hedge funds combined,
according to  TheCityUK . The assets held by sovereign investors
will gain about 8 percent this year, according to the London-
based group, set up to promote U.K. financial services.  The price of oil has more than quadrupled over the past 10
years, raising the revenue of exporting countries such as Norway
and Kuwait. Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global is the
 world’s biggest  sovereign wealth fund with $716 billion, and the
 Kuwait Investment Authority  has $296 billion of assets under
management, according to the  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute .  Oil Prices  Brent crude , which is used as the price benchmark for more
than half of the world’s oil, rose from an average $25.03 a
barrel in 2002 to $111.68 last year. It will cost between $110
and $111.50 a barrel from this year until 2016, according to the
median estimate of 10 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The pace at which new sovereign funds are being set up may
accelerate, which will also contribute to the increase in the
assets of the state funds, Castelli said.  “We are seeing many funds being established in  Africa ,
where Nigeria and Angola have set up those investment vehicles
and  Mozambique  is considering starting a fund,” Castelli said.
“In  Latin America , Columbia is creating a state fund and Peru
may follow suit. In  Asia ,  Mongolia  is starting a fund and the
 Philippines  are pondering setting one up.”  Peru’s Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said in October the
government is looking at ways to invest more savings abroad,
including a sovereign wealth fund.  State funds are adding more emerging-market assets and
cutting their allocations to major currencies, Castelli said.  Stocks, Bonds  “This is true either for fixed income or for equities,”
said Castelli, who co-wrote the book The New Economics of
Sovereign Wealth Funds. “That also means that sovereign wealth
funds will be more and more going into currencies other than the
yen, the euro, the dollar or the pound.”  Developing nations, led by  Venezuela , made up eight of the
10 best-performing stock markets this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Brazilian real and Mexican peso were
the best performers among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, while the yen and pound had the biggest declines.  Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global reduced its
holdings in French and U.K. government bonds by almost half last
year while adding investments in  Turkey ,  Russia  and  Taiwan .
Cutting dollar, yen, euro and pound investments was a
“prudent” move as the currencies “have structural issues,”
 Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of Norges Bank
Investment Management, which manages the fund, said March 8.  Key Currencies  Central banks may shift their investments away from the key
currencies, Castelli said. He didn’t have a breakdown of
sovereign funds’ holdings of major currencies.  “About 70 to 80 percent of foreign-currency reserves are
still invested in the euro, the dollar and the yen, with the
dollar accounting for the lion’s share of it,” he said. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if that percentage goes down to about 60
percent over the coming years.”  The wealth funds are also adding investments in real
estate, infrastructure and private equity, he said. Still, he
expects sovereign firms to take a long-term view.  “You don’t want to invest in today’s hot asset class but
you want to invest in those countries, regions and sectors which
have the highest potential over the next decade,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  