-- Spanish Banks Selling Debt Servicers as Funds Circle
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e ,   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-03-14T13:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/spanish-banks-selling-debt-servicers-as-funds-circle.html
Spanish banks including  Bankia (BKIA) 
group and Catalunya Banc, the largest nationalized lenders, are
seeking buyers for their debt-servicing units as distressed
investors circle more than 50 billion euros ($65 billion) of
assets held by the government-led bad bank.  Bankia hired KPMG LLP to manage the sale of its Habitat
unit, according to two people with direct knowledge of the deal
who asked not to be identified because the plans are private.
Barcelona-based Catalunya Banc tapped Spanish investment bank
N+1 to approach potential investors for its mortgage-servicing
arm, the people said.  Selling servicers would help beleaguered Spanish lenders,
pave the way for more funds to capitalize on distressed debt and
make it easier for the government’s bad bank to dispose of
soured real estate assets it took over from lenders that needed
state aid. Centerbridge Partners LP,  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  and other investors are already building firms in  Europe 
that ensure payments on debt such as  mortgages  are kept up to
date and try to maximize recoveries on bad debts.  “Distressed asset funds are the natural buyers of
servicers on sale because if they try to buy pools of non-
performing loans, they would like to be sure that all is being
done to maximize recoveries,” said Manuel Anguita, a Madrid-
based partner at Aguila Capital, which brokers distressed-asset
transactions.  Capital Shortages  Spain  created its bad bank to help lenders facing capital
shortages sell their soured real estate assets as part of the
commitments agreed to last year for a bailout of as much as 100
billion euros from the European Union. The institution, known as
Sareb, plans to sell its first 1.5 billion euros of assets this
year, out of a total of 50.4 billion euros of assets turned over
to it by state-aided lenders, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said March 12.  NCG Banco SA, another nationalized bank, also is
considering a sale of a unit that includes managing bad loan
recoveries and assets transferred to the bad bank, said a person
familiar with the situation who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. A spokeswoman for the bank
didn’t immediately comment when contacted by telephone.  Nationalized banks are being forced to reduce assets and
scale back businesses as part of conditions demanded by the
European Commission to allow them to receive taxpayer funds.  A spokesman for Bankia, who asked not to be named in line
with its policy, declined to comment. Spokespeople for Catalunya
Banc,  KPMG  and N+1, also declined to comment.  Recovering Value  For investors in distressed assets, a servicing business is
key to recovering value, said Manel Guillen, chief executive
officer of Mediterranean Capital Management, a Barcelona-based
distressed mortgage fund, which manages 500 million euros of
assets for undisclosed U.S. investors  “The servicing is a key part of our strategy and for that
reason we do the whole process in house,” Guillen said. “When
we acquire a portfolio of distressed commercial or residential
home loans we should have a clear way out over the next 24
months, so we need servicing expertise for that.”  Centerbridge, set up in 2005 byJeffrey Aronson and Mark Gallogly, bought loan servicer Aktua late last year from  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s Banco Espanol de Credito SA unit.  Aktua has more than 30 offices throughout Spain with 200
employees, according to its website. Santander itself sold
Reintegra Comercial Espana, its debt-recovery business, to
 Norway ’s Lindorff Group AB in March 2012 for an undisclosed
amount.  Apollo Investment  Lapithus Group, a servicing unit of Apollo, has 25 people
in  Madrid  managing more than 180,000 home, corporate and
consumer loans, according to its website. Apollo is planning to
invest 1 billion euros to buy assets from lenders and the
country’s bad bank, Chief Executive Officer  Leon Black  told
Expansion newspaper in November.  Wilbur Ross , the billionaire who has taken stakes in U.S.,
U.K. and Irish lenders and servicers, said in October he’s
interested in Spanish banking assets.  Seven Spanish lenders, including Bankia and Catalunya Banc,
have so far taken about 40 billion euros of aid under the terms
of the European bailout sought by the government for the
financial system last year. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  sought
European aid after mounting losses at lenders including Bankia
undermined confidence in the finances of the government.  Sale Focus  “Spanish banks are currently undergoing a process of
deleveraging and recapitalization, so you would expect they are
focusing on the sale of non-core assets,” said Vanesa
Carceller, Spain director for Bluestone Group, an Australian
financial services specialist. “The mortgage servicing business
falls under that category, and there seems to be a reasonable
appetite from investors for those platforms.”  Investors are looking for other ways to profit from the
property crash.  La Caixa  banking group, which owns the country’s
third-biggest bank, plans to offer investors a stake in the
property management division it created as part of last month’s
reorganization of its real estate arm, ServiHabitat, said people
familiar with the plans, who asked not to be named because the
information hasn’t been made public.  Like its competitors, La Caixa has been forced to manage
properties it repossessed by renting or selling them. Revenue
from those operations doubled last year to 1.6 billion euros,
according to the lender.  A spokeswoman for Barcelona-based La Caixa, who asked not
to be named in line with company policy, declined to comment.  Unemployment Rate  The country has about 167 billion euros of doubtful loans,
according to Bank of Spain data. Buyers of Spanish real estate
are finding it harder to repay debt as the country’s
 unemployment  rate hits 26 percent, driving bad loans as a
proportion of total lending in the banking system to 10.4
percent.  The government has proposed a battery of measures including
a freeze on evictions intended to reduce the burden of defaults
and foreclosures amid protests and suicides linked to home
seizures. That’s in response to concerns that the situation
could deteriorate further as an economic slump in its sixth year
grinds on.  The European Union’s highest court today struck down parts
of Spanish mortgage law, saying the rules are unfair on
consumers and must be changed. Borrowers who claim the terms of
their mortgage are unfair need to be provided with greater
protection by the law, the Luxembourg-based  European Court  of
Justice said in a statement.  Most Vulnerable  Rajoy told Spain’s Congress yesterday that the government
was seeking to protect homeowners most vulnerable to the impact
of the country’s economic crisis. “We have to reconcile this
desire, which is everyone’s, with the defense of legal security
and the rule of law,” he said.  For potential investors in servicers and in the loans
themselves, government efforts to stem foreclosures and help
homeowners, adds to the uncertainty of the investment.  “There’s massive regulatory uncertainty in Spain as to
what you will be able to do with those distressed assets and the
borrowers associated with them,” said Angel Mas, president of
European  mortgage insurance  at  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  “We’ve
seen the pressure the government suffers to keep people in their
homes and to kick the can forward.”  Shrinking Economy  The economy, in its second recession since 2009, will
contract a further 1.5 percent this year, according to the
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 40 analysts.  About 400,000 homes in Spain have been foreclosed on since
the start of the crisis, said Carlos Banos, president of AFES, a
Madrid based association that advises homeowners on how to
restructure mortgages and avoid repossession.  The value of those homes is about 65 percent below the
value of the loans on the properties at origination, according
to  Fitch Ratings .  Even as investors position themselves to buy distressed
Spanish assets, Sareb’s strategy remains unclear, said Mas.  “Buying a servicer makes sense in combination with taking
a portfolio position,” Mas said. “Right now, everybody is
looking to see what Sareb will do. Sareb can be a force that
will catalyze the sale of portfolios or they can be a force that
can prevent that from happening or delay it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  