-- States Crack Down on Top Earners Who Flee as Levies Rise: Taxes
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-03-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/states-crack-down-on-top-earners-who-flee-as-levies-rise-taxes.html
With professional golfers and hedge
fund managers talking about moving to lower-tax enclaves, states
are stepping up audits on top earners who flee.  Several states including  California  and  Maryland  raised
taxes on high earners last year, and Congress boosted federal
levies on them. Families who look to change their domicile to a
state with no income taxes such as Florida or  Nevada  open
themselves up to years of scrutiny and possible litigation as
local governments search for revenue.  “I look at some of these domicile audits almost as an
archeological dig and a full physical including MRIs and CAT
scans,” said David Scott Sloan, a partner who advises high net
worth families at Boston-based Holland & Knight LLP. “What
we’re seeing at least in Massachusetts is the tax authorities
are not going quietly into the night.”  States are using automated programs to track down residents
who say they have moved and may be keeping two residences, and
officials are seeking to tax earnings on stock awards beyond
their borders. In  Minnesota , Governor Mark Dayton proposed a so-
called snowbird tax that would lower the number of days a person
spends in the state before having to file a return.  Some families are considering moving from high-tax states
such as California and New York to a lower -- or-no tax -- state
because tax rates are climbing, said Jim Steiner, president of
Abbot Downing, a unit of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  whose new clients
generally have at least $50 million in investable assets.  Paulson, Mickelson  Congress raised the top rate this year to 39.6 percent from
35 percent for taxable income above $400,000 for singles and
$450,000 for married couples. Those same top earners saw the
rates on long-term capital gains and dividends jump to as much
as 23.8 percent from 15 percent.  Golf champion Phil Mickelson drew attention in January
after saying he would make some “drastic changes” because of
higher taxes. Voters in California, where he lives, approved an
increase in the top state income tax rate to 13.3 percent from
10.3 percent.  Hedge fund manager John Paulson of New York is exploring a
move to Puerto Rico, Bloomberg News reported this week, citing
four people who spoke with him. Puerto Rican law lets new
residents pay no local or U.S. federal taxes on capital gains.  Top earners who change domicile have to prove they have
changed their life if they are audited by their former state.  Exit Tax  The audit and appeal process can take years, said Phil
Olsen, a partner at Burns & Levinson LLP in  Boston  who litigates
state and local tax cases. Olsen has 14 such cases pending now,
nine of which are in litigation and five in the audit process.
Families often reach a settlement and pay some  taxes  before
agreeing to a date when they are no longer considered a
resident, he said.  “It feels to clients like states are making you pay an
exit tax,” similar to how the U.S. government assesses those
above a certain income level who give up their citizenship only
at the state level it’s not statutory, said Sloan, chairman of
the private wealth group at Holland & Knight.  Taxpayers filing a part-year-resident tax return or one
that indicates they are no longer residents can trigger an
audit, Sloan said.  “That typically puts the first red flag up,” he said.  Equity Awards  A new trend is the attempt by states to capture more
revenue from equity awards even of people who have moved out,
said Cara Griffith, legal editor of Tax Analysts’ weekly
publication dedicated to state and local taxation.  Federal law prohibits states from taxing certain retirement
income of non-residents such as distributions from 401(k) and
individual retirement accounts. Other equity-based compensation
including restricted stock units or stock options don’t have
those limitations, said Griffith.  “States are starting to look at how they can tax that
money,” if it was earned while people were working within their
borders, she said. “States are getting aggressive across the
board. Anywhere they think they can get money they’re going to
grab it.”  Revenue departments in states also have gotten better at
using technology to tap information in Internal Revenue Service
databases as well as credit reports to E-Z Pass records to track
down former residents, Griffith said.  Audits done by the  Massachusetts  Department of Revenue more
than doubled in 2012 to 45,887 from the prior year with
assessments on taxpayers totaling $79 million, according to the
state’s bureau of desk audits. The jump was largely due to
automated programs, spokeswoman Ann Dufresne said.  Move Checklist  New York state’s tax department uses tools for audits
including analytics, third-party data and IRS referrals,
spokesman Geoffrey Gloak said. “The department uses its
business analytics to review every return and identify those
that have the greatest likelihood of compliance issues,” he
said.  In Minnesota, Dayton proposed a snowbird tax to require
those in the state more than 60 days rather than 183 to file a
return.  “He feels that if individuals live in the state for part
of the year, they should help pay for the services that they
enjoy,” spokeswoman Katharine Tinucci said in an e-mail.  Sloan gives high net worth clients who move a checklist of
actions such as obtaining a new driver’s license, cancelling
memberships to local organizations in the prior state and
transferring investments so they are based in the new locale.  “You have to change your life,” Sloan said. “You can’t
just say I’m spending 183 days here and not 183 days there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  