-- Steakhouse Data-Theft Leader Gets As Much as 13 1/2 Years
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-03-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/steakhouse-data-theft-leader-gets-as-much-as-13-1-2-years.html
The leader of a ring of waiters who
copied customer credit cards at New York steakhouses including
 Smith & Wollensky  and the Capital Grille so accomplices could
buy luxury goods was ordered to go to prison for as long as 13
1/2 years.  Luis “Damian” Jacas, 42, oversaw a network of servers at
restaurants including Café Boulud and Wolfgang’s Steakhouse,
prosecutors said. The thieves used handheld data-skimming
devices to steal card numbers and gave them to Jacas, who had
new cards forged and passed to those who bought goods and resold
them, the government said.  The sentencing marks the fifth large-scale prosecution
since the fall of 2011 by the cybercrime and ID theft bureau of
 Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office.  “Identity theft is a persistent and growing problem,”
Vance said yesterday in a statement. The unit has found fraud at
“fancy steakhouses, parking garages and even charities,” he
said.  The office’s previous identity-fraud cases include one
against seven people who allegedly used devices to skim credit
card numbers from customers of parking garages, and one against
Tracy Nelson, a former United Jewish Appeal-Federation employee
sentenced in October for her role in a conspiracy that stole the
identities of more than 200 people, including charity donors.  Jacas pleaded guilty in February to charges including
enterprise corruption. The sentence imposed by Justice Michael J. Obus is 4 1/2 to 13 1/2 years, the district attorney said.  The Jacas case included the indictment of 29 people, many
of whom pleaded guilty, prosecutors said. Crimes committed by
Jacas and others began in April 2010 and involved at least 50
American Express account holders, prosecutors said.  10 ‘Shoppers’  Those charged included 10 “shoppers” who used forged
credit cards and drivers’ licenses at Neiman Marcus, Cartier,
Hermes of Paris, Burberry, Jimmy Choo and Starbucks, according
to prosecutors.  Merchandise from outlets such as Chanel, Bloomingdale’s and
Bergdorf Goodman, including $1 million worth of watches, was
sold on outlets including the Internet.  Shopping trips were made in Manhattan, New York’s
Westchester and Nassau counties,  Florida ,  Boston  and  Chicago ,
according to the DA’s complaint. Some goods were sold to
individuals, prosecutors said.  The case is People v. Jacas, 00042/2012, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  