-- STMicroelectronics, Zoll, Costco: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-13T11:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/stmicroelectronics-zoll-costco-intellectual-property.html
STMicroelectronics filed a patent-
infringement complaint against  InvenSense Inc. (INVN)  in a case that
could keep some  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)  screwdrivers and
Roku Inc. remote controllers out of the U.S.  STMicroelectronics filed the complaint March 11 with the
U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington  against
InvenSense and its two customers. The complaint is over
inventions related to micro-electro mechanical systems, or
“MEMS,” which include motion sensors that let consumers turn,
tilt and tap their gadgets for games, search and other
functions.  The trade complaint ratchets up the battle between the two
companies as they compete in the market for sensors and imaging
used in wireless devices. The wireless-equipment market is
projected to grow 19 percent a year to $20 billion by 2016,
Benedetto Vigna, who heads  STMicroelectronics (STM) ’ MEMS unit, said
in an interview last month.  “While we welcome fair competition, ST cannot tolerate
continued infringement of our strong and unique patent
portfolio, which is the result of more than 15 years of
intensive R&D efforts and substantial investment,” said Bob
Krysiak, president of the U.S. unit of STMicroelectronics, in a
statement March 11.  The complaint accuses InvenSense of making MEMS devices
that infringe four patents. The MEMS are incorporated in the Max
Gyro Rechargeable Screwdriver made by  New Britain , Connecticut-
based Stanley Black & Decker, and motion-sensitive remote
controllers for online video-service company Roku, based in
Saratoga, California  Geneva-based STMicroelectronics, whose first major sensors
contract was to equip the remote on Nintendo Co.’s Wii gaming
system in 2005, leads the MEMS field today, according to data
published by Lyon, France-based researcher  Yole Developpement .  InvenSense said it developed the first integrated dual-axis
MEMS gyroscope for consumer electronics and was in the market
before STMicroelectronics. It has accused STMicroelectronics of
using invalid patents in litigation.  An earlier civil lawsuit STMicroelectronics filed against
InvenSense was put on hold last month while the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  takes a second look at the STMicroelectronics
patents at InvenSense’s request.  The ITC has refused to postpone its investigations in other
cases where the patent office is reviewing patents.  David Almoslino, a spokesman for Sunnyvale, California-
based InvenSense, said the company had no comment.  The case is In the Matter of Certain
Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS Devices) and Products
Containing Same, Complaint No. 2942, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  Zoll Medical Says It Won German Patent Case Against ELan Med  Zoll Medical, which was  acquired  by Japan’s  Asahi Kasei
Corp. (3407)  in 2012, said it won a patent-infringement case against
 ELan Med GmbH  in a German court.  The District Court of Munich granted Zoll’s request for an
order barring the distribution and sale of some ELan products
related to temperature-management systems that Zoll claimed
infringed its patents, Zoll said in a  statement .  The court said Zoll can recover damages from the sale of
infringing products since Jan. 18, 2012, according to Zoll’s
statement.  Jobs’s Patents Continue to Issue After Apple Founder’s Death  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  co-founder and former Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  has been dead for more than a year yet patents
continue to be issued listing him as one of the named inventors.  Jobs was identified as an inventor on  six U.S. patents 
issued yesterday, according to the database of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office. All were assigned to Cupertino,
California-based Apple and all were design patents covering
electronic devices or packaging.  The application for one of the patents -- D677,563 -- was
filed more than a month after Jobs’s death from pancreatic
cancer on Oct. 5, 2011.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Costco Responds to Tiffany Suit, Calls Setting ‘Generic’  Costco Wholesale Corp., the Issaquah, Washington-based
membership warehouse retail chain, responded to the trademark
infringement lawsuit filed by  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  on Feb. 14.  In a March 8 filing in federal court in Manhattan, Costco
denied that it infringed the New York-based luxury jeweler’s
trademarks by referring to the “Tiffany setting” used for some
of its diamond rings.  “Tiffany Setting” is a generic term “for ring settings
comprising multiple slender prong extending upward from a base
to hold a single gemstone,” Costco said in its filing.  Costco presented examples of dictionary references and
other ads that make reference to a Tiffany setting and said the
rings to which the jeweler objected were “unbranded rings
having Tiffany settings and accurately described as such.”  The membership-warehouse chain said that unlike Tiffany’s
own rings, which come in a blue box bearing the name “Tiffany &
Co.,” the rings it sells come in plain beige boxes with no
brand name embossed or engraved on them.  In addition to asking for dismissal of the case, Costco
asked the court to direct that Tiffany trademark registrations
be modified and restricted to make clear that “Tiffany” is a
generic term for a general type of setting.  The case is Tiffany & Co., v.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , 1:13-
cv-01041, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan)  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Defense Distributed Promises Plans for Guns You Can Make at Home  An Austin, Texas-based nonprofit has posted a  video  on
Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing site in which it says it
will make available plans for  guns that can be created by anyone
with access to a 3-D printer  and that it is opposed to all forms
of  intellectual property .  Defense Distributed  says in the video it wants to create an
“ unblockable open-source search engine  for all 3-D printable
parts.” People will be able to use the Internet search engine
to find plans to make what Defense Distributed calls “important
things, not trinkets, not lawn gnomes but things that
institutions and industries have an interest in keeping from
us.”  Defense Distributed lists guns and medical devices as among
the “important things” and promises there will be “no
takedowns ever” under pressure from IP-rights owners. The
organization “stands against artificial scarcity, intellectual
property, copyright, patentable objects and regulation in all
its forms,” according to the video.  Defense Distributed said  on its website  that its “first
order production goal” is to produce and publish a file for a
completely printable gun. It says it won’t go for something
fancy, just a “printable configuration of geometries and
materials” to allow for “the reliable and safe firing of a
single round of ammunition.”  The organization, which is seeking  donations via crowd-
funding  through its website, said its project “might change the
way we think about  gun control  and consumption. How do
governments behave if they must one day operate on the
assumption that any and every citizen has near instant access to
a firearm through the Internet?”  U.K. Parliament Member Calls Copyright Law Harmful to Designers  A member of the U.K.’s parliament said that proposed
changes to that nation’s copyright law may not give enough
protection to designers, the  BBC   reported .  Baroness Janet Whitaker, a member of the  Labour Party  and a
fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects, said March
11 that the U.K. had become a safe haven for copyright-
infringing replica designs, according to the BBC.  She introduced and later withdrew an amendment to extend
copyright rules to cover works made before 1957, the BBC
reported.  Baron Alan Howarth, also a Labour party member, spoke in
opposition, saying that extending copyright would perpetuate
monopolies, keep prices artificially high, and prevent people of
modest means from having beautiful things, according to the BBC.  Ikos’s Ambrosiadou Denies Being Wealthy Yacht Owner at Trial  Elena Ambrosiadou, the co-founder of hedge fund Ikos Asset
Management Ltd. involved in a dispute with her estranged husband
over its trading software, rejected reports that she is one of
Britain’s wealthiest women as she gave evidence in the trial.  “I didn’t have any personal wealth” in 2006 and still
don’t, the 55-year-old told a London court yesterday. Press
reports about her riches, including claims she owns the largest
sailing yacht in the world, are wrong and “very unfortunate,”
she said. “I’m not the owner of the Maltese Falcon,” she said,
although she is part of the team that looks after the vessel.  Martin Coward sued his wife’s company over ownership of the
copyright for Ikos’s trading technology. Ikos, which manages
about $1.36 billion in assets, filed a counterclaim accusing
Coward of stealing its software. It is one of more than 40
lawsuits pitting the couple against each other in at least four
countries.  Richard Hillgrove, Coward’s spokesman, and Phil Hall,
Ambrosiadou’s spokesman, declined to comment on the dispute.  Their marriage turned “toxic,” Coward’s lawyer Michael
Bloch said at the start of the trial last week, arguing that his
client, not Ambrosiadou, was the architect of the firm’s
success.  Ambrosiadou, who was born in Greece and educated in
 England , said yesterday she was responsible for Ikos’s business
while Coward was part of a trading team and “delivered what the
rest of the people engaged in that work were doing.”  “I was looking after the entirety of the operation,” she
told the court. Ambrosiadou said her business assets were held
in a family trust, and that she also co-owned a house in
Steyning, England, with Coward.  The case is Coward v. Phaestos Limited, U.K.  High Court  of
Justice,  Chancery Division , case no. HC10C02788  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  