-- Sugar Harvest in India Set to Drop on Maharashtra Drought: Pawar
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-03-13T12:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/sugar-harvest-in-india-set-to-drop-on-maharashtra-drought-pawar.html
Sugar output in India, the world’s
second-biggest producer, will probably decline for the second
year beginning in October as dry weather curbs planting,
Agriculture Minister  Sharad Pawar  said.  The lack of water is serious in Maharashtra, the second-
largest cane growing state, and will reduce sowing, Pawar said
in  New Delhi  today after a meeting of ministers. Production may
drop to 24 million metric tons from 24.5 million tons this
season, he said.  The decline in output may spur an increase in imports,
supporting futures. Prices fell 22 percent in the past year in
 New York  on a global supply glut. The government has withheld
supplies to meet drinking water needs in some districts of
Maharashtra, said Pawar. Lower output in the state may be partly
offset by a larger area in Uttar Pradesh, the biggest cane
producer, he said.  India may receive normal monsoon rains this year, Jatin
Singh, chief executive of Skymet Weather Services Pvt., said in
an interview yesterday. The chances of a drought are only 4
percent, according to Singh, who correctly predicted the event
in 2009. The  India Meteorological Department  will issue its
first monsoon forecast next month.  The drought situation in the Marathwada region of
Maharashtra state is the worst in 40 years, said Pawar today.
The situation is better in  Uttar Pradesh , he said.  The federal government approved a relief package of 12.07
billion rupees ($222 million) for Maharashtra, he said. A total
of 28.9 billion rupees was approved for seven states affected by
drought and floods, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  