-- Suntech Seen Not Getting Bailout From Chinese Government
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-14T07:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/suntech-seen-not-getting-bailout-from-chinese-government.html
China  won’t rescue  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  from its creditors because the former biggest
solar-panel maker needs to retrench along with the rest of the
industry, two advisers to government agencies said.  Officials in Beijing want to pare excess manufacturing
capacity and consolidate the $25 billion global industry that’s
led by China, said Li Junfeng, director of the climate-change
strategic research division at the government’s National
Development and Reform Commission.  “The government won’t intervene and shouldn’t,” Li said
in an interview. Meng Xiangan, vice chairman of the China
Renewable Energy Society, a liaison between the industry and the
state, said Suntech should “not rely on government
assistance.”  The comments from advisers with knowledge of the Chinese
government’s thinking cast doubt on whether Suntech, the largest
solar panel manufacturer in 2011, can avoid bankruptcy. The
company March 11 said it obtained an agreement from more than 60
percent of bond holders to delay repayment for two months on
$541 million of notes due tomorrow.  The national government wants to avoid a default, which
would be the first for a bond issued by a company based in
mainland China. Restructuring the solar industry is one of the
first issues confronting Premier  Li Keqiang  as his
administration takes over from  Wen Jiabao  this month.  Bankruptcy Risk  Suntech’s best course would be to “file for bankruptcy for
some assets and let a state-owned power enter to protect certain
interests,” Meng said. “The entire company won’t go bankrupt.
Its brand will remain alive.”  Two calls to Suntech’s Wuxi headquarters in Jiangsu
province and an e-mail to a company spokesman went unanswered
after regular business hours. Walker Frost, a spokesman for the
company in  San Francisco , declined to comment.  The  New York  Times yesterday reported that Suntech is close
to be taken over partially or entirely by Wuxi Guolian
Development Group Co., a holding company part-owned by the
municipal government. The newspaper cited solar-industry
executives who it didn’t name and an unidentified person who
answered the phone at Wuxi Guolian.  Suntech executives are negotiating with bondholders about
how to restructure payments on the $541 million of notes that
are convertible into shares as soon as tomorrow.  Local Support  The company is also in talks with the government of Wuxi
about financial assistance, though it’s not clear how much
support the local authority is prepared to give. Suntech got a
$32 million loan from Wuxi in September. In November,  LDK Solar
Co. (LDK) , China’s second-biggest supplier of wafers for solar cells
in 2011, sold a 19.9 percent stake for about $21.8 million to
Heng Rui Xin Energy Co., which is partly owned by the Xinyu
government, where it has a factory.  “The question is what kind of bailout Wuxi officials can
swing,” said Melanie Hart, a policy analyst at the Center for
American Progress in  Washington . “If the bailout isn’t backed
by a big  state bank , it may be only partial.  China Development
Bank  represents Beijing, not Wuxi, and Beijing is more concerned
with developing the industry as a whole than it is with saving
companies. We should not underestimate its ability to take a
pass on a deal that it sees as a bad bet.”  Shares of Suntech fell 24 percent to 83 cents at the close
in New York yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 26, giving the
company a market value of $149.5 million.  Solar Boom  China in the past three years wrested leadership over solar
manufacturing away from German and Japanese companies, extending
cheaper loans and cutting prices more quickly. That led to
production capacity more than doubling at each of its top five
panel manufactures.  That expansion supported a surge in installations of
photovoltaics to 30 gigawatts last year from 7.7 gigawatts in
2009, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The cost of
solar cell prices has plunged 72 percent over the same period,
including a 20 percent drop in 2012, widening losses at Chinese
solar companies.  Suntech, LDK,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) ,  Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. (YGE) ,  Hanwha SolarOne Co. (HSOL)  and Jinko Solar Holding Co. were among
12 companies that obtained more than $43.2 billion in credit
pledges from China Development Bank Corp., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Suntech have fallen 35 percent since March 4
after the board ousted founder Shi Zhengrong as chairman. The
Chinese analysts said that government funding for the solar
industry helped cause the problems.  Government Blamed  Suntech’s distress “was due to the governmental
intervention,” Li of the NRDC, China’s top economic planning
agency, said in a phone interview in Beijing late yesterday.  China reiterated it plans to promote consolidation among
solar companies in December. Suntech was the world’s biggest
panel maker in 2011 with shipments of 2.1 gigawatts and was tied
with  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  by factory capacity. It expects 2012
shipments to slip to 1.7 gigawatts to 1.8 gigawatts.  The solar panel glut is the result of “overheated
investment motivated by local governments that were keen on
economic growth in the past when we started developing the
photovoltaic business,” Meng said. “Suntech should mainly
depend on its own efforts to overcome the difficulties.”  Revenue Decline  Suntech’s  market value  slumped 72 percent in the past year
after losses of $646 million in the four quarters through March
2012. The company hasn’t released any financial reports since,
after announcing in July that it may have been the victim of
fraud involving 560 million euros ($726 million) of German bonds
that may have never existed.  Revenue dropped 18 percent to $387 million in the third
quarter as shipments of photovoltaics dropped 10 percent,
Suntech said on Dec. 7, when it published preliminary results.
It said it expected a “slightly negative” gross margin,
without giving more details.  Meng of the Renewable Energy Society said the glut is the
result of excess support from authorities, who are seeking to
create jobs.  “If companies can’t survive, even if they are saved, it’s
useless,” Meng said. “Our policy is very clear to encourage
mergers and acquisitions. Both state- and  privately-owned
entities can restructure or acquire each other. Restructuring or
mergers and acquisitions are in line with what the central
government requires.”  Bondholders  Suntech said 60 percent of bondholders have agreed to the
forbearance. Some of the remaining 40 percent of bondholders
said they weren’t contacted about a forbearance and want to be
paid on schedule tomorrow. The company may not be able to delay
the bond payments, said  Adam Cohen , the founder of Covenant
Review, a research firm in New York.  The bondholders have an “absolute right” to be repaid the
principal when the bonds mature, Cohen said in an interview
March 12. “It doesn’t matter that a majority or 60 percent
wants to wait 60 days.”  Shi, the former chairman, said March 5 that the company has
no plan in place to pay the debt. Susan Wang, formerly the chief
financial officer of the electronics manufacturing company
Solectron Corp., replaced Shi last week.  Suntech had about $2 billion of debt as of the end of
August, according to a bondholder presentation in November filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  