-- U.S. Approves 1,100 Megawatts of Wind, Solar Projects
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-03-13T21:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/u-s-approves-1-100-megawatts-of-wind-solar-projects.html
The U.S. approved three renewable-
energy projects to be built on federal land in California and
Nevada.  The two solar farms and one wind project are expected to
total 1,100 megawatts of capacity, enough to power more than
340,000 homes, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said today at a
press conference in San Francisco.  The U.S. doubled its use of renewable-energy during the
past four years and these projects are part of the Obama
administration’s strategy of promoting wider use of solar, wind
and geothermal energy on federal lands, he said. The solar farms
are in one of 17 zones approved by the Interior Department last
year to accelerate the approval process.  “They are the blueprint, the bible, if you will, of where
solar energy will go on public lands in the years ahead,”
Salazar said.  The 750-megawatt McCoy Solar Energy Project, owned by
 NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , and Electricite de France SA’s 150-megawatt
Desert Harvest plant will use photovoltaic technology and are in
Riverside County, in Southern California.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s 200-megawatt Searchlight Wind Energy
Project is in  Clark County , Nevada.  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison utility
received approval from state regulators last year to buy power
under a 20-year contract from McCoy’s first 250-megawatt phase,
which is expected to start producing power in late 2016.  EDF and Duke haven’t announced power-purchase agreements
and none of the three companies have named suppliers.  The Interior Department has approved 37 utility-scale clean
energy projects on federal land since 2009 that may power more
than 3.8 million homes, and it plans to complete review of 20
more this year and next, the agency said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  