-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall to 2-Year Low; Glaxo Sells Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-13T21:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-as-february-retail-sales-climb.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell to a two-year low as sales at retailers rose in
February by the most in five months.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.7
basis point to a mid-price of 79.1 basis points at 4:51 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest level since Feb. 8, 2011.  U.S. retail sales rose by 1.1 percent last month, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington , as an improved
job market and stronger household finances cushioned the effect
of higher payroll taxes. The median projection of 82 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent gain. An
improving economic environment may alleviate investor concern
that companies will have difficulty repaying their debt.  “Once again we have some optimistic economic results and
that’s one more factor supportive of credit markets,”  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, said today in a telephone interview.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Glaxo Issuance  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  issued $3 billion of bonds in its first
dollar-denominated sale in more than 10 months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.K.’s largest drugmaker sold
$1.25 billion of 0.7 percent, three-year notes to yield 35 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $1.25 billion of
2.8 percent, 10-year debentures at a 90 basis-point spread and
$500 million of 4.2 percent, 30-year bonds at 105, Boomberg data
show.  The company last sold dollar debt in May, issuing $5
billion in three parts including $2 billion of 2.85 percent, 10-
year bonds yielding 100 basis points more than benchmarks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds traded at
100.9 cents on the dollar to yield 2.74 percent yesterday,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index slid 5 basis points to 394.3 basis points, the
lowest level since Feb. 21, 2011, Bloomberg prices show.  Steel Prices  The cost to protect against default by  West Chester , Ohio-
based  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS)  rose as steel coil prices declined.  Five-year credit-default swaps on  AK Steel  increased to 19
percent upfront from 18.8 percent yesterday, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used in cars,
trucks and appliances,  dropped  13 percent to $605 a short ton
yesterday from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from The Steel Index. The commodity has declined 5.7
percent since Jan. 1.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt slipped 2.2 basis points to 490.2 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  