-- U.S. Beats Europe and Asia as Growing Property Investment Target
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-03-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/u-s-beats-europe-and-asia-as-growing-property-investment-target.html
Investors increased the amount of
equity they plan to commit to U.S. real estate by 19 percent to
$55 billion in the second half of last year, more than any other
region, according to London-based broker DTZ.  Money excluding debt intended for the Asia Pacific region
rose by 15 percent to $40 billion and planned equity investment
in  Europe  grew by 6 percent to $62 billion in the six
months through December, DTZ, a unit of Sydney-based  UGL Ltd. (UGL) ,
said in a statement today.  Buyers are more interested in offices, stores and
warehouses in the U.S. because investment in a single country is
seen as less risky and assets there aren’t perceived as
overpriced, the broker said. Prices for U.S. commercial property
are expected to climb in the next six months, extending a
rebound that has sent values close to levels reached at the
market’s peak in 2007, research firm Green Street Advisors Inc.
said this month.  The amount of new capital committed to real estate
investment fell by more than 30 percent to $34 billion in the
period compared with the previous six months as money managers
failed to meet target dates for fundraising, according to DTZ.  “Funds continue to remain focused on their home market or
region, reflecting the uncertain market environment and
investors’ risk aversion,” Hans Vrensen, DTZ’s global head of
research, said in the statement.  More than half of all real estate funds being raised are
targeting a single country, with 43 percent planning to invest
only in the U.S. Ten percent target  China  and 9 percent
concentrate on the U.K., the broker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  