-- TUI Says It Will Maintain Majority Shareholding in TUI Travel
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-13T12:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/tui-says-it-will-maintain-majority-shareholding-in-tui-travel.html
TUI AG (TUI1) , Europe’s largest tour
operator, said it has no plans to reduce its stake in  TUI Travel
Plc (TT/)  and will continue to exercise its role as majority
shareholder.  TUI commented in an e-mail today after Manager Magazin
reported that it was considering a sale of the stake in what
would be a “radical new start´´ for the Hanover-based company,
after a struggle for more power over the U.K. unit. TUI owns
more than 56 percent of TUI Travel, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  TUI Travel, based in Crawley,  England , has a market value
of 3.54 billion pounds ($5.3 billion), meaning the stake owned
by TUI is worth about $3 billion, more than the entire market
value of the holding company at about 2.1 billion euros ($2.7
billion). The parent also owns hotels and cruise ships.  TUI Chief Executive Officer Friedrich Joussen took over
from Michael Frenzel, who had headed the company for 19 years,
on Feb. 13. Joussen told shareholders on that day that he had
scrutinized the company’s tour operations, airlines, hotels and
cruises businesses, and he reiterated a commitment to sell its
remaining stake in Hapag-Lloyd AG,  Europe ’s fourth-largest
container line.  TUI has generated losses in three of the past six fiscal
years, partly blaming profits it has to distribute to minority
shareholders. The company on Feb. 13 reported its biggest first-
quarter loss in four years, and Joussen said he had “no
patience´´ if a part of the company didn’t deliver the right
performance.  The company on Jan. 23 said it dropped a plan to merge with
TUI Travel after investors opposed the deal.  TUI fell 0.3 percent to 8.18 euros at 1:47 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , and has climbed 4.2 percent this year. TUI Travel
dropped 1.1 percent, paring its advance to 12 percent since the
end of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  