-- USDA Says No Determination on How to Trim U.S. Sugar Surplus
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-03-13T15:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/usda-says-no-determination-on-how-to-trim-u-s-sugar-surplus-1-.html
The U.S. Department of Agriculture
hasn’t decided how to reduce the country’s sugar surplus, Justin
DeJong, a spokesman for the agency, said today in an e-mail.  DeJong was responding to a report that the government is
considering the purchase of 400,000 tons of sugar to prop up
falling domestic prices and to stave off defaults by processors
on $862 million in loans taken out under a government price-
support program. The potential purchase was reported by the Wall
Street Journal.  “We are considering several options” on how to reduce the
surplus, DeJong said in the e-mail.  Domestic raw-sugar prices slumped 37 percent in the past
year through yesterday to 21.75 cents a pound amid the biggest
glut in more than a decade. In the 12 months ending Sept. 30,
production will be 9.16 million short tons, the most since 2001,
USDA data shows.  That, plus rising imports, have boosted estimated
stockpiles to 20 percent of annual consumption, the highest in
12 years, according to the USDA. While the government tries to
limit purchases from overseas, its hands are sometimes tied by
free-trade agreements, in particular with  Mexico .  Government Loans  The government’s Commodity Credit Corporation offers loans
that guarantee a minimum price of 20.9 cents for unrefined
sugar. If it drops below that level, processors who get the
credits can repay their debt by selling to the USDA. Processors
have pledged 1.83 million short tons as collateral, equal to
about 20 percent of the projected crop. Government purchases may
support higher prices.  The possible purchase of 400,000 tons “does go some way to
patch up the oversupplied U.S. balance sheet but they will
probably need to double that to even things out,” Michael McDougall, a senior vice president at Newedge Group in New York
said in an e-mail.  The most sugar ever acquired by the government through the
program was 764,000 tons in the year ended Sept. 30, 2001.  “The market is under immense pressure,” Craig Ruffolo,
vice president at McKeany-Flavell, a broker in Oakland,
 California , said in an e-mail.  He cited record beet sugar production, a bumper sugar-cane
crop and Mexican imports, “all during a time period when food
and beverage companies are seeking to lessen caloric sweetener
content in many of their products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  