-- Metal Billionaire Plans Biggest Debt Refinance: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-03-14T10:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/vedanta-hires-banks-to-arrange-3-5-billion-debt-refinancing.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , the oil and
metals producer controlled by Indian billionaire Anil Agarwal,
is seeking about $3.5 billion of loans in its biggest refinance
plan to help extend maturity of the debt.  The London-based company has hired  Bank of America Corp. ,
Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to arrange the financing,
according to three people familiar with the matter. Vedanta will
raise about $1 billion from banks, while the remaining $2.5
billion will be sourced from the U.S. institutional loans
market, two of the people said, asking not to be to be
identified before an official announcement.  Agarwal, who paid $8.67 billion to buy oil producer  Cairn
India Ltd. (CAIR)  in December 2011, will use part of the proceeds to
pay debt taken to fund the purchase. Vedanta’s  interest costs 
have risen fourfold in the two years to March 31 even as its
 iron ore  and aluminum units in  India  struggle to boost output
amid a crackdown on mining to protect the environment.  “If Vedanta were to refinance, we will review the rating
outlook, if that helps reduce the near-term debt maturities,
which is one of our major concerns,” Mehul Sukkawala, a Mumbai-
based credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s said in a phone
interview. “Global  interest rates  are low and companies are
taking advantage to raise funds for refinancing.”  Yields on Vedanta’s 9.5 percent notes maturing July 2018
fell 88 basis points in 2013 to 5.45 percent, a record low,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  Non-Investment Grade  Vedanta spokesman Gaurav Sharma declined to comment on the
refinancing plan.  Vedanta, which has a BB  rating , two levels below investment
grade by  Standard & Poor’s , in August 2011 raised a 12-month
facility with a six month extension of $1.57 billion, and a
second $1.4 billion, three-year facility.  The latter pays a margin of 325 basis points more than the
 London  interbank offered rate for the first two years, stepping
up to 350 basis points in the third, while the former pays a 175
basis point-margin, stepping up to 210 for the last six months,
a person familiar with the matter had said then.  Average dollar borrowing costs touched an all-time low of
3.82 percent on March 4,  according to HSBC Holdings Plc as the
U.S. Federal Reserve holds benchmark interest rates at almost
zero and purchases $85 billion a month in bonds.  Reduce Liabilities  Vedanta, which owns India’s biggest copper producer
 Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  and iron ore miner  Sesa Goa
Ltd. (SESA)  in February 2012 said it will combine the companies to
reduce the liabilities of the parent. Vedanta has $17 billion of
debt, the most by a metal company operating in India.  Sesa Goa may report a second straight year of drop in
 profit  in the 12 months to March 31 after India’s  Supreme Court 
suspended extraction in the western state of Goa pending a probe
into violations of mining norms. The ban followed a similar
action in neighboring Karnataka in August 2011.  Net income at the company, which was India’s biggest iron
ore exporter, may drop 8 percent to 24.8 billion rupees ($456
million), according to a median  estimate  of 31 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The lack of  cash flow  from iron ore production may become
more acute at a time when Vedanta and its subsidiaries face
sizable refinancing requirements,” May Zhong, an analyst with
S&P said in a note dated Oct. 1. “This is because iron ore is a
key contributor to the cash flows of Sesa Sterlite, a subsidiary
that will be formed after a corporate reorganization at
Vedanta.”  High-Yield Loans  Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. may cut output at its four year-old
aluminum smelter in India because of a shortage of raw material,
two people familiar with the matter said in November. Earnings
at Vedanta’s aluminum business fell 48 percent in the year ended
March 31.  Sesa’s  shares  gained 0.8 percent to 165.15 rupees in
Mumbai, while Sterlite rose 0.6 percent to 99.15 rupees. The
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index dropped 0.2 percent. Vedanta
dropped 2.1 percent to 1145 pence at 10:32 a.m. in London.  “If the refinancing allows extension of near-term
maturities, it will be positive for equity shareholders since it
would reduce the cashflow stress,” said Prasad Baji, an analyst
with Edelweiss Financial Services in Mumbai.  Agarwal, who began building his metals empire by acquiring
copper-cable producer Shamsher Sterling Corp. from the king of
Nepal in 1979, joins Indonesia Eximbank and India’s  Amtek Auto
Ltd. (AMTK)  in planing to refinance dollar-denominated debt.  Indonesia Eximbank has approached banks seeking a $500
million, three-year  term loan , according to two people familiar
with the matter. Amtek plans to borrow $125 million to refinance
an earlier $250 million facility, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  North American asset managers, facing a fifth year of near-
zero benchmark interest rates, are buying into the high-yield
loan market at a record pace. Investors deposited $5 billion
into U.S. funds that purchase floating-rate debt last month,
adding to the $4.4 billion of inflows in January, according to
figures from Bank of America.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  