-- Venezuela Cracks Down on Opposition Tweets as Election Heats Up
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-13T21:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/venezuela-cracks-down-on-opposition-tweets-as-election-heats-up.html
Venezuela ’s government is
monitoring social networking websites for messages from the
opposition that might destabilize the country in the run-up to
next month’s election pitting Hugo Chavez’s handpicked successor
against the socialist leader’s former rival.  Authorities today arrested a computer technician for
allegedly sending “inappropriate” and “destabilizing”
messages from a hacked account, Interior and Justice Minister
Nestor Reverol said on state-owned television. He didn’t provide
details of the messages.  “We are going to be very watchful,” Reverol said. “We
won’t permit one millimeter of destabilization.”  The warning comes two days after acting President Nicolas Maduro and Miranda state Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski
registered to compete in an April 14 election to replace Chavez,
who died March 5. News that the state is overseeing social
networking sites owned by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. is
designed to quiet the opposition, said analyst Carlos Romero.  “This is a strategy of intimidation,” Romero, a political
scientist at Venezuela’s Central University, said by phone from
Caracas. “The government is doing everything possible to reduce
the opposition’s political impact in Venezuela. They’re trying
to instill fear.”  The ministry’s press office declined to comment when phoned
by Bloomberg News, saying only the minister or president was
authorized to speak to the press.  The campaign already has sparked accusations of misdeeds on
both sides.  Capriles, who lost to Chavez in October elections, on March
10 accused Maduro of lying about the timing of Chavez’s death
and of exploiting the president’s passing for political gain.
Maduro replied today by saying on state TV the accusation
threatened to create an “explosion” of violence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  