-- Venezuela to Create New Parallel Exchange Rate, Ramirez Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-03-13T21:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/venezuela-to-create-new-parallel-exchange-rate-ramirez-says.html
Venezuela  will establish a new
parallel exchange rate as it seeks to crack down on a black
market in which the dollar is worth about four times more than
the official rate, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said.  “We’ll announce measures that will establish another
reference for the parallel dollar,” Ramirez told reporters in
Caracas today. “There’s a permanent attack against our currency
by enemies.”  Venezuela plans to create an alternative currency market to
expand the supply of dollars at a weaker exchange rate, said a
government official familiar with the matter. The government is
finalizing operational details of the new market that will
exchange cash and dollar-denominated bonds, said the official,
who asked not to be named because no final decision has been
made. The announcement will be made before the April 14
presidential election, the official said.  Before his death from cancer on March 5, former President
Hugo Chavez approved a 32 percent devaluation that weakened the
currency to 6.3 bolivars per dollar. He also shut down a central
bank-administered currency market that weakened the dollar on
the black market to about 22.5 bolivars, according to  Dolar
Today  and Liberal Venezolano, two websites that track the
exchange rate on the Venezuelan-Colombian border. The so-called
Sitme system that was closed traded at 5.3 bolivars per dollar.  Black Market  Interim President Nicolas Maduro’s government will
implement economic measures approved by Chavez before his death,
Ramirez said. More details will be announced by the government’s
exchange rate administration office, he said.  Establishing a parallel currency market would bring down
the rate of the black market dollar, said  Asdrubal Oliveros ,
director of Ecoanalitica, a Caracas-based financial consultancy.  “We understand that it won’t be a parallel market where
people can go and freely buy or sell dollars as they wish,”
Oliveros said in a phone interview. “It will be a restricted
alternative currency market with an exchange rate different from
the official dollar, which means the government won’t be able to
eliminate the black market altogether.”  Venezuela has sufficient foreign currency to meet demand
and the current foreign exchange rate system operated by a board
known as Cadivi is working normally, Ramirez said.  Scarcity  “Fortunately, we have absolute control of oil income to
make the adjustments on what needs to be adjusted,” he said.  Venezuela’s scarcity index that measures the amount of
goods out of stock on the market reached its highest level on
record in January as the government cut the supply of dollars to
importers.  Chavez, who first established currency controls in 2003, in
2010 shut down an unregulated market operated by bond brokerages
that supplied about $100 million a day to importers. That was
reduced to $45 million after Chavez shuttered the market and
replaced it with the Sitme, which was closed in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 