-- VMware Gains on Faster Sales Growth Outlook
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-03-13T20:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/vmware-s-gelsinger-meets-analysts-as-shares-slump.html
VMware Inc. (VMW)  rose the most in eight
months after Chief Executive Officer Pat Gelsinger forecast
accelerating revenue growth, easing investor concern that he’s
not moving swiftly enough into new businesses.  VMware’s stock advanced 8.1 percent to $81.37 at the close
in New York, the biggest gain since July 18.  EMC Corp. (EMC) , VMware’s
majority owner, also issued an outlook for annual sales growth
of at least 8 percent, lifting its shares by 1.8 percent to
$24.90.  VMware’s revenue will increase 15 percent in 2014 and as
much as 20 percent in the following two years, the company said
today at a meeting with analysts. VMware also plans an initial
public offering for Pivotal, a joint venture with EMC. Investors
had been seeking evidence that Gelsinger, CEO since September,
can boost growth after the acquisition of Nicira Inc., which
stepped up VMware’s competition with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   “Today’s model conversation should allay investor concerns
of any material fall-off in growth around the corner,” Rob Owens, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities LLC, said in an
interview.  Pivotal will be formed from assets from both VMware and
EMC, and will seek to sell shares to the public, EMC CEO Joseph Tucci said. The venture will have about $300 million in sales
this year, and be 69 percent owned by EMC, with VMware holding
the rest. Tucci didn’t specify the IPO’s timing.  Restructuring Plan  VMware, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , had plunged 25
percent in the past 12 months through yesterday, and was trading
at its lowest value  relative  to the Morgan Stanley Technology
Index on a price-to-earnings basis since December 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company had issued a forecast on Jan. 28 that first-
quarter revenue will be $1.17 billion to $1.19 billion,  below 
the range of analysts’ estimates, sending the stock down the
most since 2008. VMware is known for past instances of  issuing 
disappointing forecasts, only to soar above the reduced
expectations when reporting results.  This time, the lower projections were accompanied by
VMware’s first-ever companywide job cuts, part of a
restructuring plan costing as much as $110 million. That’s a
sign that VMware has matured from a growth company to one that
must reduce spending to shore up profits amid tepid sales
increases, according to Mark Moerdler, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. He has a market perform rating on the stock.  EMC Outlook  Parent EMC, the world’s biggest maker of storage computers,
forecast that profit excluding certain costs will rise 10
percent annually through 2016 as it increases market share,
Chief Financial Officer David Goulden said today at the meeting
in  New York .  The high-end storage market will expand 1 percent to 3
percent a year through 2016. The emerging storage market will
jump more than 25 percent a year in the same period, he said.  EMC, based in Hopkinton,  Massachusetts , has been making
acquisitions, mainly in storage and security software, to fuel
growth and fend off competition from former partners such as
Dell Inc. and Oracle Corp., which are targeting the $70.1
billion storage industry.  The security market will increase by 10 percent to 14
percent annually, Goulden said.  Maturing Business  VMware is expecting a flush of contract renewals in its
core businesses later this year. Gelsinger needs the size of
those contracts to increase and for new businesses to take off
in order to stave off the pressure that slowing revenue growth
is exerting on the company’s shares.  Analysts  project  VMware’s sales will rise 15 percent this
year, half as much as the rate two years ago, and the slowest
since 2009.  One promising area is software-based networking, a plan
jump-started by the purchase of Nicira last year. While VMware
paid $1.26 billion for the startup, Nicira’s revenue is
negligible, said Moerdler. The other area is management
software, a space with plenty of competition from  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  BMC Software Inc. (BMC)   VMware is the market leader for virtualization software,
which runs multiple operating systems on a single server,
letting companies to buy and operate fewer machines.  “VMware’s problem overall is where else can they make
money?” said James Staten, an analyst at Forrester Research
Inc. “They have to bring virtualization to other places like
network and storage, which is why Nicira is important.”  Competing products by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and the freely
virtualization software  Xen Hypervisor  are also taking some
share and pushing down prices.  Pivotal Spinoff  Last year, Gelsinger moved to VMware from EMC, replacing
Paul Maritz, who -- as the executive overseeing strategy and
cloud initiatives at EMC -- will lead the Pivotal initiative.  VMware said today that Pivotal will have 1,250 employees
and make its public market debut after about 12 months or more,
VMware said today. Some investors are also concerned that the
spinoff of Pivotal will rob VMware of future sales, according to
Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. He rates
the stock a buy.  The Pivotal spinoff probably benefits parent EMC more than
VMware, and is part of a series of steps to “make a more
efficient EMC portfolio,” Staten said.  Investors will have to wait at least a quarter or two
before deciding whether January’s sales forecast turns out to be
a shift in the market environment or the new management team
setting a low bar, said Mizuho’s Lamba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  