-- Wall Street May Lose in $541 Million Suntech Bond Default
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-03-13T04:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/wall-street-may-lose-in-541-million-suntech-bond-default.html
Five Wall Street investment and
hedge funds have the most to lose as China’s  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  seeks more time to repay $541 million of
convertible debt.  Mount Kellett Capital Management LP, Driehaus Capital
Management LLC, Pioneer Investment Management Inc., Silverback
Asset Management LLC and Susquehanna International Group LLP
owned about 32 percent of the debt, according to December public
filings compiled by Bloomberg. The Wuxi-based company that was
once the world’s biggest solar panel maker said March 11 that
more than 60 percent of holders had agreed to extend the
repayment date to May 15 from March 15.  Global demand for solar panels has slowed as government
support waned, driving  prices  down 20 percent in 2012 and
prompting losses at the Chinese manufacturers that make up the
majority of the 17-member Bloomberg Global Large Solar Energy
 index . Government agencies and  China  Development Bank Corp. have
provided support to at least two struggling solar companies this
year, averting the Asian nation’s first onshore bond default.  Investing in Suntech is “a speculative bid that the
government will rescue the company,” said Noel Hebert, chief
investment officer in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon
Wealth Management, which oversees about $250 million and doesn’t
own Suntech debt. In a restructuring, bondholders “don’t have
much of a chance at recovery,” he added.  Suntech is “working to find a resolution,” Chief
Executive Officer David King said in the March 11 statement,
which didn’t explain how Suntech will meet the new deadline or
why it lacks 100 percent support. The company said yesterday it
will stop production at its Goodyear,  Arizona , plant in April.  Bondholders Surprised  Colin Peterson, who said he is a bondholder through his
distressed debt-focused hedge fund Trondheim Capital Partners LP
in Scottsdale, Arizona, said he wasn’t aware of the forbearance
agreement until it was announced.  “We were a little surprised to see that they pushed back
this bond maturity,” he said in an interview. “We’re not aware
of any way they can do that.”  The bonds fell 2.4 percent to 30.25 cents on the dollar
yesterday, according to Trace, the reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. They rallied from a 12-
month low of 25.1 cents on Dec. 6 to 56 on Jan. 9. The American
depositary receipts fell 5.2 percent to $1.09 in New York.  Bond Default  The forbearance agreement is still “tantamount to a
default” since the notes aren’t being paid as agreed, according
to Vicki Bryan, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in New York.
Bondholders may have few options besides granting the extension
given Suntech’s debt load, she said.  Shi Zhengrong, the former chairman, said March 5 the
company has no plan in place to pay the debt. Susan Wang,
formerly the chief financial officer of the electronics
manufacturing company Solectron Corp., replaced Shi last week.
Shi founded Suntech in 2001 after earning a doctorate in
electrical engineering from  Australia ’s University of New South
Wales and serving as executive director of Pacific Solar Pty. in
Sydney. Suntech was the world’s biggest solar-panel company in
2011 with shipments of 2.1 gigawatts.  The company’s market value slumped 60 percent in the past
year to $196 million after  losses  of $646 million in the four
quarters through March 2012. The company hasn’t released any
financial reports since, after announcing in July that it may
have been the victim of fraud involving 560 million euros ($734
million) of German bonds that may have never existed.  Suntech had about $2 billion of debt as of the end of
August, according to a bondholder presentation in November filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Local Government  The company is talking with Wuxi’s government about aid.
Wuxi Suntech Power Co., a unit of Suntech Power Holdings Co.,
may seek bankruptcy protection by March 20 and sell a stake to
state-owned Wuxi Guolian Development (Group) Co., the China
Business Journal reported, citing a person it didn’t identify.  Mount Kellett owns 12 percent of the bond, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Daniel Gagnier, a spokesman,
declined to comment. Spokesmen for Driehaus, Pioneer, Silverback
and Susquehanna didn’t respond to interview requests. It’s not
clear at what price the funds bought the debt or whether their
holdings have changed this year.  “The Wuxi government may be driven to save some of the
local assets owned by Suntech, while they won’t rescue the
entire listed company which mainly involves overseas
investors,” said Wang Haisheng, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Minsheng Securities Co. “The government is more prone to spin
off the assets.”  While the location of the debt outside of China reduces
bondholders’ claims to onshore assets and limits their leverage,
it also attracts publicity to any default, said Charles Yonts,
an energy analyst at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Haircut Only  The most likely scenario is “that convertible bond holders
take some sort of haircut,” he said. “I don’t think that
Suntech would be a top choice as a potential company to fail,
given the high domestic and global profile.”  China may become the largest market for solar panels this
year as the global market grows 14 percent to install 34.1
gigawatts, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Other Chinese solar companies are getting state aid as air
pollution reaches hazardous levels in major cities.  LDK Solar
Co. (LDK) , the second-biggest maker of wafers, said Jan. 31 that it
received approval for a 440 million yuan ($70.8 million) loan
from state-owned China Development Bank Corp.  LDK is safer than Suntech after selling stakes and securing
loans from China Development Bank, said Lian Rui, a Beijing-
based analyst at research company NPD Solarbuzz, adding that its
board, investors and government backers are “more united.”  Deadlines Met  Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology Co. (002506) 
enlisted China Securities Depository & Clearing to help it make
an interest payment to bond investors March 3. Its 1 billion-
yuan bond is due in 2017.  No company has defaulted on publicly traded debt in China
since the central bank began regulating the market in the late
1990s, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The  yield  on
five-year corporate bonds rated AA- dropped nine basis points
this month to 6.29 percent, according to Chinabond. The  rate  on
similar-maturity government notes was little changed at 3.29
percent. The gap between the two yields is 300, the lowest since
June 2011.  China Economy  Confidence in China’s economy is improving. Five-year
credit-default swaps protecting sovereign notes against non-
payment fell five basis points last month to 64 as of Feb. 28 in
New York and was recently at 62, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The  yuan  gained 0.04
percent to 6.2140 per dollar in  Shanghai .  “This could be the first high-profile test case, as other
solar companies are also in distress,” said Yang Liu, a
convertible bond analyst in Hong Kong at Daiwa Capital Markets
Co. “With so many banks involved, with political intention
involved, it won’t be a straight-forward default case if it
comes to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  