-- Wall Street Banks Eligible for Expanded RQFII, PBOC’s Li Says
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-03-13T08:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/wall-street-banks-eligible-for-expanded-rqfii-pboc-s-li-says.html
American and European financial
companies with units in Hong Kong can use  yuan  raised offshore
to invest in  China ’s capital markets as part of a recently
expanded program, according to the central bank.  “Financial institutions in Hong Kong, no matter Chinese or
Hong Kong, or American or European, can now participate in
RQFII” in a move aimed at supporting the offshore yuan business
in Hong Kong, Li Bo, head of the second monetary policy
department at the People’s Bank of China, said during a lecture
at Shue Yan University in the city today. “There are now no
limitations.”  The China Securities Regulatory Commission opened its
 Renminbi  Qualified Institutional Investor Program last week to
financial institutions that have “major business operations”
in Hong Kong. Before the expansion, only Chinese brokerages and
asset managers were allowed to participate.  London-based Standard Chartered Plc, which got about 18
percent of its 2012 revenue from Hong Kong, is “very
interested” in taking part in the RQFII program,  Benjamin Hung ,
chief executive officer for the city, said on March 7.  Li said China hopes the yuan can be part of the
International Monetary Fund’s Special Drawing Rights, an
international reserve asset created in 1969 that can be
exchanged for freely traded currencies.  Payments System  The PBOC doesn’t set targets for the yuan’s
internationalization, choosing instead to “relax regulations
and give the choice to the market,” Li said. China is
developing an international payments system for cross-border
yuan trade settlement because more countries are utilizing their
swap agreements with the PBOC to support companies that conduct
trade in the Chinese currency, he said.  China’s efforts to take its currency global and make it
convertible have drawn lots of interest overseas.  London  is
competing with Paris and Zurich to become the center for yuan
trading in  Europe . After a meeting last month, the Bank of
England said it has the inside edge to be the first Group of
Seven central bank to sign a currency-swap agreement with the
PBOC.  The Qianhai district of Shenzhen, a city that borders Hong
Kong, was last year chosen as the testing ground for yuan
convertibility, with 15 banks based in Hong Kong providing about
2 billion yuan ($322 million) to companies this January.  The PBOC isn’t worried that cross-border lending will drain
Hong Kong’s yuan pool, Li said, adding that the pilot program
will raise the returns on offshore yuan and boost holdings of
the Chinese currency outside the nation.  The yuan’s exchange rate is near its “equilibrium” level
as China’s trade surplus as a ratio of gross domestic product
has declined, Li said. “There won’t be significant appreciation
or depreciation,” he said, adding that the central bank will
continue to increase the flexibility of the exchange rate.  The yuan gained 0.03 percent to 6.2141 per dollar as of
4:27 p.m. in  Shanghai . Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards in
Hong Kong rose 0.13 percent to 6.2993 per dollar, a seventh
straight gain that marks the longest winning streak since 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  