-- White Testimony, Basel Leverage, Money Funds: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-13T12:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/white-testimony-basel-leverage-money-funds-compliance.html
Mary Jo White, President  Barack
Obama ’s choice to run the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, told lawmakers that her work for Wall Street firms
won’t affect her ability to be a zealous advocate for investors.  The scope of any conflicts of interest is “quite narrow”
and would mostly affect SEC enforcement cases, White, 65, said
yesterday at a  Senate Banking Committee  hearing on her
nomination. Her participation in writing regulations will be
unaffected by her previous representation of clients such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and UBS AG as a defense
lawyer, she said.  White told the panel she was “exceptionally aggressive”
against large institutions when she was a U.S. attorney from
1993 to 2002, and said public investors “should know I am their
advocate.”  “While I will have recusals, as many nominees, mine are
not out of the ordinary in scope,” White said. “In general,
I’m not recused from any SEC rulemaking or policy matters.”  White drew bipartisan support at the hearing before the
Democrat-led panel. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, trumpeted White’s record as a former U.S. attorney who
prosecuted terrorists, mobsters and inside traders.  She told the committee that the SEC, not the banking
regulators who are members of the Financial Stability Oversight
Council, should write new rules for money-market mutual funds.  Money funds are “in the heartland of the SEC’s
expertise,” she said.  White was the focus of most questions at the hearing, where
senators also questioned  Richard Cordray , Obama’s nominee to be
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Republicans are blocking full Senate consideration of Cordray,
looking to restructure the bureau’s leadership and gain
oversight over its budget before voting on a permanent director.  Senate Republicans haven’t publicly expressed reservations
about White’s nomination.  For video of the hearings, click here.  Compliance Policy  Fidelity Sees Consensus on Limiting Scope of Money-Fund Overhaul  Fidelity Investments, the biggest U.S. manager of money-
market mutual funds, said there is growing agreement among
company leaders and regulators to limit any new rules for the
products to those eligible to buy corporate debt.  Fidelity, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are among
companies that have urged regulators to exclude money-market
mutual funds that invest solely in government-backed or
municipal securities if they introduce new rules for the product
that houses $2.6 trillion in assets.  The presidents of all 12 Federal Reserve regional banks
also signed a letter on Feb. 12 that, while calling for tougher
rules, said changes should initially focus on so-called prime
funds, or those that can buy corporate debt.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to
take up as early as this month a proposed overhaul being
prepared by the agency’s staff. Commissioners are under pressure
from the  Financial Stability Oversight Council , a panel of
senior regulators charged under the Dodd-Frank Act with
identifying systemic financial risks, to re-examine proposals
they declined to take up in August.  Regulators have debated how to make money funds safer since
the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund.  The biggest money-fund providers fought a 2010 proposal by
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  that introduced minimum
liquidity levels. Schapiro later shelved her plan.  For more, click here.  Banks’ Debt Addiction Said to Face Scrutiny at Basel Group  A planned international limit on bank indebtedness will be
on the agenda of every meeting of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision this year as regulators seek to wean lenders off
their addiction to debt, according to three people familiar with
the talks.  Regulators are preparing to fight lenders over the details
of the so-called leverage ratio as they seek to toughen rules on
the minimum amount of capital they must use to back their
investments. The Basel group, which brings together supervisors
from 27 nations, will meet in the Swiss city today, according to
the people, who asked not to be identified because the meetings
are confidential.  Concern over how banks calculate reserves has led U.K. bank
regulator Adair Turner and U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
board member Jeremiah Norton to call for tougher leverage
ratios. Global supervisors in 2010 included a draft leverage
ratio in an overhaul of rules, known as Basel III, drawn up in
response to the financial crisis that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Leverage ratios force banks to hold capital equivalent to a
percentage of the value of their assets. Settling the details of
the leverage ratio is a priority for the Basel committee because
of a Jan. 1, 2015, deadline for large banks to begin disclosing
how well they measure up to the rule. The Basel leverage ratio
would be a minimum standard for banks from 2018, with national
regulators free to set tougher rules.  Work on the measure should “be largely completed this
year,”  Stefan Ingves , the Basel committee’s chairman, said in a
speech in Basel yesterday. The group’s activities will be
focused on defining how assets are captured by the leverage
ratio, he said.  For more, click here.  Swap Traders Seeking Help in Exiting Positions Under Dodd-Frank  New rules mandating that swaps be backed by clearinghouses
and executed on regulated systems are complicating investors’
ability to exit the derivatives trades, according to money
manager  AllianceBernstein Holding LP. (AB)   Regulation created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act will require
that most swaps be traded on exchanges or similar electronic
systems known as swap-execution facilities. Investors who want
to terminate contracts that are no longer the most actively
traded, such as a five-year interest-rate swap with only 3 1/2
years left before expiration, are still required to use those
systems rather than negotiate a price directly with dealers as
they typically would.  Reforms related to swap-execution facilities and other
changes to the $639 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market
will be discussed this week in Boca Raton, Florida, at the
annual conference of the  Futures Industry Association .
Executives from BlackRock Inc.,  Nasdaq OMX Group (NDAQ) , Vanguard
Group, and trueEX, are expected to speak in panel discussions.  Under the new regulations, the process for exiting a
portfolio of such trades should be similar to how block futures
trades are negotiated off exchange, Sunil Hirani, chief
executive officer of trueEX, said in a telephone interview.  The CFTC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are
writing Dodd-Frank rules for swap execution facilities that
compete with exchanges, including those operated by  CME Group (CME) 
and Intercontinental Exchange Inc., for trading of interest
rate, credit and other swaps. The rules are meant to reduce risk
and boost transparency.  The five-member CFTC has been negotiating since late last
year on final regulations for trading platforms.  ASIC Welcomes ASX’s Updated Guidance on Continuous Disclosure  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , Australia’s primary stock exchange, and the
 Australian Securities & Investments Commission  share
responsibility for regulating the continuous disclosure
framework that applies to ASX-listed entities.  Updated rules were lodged with ASIC today, ASIC said on its
website. Unless disallowed, ASIC understands ASX will have the
updated rules and the guidance note take effect about May 1.  Compliance Action  Deutsche Bank Top Tax Manager Said to Be Suspect in CO2 Probe  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s head of tax for continental Europe is
among the suspects in Frankfurt prosecutors’ investigation of
carbon-emission certificate trades, two people familiar with the
matter said.  The executive and a tax-compliance manager are being probed
in the case over evading value-added tax, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the suspects haven’t been
disclosed publicly. German financial regulator Bafin is also
looking into the case, they said.  Investigators in December raided Deutsche Bank’s Frankfurt
headquarters, arresting five employees.  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  said the bank was
cooperating with prosecutors and declined to comment on the
identity of any suspects. An e-mail and call to the tax
executive wasn’t immediately returned.  The lender, its executives and employees have denied the
allegations. The five arrested employees were released within a
week.  Bafin asked Frankfurt prosecutors to give them access to
their case files, according to one of the people. While the
request was denied, the regulator asked the bank to be kept
updated, the person said. A request for information is the first
step the regulator takes when an issue needs closer scrutiny.  Bafin spokesman Sven Gebauer declined to comment, as did
Guenter Wittig, a spokesman for Frankfurt prosecutors.  For more, click here.  U.K. Agency Probing Autonomy Says Software Use May Pose Conflict  U.K. fraud prosecutors’ use of Autonomy Corp. software may
present a conflict of interest that could stop their
investigation of claims by Hewlett-Packard Co. that Autonomy
managers misrepresented results.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office, which informed  Hewlett-
Packard (HPQ)  last month that it had opened an investigation into
allegations of wrongdoing against Autonomy managers, is “making
inquiries” on whether they can continue the probe because it
uses Autonomy’s Introspect product, the agency said yesterday.  The U.K. probe follows one by the U.S. Justice Department,
Hewlett-Packard said in a  filing  March 11 with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Hewlett-Packard booked an $8.8 billion writedown last year
tied to its $10.3 billion 2011 buyout of Autonomy. It said more
than $5 billion of that resulted from the U.K. company’s
accounting practices and that about $200 million of Autonomy’s
revenue was prematurely or improperly recorded.  Former Autonomy executives, including Mike Lynch, the ex-
chief executive officer, sought a meeting with the SFO in
December, and the office later contacted them, according to a
representative of Lynch.  “We had written to them in December to request a meeting
because we want to know the substance of HP’s vague allegations
and want to have a chance to respond to them,” the spokesman
said. “We continue to have confidence that HP’s allegations are
without merit.”  David Jones , a spokesman for the SFO, confirmed that the
agency opened an investigation after HP gave it a file of
evidence in November. The formal probe was opened last month, he
said. He declined to identify which individuals are under
investigation.  For more, click here.  Courts  Germany Risks EU Fine for Failing to Comply With VW Law Ruling  Germany may be forced to pay millions of euros in penalties
by the European Union’s highest court for failing to change its
so-called Volkswagen law to conform to EU rules.  Germany’s changes to a law that shielded  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  from
takeovers since 1960 continue to violate the bloc’s rules
because government veto powers at the company still exist, the
European Commission argued in a lawsuit at the EU Court of
Justice. Instead of scrapping three provisions that were ruled
unlawful by the court, the country abolished two and kept the
blocking minority, the commission said.  The EU’s top court in October 2007  overturned  the law that
protected Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen by capping
shareholder’s voting rights at 20 percent, regardless of the
size of their holdings. That matched the stake held during the
previous four decades by the German state of Lower Saxony, where
Wolfsburg is located. Germany now faces a fine for failing to
end Lower Saxony’s blocking minority at the carmaker when it
modified the law in 2008.  The commission, which won the 2007 case,  sued Germany  in
2012 again over its “piecemeal approach” to changing the law.
The EU executive authority wants Germany to pay a penalty of
31,114 euros ($40,535) a day from the 2007 ruling until it
complies or until the ruling in yesterday’s case, and a 282,725-
euro daily fine from the ruling in yesterday’s case until the VW
law is in line with EU rules.  Nils Wahl, an advocate general that advises the EU court,
said he expects to finish his non-binding opinion on the case by
May 29. Court rulings normally follow within four to six months
after an opinion.  The case is:  C-95/12 , European Commission v. Federal
Republic of Germany.  Interviews/Speeches  Bair Comments on Outlook for Banking Regulation, Taxation  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair
talked about the outlook for bank regulations and tax changes.
She also discussed U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul
Ryan’s budget plan for fiscal year 2014.  Bair, currently a senior adviser at  Pew Charitable Trusts ,
spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Levitt Calls Mary Jo White ‘Right’ Person to Head SEC  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, talked about the prospects that Mary Jo
White will be confirmed as head of the SEC.  White, former U.S. attorney for the Southern District of
New York, faced skepticism from senators about her ties to Wall
Street. Levitt, a Bloomberg LP board member, spoke with
Bloomberg Television’s Erik Schatzker.  For the video, click here.  U.K. FSA’s Wheatley Says Concerned by Wealth-Management Review  The U.K. finance regulator’s recent review of sales
practices at six retail banks’ wealth-management divisions is
“worrying,” said Martin Wheatley, a managing director at the
agency.  The Financial Services Authority has “concerns both over
the suitability of investment portfolios, as well as banks’
ability to demonstrate suitability, in a significant number of
customer files,” Wheatley said in prepared remarks for a London
speech. “We are even more worried that the firms’ own
compliance departments identified a much smaller number.”  The FSA will be replaced on April 1 by the Financial
Conduct Authority, which will have an increased focus on
protecting British consumers, and the Prudential Regulation
Authority, which will become a unit of the Bank of England,
keeping watch on systemic financial issues.  Wheatley, who will lead the FCA, said he will set up a
wealth-management supervision department to increase oversight.  Comings and Goings  Putin Names Kremlin Aide Nabiullina to Head Russian Central Bank  Elvira Nabiullina, a Kremlin aide and former economy
minister, was nominated by President  Vladimir Putin  to head the
Russian central bank, the first woman to take over a Group of
Eight monetary authority.  Putin said yesterday that he would submit Nabiullina’s
nomination to lawmakers. Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, 65, must
retire June 24 when his third and final term ends.  As the first new choice in more than a decade, Nabiullina,
49, will need to cope with a deteriorating economy, accelerating
inflation and the biggest-ever expansion of the regulator’s
remit to create a U.K.-style mega-regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  