-- Wife Hannigan Eats Lover’s Heart In ‘Written on Skin’
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-03-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/wife-hannigan-eats-lover-s-heart-in-written-on-skin-.html
At the moment she’s pretending to
eat a cooked human heart. A few months ago, she was singing
opera en pointe and conducting the  Berlin Philharmonic .  The Canadian multi-tasking soprano Barbara Hannigan is
starring in the U.K. premiere of “Written on Skin” by  George
Benjamin  at the Royal Opera. She plays Agnes, a medieval wife
who finds liberation in an adulterous affair. When her husband
finds out, he makes her eat the heart of her lover. Funnily
enough, Agnes quite enjoys it.  Benjamin’s music is often exquisite and ethereal, in a
glacial and detached way. What gives the production its mojo is
a terrific central performance from Hannigan, for whom the role
was written, and powerful support from  Christopher Purves  (the
husband) and  Bejun Mehta  (the lover).  Hannigan’s voice has a pure beauty, and her acting is
physically mesmerizing.  I meet up with the 41-year-old singer in  Covent Garden .
Bouncing with energy after a rehearsal, she wears skinny jeans
and high-heeled boots. Flinging her legs over the arms of a
chair, she stretches like a contented cat. She talks about her
character, whom she plays with a taut, agitated stillness.  “Her situation feels real, and like something we can all
identify with,” she says. “These are primal feelings and
emotions. It’s oppression and liberation.”  The composer asked her to play a game with him to work out
how best to write for her.  Register Leaps  “He took a sheet of music paper and wrote a note,” she
says. “Then I wrote another, and he another few. He was trying
to work out how I liked to move. He saw I liked to leap around,
and not hang about in one register for too long.”  Hannigan, who has a virtuosic, flexible technique and
openness to experimentation, has performed in more than 80 world
premieres and worked with masters of contemporary music such as
Pierre Boulez,  Henri Dutilleux  and Gyorgy Ligeti. The situation
has brought its own problems.  “Some composers think I’m just some crazy virtuoso, and
try to outdo each other in a kind of one-upmanship game,” she
says. “It’s got to be crazier, higher, faster. George Benjamin
didn’t do that. Agnes is a more lyrical role -- he stayed true
to the character and himself.”  Agnes, who kills herself after she eats her boyfriend’s
heart, is not the only heroine in Hannigan’s repertoire who
comes to a sticky end.  Lingerie Lulu  Last year in Brussels she sang the role of Lulu in Alban Berg’s opera of the same name, and spent most of Act 1 and Act 3
en pointe, and plenty of the show in nothing but lingerie.  She must have had great ballet training, I suggest.  “No, I’d had some dance training, but I’d never been en
pointe in my life. It was the director’s idea. They took me to a
ballet shop, got me some shoes, and that was it.”  Wasn’t it agony?  “You know what? It was comfortable. Not physically -- it
hurt like hell. I mean it was right, and good, and symbolized
the drive that Lulu has to get anything she wants. It felt real,
and natural. I felt invincible in those pointe shoes. Then I’d
finish a show, limp to my dressing room, and there’d be a doctor
to give me some antibiotics.”  You can’t help but sense the perfectionist in Hannigan; she
carries it around like a force field. With her sense of humor,
it’s easy to see why composers fall over themselves to write for
her. If she’s going to do a thing, she gives everything to it.  Rattle Share  Not one to shirk a challenge, she’s also taken up
conducting, starting with a performance of Igor Stravinsky’s
“Renard” in Paris in 2011. In December last year, she shared
conducting duties with  Simon Rattle  in a performance of
“Facade” with the Berlin Philharmonic.  When she had the baton he narrated; when he did, she was
the speaker. In other concerts she’s sung and conducted
simultaneously.  Isn’t that rather like riding a unicycle and juggling live
cats at the same time?  “Not at all. Conducting gives me a parental feeling,” she
says. “It’s something neither male nor female -- that’s why I
say ‘parental.’ And I don’t mean that the players are like
children. I mean it’s a form of leadership that I don’t have
when I’m just making sounds myself.”  She’s in great shape. Has she ever felt a pressure to stay
slim to work in opera? “No, I’ve never had anyone say that. I
like to stay in shape because it makes me feel good, and I know
I benefit from being a good-looking person. Hey, the audience
benefits too.”  Her smile returns. “I sing some of the most challenging
and difficult repertoire ever written. When I come on stage and
look good, it softens the blow for the audience. At least for a
minute or two before the music starts.”  Rating: ***** for Hannigan, *** for the opera.  Barbara Hannigan is in “Written on Skin” at the Royal
Opera, Bow Street, London WC2E 9DD until March 22. Information:
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  For more information, and audio and video clips of Hannigan
at work,  http://www.barbarahannigan.com   Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night,  Ryan Sutton  on  New York 
restaurants and  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 