-- WL Ross Said to Seek $500 Million for Transportation Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-03-13T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/wl-ross-said-to-seek-500-million-for-transportation-fund.html
Wilbur Ross Jr. is seeking $500
million for a new private-equity fund that will buy distressed
shipping and other transportation assets, according to three
people familiar with the situation.  WL Ross & Co., the New York-based private-equity firm
founded by Ross that is now a unit of  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , is teaming
up with Oslo-based Astrup Fearnley AS to make investments in
distressed assets tied to transportation, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the fund is
private. The Transportation Recovery Fund recently had a first
close on $258 million, according to one of the people.  Private-equity firms such as Apollo Global Management LLC
and Blackstone Group LP are betting on a recovery in shipping as
they take advantage of depressed prices driven by a glut of
supply. A Mitsubishi Corp. subsidiary plans to seek $750 million
for a fund managed by former General Electric Co. shipping-team
members that will acquire  container ships  for lease to liner
companies, according to a presentation obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Bill Hensel, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Invesco Ltd.,
declined to comment on behalf of WL Ross. Astrup Fearnley didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail and phone message seeking
comment.  Ross, Stephen Toy, Patrick Machir and Wendy Teramoto as
well as three individuals from Astrup Fearnley will sit on the
investment committee of the fund, according to one of the people
familiar. Astrup Fearnley, founded in 1869 as a shipbroking and
agency business, provides services in shipping, offshore oil and
oil trading. The firm also has a finance arm that makes direct
investments in real estate, shipping and offshore.  30 Tankers  WL Ross, which manages about $9 billion, is taking
advantage of opportunities in the global  transportation
industry , especially rail and marine transport. The firm was
among investors that spent $900 million in 2011 on 30 tankers
carrying refined oil products, and in August it became the
largest shareholder of Navigator Holdings Ltd., which ships
liquefied petroleum gas.  WL Ross last year raised about $640 million from investors
for a new private-equity fund to buy distressed assets. The fund
gathered $2.2 billion if separate accounts and co-investments
are included.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  