-- World’s Biggest Colorless Diamond May Fetch $20 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-03-13T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/world-s-biggest-colorless-diamond-may-fetch-20-million.html
A pear-shaped colorless diamond is
estimated to sell for $20 million at an auction in Switzerland.  The D-color flawless stone, weighing 101.73 carats, will
feature in a jewelry auction by Christie’s International at the
Four Seasons Hotel des Bergues, Geneva, on May 15. It is the
largest colorless diamond of this optimum grade to appear at
auction and sold by a client who wishes to remain anonymous.  This is the first time the gem has appeared for sale and
the buyer will be able to name it, the London-based company said
today in an e-mail. The stone was recently cut from a rough
diamond, weighing 236 carats, that had been found at the Jwaneng
mine in  Botswana . It took 21 months to polish, said Christie’s.  Demand for the rarest diamonds as an alternative asset and
portable store of value has pushed up prices in recent years.  The Jwaneng (meaning “place of small stones”) open pit
diamond mine, the world’s richest by value, is jointly owned by
 De Beers (AAL)  and the government of Botswana.  At the top end of the market, “white” stones are regarded
as less desirable as their even rarer colored equivalents. The
record price for any gem at auction is the 45.4 million francs
($45.6 million) paid by the London dealer  Laurence Graff  for a
24.78-carat emerald-cut “Fancy Intense Pink” at Sotheby’s,
Geneva, in November 2010.  The record auction price for a colorless stone is the 20.4
million Swiss francs ($21.5 million at the time) with fees paid
for the 76.02-carat Archduke Joseph Diamond at Christie’s,
Geneva, in November 2012.  Auction Fees  From this week, more buyers will be charged top-rate 25
percent fees at auctions held by Christie’s International and
Sotheby’s.  Bidders at Christie’s New York will be charged the maximum
premium on items with hammer prices of as much as $75,000. The
upper threshold had previously been $50,000. The ceiling at
which buyers are charged 20 percent increases to $1.5 million
from $1 million.  Sotheby’s (BID)  introduces similar changes on March 15. The band
of lots incurring a 25 percent premium increases to $100,000
from $50,000. The 20 percent threshold rises to $2 million from
$1 million. Both companies continue to charge 12 percent fees
for the most expensive items.  “It’s part of the relentless drive to optimize auction-
house profits,”  Patrick Jefferson , the London-based antique
furniture dealer, said. “This kind of tinkering with thresholds
will soon be forgotten. People won’t stop wanting to buy
wonderful things.”  Least Profitable  Lots priced at less than $50,000 have been the least
profitable for the world’s biggest auction houses. Up until this
month, lower-value items represented 1 percent of their sales,
according to data provided by the Caymans Islands-registered art
fund,  Artemundi Global .  The new thresholds will increase the share to 2 percent at
Christie’s and 3 percent at Sotheby’s, the fund said in an e-
mail.  Traditional auction houses are facing increasing
competition from low-cost online companies. Sotheby’s and
Christie’s are reluctant to accept lots below certain
undisclosed minimum values unless part of a larger consignment,
dealers said.  “These changes will be a disincentive to sell at the lower
end,” Jefferson said. “The big auction houses are only
interested in selling cheaper things if they cross-pollinate
with more expensive areas of the market.”  Maximum Premiums  In  London , the new 25 percent top premium has been set at
50,000 pounds at  Sotheby’s  and 37,500 pounds at  Christie’s ,
rising from 25,000 pounds at both houses.  Christie’s has also increased the percentage of premium
charged at wine sales. Buyers will now pay 22 percent on top of
hammer prices in New York and Hong Kong, and 17 percent in
London, Paris and Geneva, increases of 1 and 2 percent
respectively.  Sotheby’s structure of 22.5 percent at New York and Hong
Kong wine sales and 17.5 percent in London is unchanged.  This is the first adjustment to Sotheby’s and Christie’s
auction premiums for more than four years. Buyer’s fees were
introduced in 1975. Dealers were enraged at the time and
continue to resent being charged for purchases.  Phillips declined to comment when asked by Bloomberg News
if it was adjusting its premium structure. Bonhams’s fees remain
unchanged.  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night,  Ryan Sutton  on New York
restaurants and  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 