-- Dow Extends Longest Rally Since ‘96; Treasuries Pare Loss
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-03-13T20:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/yen-climbs-for-second-day-as-japan-stocks-drop-gasoline-rises.html
U.S. stocks rose, extending the
longest rally for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  since 1996,
and the dollar strengthened as faster-than-forecast growth in
retail sales bolstered optimism in the economy. Treasuries pared
losses as an auction drew a lower-than-forecast yield.  The Dow rose for a ninth day, adding 5.22 points to
14,455.28, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.1
percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index erased most of an earlier
0.5 percent decline to close little changed, while Chinese
shares slid to a two-month low. Ten-year Treasury yields
increased less than 1 basis point to 2.02 percent after adding
as much as 3.5 points earlier. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities
fell 0.4 percent, reversing an earlier gain. The Dollar Index
reached the highest level since August.  Commerce Department data showed sales at U.S. retailers
rose 1.1 percent in February, the most in five months and more
than twice the median estimate of economists. Industrial
production declined 0.4 percent in January in the 17-nation euro
area, exceeding a 0.1 percent decline forecast by economists,
and adding to signs that the region’s recession extended into
the first quarter.  “The retail number was nice and that’s helping lessen
concern that the combination of high gas prices and taxes would
combine to slow down  consumer spending ,”Erick Maronak, chief
investment officer at Victory Management Inc., said over the
phone. The New York-based firm oversees about $3 billion. “On
balance things look pretty good.”  Market Leaders  Retailers and other companies that rely on discretionary
consumer spending rose 0.5 percent collectively to lead gains in
the 10 main industries in the S&P 500 today, with Kohl’s Corp.,
Best Buy Co. and Nike Inc. gaining more than 2.5 percent.  International Business Machines Corp., McDonald’s Corp. and
Boeing Co. had the biggest gains in the Dow today as the 30-
stock gauge set a record high for a seventh straight day.  Netflix Inc. jumped 5.6 percent after announcing new social
features integrated with Facebook Inc. Spectrum Pharmaceuticals
Inc., a maker of cancer medicines, plunged 37 percent after
saying sales will miss analysts’ estimates. Express Inc. tumbled
3.2 percent after forecasting first-quarter and full-year
earnings below analyst estimates.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its estimate for first-
quarter economic growth to 2.9 percent from 2.6 percent today
following the retail sales data and another report that showed
stronger-than-forecast growth in U.S. business inventories.  The  S&P 500  rebounded after falling yesterday, ending a
seven-day winning streak that drove the index within nine points
of its all-time high. The benchmark gauge has more than doubled
from its bottom in 2009 amid a rally fueled by corporate
earnings that topped estimates and monetary stimulus from the
 Federal Reserve .  The S&P 500 may follow the Dow to a record by the end of
the month, giving investors a chance to sell, according to
technical analysts at UBS AG. The index, up more than 9 percent
so far this year, will continue its advance before the expiry of
options contracts at the end of March, heading for a resistance
level of 1,560 to 1,570, Michael Riesner and Marc Mueller wrote
in a report dated yesterday.  Bull Markets  Another year or more of gains may lie ahead for U.S. stocks
if history is any guide, according to  Jeffrey Kleintop , LPL
Financial Corp.’s chief market strategist. The bull market that
began in March 2009 is the seventh to last at least four years
since World War II, as Kleintop wrote two days ago in a report.
Four of the previous rallies ran for five years or more, and the
fifth year produced a 22 percent average gain for the S&P 500.
Still, the Boston-based strategist wrote, the index may be
overdue for a drop of 5 percent or more before resuming gains.  Treasury Auction  Rates on 30-year bonds were little changed at 3.22 percent
after climbing three points earlier, while two-year note yields
increased less than one basis point to 0.26 percent.  The $21 billion of 10-year notes sold today drew a yield of
2.029 percent, compared with a forecast of 2.057 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Federal Reserve’s 21
primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.19, versus an average of 2.92 at the past 10 sales.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  has retreated this week after climbing to a 4
1/2-year high on March 8. Adecco SA, the world’s biggest
supplier of temporary workers, lost 2.1 percent today after
fourth-quarter profit missed analyst estimates. Enel SpA sank 6
percent as  Italy ’s largest utility said earnings tumbled 79
percent last year and won’t recover until 2017.  Prudential Plc (PRU) 
advanced 9.3 percent as the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market
value raised its dividend and reported income that beat
projections.  Europe Yields  Italian 10-year bonds fell after 7 billion euros ($9
billion) of debt sales and  Spain ’s securities ended a run of 10
straight gains.  Italy’s 10-year bond  yield  rose six basis points to 4.67
percent and Spain’s rose four points to 4.77 percent. As well as
an Italian auction today,  Germany  sold 4.3 billion euros of two-
year notes, Britain issued 1.5 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) of
2052 securities and Ireland sold 5 billion euros of 10-year
bonds via banks.  Ireland laid the foundation to regain its economic
sovereignty, with the biggest bond sale since the near-collapse
of its financial system forced the nation to seek a bailout in
2010.  The euro currency weakened against 11 of 16 major peers,
dropping more than 0.6 percent versus the British pound and
Mexican peso. The dollar strengthened against 14 of 16 major
peers and the Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six
major trading partners, added 0.4 percent to a seven-month high
of 82.93.  The yen erased an earlier gain versus the dollar  after
strengthening as much as 0.6 percent 95.45 per dollar.  Japan ’s
currency reached 96.71 yesterday, the weakest level since August
2009.  Bullish bets on Japan’s currency in the options market
climbed to a nine-month high after the largest opposition party
said yesterday it would vote against BOJ deputy governor nominee
Kikuo Iwata, an advocate of quantitative easing.  China Real Estate  In  China , the benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index lost 1
percent to the lowest level since Jan. 11. Property  shares 
slumped  on concern policy makers will step up curbs after
Sina.com reported the city of Shenzhen banned developers from
raising  home prices .  “Property curbs and the central bank’s possible attitude
towards tightening liquidity make investors nervous,” said Wang
Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“There’s concern the economic recovery will falter.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined for a third day,
losing 0.9 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa slid 1.5 percent  Energy and agricultural products led the S&P GSCI Index of
commodities down, with soybeans, coffee and  Brent crude  dropping
more than 1.1 percent for the biggest declines. West Texas
Intermediate crude erased earlier gains to settle 2 cents lower
at $92.52 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  