-- Myer Profit Beats Estimates as Gadgets Switched for Fashion
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-14T05:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/myer-profit-beats-estimates-as-stores-switch-gadgets-for-fashion.html
Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) ,  Australia ’s
largest department-store company, rose to the highest in almost
two years after it reported net income that beat estimates as it
cut less-profitable electrical goods in favor of fashion.  Net income was A$88 million ($91 million) in the six months
ended Jan. 26, the Melbourne-based company said in a regulatory
statement, up 0.7 percent from a year earlier and beating the
A$86 million median estimate of six analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The  shares  climbed 5.9 percent to A$3.07 at the
close in Sydney, the highest since May 2011.  Myer has reduced sales of large electrical goods, CDs and
DVDs and dedicated the space to clothing, cosmetics and fashion
accessories, with sales from the store’s house brands rising 10
percent and those from concessions up 4.9 percent, the company
said. Second-quarter sales from stores open at least 12 months
rose 1.7 percent, their best result since the first quarter of
the 2010 fiscal year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are pleased that the positive sales trend continued
during the half,” Chief Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said
in a statement. “Suppliers have been supportive of our
endeavors to be more competitive for our customers in a global
marketplace.”  Gross margin, a measure of the difference between shop-
floor prices and the wholesale price paid by the store, rose 23
basis points to 41.21 percent, the company said, while a A$56
million reduction in debt cut net debt to 0.78 times earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, compared
with 0.94 times Ebitda 12 months earlier.  The company said it wouldn’t provide guidance for full-year
sales or profit and is “cautious about the trading
environment”. Bills, taxes, investments and depreciation will
increase operating costs by at least A$7 million in the second
half, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  