-- ThyssenKrupp Appoints Deutsche Telekom’s Lehner as Chairman
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-03-13T19:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/thyssenkrupp-appoints-deutsche-telekom-s-lehner-as-chairman.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, appointed  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  Chairman Ulrich Lehner
to the same role on its supervisory board as it seeks a break
with the culture of 12 years under Gerhard Cromme.  The supervisory board plans to vote on Lehner’s appointment
on March 19, the Essen, Germany-based company said in an e-
mailed statement. Cromme announced last week that he would step
down as chairman at the end of the month.  “The entire supervisory board backs the realignment of the
company announced by the board and the inherent change in
culture,” ThyssenKrupp said, indicating that the Alfried Krupp
von Bohlen Foundation, which holds 25 percent of the shares,
backs the move.  Cromme was handpicked more than 27 years ago by
industrialist Berthold Beitz, now 99 and head of the foundation,
to take the helm at a predecessor of ThyssenKrupp’s steel unit.
The now 70-year-old, who also chairs  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s supervisory
board, resisted calls to resign at the steelmaker’s annual
general meeting in January in the biggest shareholder rebellion
in the 14-year history of the merged company.  Lehner, born in 1946, spent three years at the former
Fried. Krupp GmbH’s controlling department in the 1980s, before
leaving to join  Henkel AG (HEN3)  & Co. KGaA, where he rose to CEO in
2000. He has been on ThyssenKrupp’s supervisory board since
2008, alongside similar positions at Henkel,  Porsche Automobil
Holding SE (PAH3) , E.ON SE, Deutsche Telekom and Novartis AG.  “That is a capable man,”  Marc Gabriel, an analyst at
Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf, said by phone.  “He is the
right signal for the necessary new start in the supervisory
board.”  ThyssenKrupp CEO Heinrich Hiesinger complained of a “lack
of direction” at the company when he assumed his present
position two years ago. He is now cutting the company’s business
divisions to five from eight and the number of units to about
400 from 750. His largest single transaction involves finding
buyers for the unprofitable Steel Americas business.  Hiesinger pledged in December to rid ThyssenKrupp of “old
structures and habits.” The company displayed “an
understanding of leadership in which old boys networks and blind
loyalty were more important than business success,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  