-- Copper Falls on Concern China Housing Curbs Will Sap Demand
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-03-13T18:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-13/zinc-rises-on-speculation-china-to-further-loosen-rate-controls.html
Copper fell the most in a week amid
concern that policy makers will expand efforts to cool the
housing market in China, the world’s biggest consumer.  Chinese stocks fell, dragging the benchmark index to a two-
month low, as real estate and construction companies tumbled.
Sina.com reported the southern city of Shenzhen banned
developers from raising  home prices . Accelerating inflation
means the country should be on “high alert,”  Zhou Xiaochuan ,
head of the People’s Bank of China, said today, signaling a
heightened focus on controlling prices.  “Any sign that demand in China may slip is going to hit
copper,”  Michael Smith , the president of T&K Futures & Options
in Port St. Lucie, Florida, said in a telephone interview.
“Copper is a building and expansion material, and when that
slows, copper feels it.”  On the Comex in New York, copper futures for delivery in
May slid 0.8 percent to settle at $3.525 a pound at 1:07 p.m.,
the biggest decline since March 1.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  last month called for local
authorities to “decisively” curb real estate speculation and
take steps to rein the  property market  after data showed prices
surged.  Stockpiles of copper monitored by the London Metal
Exchange, up 63 percent this year, increased 0.5 percent today
to 520,500 metric tons, the highest since March 2010.
Inventories have risen for 20 straight days, the longest streak
since January 2010.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months declined
0.5 percent to $7,787.50 a ton ($3.53 a pound).  Nickel, aluminum and zinc also fell in London. Tin and lead
were higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  