-- 
‘Peter Pan’ Recounts Anguish of Cuban Kids Sent to U.S. in ’60s

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-04-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/-peter-pan-recounts-anguish-of-cuban-kids-shipped-to-u-s-without-parents.html
One Cuban-American says it was
“like pulling a young tree out of the ground.” Another
describes it as a “sword” that split children from their
family, friends and homeland.  The speakers were among 14,000 Cuban children separated
from their parents and brought to the U.S. in the early 1960s,
when Cold War tensions between the two countries were at their
peak.  A half-century later, now parents and grandparents
themselves, nine of them talk about their harrowing experiences
in a new documentary, “Operation Peter Pan: Flying Back to
Cuba,” that is playing at the  Havana Film Festival New York .  Ed Canler, who was 10 at the time, tells how leaving Cuba
was like uprooting a young tree and hearing “the roots cracking
and snapping.”  “I was ripped away from Cuba,” recalls Canler, who says
the emotional scars of that separation still haven’t completely
healed.  Canler’s parents left Cuba a year later and were reunited
with their son. His mom said the boy was sent to the U.S.
because of rumors that Castro’s government was going to take
children from their families and send them to revolutionary
training camps.  “I was so upset I couldn’t live,” she says in the film.  Grainy Footage  The documentary was made by 78-year-old  Estela Bravo , who
was born in  New York  and moved to Cuba in 1963 with her
Argentine husband to support Castro’s revolution.  Bravo says the operation to move the children was sponsored
by the U.S. State Department and carried out by the Catholic
Church. However, she said, many questions about the operation
remain unanswered.  “The CIA won’t open files about the case so it’s hard to
know what the government hoped to gain by bringing over children
without their parents,” Bravo said this week during an
interview in New York.  Using grainy footage shot by the State Department and found
at the  National Archives  in  Washington , Bravo shows children
disembarking from planes in Miami and being taken to orphanages
and camps.  Flora Gonzalez, a college professor who teaches Latin
American literature at  Boston University , was 13 when she was
sent to the U.S.  She tells the filmmakers that her parents didn’t think the
Cuban Revolution would last, that she would benefit by getting
an English-language education and that she would soon return to
her homeland.  More Flights  In fact, almost all of the children remained in the U.S.
Most, but not all, of their parents joined them. Some never saw
their parents again.  In 2009, Bravo managed to bring five Peter Pan adults to
Cuba, their first trip back to the island. Some returned to the
homes where they grew up, glad for the chance to reconnect with
the Cuba of their childhoods.  Two weeks ago, Bravo flew from  Havana  to Miami to visit her
three grown children and two grandchildren. Flights between Cuba
and the U.S. have increased since 2009 when the Obama
administration loosened travel restrictions, making it easier
for transplanted Cubans to visit relatives on the island.  “There are five charters between Havana and Miami every
day,” Bravo said. “It’s only a 45-minute flight.”  “Operation Peter Pan” will be shown at New York’s Quad
Cinema tomorrow at 2:50 p.m. The film also will be screened at
the  Los Angeles Film Festival  in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  