-- 
Acciona's $2.1 Billion Loan May Signal Clean-Tech ‘Fear’ Over in Spain

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-04-13T09:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/acciona-s-2-1-billion-loan-may-signal-clean-tech-fear-over-in-spain.html
Acciona SA (ANA) ’s 1.4 billion-euro
($2.1 billion) loan backed by wind-power and hydroelectric
plants shows lenders are ready to fund Spanish clean-energy
assets again, according to a partner at the Garrigues law firm.  The company, the world’s fourth-biggest producer of
renewable power, refinanced the assets last week through a 12-
bank syndicate advised by Madrid-based Garrigues including Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Societe Generale SA and WestLB AG.
The loan was the third-largest for clean energy in 2011,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Investors were burned in  Spain  by several regulatory
changes, the most recent being the Dec. 24 law that reduced the
income some existing photovoltaic plants earn by about a third,
prompting  Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX) , Hudson Clean Energy
Partners and HgCapital to demand compensation from Spain.  “The Acciona deal is very important because it confirms
that this is a reliable country to invest in,” Jose Guardo, the
Garrigues partner in charge of project finance, said in an
interview. “The fear is over.”  New investment in Spanish renewable assets remains below
its 2008 peak. Asset finance slumped to about $7.6 billion last
year compared with $17.1 billion in 2009 as the government
negotiated subsidy cuts with plant owners, according to New
Energy Finance data.  Madrid-based Acciona will pay 2.75 percentage points more
than the six-month euro interbank rate, or Euribor, during the
first years of the 18-year loan, rising to 3.5 percentage points
over the benchmark in later years, the company said on its
website.  Project Slowdown  The funds replace a two-year loan Acciona took out in June
2009 when it acquired 2.1 gigawatts of generating assets from
Endesa SA, paying 3.22 percentage points more than Euribor.  “The transaction price doesn’t reflect any significant
difference from the cost of financing for other projects across
 Europe ,” Guardo said.  Analysts who have followed the slowdown in new projects in
Spain don’t all agree that the outlook is substantially better.  “With low energy demand, policy uncertainty and fiscal and
sovereign debt problems, the short-term future does not look
very good for Spain,” said Eduardo Tabbush, a New Energy Finance
analyst in  London . “The fundamentals in the long term remain
good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  