-- 
Afghan Police Paid by Phone to Cut Graft in Anti-Taliban War

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-04-14T06:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/afghan-police-now-paid-by-phone-to-cut-graft-in-anti-taliban-war.html
In the dusty village bazaar in
Jalrez, eastern Afghanistan, Asif Shahrukhi is getting help from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder  Bill Gates  to convert his mud-brick
mobile-phone shop into a virtual bank.  Shahrukhi offers money transfers for 45,000 people in the
Jalrez Valley through a system created by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
the world’s biggest mobile-phone company, to offer banking
services in Kenya. The Interior Ministry says a pilot project to
pay police via phone in areas without banks will be expanded
this year to cover 5 percent of the 110,000 officers nationwide.  The change “brings me more money because it has stopped
the people who used to steal part of my salary every month”
said Khair Muhammad, a Jalrez policeman.  Corrupt bureaucrats who used to skim as much as 20 percent
from state employees’ salaries have opposed the government’s
shift to electronic payments through banks and mobile phones,
said Hanif Atmar, a former interior minister.  Repeating Vodafone’s African success amid  Afghanistan ’s war
will mean overcoming Taliban threats in addition to corrupt
bureaucrats, said Shahrukhi, the agent in Jalrez for  Roshan , the
Afghan cell-phone network that’s building the banking system.
“We can’t even bring a computer to the shop to help with our
work because the Taliban are against computers and they would
try to kidnap or kill us,” Shahrukhi said.  Last year, fear of Taliban attack or robbery led Shahrukhi
to stop bringing in the cash supplies needed to pay Jalrez’s 45
policemen at his shop. The officers, who get the cash by showing
 text messages  on their phones that verify the money transfers,
now must drive to Roshan agents in other towns to be paid.  Resignations, Desertions  The U.S.  military says  ending official pay-skimming may
boost morale and effectiveness among the government’s rural
employees, including security forces. Expanding the police,
which last year lost  23 percent  of personnel through casualties,
resignations and desertion, is key to U.S. plans to withdraw
American soldiers beginning in July.  In another push to develop the financial system, the
government is on track with its plan to sell longer-term bonds
this year, central-bank spokesman Aimal Hashoor said yesterday,
to diversify funding sources away from the more than $30 billion
in international assistance the country has received.  Roshan got advice and funds from the London-based  GSM
Association , a trade group that received a $12 million grant
from the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , to help launch its
banking service, called M-Paisa. The foundation is spending more
than $500 million to help the world’s poor to save money.  “Opening up the movement of money is the first step to
financial inclusion and alleviating poverty,” said Zahir Khoja,
Roshan’s M-Paisa director, from Kabul.  $3 Savings  In  Kenya , customers typically save three hours of time and
$3 in costs for each transaction and put the money back into
their businesses, said Seema Desai, who heads cell-phone banking
development at the GSM Association.  “If mobile money for people without access to banks can
work in Afghanistan, maybe it can work anywhere,” Desai said in
a phone interview. Roshan and its competitors struggle against
three-mile-high mountains that block signals, Taliban attacks on
cell-phone towers and a national  power grid  that produces  less
electricity  than Greenland.  Only 7 percent of Afghanistan’s 30 million people have
bank accounts and 1,000 have credit cards, according to the
central bank. At least 40 percent have mobile phones, Desai said.  900 Million?  The government’s adoption of M-Paisa to pay rural police is
a key advance for Roshan in building the mass customer base that
cell-phone banking needs to be profitable, Khoja said by phone.
Rather than mass-marketing the service, “the way to instill
trust in our system is to let people receive their salaries by
phone,” he said.  The 100 million mobile-phone bank accounts in use worldwide
may grow to 900 million by 2015, said Carol Realini, executive
chairwoman of Obopay Inc., a Redwood City, California, company
that helps provide the service in Senegal and  India .  Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s second-largest phone
company, in January formed a joint venture with Mastercard Inc.,
the world’s second-largest electronic-payment network, to
develop mobile-phone banking in Latin America. Visa Inc. is
developing a cell-phone payment system for India. In Afghanistan,
Newbury, England-based Vodafone Group Plc sold Roshan its Kenya-
tested technology to run M-Paisa.  Vodafone and Telefonica, among the biggest European
investors in  Africa  and Latin America, are seeking to make up
for declining revenue in their home markets by capturing booming
demand for mobile-phone services in emerging-markets where
fixed-line networks are less developed.  Cash Only  Vodafone is up 6.5 percent this year and Telefonica 6.1
percent, outperforming the 3.6 percent rise in the 21-company
telecommunications subindex of the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Afghans are harder to sell on mobile phone banking, Khoja
said, because after 30 years of war citizens have little trust
in financial institutions or anything but cash. In September,
thousands of Afghans pulled deposits from Kabul Bank, the
country’s biggest, after authorities found it had lost hundreds
of millions of dollars through illegal loans to shareholders.  While Afghanistan’s Taliban guerrillas avoid using M-Paisa
because it’s subject to government control, the service “is
good for the Afghan people,” said Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid. Still, agents such as Shahrukhi are at risk because
“we will attack wherever police or the army are getting their
salaries,” Mujahid said via cell phone.  Second-Most Corrupt  The corruption that cell-phone banking is helping reduce
 undermines public support  for President  Hamid Karzai  and helped
put Afghanistan alongside Myanmar as the second most-corrupt to
Somalia among 178 countries in last year’s survey by monitoring
organization  Transparency International .  Afghanistan’s old system for paying rural employees
dispatched cash-laden clerks from Kabul, and corrupt officials
skimmed 10 to 20 percent of the salaries, said Atmar, who served
from 2006 to 2008 as education minister.  “We removed 12,000 ‘ghost teachers’ from the payroll in
one year,” he said on Feb. 26 at his home in Kabul.  Atmar, as interior minister from 2008 until June, asked
Roshan, officially known as the Telecom Development Company
Afghanistan Ltd., to help pay police.  “We faced resistance from corrupt officials in the
provinces and in Kabul, some of whom had probably been
stealing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  