-- 
AIG Hires Juhas From Morgan Stanley to Head Insurer's Strategic Planning

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-04-13T20:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/aig-hires-juhas-from-morgan-stanley-to-head-insurer-s-strategic-planning.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
hired Morgan Stanley’s Peter Juhas, a banker who spent the past
three years advising the U.S. government on its $182.3 billion
bailout of the insurance company.  Juhas, 39, was named head of strategic planning at AIG, the
New York-based insurer said today in a statement. Juhas, who
will report to Brian Schreiber, executive vice president for
treasury and capital markets, will scout for growth
opportunities and potential acquisitions.  “Few people understand AIG’s challenges and opportunities
as well as Pete,” Schreiber said in the statement.  Juhas worked on the Morgan Stanley team that advised the
U.S. Treasury Department on its bailouts of  Freddie Mac  and
Fannie Mae beginning in 2008. When the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  bailed out AIG later that year, it hired  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
as its adviser on a restructuring of the insurer.  As the Fed’s adviser, Morgan Stanley worked on AIG
divestitures including the $16.2 billion sale of the American
Life Insurance Co. unit to MetLife Inc. The role also positioned
Morgan Stanley to be one of four lead bookrunners for the $20.5
billion initial public offering of AIG’s biggest Asian unit.  The Treasury, which took part in the AIG bailout, plans to
dispose of its 92 percent stake of AIG stock through public
offerings to recover its investment. Juhas has also been
advising the Treasury, AIG said.  Juhas joined Morgan Stanley in 2000 after working as a
mergers and acquisitions lawyer at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, AIG
said.  AIG said earlier this year that it hired Brian Peters, a
 New York  Fed employee, as a senior managing director in the
enterprise risk management group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  