-- 
Allied Health Care’s Schwartz Pleads Guilty in $135 Million Leasing Scheme

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-13T17:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/allied-health-care-s-schwartz-pleads-guilty-to-fraud-in-leasing-scheme.html
Allied Health Care Services Inc.
founder Charles K. Schwartz pleaded guilty in federal court in
 New Jersey  today to defrauding more than 50 financial
institutions in a $135 million medical equipment-leasing scheme.  Schwartz, 57, of Sparta, New Jersey, was arrested in
September and accused of falsely telling lenders for eight years
that Orange, New Jersey-based Allied would use their money to
lease medical equipment. Instead, prosecutors said, he defrauded
the lenders with a phony-invoice scheme involving another
company.  Schwartz used the proceeds from the scheme to pay himself
and relatives and to purchase real estate, including property in
New Jersey and a horse farm in upstate New York, according to a
criminal complaint. Losses to the financial institutions total
more than $80 million, the complaint said.  “This particular scheme was pretty sophisticated in a lot
of ways,” U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman said in an interview.
Lenders were deceived because “the books showed what looked
like real income from what they thought was a legitimate health
care organization,” he said.  Schwartz was accused of working with an unidentified owner
of a Berkeley Heights, New Jersey-based company who would
provide him with phony invoices indicating the unidentified firm
had supplied Allied with medical equipment.  Periodic Payments  Lenders gave the unidentified company as much as $135
million to buy equipment, and Schwartz leased the equipment and
made periodic payments, according to the complaint.  The unidentified company never provided any equipment to
Allied, and the money for the leases was transferred to a firm
named C&C, which was controlled by Schwartz, according to the
complaint. The unidentified co-conspirator kept as much as 5
percent for his role, the FBI said.  The scheme collapsed when Schwartz ran out of money to make
payments, said Michael B. Ward, special agent in charge of the
 FBI’s Newark office . Several financial institutions had sued
Schwartz and his company by August, claiming he owed them at
least $20 million, prosecutors said in a statement.  “It’s like a typical  Ponzi scheme , and lost steam in the
end,” Ward said in an interview.  Fake Invoices  Schwartz ordered the serial numbers on some ventilators to
be altered to match fake invoices he had submitted to the
financial institutions, whom he refused to allow to inspect the
equipment, citing  Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act  regulations, prosecutors said in a statement.  “They couldn’t take the next step to see if there was a
ventilator in somebody’s house,” Fishman said.  Schwartz, in custody since his arrest, pleaded guilty today
to one count of mail fraud before U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton in  Newark . He faces as much as 20 years in prison at
sentencing, scheduled for July 18.  Fishman declined to comment on the status of the
unidentified co-conspirator, saying an investigation is
continuing. Schwartz’s attorney, John Whipple, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message seeking comment on
the case.  Two of Schwartz’s properties are scheduled to be sold at
public auction next month: a 51-acre horse farm in Sussex
County, New Jersey, with three barns, stables, and a 3,200-
square-foot single-level home; and a 45-acre horse farm in
Bovina, New York, with a barn, stable and a 1,872-square-foot
two-story log cabin, according to court documents.  The case is U.S. v. Schwartz, 10-mj-8208, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 