-- 
TeliaSonera, Altimo Seek Turkcell Chairman’s Ouster Next Week

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-04-13T15:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/altimo-will-seek-to-replace-turkcell-chairman-next-week-1-.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and Altimo said they
want to oust Chairman Colin Williams from the board of Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
at next week’s shareholders meeting, arguing he’s hampering the
company’s growth by favoring its founding shareholder.  Williams is “siding all the time” with Cukurova Holding AS,
TeliaSonera Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg said today in an
interview in Istanbul. “We don’t want a non-independent
chairman siding with Cukurova Holding and blocking the
company.”  TeliaSonera,  Sweden ’s biggest phone company, and Altimo,
controlled by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group ,
are battling Istanbul-based Cukurova over control of Turkcell.
Williams, appointed as an independent board member in 2006,
replaced Cukurova Chairman Mehmet Emin Karamehmet as Turkcell’s
chairman in February 2010. TeliaSonera said last month that
Williams has failed to maintain his impartiality.  “Williams must be replaced and stay out of Turkcell’s
board in order for the company to progress and seize growth
opportunities outside  Turkey ,” Mustafa Kiral, in charge of
mergers and acquisitions at Altimo, said in an interview late
yesterday. Altimo is Alfa Group’s telecommunications-investment
vehicle.  No one answered telephone calls to the offices of Williams
and Karamehmet seeking comment. No one was available to comment
in the Turkcell press office.  Voting Rights  Cukurova can determine the meeting’s outcome with the votes
cast by Turkcell Holding, which owns 51 percent of Turkcell and
is majority-owned by Cukurova Telecoms Holding, with TeliaSonera
as the minority partner. Altimo owns a minority stake in
Cukurova Telecoms, which is controlled by Cukurova Holding.  In addition to seeking Williams’s removal, TeliaSonera and
Altimo want more independent directors to reduce Cukurova’s
influence on the board, where each of the three main investors
have two representatives. Turkcell should heed Turkey’s Capital
Markets Board, the securities regulator, which told the company
it should have at least two independent board members because 34
percent of its shares are freely traded.  “We want nobody to have sole control over Turkcell,” Nyberg
said. “If there’s a disagreement among the shareholders, there
should be enough independent board members to swing the vote.”  The board “should be controlled by independent members and
the chairman should be independent too,” Kiral said, adding
there should be three independent members. Altimo has as many as
nine potential candidates for the independent board seats, he
said.  Board Deadlock  The deadlock on the board has meant some decisions couldn’t
be made regarding Belarus and Ukraine operations, leading to
“poor financial performance” in those countries, Nyberg said.  “Turkcell needs to grow through international acquisitions
to add value to its market capitalization, which should be at
least $20 billion instead of $13 billion now,” he said.
“Turkcell would have been more successful if the board hadn’t
been blocked and could instead take action.”  Turkcell shares fell 0.2 percent today in Istanbul,
bringing its decline this year to 15 percent.  Altimo’s indirect stake in Turkcell is equivalent to 13.2
percent of the company’s capital. TeliaSonera’s direct and
indirect holdings are equivalent to a  38 percent stake .  “We want excellence and execution at the board level in
Turkcell,” Nyberg said. “Our No. 1 priority is to have a
chairman with global experience and with insight that he could
give to the company for its future.”  ‘Missed’ Opportunities  Cukurova’s Karamehmet founded the mobile operator in 1994.
He was replaced as chairman after an Istanbul court sentenced
him to 11 years and 8 months in jail for loans made to Cukurova
by Pamukbank TAS, a lender he owned before it was taken over by
the government in 2002. The case is pending appeal.  “There are some growth opportunities for Turkcell in the
Balkans, Africa and Middle East,” Kiral said. “But because the
board can’t take decisions, some of the opportunities have been
missed.”  Turkcell’s 5 billion-lira ($3.3 billion) cash position as
of the end of 2010 would easily allow for acquisitions, Kiral
said. Turkcell plans to use its cash to fund purchases, a share
buyback and an increase in dividend payments, CEO Sureyya Ciliv
said in an interview on Feb. 24.  Altimo is happy with Ciliv and would continue with him once
the board chairman is replaced, Kiral said.  Turkcell Governance  TeliaSonera has sued Williams on the grounds that he has
refused to allow it to address shareholders at the April 21
annual meeting, Nyberg said. Its attempts to add independent
board members have been blocked by Williams and controlling
shareholder Cukurova Holding, he said.  TeliaSonera made inaccurate statements about Williams’s
stance on governance issues, “including the proposed increase
in the number of independent directors on the Turkcell board and
proposals to change the current board’s composition,” Williams
said in an e-mailed statement on March 29. “I will strongly
contest those allegations, as well as any suggestions that I
have acted unlawfully,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 