-- 
American Sues Travelport, Orbitz as Ticket Dispute Expands

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-04-13T20:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/american-sues-travelport-orbitz-as-ticket-dispute-expands-1-.html
American Airlines  sued Travelport
Ltd. to stop what it called anticompetitive behavior and
retaliation against the carrier for a push to use its own
technology to distribute fares and schedules to travel agents.  The legal action expands a dispute between  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
American and global distribution systems that historically have
compiled fare and schedule data from various airlines and
distributed them to travel agents. American wants to bypass
those companies, including units of Travelport and Sabre
Holdings Corp., and substitute its proprietary technology.  “Travelport, Orbitz and other industry participants have
undertaken attacks against American that have been swift and
punitive,” said the lawsuit, which was filed yesterday in
federal court in Fort Worth,  Texas .  The lawsuit against Travelport and its  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  affiliate seeks triple the airline’s actual damages as well
as punitive damages to be determined at trial. More than $2.7
billion in sales were booked through Travelport’s global
distribution systems in the past year, the lawsuit said.
American had $16.8 billion in passenger revenue in 2010.  American said on April 4 it reached a tentative agreement
with Expedia Inc. that would allow the online travel agency and
its Hotwire unit to immediately resume selling the airline’s
tickets, resolving a dispute that started in December. American
remains in talks with Sabre after the two earlier agreed to
freeze a lawsuit over the matter.  ‘Bargaining Leverage’  “Travelport has always acted in a lawful manner,” the
travel-reservation systems provider said in an e-mailed
statement today. “It is likely that this lawsuit is merely
another attempt by AA to gain bargaining leverage through
litigation.”  American’s Direct Connect system would limit consumer
choices and ability to compare fares among carriers, Chicago-
based Orbitz said in a statement, which called the claims
“baseless.”  Travelport, which sued American Airlines in November to
block the carrier from terminating Orbitz’s ability to sell
tickets on the airline’s flights, said it would vigorously
defend the suit.  AMR declined 12 cents, or 2 percent, to $5.79 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Orbitz fell 11
cents, or 3.1 percent, to $3.41.  The case is American Airlines Inc. vs Travelport Ltd,
Travelport LP and Orbitz Worldwide LLC, 4-11-cv-00244-Y,
Northern District of Texas ( Fort Worth ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  