-- 
Landers Says Brazil's Failure on Inflation Makes Stocks Cheapest in Region

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 
2011-04-13T20:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/landers-says-brazil-s-failure-on-inflation-makes-stocks-cheapest-in-region.html
Brazilian central bankers’
inability to rein in inflation and the real is making the
Bovespa stock index the worst performer in Latin America in the
past year, said Will Landers, manager of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $1.06
billion Latin America Fund.  “Markets don’t like uncertainty,” Landers, who oversees a
total of $10.5 billion at BlackRock, said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s office in Sao Paulo. “At this point,
the central bank should have already taken all the necessary
measures. Then we’d know the effects those measures would have,
and we’d move on.”  Brazilian policy makers are relying on a mix of measures to
curb inflation, including higher  interest rates  and budget cuts.
In their last bid to cool the economy, the government doubled a
tax on consumer loans on April 8 to limit credit growth. To stem
gains in the real,  Brazil  last month increased a tax on credit-
card purchases abroad and extended a levy on foreign-based
loans.  The Bovespa fell 3.5 percent this year through yesterday,
led by homebuilders and banks, on concern economic policy
measures will slow the economy. The measure declined today for
the fourth straight session, losing 0.6 percent. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index advanced 2.3 percent and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  climbed 5.9 percent since Jan. 1.  Bovespa’s Valuation  The 5.3 percent decline in the Bovespa in the 12 months
through yesterday makes the gauge the worst performing stock
market in Latin America, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 69-member index trades at 10.7 times analysts’
earnings estimates, while  Mexico ’s IPC index is at 15 times and
 Chile ’s Ipsa Index is at 16.8, Bloomberg data shows.  Brazil’s consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in March from the
same month a year earlier to the highest since November 2008,
the national statistics agency said April 7 on its website. The
real is up 45 percent against the dollar since the end of 2008,
the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “Measures taken so far by the Ministry of Finance had a
limited effect over economic growth, and its attempts to control
the  exchange rate  are pointless,” Landers said. “The problem
is that we don’t know if the government already did everything
they were planning to do.”  Banks ‘Cheap’  Brazilian stocks are the “cheapest in Latin America,” and
the Bovespa may reach 85,000 by year end, Landers said. That is
a 27 percent gain from yesterday’s level of 66,896.23.  Banks and consumer stocks are the most attractive in the
Brazilian market, Landers, 42, said.  “Banks are really cheap right now,” Landers said. “And
domestic demand will keep growing, even after the measures taken
to fight inflation.”  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s biggest bank by
market value, and Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, the region’s
largest brewer, are among the biggest holdings in BlackRock’s
Latin America funds.  Brazilian initial public offering valuations are too high
and companies that want to sell shares for the first time must
cut their prices to make them attractive, Landers said.  “If companies want funds like ours to take part in the
offerings, valuation will have to be cheaper, without a doubt,”
he said.  Weighing Risk  Four of this year’s five Brazil IPOs were priced either at
the bottom of initial estimates or below, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. QGEP Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
owned by Queiroz Galvao SA, was the biggest initial share sale
this year and sold stock at 19 reais each, 17 percent less than
the lowest estimate set by the banks arranging the offer.  Companies doing an IPO should have cheaper share prices
than their publicly traded competitors since new issues carry
more risk, Landers said.  “That’s the rule: if risks are bigger, valuation has to be
cheaper,” Landers said.  The Latin America Fund invests 80 percent of its assets in
the region and seeks long-term  capital appreciation . The fund
returned 16 percent in the year through yesterday, beating 92
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morningstar Inc. gives the fund a five-star rating and said
“it remains a superior play on its part of the world, but it’s
still subject to its region’s volatility,” according to the
Chicago-based research firm’s website.  BlackRock is the world’s biggest asset-management firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  