-- 
Andy Murray Ends Losing Streak by Defeating Radek Stepanek in Monte Carlo

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-13T16:13:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/andy-murray-ends-losing-streak-by-defeating-radek-stepanek-in-monte-carlo.html
Andy Murray  beat  Radek Stepanek  in
his opening round of the  Monte Carlo Rolex Masters  today, the
British No. 1’s first win on the men’s tennis tour since
reaching the Australian Open final in January.  Murray, fourth in the ATP World Tour rankings, defeated the
70th-ranked Czech 6-1, 6-4 on the clay courts of the  Monte Carlo 
Country Club. He’ll play No. 24 Gilles Simon of  France  next.  The 23-year-old started 2011 well, making it to a second
straight final at the Australian Open in Melbourne, where he was
beaten 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 by Novak Djokovic.  While the second-ranked Djokovic of Serbia has yet to lose
this season, Murray hadn’t won since the semifinal victory over
 Spain ’s  David Ferrer  in Melbourne on Jan. 28. He lost in the
opening round at Rotterdam to former world No. 8 Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus; in the first round at Indian Wells,
California, to Donald Young; and in the first round at Miami to
another U.S. qualifier, 118th-ranked Alex Bogomolov Jr.  “It was a little bit tough,” Murray said in a televised
interview after today’s match. “But I believe in myself, I
train hard, I practice hard, that’s all I can do.”  Murray practiced yesterday with world No. 1 Rafael Nadal.
The Spanish lefthander, who is seeking a record seventh straight
title in Monaco, today started his 2011 clay-court campaign by
beating Jarkko Nieminen of Finland 6-2, 6-2.  Murray told reporters two days ago in Monte Carlo that he
hasn’t found a new permanent coach yet, having parted ways last
month with Alex Corretja after three years.  He’s accompanied in Monte Carlo by his childhood friend and
hitting partner Dani Vallverdu, while he can also call on the
services of Darren Cahill and Sven Groeneveld, who are part of
the player development team of his clothing sponsor,  Adidas AG. (ADS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  