-- 
Los Angeles Curbs ‘Mansionization’ With Home-Size Limits

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/angelenos-reclaim-backyard-nudity-as-city-curbs-mansionization-.html
Paul Soady’s street was lined with
single-story houses when he moved to Los Angeles’s Beverly Grove
area in 1990. Since then, homeowners have added what he calls
“gun towers” to their two-level “white monstrosities.”  “This neighborhood is one of the quietest parts of L.A.,”
said Soady, 64, a native of  Australia  who teaches photography
and advertising at  Art Center College of Design  in Pasadena.
“It’s a magical place. But we certainly can’t take our clothes
off anymore and run around our backyard naked. There are all
these windows facing our house.”  During the Los Angeles real estate boom that began in 2002
and peaked five years later, developers built multistory homes
with more square footage than their lots had as a way of raising
prices. Now, as property values recover after a 21-month slump,
the city is  curbing the size  of single-family homes to prevent
so-called McMansions from being built in such neighborhoods as
Hollywood and in the Santa Monica Mountains.  “When the good times were rolling and people were
basically flipping homes to make a lot of money, they added on
and redid houses, and they didn’t really care about the
neighborhoods,”  Renee Weitzer , chief of land use planning for
City Councilman Tom LaBonge, said in a telephone interview. “We
have some pictures of neighborhoods where one home overpowers
the look of the entire street.”  An ordinance signed by Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa last week
limits new hillside homes to about 3,000 square feet (280 square
meters) on a typical 5,000-square-foot lot. Developers had been
allowed to build a 7,000-square-foot, multilevel home on a
5,000-square-foot lot, Weitzer said.  Three-Part Plan  The law, focused on hillside homes, is the final step in a
three-part initiative intended to stop oversized developments on
single-family home plots in the city. The first step was the
June 2008 adoption of the Baseline Mansionization Ordinance,
which limited the size and height of homes on flat lots, and the
second was the creation of new maps to more accurately show the
city’s hillsides.  LaBonge introduced the plan in 2006, when property values
were almost at their peak.  The median home price in  Los Angeles  County more than
doubled to $599,000 in mid-2007 from $245,000 at the beginning
of 2002, according to DataQuick Information Systems Inc., a San
Diego-based real estate research company. Property values
tumbled during the recession and are 47 percent below their
peak. They have gained 7.8 percent from their May 2009 low.  The median size of homes in Los Angeles was 3,520 square
feet in 2005, according to Erick Lopez, a planner for the city.
That compares with an average of 2,500 square feet across the
western U.S., he said.  Bamboo Fence  The growth in home sizes has caused neighbors to fight
back. Soady, the Beverly Grove resident, planted bamboo around
his 1926 English Tudor home to try to shield himself from a
neighboring house that rises 10 feet above his.  Jason Neidleman, 40, who lives in the same neighborhood,
started a Facebook page called “Angelenos Against
Mansionization” after becoming annoyed with the McMansions that
appeared on his tree-lined street about 10 years ago. The group
has 19 members and a link to an anti-mansionization petition
online.  “Plants were dying because suddenly they were in the
shade,” said Neidleman, a political science professor at the
 University of La Verne . “It wasn’t a natural evolution of a
neighborhood but strictly about profit.”  The new regulation, which takes effect May 9, won’t affect
existing buildings or developments already approved, Weitzer
said. The ordinance may make it harder for people to sell their
homes to wealthy buyers wanting to rebuild, said  Richard Green ,
director of the Lusk Center for Real Estate at the  University of
Southern California .  ‘Fewer Rich People’  “L.A. is the most heavily regulated housing city in the
country,” Green said in a telephone interview. “This adds to
the regulatory quagmire. It just means we’ll have fewer rich
people who will decide to live here. The nice thing about rich
people is that they do pay high taxes.”  Those wealthy residents, Soady said, have changed the
character of the neighborhood that attracted him two decades
ago. Even with the new ordinance, the look and feel of his
street is likely to evolve further, he said.  “The neighborhood was full of old people dying off, then
this whole new wave of new people came in,” Soady said. “They
saw money and bought lots and pulled down the houses. I am
certain, once we are gone, our house will be bulldozed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  