-- 
Tanzania Ruling-Party Central Committee Urges Graft-Linked Leaders to Quit

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-04-13T11:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tanzania-ruling-party-central-committee-urges-graft-linked-leaders-to-quit.html
The central committee of Tanzania’s
ruling  Chama Cha Mapinduzi  urged members of its national
executive linked to corruption scandals to resign to help
improve the party’s image among voters.  Members of the central committee, the CCM’s decision-making
body, quit and were replaced on April 10 when the panel held its
first meeting since President Jakaya Kikwete won an Oct. 31
election with a reduced share of the vote. Wilson Mukama was
appointed as the committee’s new secretary-general.  “The new central committee asked all leaders in the
National Executive Committee named in corruption scandals to
resign,” Nape Nnauye, the party’s spokesman, said in a phone
interview yesterday from Dodoma, the capital. He declined to
identify the officials concerned.  Tanzania, an East African nation of 41 million people, has
been ruled by Kikwete since 2005. In that time, the country’s
ranking deteriorated to 116th from 93rd on an index of the
world’s  most corrupt  countries compiled by  Transparency
International , the Berlin-based advocacy group.  “We want our leaders to take responsibility and step aside
when the public perceives them as corrupt, instead of waiting
for judgments from court,” Nnuaye said. “There are some still in
the NEC, and we want them to resign or the party may be
compelled to take decisive action against them before the
upcoming NEC elections next year.”  In January 2008, Kikwete fired Central Bank Governor Daudi Ballali following an irregular-payments scandal over which Prime
Minister Edward Lowassa resigned. In a separate incident that
year, Andrew Chenge stepped down as infrastructure development
minister after being investigated in a bribery probe involving
BAE Systems Plc in 1997. Ballali died in May 2008 and no
government ministers were prosecuted in either of the cases.  Donors to Tanzania announced in May they planned to cut
their pledges in the 2010-11 fiscal year by about $220 million
to $534 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 