-- 
Apple Is Said to Ready White IPhone Following 10-Month Wait

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-14T20:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/apple-white-iphone-is-said-to-be-on-sale-by-end-april-after-10-month-wait.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will start selling a
white version of its iPhone 4 in the next few weeks, following a
10-month delay, three people with knowledge of the plans said.  The new model will be available from  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Wireless  by the end of April, said one of the people, who asked
not to be identified because the plans aren’t public. The
release was stalled as Apple resolved manufacturing challenges,
including paint that peeled under heat, one person said.  Adding a white model may help spur demand as Apple works on
the next generation of its top-selling product. Apple, the
world’s largest technology company by market value, isn’t
planning to unveil a new iPhone at its June developers’
conference, breaking with its practice in past years, two people
familiar with the matter said. It may instead introduce the next
iPhone in September, according to  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  After releasing the iPhone 4 in June, Apple announced the
delay of the white version, citing unspecified  manufacturing
trouble . Complications with a sensor used in the device was one
difficulty, one of the people said. Until now, it’s only been
available in black.  Phil Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of marketing,
indicated last month that a white model would be available soon,
writing on Twitter that it would be on sale by spring.  Since the introduction of the first iPod media player in
2001, white has been a popular color for Apple’s gadgets. The
earlier iPhone 3GS model was available in white, as is the iPad
2, which went on sale last month.  The iPhone accounted for 39 percent of Apple’s sales in the
fiscal first quarter, which ended in December. The Cupertino,
California-based company is due to report second-quarter
financial results on April 20.  Apple fell $3.71 to $332.42 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have advanced 3.1
percent this year. AT&T, based in  Dallas , rose 11 cents to
$30.29 on the New York Stock Exchange, and has gained 3.1
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in  Hong Kong  at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  