-- 
Argentina Government Boosts Control Over Boards of Petrobras, BBVA Units

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T15:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/argentina-government-boosts-control-over-boards-of-petrobras-bbva-units.html
Argentina ’s benchmark stock index
fell for a third straight day after the government announced it
will increase its control over the boards of some of the
country’s biggest companies, including local units of Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   The Merval index fell 0.6 percent to 3,382.55 at 11:11 a.m.
New York time. Developing market stocks were higher, with the
MSCI Emerging Markets index rising 0.7 percent.  The government, through investments held by the state
pensions agency Anses, wants to “defend its holdings on the
same terms as all other investors,” according to a presidential
decree published in the official gazette today.  “The market didn’t like the news,” Guillermo Maresco, a
trader at the brokerage unit of Banco de la Nacion Argentina,
said in a telephone interview today from  Buenos Aires . “The
stocks that are falling the most are those in which the
government has a higher stake, such as Banco Macro.”  Previously, Anses was allowed a maximum of 5 percent of
voting rights in companies even if it owned a greater amount of
shares. Anses took ownership of  the shares  after President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner nationalized the $24 billion
private pensions system in 2008.  Banco Macro SA (BMA) , in which Anses owns 31 percent, led losses
among members of the Merval index, falling 1.5 percent to 16.95
pesos, its fifth day of losses, and the longest losing streak in
almost four months. Power line operator Transener SA, in which
the government has 19 percent, lost 1.4 percent.  Protecting Workers  The increase in  voting rights  “allows us to better protect
the interests of the workers and pensioners’ funds that the
government manages,” Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  told
reporters last night.  Anses has a stake in all 18 members of the Merval. Its
holdings include an 11.8 percent stake in oil and gas producer
Petrobras Energia SA, the local unit of  Brazil ’s largest energy
company, and 7.5 percent of BBVA Banco Frances SA, a unit of
 Spain ’s BBVA.  The agency also holds a 26 percent stake in  Siderar SAIC (ERAR) ,
the country’s largest steelmaker, 22.5 percent in  Pampa Energia
SA (PAMP) , the biggest energy holding company, and 20 percent in
Molinos Rios de la Plata SA, the biggest food producer,
according to a statement on the agency’s website. It owns 9.3
percent of the shares of  Aluar Aluminio Argentino SAIC (ALUA) ,
Argentina’s sole aluminum producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  