-- 
Margin-Rule Split, Shadow Banks, Citigroup: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-13T12:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/margin-rule-agency-split-shadow-banks-citigroup-compliance.html
U.S. regulators proposed two sets
of rules for margin requirements in swap transactions that may
force airlines, large manufacturers and other commercial end-
users to set aside money to reduce risk in certain trades.  End-users would escape margin requirements in swaps with
non-bank dealers or major swap participants under a proposal
approved yesterday by the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .
A joint proposal released by the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. ,  Federal Reserve  and three other regulators could force
end-users to post margin in swaps with banks.  The proposals “couldn’t be further apart,” said  Scott
O’Malia , a Republican CFTC commissioner who cited the “lack of
harmonization” in voting against his agency’s proposal. Both
measures were released for public comment.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires agencies including the CFTC,
 Securities and Exchange Commission  and the Fed to establish
margin requirements as a way of limiting risk in the $583
trillion global swaps market. Lawmakers sought safeguards after
largely unregulated trades exacerbated the 2008 credit crisis.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Shadow-Banking Rules May Be Hampered by Data Gaps, FSB Says  Global regulators said information gaps may undermine their
efforts to limit risks to the financial system from so-called
shadow banks, including  hedge funds .  The  Financial Stability Board  has “already spotted a
number of significant limitations in both the macro and micro
perspectives in monitoring the shadow-banking system,” the
board said in a report on its website yesterday.  Authorities have warned that shadow banks, such as
structured investment vehicles, hedge funds and money market
mutual funds, could be used to evade attempts by regulators to
clamp down on excessive risk taking in the wake of the crisis.
The shadow-banking system had liabilities of about $16 trillion
in the first quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New
York  said in a  report  last year.  FSB Chairman  Mario Draghi  said last week the board will
submit recommendations on how to regulate shadow banks to the
Group of 20 nations before the end of the year.  Lloyds May Need to Sell 1,000 Branches, Morgan Stanley Says  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest provider of
current accounts, may need to sell as many as many as 1,000
branches to comply with proposals from the  Independent
Commission on Banking , according to analysts at Morgan Stanley.  That could cut Lloyds’s 2013 profit before tax by about 17
percent, wrote London-based analysts Steven Hayne and Chris
Manners. The ICB said in its  interim report  April 11 that Lloyds
should divest “substantially” more branches than the 600
already being offered for sale to meet  European Union  state aid
rules. The EU ruling would cut about 10 percent off the lender’s
profit before tax.  John Vickers , 52, chairman of the commission, was asked by
the government last year to make recommendations to boost
stability and competition. The April 11 publication of the
report opens the way to five months of lobbying before the final
report is submitted to the government in September.  Lloyds will have 25 percent of U.K. current accounts,
called checking accounts in the U.S., and 19 percent of gross
mortgage lending once the EU sell-offs have taken place, the ICB
estimated yesterday. That would make it the “clear leader”
among U.K. retail banks, even after the divestitures.  Dutch Pension Funds Need to Reduce Management Costs, AFM Says  Dutch pension funds should reduce costs and require
external investment managers to give a full accounting of
expenses to increase their capital in the long term, financial
markets regulator  AFM  said.  “The real costs of  investment management  are on average
two to three times higher than those mentioned in the annual
reports,” the Amsterdam-based regulator said in a  report 
published yesterday. “All pension funds should force external
investment managers to give full reports on costs so they can
justify the cost level to their participants.”  Dutch pension funds came under public scrutiny after the
financial crisis, when the ratio of assets to future payouts at
almost half of all funds dipped below central bank requirements.  Google, Facebook Seek Delay of Debit-Card Swipe Fee Rules  Rules capping the fees that debit-card issuers charge to
merchants may weaken the security of electronic transactions, a
Washington-based group representing technology companies
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Facebook Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said.  TechNet , a group that also counts  Visa Inc. (V)  as a member,
called on lawmakers to delay and further study rules that are
being written by the Federal Reserve as part of the Dodd-Frank
finance-regulation overhaul.  The rules on so-called swipe fees are scheduled to be in
place July 21. The group sent letters last week to U.S. senators
asking them to support legislation introduced by Senator Jon
Tester, a Montana Democrat, to put off the rules for two years.  The group said that the loss of revenue to banks and card
networks could lead them to cut costs in the technology systems
that protect personal financial information from fraud and
identity theft.  For more, click here.  Banks Face Sovereign Debt Scrutiny in EU Stress Tests  European regulators will scrutinize banks’ calculations for
losses on sovereign debt held to maturity when carrying out this
year’s stress tests,  Europe ’s top banking supervisor said.  Financial watchdogs will “check what banks are doing with
reference to some sovereign exposures and see whether they’re
taking a conservative attitude” when valuing the assets, Andrea
Enria, the chairman of the  European Banking Authority , said in
an interview in  London .  Ninety banks will be expected to maintain a Core Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test
scenarios, the EBA said.  Portugal  last week became the third
euro-area state after Greece and Ireland to succumb to the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis and request emergency aid.  “I understand on contacts I’ve had with banks that some of
them have already reviewed the valuations of sovereign exposures
on the banking book towards certain countries,” Enria said.
Banks hold on to bonds in the banking book until the principal
is scheduled to be repaid, rather than trading them on the
secondary market.  This year’s tests will include a review of how banks would
handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area in
2011 as well as a 15 percent drop in European equity markets.  The EBA tests will also examine the effect of a 75 basis-
point-jump in  interest rates  on European sovereign bonds and an
increase in short-term inter-bank financing costs of 125 basis
points.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Citigroup Ordered to Pay $51 Million to Muni-Fund Investors  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank , was ordered to
pay more than $51 million to a group of investors in its MAT and
ASTA municipal-bond hedge funds, which regulators began
examining more than two years ago.  The ruling by arbitrators at the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, which oversees U.S. brokerages, includes
$17 million in punitive damages, according to a copy of the
decision on Finra’s  website . It’s the third-largest arbitration
award by Finra and predecessor NASD since 1988, according to
 Securities Arbitration Commentator Inc. , a Maplewood, New
Jersey-based legal publishing and research firm.  “We are disappointed with the decision, which we believe
is not supported by the facts or law, and we are reviewing our
options,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Arbitrators didn’t explain the reasoning behind their
ruling.  For more, click here.  Santander to Pay $2 Million to Finra Over Improper Sales  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s largest bank, will pay $2
million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims that its Puerto Rico-
based brokerage improperly sold risky structured financial
products to retail customers including the elderly.  Santander Securities, which has reimbursed customers for
more than $7 million in losses on so-called reverse convertible
notes, failed to properly train brokers as sales grew in 2007
and 2008, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said
yesterday. The Washington-based regulator said last month that
it was conducting a sweep to survey advertising for the
securities.  A spokesman for Santander in  Madrid , who asked not to be
named in line with company policy, declined to comment.  Reverse convertibles, generally marketed to individuals,
are short-term bonds that convert into stock if a company’s
share price plummets. They offer high interest rates, with notes
paying 13 percent on average last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Banks sold $6.76 billion of the
securities to U.S. investors last year, the data show.  For more, click here.  Unilever, P&G Fined 315.2 Million Euros by EU for Cartel  Unilever and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  agreed to pay 315.2
million euros ($457.3 million) in fines to end a European Union
probe into price fixing of laundry detergent.  P&G, the maker of Ariel washing powder, was fined 211.2
million euros and Unilever will pay 104 million euros for
agreeing with Henkel KGaA, the German maker of Persil, to fix
prices of the detergent in eight countries over a three-year
period, the European Commission said in an e-mailed statement.  Henkel wasn’t fined because it was the first company to
supply evidence to regulators. Antitrust agencies across Europe
have been investigating cosmetics and detergent manufacturers
for agreements to fix or increase prices. The commission said it
reduced fines on the other two companies because they cooperated
in the probe and agreed to settle.  “Henkel, Procter & Gamble and Unilever engaged in their
anti-competitive practices at their own initiative and at their
own risk,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said
today. Almunia said the companies agreed not to reduce prices
when they shrank the size of packaging for laundry detergent and
then also agreed to increase prices.  Unilever spokesman Trevor Gorin said the amount it has to
pay was “within the provision made by Unilever in its 2010
results.”  Henkel acknowledged in 2008 “concrete evidence of
misconduct by employees in several Western European countries,”
Chief Compliance Officer Dirk-Stephan Koedijk said in a
statement. Henkel said it “immediately informed the
authorities,” and “has taken effective activities in order to
uncover and avoid future misconduct.”  P&G didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  The three companies started coordinating prices in 2002,
the European Commission said, when they put into practice an
industrywide initiative to improve the environmental performance
of detergents.  For more, click here.  Courts  German Policy Group Asks Court to Block Portugal Aid Plan  A group of 50 plaintiffs asked  Germany ’s top constitutional
court to stop the national government from participating in the
European Union bailout of Portugal.  The suit asked the Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe
for an emergency order blocking any payment by the German
government, the  Europolis-Gruppe , an association representing
the plaintiffs, said in a statement. The group claims that
without an emergency order, Germany could be “robbed” of its
“financial sovereignty.”  No hearing has yet been scheduled in the case.  Bertrand Benoit, a spokesman for Germany’s Finance
Ministry, declined to comment.  Ireland’s NAMA Doesn’t Violate Constitution, Judge Rules  Ireland’s  Supreme Court  ruled that the law underpinning the
 National Asset Management Agency , which buys commercial loans
from the nation’s banks, is in line with the country’s
constitution.  Real-estate developer Paddy McKillen challenged the
constitutionality of the Dublin-based agency as he sought to
prevent his loans being taken over by the organization, also
known as NAMA. McKillen has a right to make representations to
on the transfer of his debts, the court said.  The government established the agency in 2009 to take over
risky commercial real-estate loans from the country’s banks,
following the collapse of a decade-long property boom. Banks
have sold 72.3 billion euros of loans to the agency at an
average discount of 58 percent.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Wins Dismissal of Ex-Deutsche Bank Executive’s Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  didn’t violate law or breach a
contract when it fired the Australian head of its corporate
derivatives marketing in 2008, after he objected to changes in
the job, a judge ruled.  Colin Keays sued JPMorgan, claiming the bank lured him from
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2005 and then deceived him and breached his
contract by limiting him to dealing only with JPMorgan clients.
He had sought more than A$6 million ($6.3 million) for his
expected pay to January 2018, when he would be 60 years of age.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, had the
right, under its contract with Keays, to fire him by giving him
three months’ notice or pay in lieu of the notice,  Australia 
Federal Court Judge  Robert Buchanan  wrote in a 34-page ruling
released yesterday. The bank abided by the terms of the
contract, the judge said.  “Mr. Keays was under no obligation to accept the position
at JPM,” Buchanan wrote. “When he did so it was on the terms
which he had negotiated” and that included “dealing with the
possibility that his employment might come to an end,” the
judge said.  Keays declined to comment after yesterday’s verdict.  The case is Colin Keays v. J.P. Morgan Administrative
Services Australia Ltd., (P)NSD1375/2008, Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  Madoff Judge Maintains Seal on JPMorgan Banking Secrets  The judge overseeing the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff’s
defunct investment firm maintained the seal on JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s banking practices while ordering the public disclosure of
some names in lawsuits seeking to claw back profits.  Trustee Irving Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits
seeking $100 billion for the con man’s investors, said last
month there was no “compelling reason” why names of key people
in his complaints should be blanked out. The unsealing was
requested by the New York Times Co., WNBC-TV, NBC News and CNBC.  “The public has a qualified First Amendment right to
access certain judicial documents,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland  said in a written order filed in  Manhattan 
yesterday, citing previous cases. At the same time, bankruptcy
law protects  trade secrets  and confidential research, he said.  JPMorgan, sued for $6.4 billion by Picard, had asked the
judge to guard the confidentiality of information about the New
York-based bank’s so-called know-your-customer program and anti-
money laundering procedures.  In ordering some names unsealed in some lawsuits, Lifland
said “the defendants have not adequately established any harm
beyond merely ‘embarrassing or prejudicial’ association with
these Ponzi scheme proceedings, which is not sufficient for
sealing.”  The JPMorgan case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-
ap-4932,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Settlements/Verdicts  BGC, Tullett Settle Broker-Poaching Damages Lawsuit in London  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  settled the damages portion of a lawsuit
filed by inter-dealer brokerage competitor  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) 
over BGC’s poaching of traders.  The firms settled at a hearing in London today, one month
into a trial. The terms are confidential.  Tullett, based in London, sued BGC in 2009 claiming Anthony
Verrier, BGC’s executive managing director, spent tens of
millions of pounds to persuade the heads of various Tullett
trading desks to breach their contracts by getting colleagues to
defect. A year ago, Justice Raymond Jack ruled against New York-
based BGC and ordered a second trial to decide damages.  “This could have been a very, very unpleasant action,”
Jack said at today’s hearing, noting he was pleased a settlement
had been reached.  Tullett has been seeking to recoup lost profits, legal
fees, “wasted management time,” the cost of steps “to
safeguard its interests” and the gardening-leave pay to 10
brokers who were prevented from working while the lawsuit was
going on, Tullett lawyer Daniel Oudkerk said at a hearing last
month.  BGC spokesman Richard Oldworth said he couldn’t immediately
comment. Tullett spokesman Nigel Szembel didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment.  The case is Tullett Prebon Plc v. BGC Brokers LP,
HQ09X01241,  High Court  (London).  Interviews/Speeches  Scotiabank’s Waugh Says Banks Should Be Allowed to Fail  Banks should be allowed to fail to make bankers accountable
for the consequences of their actions,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  Chief
Executive Officer Richard Waugh said.  Waugh was speaking yesterday in London at an event
organized by Washington-based lobby group the  Institute for
International Finance , which published a report showing that
banks are making risk management more of a priority after the
financial crisis. The IIF represents more than 400 financial
institutions worldwide.  The U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking said April 11
that the nation’s consumer banks should boost capital, implement
plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks around
consumer units.  Regulation alone won’t prevent another crisis, Waugh said.
Bankers and policymakers needed to find the right balance
between prudent regulation, prudent oversight and good
management, he said.  Hoenig Says Basel Capital Standards Too Lax to Avert Crises  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig 
said international  capital requirements  are too lax to prevent
another U.S. banking crisis.  Standards set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
require “far too little capital,” Hoenig said yesterday in a
speech in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “That will not prevent the
next crisis and will not adequately prepare institutions for the
next crisis.” Hoenig noted that in the years prior to the
crisis,  capital ratios  “systematically declined.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 