-- 
Arkema Says CJ CheilJedang Ventures’ Sales May Top $400 Million

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-04-13T13:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/arkema-says-cj-cheiljedang-ventures-sales-may-top-400-million.html
Arkema SA (AKE)  said its ventures with  CJ
CheilJedang Corp. (097950)  to make products for the animal-feed and oil-
refining industries may post more than $400 million in annual
sales after they start operating at the end of 2013.  Markets for methionine, used by poultry producers, and
thiochemicals, used by oil and gas companies, are growing by
7 percent to 8 percent a year in  Asia , Marc Schuller, head of
the industrial-chemicals business at Colombes, France-based
Arkema, said in a telephone interview.  “With these kinds of growth rates, our capacity in the
U.S. and  Europe  that’s now serving Asian markets will be
saturated,” Schuller said in the interview yesterday.  Arkema, the chemical manufacturer spun off by Total SA in
2006, and Seoul-based food processor CJ CheilJedang said on
April 11 that they’re investing a combined $400 million in the
factories, which will be built in Malaysia or  Thailand . The
French company is seeking another Asian partner to invest a
similar amount in the region to build an acrylic-monomer plant,
Schuller said.  The French manufacturer aims for the proportion of its
revenue from Asia to rise to 23 percent in 2015 from 18 percent
in 2010 as the company adds capacity in countries such as  China .
Arkema aims for group sales in that period to rise by 27 percent
to 7.5 billion euros ($11 billion), helped by new products,
acquisitions, and investments.  Stock Rises  Arkema has gained 24 percent this year after more than
doubling in 2010. The company said on March 2 that first-quarter
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
would be “significantly above” the prior-year figure. Arkema
is scheduled to report quarterly results on May 5.  Demand for Arkema’s industrial chemicals, which account for
about half of its revenue, “was rather good in the first
quarter,” Schuller said. “At this stage, we’re not expecting a
break in the second quarter.”  The company has been forced to raise prices as energy and
raw-material costs are rising “at a very rapid pace,” said
Schuller, who’s also in charge of supply and energy procurement.
“The challenge is to pass on these increases as rapidly. Until
now, we’ve done quite a good job,” though customers’ resistance
is growing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 