-- 
Harper Fends Off Opposition Attacks on Spending in Canada Election Debate

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-13T14:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/harper-fends-off-attacks-on-spending-in-canada-election-debate.html
Prime Minister Stephen Harper spent
much of  Canada ’s televised debate last night fending off
opposition attacks that he’s misspent public funds and
undermined the country’s finances with business tax reductions.  Harper, and leaders of the Liberal, New Democratic and Bloc
Quebecois parties, squared off over the economy, health care,
crime, international affairs, and immigration at a government
conference center in Ottawa.  Harper, 51, countered the criticism by saying opposition
parties triggered elections unnecessarily, adding the tax cuts
were approved by Parliament four years ago and their reversal
would undermine the nation’s economic outlook. A French-language
debate will be held tonight.  Canada “is emerging from this recession stronger and
faster than just about anyone,” Harper said. “That’s what we
need Parliament to focus on. That’s why we’re asking for a
renewed mandate.”  At stake in the vote is leadership of the world’s 10th-
largest economy, which grew at the fastest pace among Group of
Seven nations in the fourth quarter. Canada’s currency has been
the strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.  Government
bonds  have returned 4.6 percent over the past year as of April
11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data,
compared with a 2.7 percent average for the G-7.  Key Message  Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff , 63, has yet to shrink the
roughly 10 percentage-point lead that Harper has held through
the campaign, which began March 26. He kept to his key message
last night, attacking Harper for agreeing to buy 65 of Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter jets,
building “mega-prisons” and moving ahead with corporate tax
cuts.  Ignatieff, a former professor at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , also sought to question Harper’s
integrity, aiming to take advantage of a parliamentary finding
last month that held the governing Conservatives in “contempt”
of the House of Commons for withholding information.  “Mr. Harper, we’re having an election because you couldn’t
tell the truth to the Parliament of Canada because of the money
you’re going to spend on jets, jails and corporate tax
giveaways,” Ignatieff said.  Conservative Lead  Polls suggest the Conservatives would win the most seats in
the election, although it isn’t clear if they would win a
majority. The Conservatives were supported by 39.7 percent of
decided voters, followed by 31.2 percent who supported the
Liberals, according to a CTV/Globe/Nanos election survey
published yesterday. The telephone survey of 1,200 people was
conducted April 10-12 and has a margin of error of plus or minus
2.8 percent.  Harper, who has been prime minister since 2006, won 38
percent of the vote in 2008 elections, which gave the
Conservatives 143 seats in the 308-member House of Commons. He
has never held a majority of seats in the Parliament.  In an online poll of 2,365 viewers conducted by Ipsos Reid
last night, 42 percent said Harper won the debate, followed by
25 percent for New Democratic Leader  Jack Layton  and 23 percent
for Ignatieff. Harper and Layton did better than was expected,
according to the poll, while Ignatieff failed to improve on pre-
debate expectations.  “The prime minister simply had to get through the debate
and I think he did,” Ipsos pollster John Wright said in a
telephone interview. “Not a lot of minds were changed
tonight.”  Misused Funds  The format of the debate had the four party leaders in a
semi-circle, standing in front of podiums. Questions were
submitted by Canadians and videotaped earlier. Harper rarely
looked at the other leaders while responding to questions,
speaking to the camera and the television audience.  The three opposition leaders often ganged up on the
Conservative leader over media articles that cited a draft
report by Auditor General Sheila Fraser, which said the
government misused funds hosting last year’s Group of Eight
nations leaders’ summit.  “This wasn’t stimulus; this was just scattering money
around to build gazebos and fake lakes, and Canadians don’t have
confidence in your management because you waste public money,”
Ignatieff said. Harper said all funds were fully accounted for.  Fraser, in a statement released April 11, said she is
prohibited from releasing her report on costs associated with
last year’s G-8 leaders’ summit until Parliament resumes.  NDP Mandate  New Democratic Leader Jack Layton, 60, whose party held 36
seats in the 308-seat House of Commons, said both of the main
parties have failed Canadians and urged voters to give him a
mandate to run the country.  “You have a choice, contrary to what some might try to
suggest,” Layton said. “You’ve got a great chance to exercise
that choice by voting New Democrat.”  Bloc Quebecois Leader Gilles Duceppe, 63, who runs a
regional party that runs candidates only in the French-speaking
province, said  Quebec  voters need to stop the Conservatives from
forming a majority.  “The Bloc is still the only party in Quebec able to stop
Stephen Harper,” Duceppe said.  About two hours before the debate began, about 200
supporters of the various parties gathered in front of Ottawa’s
Government Conference Centre, trading chants and mostly good-
natured insults.  A Green Party supporter, Anika Sparling, stood in front of
the hall with a piece of duct tape over her mouth to symbolize
the exclusion of party leader Elizabeth May from the debate.
Sparling, 20, removed the tape long enough to give her name,
age, home town of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, and say
that she was a student at Ottawa’s  Carleton University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 