-- 
Arsenal Board Members Says Danny Fiszman Helped Shape Club With Stadium

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-14T11:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/arsenal-board-member-danny-fiszman-dies-at-66-following-long-illness.html
Arsenal board members said Danny Fiszman, who died at age 66, helped shape the  London  soccer club
by helping the team move to a new stadium.  Fiszman, who three days ago agreed to sell his shares in
the Premier League soccer club to American billionaire Stan Kroenke, died after a long illness, Arsenal said late yesterday.  The Swiss-based diamond dealer joined Arsenal’s board in
1992 and was a key figure in the 13-time English champion’s
recent history.  “Danny Fiszman was a visionary director, a gentlemen and a
true Arsenal fan,” Arsenal chairman Peter Hill-Wood said in a
statement on the club’s  website . “His voice, wisdom and
presence around the football club he so dearly loved will be
sorely missed.”  Fiszman joined Arsenal when he bought an 8 percent stake in
the team from former chief executive David Dein. He gradually
increased his share to become the club’s major stockholder
before Kroenke and Russian Alisher Usmanov started investing in
the team.  Fiszman played a major role in Arsenal’s move into the new
Emirates Stadium in 2006. The club sold a bond and real estate
at its former stadium Highbury to help fund the deal.  “Arsenal Football Club will forever be indebted to Danny
for his invaluable foresight and contribution during the move
from Highbury to our new stadium,” Hill-Wood said.  Fiszman started selling shares to Kroenke in 2007 and he
supported the American’s bid to join the board, which was
initially opposed by some directors.  Kroenke praised Fiszman’s “unwavering commitment” to the
club.  “He taught me so much about the proud history and
traditions of Arsenal,” Kroenke said in a statement. “We not
only lost a great business leader but a good friend.”  Kroenke’s agreement to buy Fiszman’s remaining 16 percent
holding must be completed within 20 days of his death. He’s
paying 11,750 pounds ($19,118) per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 