-- 
Asian Stocks Rise as Carmakers Advance, Canon Climbs; Oil Gains

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-04-13T11:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/asia-stocks-rise-as-japan-exporters-gain-energy-stocks-drop-on-liability.html
Asian stocks advanced for the first
time in three days as Japan’s carmakers climbed after Nomura
Holdings Inc. said they were “oversold,” and  oil prices 
arrested declines.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s No. 2 automaker by market value,
rose 3.3 percent. Canon Inc., the world’s biggest cameramaker,
gained 2.1 percent, leading information technology stocks higher,
after Deutsche Bank AG raised its investment rating on the stock.
PetroChina Co., the nation’s No. 1 oil producer, reversed
declines after oil futures rose for the first time in three days.
Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp. rose in  Seoul  on
speculation the South Korean carmakers will benefit as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  faces supply constraints following Japan’s record
earthquake and tsunami.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.7 percent to 135.87 as
of 8:33 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than twice as many stocks
rising as falling. The measure swung between gains and losses at
least nine times today.  “Some Japan shares have been oversold but we still need to
accurately quantify the extent of the damage let alone the time
frame and cost of repairing that damage,” said  Tim Schroeders ,
a Melbourne-based money manager at Pengana Capital Ltd., which
manages about $1 billion. “Energy prices do trade a lot on
sentiment, and what we’ve seen is a moderation of growth, and
the problem in essence has been that if energy prices do
continue to rise, it’ll have a negative impact on growth.”  Regional Benchmarks  The Asia-Pacific measure has risen for three straight weeks
as Japanese companies resumed production after last month’s
earthquake, and as an improving U.S. economy bolstered optimism
the global recovery can be sustained.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 0.9 percent today.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.3 percent and  New
Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index increased 0.2 percent.  South Korea ’s
Kospi index advanced 1.6 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.7 percent, while  China ’s
Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index added 1 percent.
Taiwan’s Taiex index increased 0.6 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.8
percent today. Yesterday, the measure fell 0.8 percent as Japan
raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis to the highest
level, oil plunged and sales at Alcoa., the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, missed estimates.  Carmakers Gain  Consumer discretionary stocks, including Japanese and South
Korean carmakers, rose the most of the 10 industry groups on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index today.  Honda gained 3.3 percent to 2,957 yen and was the second-
biggest support to the MSCI index today. Nissan Motor Co.,
Japan’s third-largest automaker, advanced 2.9 percent to 716 yen.
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s No. 1 carmaker, climbed 1.4
percent to 3,285 yen.  Nomura reiterated its “buy” rating on Honda, saying the
stock was oversold because the company’s earnings are expected
to recover sharply in the second-half of the year, ending in
March 2012. The brokerage said Nissan’s earnings would also
rebound after a record earthquake and tsunami on March 11
damaged supply chains and disrupted production.  Carmakers also rose after the Nikkei newspaper reported
that  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , which makes electric components
such as semiconductors for automotives, will restart production
at an earthquake damaged plant in Ibaraki prefecture in June,
one month ahead of schedule. Renesas shares jumped 7.6 percent
to 698 yen.  Renesas Production  “Renesas’s production halts for its semiconductors were
proving to be a production bottleneck for the car industry,”
said Yutaka Yoshii, a strategist at Tokyo-based Mito Securities
Co. “Restarting production is great news for the whole car
industry.”  Canon gained 2.1 percent to 3,635 yen in Tokyo, after
Deutsche Bank raised its rating on the stock to “buy” from
“hold” and boosted its price target to 5,180 yen from 4,230
yen. The stock was the biggest boost to the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index’s subgroup for technology companies, which rose the
second-most among the 10 industry groups on the gauge.  HTC Corp. rose 2.2 percent to NT$1,175 in Taipei after
saying its Flyer tablet device will go on sale in  Europe  next
month.  Some energy shares reversed earlier declines, with the MSCI
Asia Pacific Energy Index climbing 0.2 percent after falling as
much as 1.4 percent.  PetroChina advanced 0.5 percent to HK$11.80, reversing an
earlier decline of as much as 2.4 percent. JX Holdings Inc.,
 Japan ’s No. 1 refiner, gained 1.7 percent to 535 yen, after
falling as much as 1 percent earlier. S-Oil Corp., South Korea’s
second-biggest energy company by market value, climbed 0.3
percent to 148,000 won, reversing an earlier decline of as much
as 4.1 percent.  Energy Reverses  Oil rose for the first time in three days in  New York  on
speculation that U.S. gasoline stockpiles are shrinking as the
summer driving season approaches and  Libya ’s unrest worsens.
Crude oil for May delivery rose as much as 0.7 percent today,
retracing yesterday’s 3.3 percent plunge.  Hyundai Motor jumped 6.3 percent to 212,500 won, the
highest level on record. KIA Motors gained 4.6 percent to 73,500
won, its highest level since March 1998. The carmakers gained
after Toyota told U.S. dealers that assembly disruptions
triggered by last month’s record earthquake and tsunami in Japan
may thin supplies of vehicles into the third quarter, boosting
speculation the South Korean carmakers will increase sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 