-- 
ASML Bookings Drop 27% as Some Chipmakers Delay Orders

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-04-13T10:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/asml-profit-triples-beating-estimates-as-chipmakers-buy-advanced-machines.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s biggest
chip-equipment maker, said first-quarter orders fell 27 percent
as clients took more time to place orders because of shorter
delivery times and disruptions by the Japanese earthquake.  The stock dropped as much as 2.9 percent in Amsterdam
trading. The Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company booked systems
worth 845 million euros ($1.2 billion), compared with 1.17
billion euros a year earlier. Orders dropped 63 percent from the
record fourth quarter.  “This is without any doubt lower than expected,” said Jos Versteeg, an analyst at  Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers , adding that
analysts were looking for the order intake to exceed 1 billion
euros in the first quarter. “Also the outlook for the second
quarter seems weak.”  ASML, the maker of machines that produce chips for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPods and Nokia Oyj’s mobile phones, said that some of
its customers are taking more time before placing orders because
of a shorter lead time for its most advanced immersion-systems.
Some semiconductor manufacturers also delayed deliveries in the
wake of the March 11 Japanese earthquake.  The company predicts, after “thorough investigation” into
its own supply chain, that the impact from the earthquake on
this year’ production is “negligible,” Chief Financial Officer
Peter Wennink said in a video statement on the company’s
website.  Sales Forecast  However, Wennink said the earthquake is hurting the
business of some ASML clients.  ASML predicts 2011 sales to be “clearly above” 5 billion
euros. It forecast a second-quarter order intake of between 900
million euros and 1 billion euros.  First-quarter net income jumped to 395 million euros from
107 million euros a year earlier, beating the 354 million-euro
average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
almost doubled to 1.45 billion euros from 742 million euros.  “ASML reported decent first-quarter numbers but
disappointed in order intake and gave concern that the impact
from the slowdown in industry production in  Japan  may be wider
than first thought”, said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies.  The global semiconductor equipment market gained 143
percent in 2010 to almost $41 billion after a slowdown in the
two previous years, market researcher Gartner said April 4. ASML
was the fastest-growing company in that segment last year, it
said.  Demand  ASML is the world’s largest maker of machines to project
lines on the silicon slices from which chips are made. Its main
rival is Japan’s  Nikon Corp. (7731)   Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , based in
 Santa Clara ,  California , is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor equipment.  “The semiconductor equipment market soared in 2010, driven
by the pent-up demand from the 2008 and 2009 downturn, and a
stronger economy than projected,” Klaus Rinnen, managing vice
president at Gartner, said earlier this month. “Memory and
foundry spending were the key drivers, although all areas showed
significant growth.”  Gartner said April 4 that the recent earthquake in Japan
will have a “near-term impact” on the industry and will hurt
revenue in the second quarter. Semiconductor equipment
manufacturers should be able to recover in the second half of
the year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  