-- 
Massey Unit Employee Pleads Guilty to Making False Statements in Probe

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   C h r i s   S t r a t t o n
-- 
2011-04-13T21:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/massey-unit-employee-pleads-guilty-to-making-false-statements-in-probe.html
A former foreman at the  Massey
Energy Co. (MEE)  coal mine in West Virginia where 29 workers died in
an explosion last year pleaded guilty to a federal charge of
making false statements to U.S. agents.  Thomas Harrah also pleaded guilty today to a U.S. charge
that he misrepresented himself as a certified foreman, qualified
to conduct examinations of mining equipment. Harrah failed the
test required to be certified as a foreman and used a false
certification number to sign off on reports at the Upper Big
Branch mine, the U.S. said.  “I signed the fire boss book knowing I didn’t have a
certificate or nothing,” Harrah told U.S. District Judge Irene Berger today in Beckley, West Virginia.  The fire boss inspects equipment before a shift and is
required to be certified under federal mining regulations. When
federal agents investigating the explosion “came to my house
and talked about this situation, I lied,” Harrah said.  The allegations against Harrah, filed March 22, resulted
from the continuing federal investigation into the causes of the
Upper Big Branch explosion, according to the  Justice Department .
Harrah wasn’t employed by Massey at the time of the April 5,
2010 blast, the company said.  ‘No Tolerance’  “When Mr. Harrah was caught having forged the
certification he left before we could terminate his employment,
which we intended to do,”  Shane Harvey , Massey general counsel,
said in an e-mail today.  “It appears that Mr. Harrah forged the certification
because he was unable to pass the test” required, Harvey said.
“We have no tolerance for such behavior and are thankful that
no one was hurt as a result of Mr. Harrah’s conduct.”  Judge Berger set sentencing for Aug. 11. Harrah faces up to
10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine, according to
prosecutors.  The Harrah case is the second criminal charge arising out
of the federal investigation of the explosion, the worst U.S.
mine disaster in 40 years.  A federal grand jury in  West Virginia  indicted the security
chief at the mine in February on charges of obstructing justice
and making false statements to U.S. agents. The security chief,
Hughie Elbert Stover, of Richmond, Virginia-based Massey’s
Performance Coal unit, pleaded not guilty last month.  Federal Agents  Stover, of Clear Fork, West Virginia, is accused of lying
to a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agent and a U.S. Mine
Safety and Health Administration investigator about whether he
instructed security guards at Performance Coal’s Upper Big
Branch mine in Montcoal, West Virginia, to announce the arrival
of safety inspectors. The U.S. also alleges Stover ordered the
disposal of security-related documents in January.  The U.S. also accused Harrah of making false statements to
investigators from the FBI and the mine safety unit.  Harrah told these agents “that an officer of Performance
Coal Co. provided Thomas Harrah with a phone number to call
after Thomas Harrah had taken and failed the mine foreman’s
examination,” according to the U.S. complaint. Harrah “further
stated and represented” that when he called this phone number,
he was provided with a mine foreman’s certification number, the
U.S. said.  ‘False, Fictitious’  “These statements and representations were false,
fictitious and fraudulent,” the U.S. said. Harrah “had not
been instructed by the Performance Coal Co. to call any
telephone number,” and “invented the foreman’s certification
number he used,” according to the U.S. in court filings.  The U.S. also alleged that Harrah claimed he was a
certified foreman when he conducted and certified pre-shift and
on-shift examinations at the Upper Big Branch mine. U.S. mine
regulations require “that a certified person conduct a pre-
shift examination of any underground area where any person was
scheduled to work or travel,” prosecutors said.  The rules also require that this person certify that the
examination was completed.  From January 2008 through August 2009, Harrah conducted the
examinations while knowing he wasn’t qualified to do so and
claimed he was certified when he wasn’t, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Harrah, 5:11-cr-00082, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Beckley).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Stratton in Beckley, West Virginia, at
 chrisstratton2010@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 