-- 
Atlas’s Ayn Rand Resists Hollywood’s Call: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-04-14T15:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/atlas-s-rand-resists-bedding-down-with-hollywood-caroline-baum.html
How is it a novel so many readers
describe as “life-changing” took 54 years and a gaggle of
producers, writers and directors to bring to the screen?  One answer is Ayn  Rand  herself, author of “ Atlas
Shrugged ,” which was published in 1957. Earlier attempts to
make a movie based on the book were foiled by Rand’s insistence
on creative control.  The second reason is the nature of the 1,168-page book.
It’s about ideas. Rand’s characters are caricatures that reflect
her ideas and ideals. Businessmen are good, government
bureaucrats are bad. There is no middle ground.  A third reason, one implied by those involved, is the
nature of the material.  “She’s a very controversial author,” said  John Aglialoro ,
one of the film’s producers, who acquired the rights to
“Atlas” in August 1992 from Rand’s estate. “She threw
selfishness as a virtue in the face of society.”  That virtue is better described as rational self-interest.
For Rand, capitalism was the only moral system, with each
individual acting in his own self-interest. Productive
achievement was the noblest activity and happiness, the ultimate
goal.  You can see how Rand’s philosophy, so outlined, might ruffle
the feathers of Hollywood’s do-gooders. Add that to the movie’s
history of false starts, including six screenplays commissioned
by Aglialoro alone, and it’s not hard to understand the
industry’s resistance.  Rush to Production  “It was clear we were not going to get support from the
Hollywood machinery, including talent agencies,” said producer
 Harmon Kaslow , who hooked up with Aglialoro in April 2010, three
months before the rights were set to lapse.  Starting with a clean slate, the duo managed to assemble a
team, come up with a fresh screenplay, cast the 41 speaking
roles and begin “full principal photography” by June 15, 2010,
according to Aglialoro.  “Atlas Shrugged, Part 1” opens tomorrow in 298 theaters
across the U.S. A press release classifies the movie as
“drama/mystery.” Veteran Hollywood producer Al Ruddy, who was
the first to acquire the rights to “Atlas Shrugged” in 1974,
was taken by the  love story  before he parted ways with Rand
because of her insistence on final script approval.  Without a Trace  “Atlas” doesn’t fit into either genre. For those
unfamiliar with Rand’s novel, “Atlas Shrugged” tells the story
of the gradual disappearance of the nation’s entrepreneurs as
government bureaucrats impose increasingly burdensome rules and
regulations to stifle their success and confiscate their wealth.  One by one, these captains of copper, steel, and oil
industries quit, abandoning the businesses they built, refusing
to work for the benefit of anyone except themselves.  “Atlas Shrugged, Part I,” takes place in 2016 and ends
before we even meet Rand’s hero, John Galt, who is the first to
quit and inspires others to join him in his effort to stop the
world. (Readers should look for the mysterious man in the
raincoat.)  “Atlas” is unlikely to win the Palme d’Or at the Cannes
film festival this year. I say this as both an admirer of Rand’s
ideas and a devotee of the book.  Casting Errors  No one can accuse the producers of type-casting. The
actors, pretty much a  cast  of unknowns, are too young. James
Taggart, president of Taggart Transcontinental, looks 22, unlike
the middle-aged, pathetic character, reliant on government
favors, that Rand paints for us in the book.  “Everything was built around Dagny,” Kaslow told me.  Dagny Taggart, James’ sister, is the story’s protagonist,
struggling to save her family’s railroad from government
bureaucrats out to destroy it. She is young, played by a 26-
year-old  Taylor Schilling . Therefore everyone else is young.  It was hard to look at the actor playing Francisco
d’Anconia, heir to the d’Anconia Copper empire. Couldn’t the
producers have found someone more dapper who could speak with a
Spanish accent?  The pressure to start shooting before the rights lapsed
forced the producers to focus on the ideology at the expense of
potential cinematic qualities.  “We put words from the book into the characters’ mouths,”
Kaslow said.  I suppose if it had been possible to do otherwise, someone
would have done it by now.  A is A  Fans of the book, 7 million and counting, may not notice or
care. They’ll get chills, as I did, when Dagny’s new railroad
line, the John Galt Line, makes its first run on tracks made of
Rearden metal, a new alloy created by fellow industrialist Hank
Rearden that threatens to put steel producers out of business.  The government tries to scare the public by fabricating
stories about the dangers of the new metal. Defiant, Dagny and
Hank man the train’s locomotive as it speeds across the Colorado
landscape, over the new Rearden bridge made from, of course,
Rearden metal.  Above all, the movie is faithful to Rand’s philosophy,
which is known as  objectivism : the idea that reality is
objective. Or, as encapsulated by Galt in a 60-page monologue
near the end of the book, “A is A.”  No wonder the faithful are heaping lavish  praise  on the
movie. For them, adherence to Rand’s ideas is enough. A is A.
“Atlas Shrugged” is “Atlas Shrugged.”  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  