-- 
Aussie Falls Versus Yen as Singapore Tightens Policy, BRICs Warn on Growth

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-14T04:06:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/aussie-n-z-dollars-fall-as-renewed-europe-debt-concern-curb-yield-demand.html
Australia ’s dollar fell against the
yen after Singapore’s central bank stepped up its fight against
inflation and leaders of the so-called BRIC nations said rising
commodity prices posed a threat to growth.  The Aussie weakened against most of its major counterparts
after the Monetary Authority of Singapore said it would allow
further gains in its currency in the third tightening of policy
this year. New Zealand’s dollar dropped for the third time this
week against the yen after an industry report showed growth in
the nation’s manufacturing slowed last month.  “The Monetary Authority of Singapore’s tightening to
combat inflation appears to be spurring risk aversion,” said
 Marito Ueda , senior managing director in  Tokyo  at FX Prime Corp.,
a foreign-exchange margin company. “Equities are falling. The
bias is for commodity currencies to be sold.”  The Australian dollar declined to 87.71 yen as of 2:01 p.m.
in Sydney from 88.08 yen in  New York  yesterday. The so-called
Aussie was at $1.0497 from $1.0507, after earlier dropping to
$1.0458. The New Zealand dollar fell to 66.07 yen from 66.18 yen,
and traded at 79.07 U.S. cents from 78.94 cents.  Singapore’s MAS said it revised “policy will ensure price
stability in the medium term while keeping growth on a
sustainable path.” There will be no change to the slope and
width of the currency’s trading band, the central bank said in
the semi-annual monetary policy review.  ‘Excessive Volatility’  The Aussie also weakened after the leaders of  Brazil ,
Russia, India,  China  and South Africa said “excessive
volatility in commodity prices, particularly those for food and
energy, poses new risks for the ongoing recovery of the world
economy.”  Chinese President Hu Jintao and the other BRICS leaders
also called for “more attention to the risks of massive cross-
border capital flows” according to a draft copy of the
communiqué that was given to Bloomberg.  “Our commodity analysts expect the price of Australian
commodities to ease over the next two years,”  Joseph Capurso , a
currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, wrote in
a research note today. “If commodity prices ease in line with
our forecasts, Australia’s dollar will also ease.”  Australia’s dollar will drop to 92 U.S. cents by the end of
this year, according to Commonwealth Bank’s note.  Manufacturing Slows  The kiwi declined after Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. and
Business New Zealand said their index of the nation’s
manufacturing fell to 50.1 in March from 53.2 in January. There
was no February figure because the earthquake in Christchurch
disrupted the survey process. An reading above 50 shows growth.  “The result represents a flat end to the quarter and sets
a soft tone going into the start of the June quarter,”  Craig Ebert , senior markets economist at Bank of New Zealand, said in
the statement.  Benchmark interest rates are 2.5 percent in New Zealand and
4.75 percent in Australia, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars pared losses as
Asian stocks trimmed declines. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
regional shares fell 0.2 percent after earlier declining as much
as 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronnie Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  