-- 
Australia to Use More Than 50% of Carbon Price Revenue to Help Households

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-13T04:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/australia-to-use-more-than-50-of-carbon-price-revenue-to-help-households.html
Australian Climate Change Minister
 Greg Combet  said more than 50 percent of the revenue raised by
placing a price on carbon will be used to assist households.  The government wants to introduce the measure in July, 2012,
before an emissions trading system that may begin as early as
2015. Combet said revenue from the carbon price, which has not
yet been set, would go to households, to support industry as
they adjust and for clean energy investment.  “More than 50 percent will be used to assist households,”
Combet said in a speech at the  National Press Club  in Canberra
today. “Millions of households will be better off under a
carbon price and the assistance will be permanent.”  The government wants to reduce greenhouse emissions by at
least 5 percent in 2020 compared with 2000 levels.  Australia ,
the world’s biggest exporter of coal, has also set a target of
generating 20 percent of its energy from renewable sources like
wind and solar by 2020.  The government’s two-party preferred support fell to an
eight-year low of 45 percent, a Newspoll survey of 1,133 people
published in the Australian newspaper on April 5 said. The poll
had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.  A multiparty climate-change committee, formed after a
request from the Greens Party, released on Feb. 25 a framework
document on reducing emissions which didn’t fix a carbon price
or set a level of compensation to be paid.  “There will be generous assistance for households to meet
costs that may be passed on by companies that are paying for
their pollution,” Combet said.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said he doubts the assistance
will be permanent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  