-- 
Azeri Economy Grew 1.6% in First Quarter on Energy, Aliyev Says

-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 
2011-04-13T10:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/azeri-economy-grew-1-6-in-first-quarter-on-energy-aliyev-says.html
Azerbaijan ’s economy expanded an
annual 1.6 percent in the first quarter as the third-biggest oil
producer among the former Soviet republics benefited from higher
energy prices, President Ilham Aliyev said.  Natural-gas output is set to increase from the current 27
billion cubic meters a year after investments made into the BP
Plc-led Shah Deniz project and other deposits, Aliyev said in
comments published today in state-run newspaper  Azarbaycan . Oil
production peaked in 2010 at 51 million metric tons a year and
will be maintained at that level, Aliyev said.  The U.S. and  Europe  have been courting Azerbaijan, located
on the western  Caspian Sea  between Russia and  Iran , as an
alternative crude supplier to  Russia  and the Middle East. Oil
and natural-gas output accounted for 52 percent of gross
domestic product, the State Statistics Committee said last
month. GDP grew 5 percent last year.  “Our gas output should increase thanks to investments due
in coming years,” Aliyev said. Even so, “our main goal is to
expand the non-oil sector and ease dependence on oil and gas.”  The economy’s non-oil industries grew an annual 5.6 percent
in the first quarter, Aliyev told a cabinet meeting yesterday.  European energy companies are vying for supplies from the
$20 billion second phase of Shah Deniz as they plan pipelines
via  Turkey  from the region. Russia has also expressed interest
in buying Azeri gas.  The inflation rate reached an annual 9.1 percent in the
first quarter, Aliyev said, instructing his government to keep
consumer-price growth below 10 percent by year-end. The
country’s gold and foreign-currency reserves were at $34.2
billion at the end of the quarter, according to Aliyev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  