-- 
Bank of Canada April Monetary Policy Report Summary (Text)

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-13T14:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bank-of-canada-april-monetary-policy-report-summary-text-.html
Following is the text of the summary
of the Bank of  Canada ’s Monetary Policy Report, released today in
Ottawa.  As anticipated in January, the global economic recovery is
becoming more firmly entrenched and is expected to continue at a
steady pace. In the  United States , growth is solidifying,
although consolidation of household and ultimately government
balance sheets will limit the pace of the expansion. European
growth has strengthened, despite ongoing sovereign debt and
banking challenges in the periphery. The disasters that struck
 Japan  in March will severely affect its economic activity in the
first half of this year and create short-term disruptions to
supply chains in advanced economies. Robust demand from emerging-
market economies is driving the underlying strength in commodity
prices, which is being further reinforced by supply shocks
arising from recent geopolitical events. These price increases,
combined with persistent excess demand conditions in major
emerging-market economies, are contributing to the emergence of
broader global inflationary pressures. Despite the significant
challenges that weigh on the global outlook, global financial
conditions remain very stimulative and investors have become
noticeably less risk averse.  Although recent economic activity in Canada has been
stronger than the Bank had anticipated, the profile is largely
consistent with the underlying dynamics outlined in January.
Aggregate demand is rebalancing toward business investment and
net exports, and away from government and household expenditures.
As in January, the Bank expects business investment to continue
to rise rapidly and the growth of  consumer spending  to evolve
broadly in line with that of personal disposable income, although
higher terms of trade and wealth are likely to support a slightly
stronger profile for household expenditures than previously
projected. In contrast, the improvement in net exports is
expected to be further restrained by ongoing competitiveness
challenges, which have been reinforced by the recent strength of
the Canadian dollar.  Overall, the Bank projects that the economy will expand by
2.9 per cent in 2011 and 2.6 per cent in 2012. Growth in 2013 is
expected to equal that of potential output, at 2.1 per cent. The
Bank expects that the economy will return to capacity in the
middle of 2012, two quarters earlier than had been projected in
January.  While underlying inflation is subdued, a number of temporary
factors will boost total CPI inflation to around 3 per cent in
the second quarter of 2011 before total CPI inflation converges
to the 2 per cent target by the middle of 2012. This short-term
volatility reflects the impact of recent sharp increases in
energy prices and the ongoing boost from changes in provincial
indirect taxes.  Core inflation  has fallen further in recent
months, in part due to temporary factors. It is expected to rise
gradually to 2 per cent by the middle of 2012 as excess supply in
the economy is slowly absorbed, labour compensation growth stays
modest, productivity recovers and inflation expectations remain
well-anchored.  The persistent strength of the Canadian dollar could create
even greater headwinds for the Canadian economy, putting
additional downward pressure on inflation through weaker-than-
expected net exports and larger declines in import prices.  Although the global economic recovery is expected to
continue at a steady pace, global risks remain elevated. The two
main upside risks to inflation in Canada relate to the
possibility of higher-than-projected commodity prices and global
inflation, and increased momentum in Canadian household spending.
The two main downside risks to inflation relate to headwinds from
the persistent strength in the Canadian dollar and the
possibility that growth in household spending could be weaker
than projected.  Overall, the Bank judges the risks to the inflation outlook
in Canada are roughly balanced over the projection horizon.  Reflecting all of these factors, on 12 April 2011 the Bank
decided to maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per
cent. The  Bank Rate  is correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the
deposit rate is 3/4 per cent. This leaves considerable monetary
stimulus in place, consistent with achieving the 2 per cent
inflation target in an environment of material excess supply in
Canada. Any further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would
need to be carefully considered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  