-- 
JPMorgan Credit Swaps Show Bank’s Record Profits Fail to Impress

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-13T21:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bank-credit-default-swaps-ease-as-jpmorgan-profits-set-record.html
Record earnings from  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  failed to improve its creditworthiness in the eyes of
swaps traders, as reduced provisions for bad mortgages accounted
for almost half of its profit.  Credit-default swaps on the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.2 basis point to 71.7
basis points, according to CMA.  Profits rose 67 percent to $5.56 billion, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. The results beat the
average per-share estimate for adjusted earnings of $1.15 by 26
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Provisions for credit losses
dropped 83 percent to $1.17 billion as defaults and late
payments declined, allowing the bank to release money that had
been reserved for bad loans.  “One of the reasons they did very well is they released a
lot of reserves,” said Jason Brady, a managing director at
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .
The firm oversees $73 billion of assets, including stocks and
bonds from both companies. “That doesn’t mean they’re making
tons of money, it just means they’re not losing it,” Brady
said.  Contracts protecting the debt of Bank of America Corp., the
largest U.S. lender, climbed 0.5 basis point to 129.8 and those
on Morgan Stanley increased 0.5 basis point to 137, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Swaps on Citigroup Inc. added 0.1 basis point to 119.4 and
contracts on debt issued by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. gained 1.1
basis points to 111.3.  ‘Fewer Risks’  JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
posted a record $17.4 billion in earnings last year, in part by
releasing about $7 billion of reserves against bad loans back
into income as the  U.S. economy  improved. Dimon, 55, has said he
doesn’t consider reserve releases as “quality” earnings
because they don’t represent growth in the bank’s businesses.  The bank may also settle an investigation by federal
regulators into its foreclosure practices as early as today,
executives said on a conference call.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
was little changed from the highest level this month after a
report that U.S. retail sales increased in March.  Retail Sales  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.1 basis point to a
mid-price of 95.1 basis points as of 5:04 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Sales at U.S. retailers rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, easing concern that the jump in food and fuel
costs would cause consumers to retrench.  Purchases increased 0.4 percent following a 1.1 percent
February gain that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, is at the
highest level since March 31.  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which falls as investor confidence deteriorates, declined 0.2
percentage point to 102.2 percent of face value.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  