-- 
Banks to Pay Victims of Botched Foreclosures in Settlement With Regulators

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-04-13T21:47:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/banks-to-pay-victims-of-botched-foreclosures-in-settlement-with-regulators.html
The 14 largest U.S. mortgage
servicers must pay back homeowners for losses from foreclosures
or loans that were mishandled in the wake of the housing
collapse, the first of a set of sanctions regulators are seeking
against the companies.  The settlement announced today between servicers and
banking regulators could help the U.S. Justice Department
determine the size and scope of fines for the flawed practices,
regulators said.  Officials from the Justice department, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and 10 state  attorneys general  met
with banks today, the second such meeting to negotiate a global
settlement, Associate U.S. Attorney General Tom Perrelli said.
The group is discussing potential fines and whether servicers
should be required to reduce the principal on some home loans.  “This has been a very broad interagency effort,” Perrelli
told reporters. “The best possible resolution for consumers,
for all government entities, is a fully coordinated
resolution.”  Today’s consent decrees with banks address a “subset” of
issues with mortgage servicers, Perrelli said.  Iowa Attorney General Thomas J. Miller, who is leading the
talks on behalf of the states, said today’s agreements won’t
limit his pursuit of penalties. In March, the attorneys general
called for changes to foreclosure practices and mandatory loan
modifications, including mortgage principal write downs.  Fines to Come  The consent decrees “will not limit our pursuit of
remedies and reforms,” Miller said today in a written
statement. “We will continue our own efforts to ensure that the
nation’s servicing and foreclosure system is fair to homeowners,
banks and investors.”  Banking regulators said the consent decrees don’t prevent
them from issuing fines later.  “There will be civil money penalties. The issue is time
and amount,” acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  told
reporters in a conference call.  The  Federal Reserve  issued a statement saying it plans to
announce fines, calling them “appropriate.”  The banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , agreed in the settlement to conduct a review of all loans
that went into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010. They also agreed to
improve their foreclosure, loan modification and refinancing
procedures by hiring staff, upgrading document-tracking systems,
assigning a single point of contact for each borrower and
policing lawyers and vendors.  Ending ‘Dual-Track’  The companies also agreed to end the practice of dual-track
foreclosures, in which servicers seize the homes of delinquent
borrowers even while negotiating lower mortgage payments.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Fed, the
Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. released the consent decrees in  Washington .  JPMorgan, the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, today
took a $1.1 billion charge and may add as many as 3,000
employees to comply with the consent agreement, Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said in a conference call.  The banks didn’t admit or deny regulators’ findings,
according to the orders.  The sanctions are the first to arise since last fall, when
state and federal agencies began investigating mortgage
servicers’ lapses in foreclosure procedures. Unprepared for the
record number of loan delinquencies caused by subprime loans and
the collapse of housing prices, servicers relied on
inexperienced workers who failed to track paperwork or
improperly signed legal documents.  ‘A First Step’  Reports of robo-signing prompted several lenders to
temporarily suspend foreclosures last year.  In their investigation, regulators did not find widespread
evidence of missing promissory notes or mortgages, as many
foreclosed homeowners have claimed. Servicers generally had
“sufficient documentation” to foreclose, the agencies reported
in their review, which was released today.  The consent decree lays out detailed goals and deadlines
for the companies to help homeowners who are in default or have
fallen behind on mortgage payments.  Global Settlement  The agreements drew immediate fire from critics who said
they could undermine the broader negotiations. Representative
Maxine Waters, a California Democrat and member of the Financial
Services Committee, called the orders “disappointing.”  “I fear that these consent orders are merely an attempt to
do an end-run around our state attorneys general,” Waters said
in a written statement.  Under the consent decrees, banks must hire outside
consultants to identify borrowers who improperly lost their
homes, failed to get loans rewritten or were forced into court
in 2009 and 2010 because of mistakes made by mortgage servicers
or their vendors.  Banks must determine the financial injury to borrowers and,
within the next six months, submit a plan to regulators for
reimbursing them, according to the decrees.  Regulators also targeted two companies used by banks to
manage loan documents, foreclosures and bankruptcies. Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems Inc., or MERS, of Reston,
 Virginia , and  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  of Jacksonville,
 Florida , were ordered to improve their internal controls and
corporate governance.  In addition to JPMorgan and Wells Fargo,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the GMAC unit of  Ally Financial  Inc.,
Aurora Bank FSB, EverBank Financial Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc,
OneWest,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
Sovereign Bank,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , and US Bancorp also signed
consent agreements with regulators.  Some of the companies, including MetLife, issued statements
saying they have already implemented many of the standards
mandated by the order.  Ally Financial, in a statement, said it “deeply regrets
the error” in processing certain affidavits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 