-- 
Bank of Canada Sees ‘More Modest’ Growth as Dollar Strength to Cut Exports

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-13T19:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bank-of-canada-sees-more-modest-growth-as-dollar-strength-to-cut-exports.html
The Bank of  Canada  said economic
growth will slow after a burst at the start of the year, with
auto production hampered by Japan’s earthquake and exports
curbed by a strong dollar.  The economy will grow at a 2 percent annualized pace in the
April-June period following a 4.2 percent expansion in the first
quarter, the Ottawa-based central bank said in its Monetary
Policy report. Gross domestic product will grow at a 2.7 percent
rate in the second half of 2011, the report said.  “One of the most important factors at the moment are the
strong headwinds that the Canadian economy is experiencing now
and will in the future from the persistent strength of the
Canadian dollar,” Governor  Mark Carney  said at a press
conference in Ottawa today.  The central bank kept its benchmark rate at 1 percent
yesterday, where it has been since September, and reiterated
today that further increases would be “carefully considered.”
The Canadian dollar last week reached the strongest since
November 2007 on higher commodity prices, which make up 45
percent of the country’s exports.  The bank raised its assumption for the Canadian dollar
through 2013 to 103 U.S. cents, from its January assumption of
parity. The currency was little changed at 96.25 cents per  U.S.
dollar  at 3 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.03896.  ‘Onerous’ Exchange Rate  “Before they act, they want to make sure that the economy
is doing okay amid what they believe is going to be an onerous
level of the exchange rate,” said  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at Bank of Montreal in Toronto. Increases will begin
in July and the policy rate may reach 3 percent by the middle of
next year, he said.  Economists at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and
Toronto-Dominion Bank also predict a July rate increase. Today’s
report reiterated the comment from the central bank’s January
report that the projection “includes a gradual reduction in
monetary stimulus.”  Canada’s trade balance has moved back into surplus after a
record deficit set last July, even as the currency strengthened.
The bank reiterated today that Canada’s recovery will be led by
exports and business investment, taking over from governments
that are ending stimulus spending and consumers with record debt
loads.  ‘More Modest Pace’  “The expected rebalancing of aggregate demand in Canada
has begun, with investment picking up strongly and contributions
to growth from government expenditures scheduled to fade,” the
report said. “The stronger economic expansion observed in
recent quarters is projected to give way to a more modest
pace.”  Exports will have a temporary setback this quarter due to
automobile-plant shutdowns linked to  Japan ’s earthquake and
tsunami, which will cut Canada’s second-quarter growth rate by
half a percentage point, the report said. Output was “about 1
percent” below full capacity in the first quarter, the bank
said.  The economy was a focus of televised leadership debates
last night in the May 2 election campaign. Prime Minister
Stephen Harper said he needs a majority government to complete
the economic recovery, while Liberal Leader  Michael Ignatieff 
said the government’s corporate tax cuts will squeeze funding
for social programs such as health care.  Reduced  government spending  will slow the economic growth
rate by 0.2 percentage point this year and by 0.6 percent next
year, the bank said.  Growth Forecast  The report echoed the bank’s announcement yesterday raising
its 2011 growth forecast to 2.9 percent from 2.4 percent and
cutting its 2012 forecast to 2.6 percent from 2.8 percent. The
bank also advanced the date when the economy should return to
full capacity by six months to the middle of next year.  Canada’s expansion will slow further in 2013 to 2.1
percent, the bank projected, equaling the rate the economy can
grow without sparking inflation.  The bank sets  monetary policy  to keep inflation at 2
percent, and policy makers said today the risks to its outlook
are “roughly balanced.” Canadian inflation, which was 2.2
percent in February, will peak at 3 percent on a monthly basis
this quarter and return to 2 percent in the second quarter of
next year. The so-called core inflation rate, which reached a
record low 0.9 percent in February, will rise to 2 percent by
the middle of next year.  Don’t ‘Miss the Boat’  “It’s kind of surprising to me why they wouldn’t move to
prepare the market for rate increases,” said Thorsten Koeppl,
economics professor at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario,
and former researcher at the  European Central Bank . The key rate
may need to reach a “neutral” mark of 4 percent as the output
gap closes, and Carney “has to be really careful he doesn’t
miss the boat” on faster inflation, Koeppl said.  Other countries are dealing with greater inflation
pressures, the  Bank of Canada  said today.  China ’s economy is
showing “signs of overheating” with  interest rates  adjusted
for inflation below zero and credit growing 20 percent on a
year-over-year basis, the report said.  In emerging markets, “inflationary pressures are building
particularly rapidly” because of rising commodity prices, the
report said. Monetary policy in many of those countries
“remains very accommodative” and adjustments in exchange rates
are being delayed with currency and capital controls, the bank
said.  “This is a major issue, not just for those economies but
for the global economy,” Carney said at the press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  