-- 
Base-Metal ETFs May Attract Less Interest Than Gold, BlackRock’s Fuhr Says

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-04-13T07:14:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/base-metal-etfs-may-attract-less-interest-than-gold-blackrock-s-fuhr-says.html
Exchange-traded funds for base
metals are unlikely to attract as much demand as those for gold
and silver, according to  Deborah Fuhr , head of ETF research at
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which is planning a product backed by copper.  “I don’t expect them to be as popular as gold and silver,
that’s my personal view,” said Fuhr, who’s led the ETF research
team at the world’s largest asset manager since September 2008.
Caroline Hancock, a BlackRock spokeswoman, declined comment,
citing regulatory constraints as the New York-based company
applies for the copper-backed exchange-traded fund, or ETF.  Commodity-backed funds and products have proved popular
with investors seeking to diversify their portfolios as prices
for metals, grains and energy gain on increased demand. They
enable buyers to invest in commodities without taking physical
delivery of them. Gold held in exchange-traded products climbed
to 2,050.33 metric tons yesterday, from 12 tons in 2003, when
Bloomberg started data tracking such holdings.  “I don’t think many people have an allocation in their
portfolio that would be for individual commodities beyond gold
and silver,” Fuhr, who spent 11 years at Morgan Stanley before
joining BlackRock, said in an interview in  Singapore  last week.  ETF Securities Ltd. started products for copper, tin and
nickel in December, the first ever. BlackRock and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. said separately last year they plan physical-copper funds.
The new funds for base metals won’t have a long-term impact on
prices, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an October report.  Stocks and Bonds  Assets in global commodities exchange-traded funds and
products totaled $190.6 billion in February, and accounted for
about 12 percent of a global industry worth $1.54 trillion,
according to BlackRock data. The commodity investments are used
as for diversification from stocks and bonds, rather than as
core holdings, Fuhr said.  Gold has attracted investors as the metal has rallied for
10 years to last year, climbing even during the 2008 financial
crisis that caused slumps in equities, oil and base metals.
Immediate-delivery gold, which traded at $1,458.65 an ounce at
7:45 a.m. in  London , touched a record $1,478.18 on April 11.  Silver held in exchange-traded products has risen to a
record 15,509.54 tons, according to Bloomberg data tracking four
providers. The metal has gained 30 percent this year and traded
at $41.9525 an ounce on April 11, the highest level in 31 years.  “The fastest-growing product we have seen is gold,” Frank Henze, managing director at SPDR Exchange Traded Funds, Asia
Pacific at State Street Global Advisors, said on April 11 in
Singapore.  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s money-management unit ranks
second as an ETF provider after BlackRock, which has the iShares
Gold Trust and Silver Trust listed in New York.  The amount of copper held in ETF Securities Ltd.’s ETF
Physical Copper fund rose to 2,604 tons today from about 25 tons
at the start in December, according to the company’s website.
Based on yesterday’s cash price, the holdings were worth about
$25.2 million and accounted for 0.4 percent of stockpiles
monitored by futures exchanges in London,  New York  and  Shanghai .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  