-- 
Belarus Subway Bombing Attack Suspects Confess, Lukashenko Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-13T12:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/belarus-subway-bombing-attack-suspects-confess-lukashenko-says.html
The suspects in this week’s subway
bombing in Minsk that killed 12 people have confessed,
Belarusian President Aleksandr Lukashenko said.  "We know who did it and how," he  said  today at a government
meeting, according to state-run news agency Belta. "We don’t yet
know why, but we’ll know soon."  An explosive device went off during the evening rush hour
on April 11, also wounding 192 people at Minsk’s busiest metro
station, which is near the presidential residence. Lukashenko
said his political opponents will be questioned in connection
with the crime, the Russian state-run news service RIA Novosti
reported from the capital Minsk.  Authorities detained three people in connection with the
explosion, including one suspect, Belta cited Vadim Zaitsev,
chief of the Belarusian  security agency , as saying yesterday.  Lukashenko, 56, whose government is under European Union
sanctions, extended his 16-year rule in December elections that
international observers condemned as undemocratic. His regime,
dubbed the “ Europe ’s last dictatorship” by the U.S., cracked
down on demonstrators after the vote, arresting more than 700
people, including opposition candidates.  The subway attack sought to destabilize the situation in
the country and may be indirectly linked with the election,
Zaitsev said yesterday, Belta reported.  Belarus, which lies wedged between EU member Poland and
 Russia , transports about a fifth of Russian gas shipments to
Europe. It has been struggling to keep its public finances
afloat in recent weeks after foreign reserves dwindled and
ratings services downgraded the country’s debt. The government
is seeking a loan of $3 billion from Russia and other former
Soviet partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  