-- 
Bernanke Urges Republicans to ‘Deal With’ Debt Without Backing Any Plan

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T15:15:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bernanke-urges-republicans-to-deal-with-debt-lawmaker-says.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  urged Republicans during a dinner meeting yesterday to
find a way to “deal with” the rising U.S. national debt
without endorsing a specific plan, lawmakers who attended said.  “He said we have to deal with the debt,” Representative
Steve Pearce, a Republican from  New Mexico , said in an interview
after leaving the session with the central bank chief on  Capitol
Hill . “So far the market seems to be forgiving of the fact that
we haven’t,” Pearce said, adding that Bernanke told lawmakers
that “we need to deal with it.”  The comments extend Bernanke’s campaign for Congress to
adopt a long-term plan to reduce a federal  budget deficit  that’s
on course to rise to a record this year. Republicans, who took
control of the House this year and narrowed Democrats’ Senate
majority, are gearing up for fights over further spending cuts
and raising the $14.3 trillion legal cap on  government
borrowing .  “He was fairly consistent with what he says in public,”
Patrick McHenry, a North Carolina Republican, said in an
interview after the meeting.  Another attendee, Pennsylvania Representative  Michael Fitzpatrick , said in an interview that Bernanke “doesn’t
endorse a plan one way or another” to reduce the debt.  The meeting with about 15 Republican members of the House
Financial Services Committee, held in its hearing room, lasted
two hours and was closed to the public and media. Several
lawmakers declined to elaborate on Bernanke’s remarks, saying
the session was “off the record.”  ‘Big Decisions’  “It was an opportunity for members just to have
interchange and get the chairman’s perspective on some of those
issues,” Texas Representative Randy Neugebauer said in an
interview afterward. “We’re all making some pretty big
decisions right now, and it helps to have that communication.”
Bernanke talked about the economy and debt; Neugebauer declined
to elaborate on what he said.  Bond yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the
government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even
though Treasury Department data show that the amount of
marketable debt outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from
$4.34 trillion in mid 2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was at
3.52 percent as of 11:11 a.m. today in  New York , below the
average of 7 percent since 1980 and compared with the average of
5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Interest Expense  Low borrowing costs mean that the U.S. is spending less to
service its debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.
Interest expense was 2.7 percent of GDP in fiscal 2010 ended
Sept. 30, down from 3.8 percent in 2001, the last time the U.S.
had a budget surplus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The White House and Congress last week reached agreement on
a spending plan for the current fiscal year, which started Oct.
1. The deal averted a shutdown of government agencies. President
 Barack Obama  is set to announce long-term proposals for cutting
the federal deficit today. In May, the government may be forced
to increase the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling to ensure
the U.S. will meet its financial obligations.  Bernanke, in semiannual monetary-policy testimony last
month, reiterated his call for Congress to adopt a long-term
plan to reduce the budget deficit while saying that near-term
spending cuts, a priority for Republicans, may harm U.S. growth
and result in the loss of 200,000 jobs.  Republican Criticism  Republican lawmakers have criticized the Fed’s $600 billion
of bond purchases, dubbed QE2 for the second round of so-called
quantitative easing, since the central bank started the buying
in November in an effort to stimulate growth. House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , then the minority leader, and three other
Republicans voiced “deep concerns” in a Nov. 17 letter to
Bernanke about a policy that they said may undermine the dollar
and create asset-price bubbles.  Bernanke “needs to build his bridges to Republicans and to
both political parties,” said former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley ,
now senior economic adviser at Potomac Research Group in
Washington. “He clearly in this kind of rather heated political
environment doesn’t want to do anything that would be considered
a misstep. The more he can explain clearly to them behind the
scenes, get them to understand where the Fed is coming from, the
better it will be.”  The U.S. government posted a monthly shortfall of $188.2
billion in March, wider than a year earlier, Treasury Department
statistics showed yesterday.  The deficit is failing to drive foreign investors away from
U.S. financial assets or the dollar.  The class of investors that includes foreign central banks
purchased 60 percent of the $66 billion in benchmark 10-year
U.S. notes sold this year, up from 42 percent in 2010, according
to the Treasury Department. Foreign investors owned $4.45
trillion of Treasuries as of January, up from $3.7 trillion a
year earlier, according to the latest government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  