-- 
BHP Isn't Justifying Laggard Woodside's Most Expensive Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   B r a d   M e r c h a n t ,   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-13T02:53:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bhp-isn-t-justifying-laggard-woodside-s-most-expensive-valuation-real-m-a.html
Any takeover of  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL) , a laggard in an industry that has made it the subject of
merger speculation, would be most expensive.  That may help explain why  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said this week
there’s no basis for reports it would offer about $48 billion
for Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer.
The Perth-based company is valued at $33.19 per barrel of its
equivalent oil reserves, higher than comparable producers with
market capitalizations of $20 billion to $50 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg including net debt. Woodside also
commands the most expensive valuation based on earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the data show.  While optimism that BHP would make a bid boosted Woodside’s
market value by $4.6 billion in the past month, Chief Executive
Officer Don Voelte hasn’t delivered gains matching oil’s 26
percent rise in the last year. With analysts projecting
Woodside’s profit growth will be flat this year, any buyer
instead may be betting on higher demand for Woodside’s natural-
gas projects following  Japan ’s nuclear crisis.  “Woodside is expensive,” said  Tim Schroeders , a
Melbourne-based manager at Pengana Capital Ltd., which oversees
about A$1 billion ($1 billion). “The most likely scenario is
that BHP is not going to bid.”  Laura Hammer, a spokeswoman for Woodside, and Melbourne-
based BHP’s Fiona Martin declined to comment.  ‘Not Aware’  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, said in an April
11 statement that it was “not aware of any basis for the market
speculation” linking it to Woodside. Voelte told reporters in
Perth he had no knowledge of any potential takeover by BHP.  The Sunday Times reported on April 10 that BHP was in talks
to buy  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 24 percent stake in Woodside and
make a A$46 billion takeover bid. BHP would swap some of
Woodside’s assets, including the Sunrise natural-gas field, for
The Hague-based Shell’s holding, the newspaper said, citing
people it didn’t identify.  Kim Blomley, a spokesman for Shell, declined to comment.  Speculation that BHP, which has a market value of $261
billion, would make a bid for Woodside increased after BHP’s
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , 48, said in February
that takeovers were on his agenda even after pledging to spend
$80 billion on BHP’s own projects.  Woodside has $43.4 billion in equity and net debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With proven reserves of
about 1.31 billion barrels, the company is valued at $33.19 per
barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  That’s at least 44 percent higher than Woodside’s most
comparable companies based on equity value and the proportion of
oil assets: Oklahoma City-based  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  of The Woodlands, Texas,  Apache Corp. (APA)  in Houston
and Calgary-based  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the data show.  Devon has a value of $13.74 a barrel of oil, while Apache’s
level is $18.99. Woodside’s multiple of 13.4 times Ebitda for
the past 12 months is also the most expensive, the data show.  While Woodside commands the highest valuation, investors
aren’t getting rewarded with the fastest profit growth.  Adjusted earnings will be unchanged at $2.04 a share in
2011, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Devon will lift profit by 8 percent this year, the slowest rate
of increase of Woodside’s four competitors, the data show.  Share Performance  Woodside’s stock has also underperformed, declining 2
percent in local currency terms and advancing 11 percent in U.S.
dollars during the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Oil and gas producers in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have
gained 25 percent on average, while the MSCI World Energy Index
of 114 companies added 17 percent.  Woodside would still be an attractive target for BHP or
another energy company because of a “huge growth pipeline” of
its proposed Pluto, Browse and Sunrise liquefied natural gas
ventures, along with its business ties to Japan, according to
Xavier Grunauer, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “The bull case for taking over Woodside is fairly
straightforward,” he said in an interview from Perth. Oil is
likely to stay “high, and it’s more likely people will add LNG
to the mix” after the nuclear crisis in Japan, he said.  Crude oil reached a 30-month high of $112.79 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on April 8. That capped a 34
percent rally since anti-government protests began on Feb. 15 in
 Libya , cutting output in  Africa ’s third-largest producer.  Japan Crisis  Global demand for LNG, or natural gas that has been chilled
to liquid form, is projected to more than double within 25 years
to 360 million tons annually, Australian Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said in Perth on April 11.  Japan, which depends on imported fuel for most of its
needs, may seek alternatives to nuclear power after an
earthquake and tsunami last month damaged Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The crisis will spur demand for
LNG “over both the short and longer term,” Ferguson said.  Woodside’s 2010 LNG production was 2.55 million metric
tons. It may increase to as much as 20 million tons a year by
2020, according to slides released last year.  Any potential acquirer of Woodside, particularly a foreign
company, may face opposition from regulators or government
officials. Western  Australia  Premier  Colin Barnett  said this
week he would oppose a deal, a decade after the nation blocked
Shell’s attempt to take control of Woodside.  “Woodside must remain an independent, Australian-owned,
Perth-headquartered petroleum company,” Barnett told delegates
at a conference. “If Woodside were taken over by a major
international company, you would lose that Australian face.”  ‘Love to Buy’  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan earlier this month blocked
Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s bid for Sydney-based ASX Ltd., the
operator of Australia’s stock bourse, saying the deal was not in
his nation’s interest.  Opposition from regulators and investors has led BHP to
abandon bids for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and London-
based Rio Tinto Group, as well as a planned iron-ore venture
with Rio.  “The number of acquirers would definitely be limited” for
Woodside, said Kevin Shacknofsky, who helps manage $7 billion in
Purchase,  New York , for Alpine  Mutual Funds . “The Chinese would
love to buy it. There are political issues.”  “You’ve got this huge growth potential. Obviously, on
today’s production and their reserves it’s expensive.”  Overall, there have been 6,860 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $693.3 billion, a 31 percent increase from
the $530.5 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story
Brad Merchant in  London  at 
 bmerchant3@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at +61-2-9777-8642 or  ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 