-- 
Big 12 Conference, Fox Sports Reach 13-Year Cable TV Rights Agreement

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T21:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/big-12-conference-fox-sports-reach-13-year-cable-tv-rights-agreement.html
The Big 12 Conference and Fox
Sports Media Group reached a 13-year cable television rights
agreement for 40 college football games per season as well as
league championships and a variety of other sports.  The new contract takes effect with the 2012 football season
and gives Fox Sports exclusive cable rights to almost double the
number of games as the current agreement. Financial terms
weren’t disclosed. Sports Business Journal reported that the
contract is worth $90 million annually for the Big 12.  The agreement comes 10 months after the Big 12 staved off
collapse after the University of  Nebraska  left to join the Big
Ten and the University of Colorado bolted for the Pacific-10.  Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe said the contract provides
revenue growth and increased exposure for the remaining 10
member schools, and “most significantly” shows the long-term
commitment the institutions have to the league.  “This agreement, by unanimous vote, of having the
institutions commit to a long-term contract I think is a
demonstration of what we felt all along was the direction we
were headed in,” Beebe said on a conference call.  The universities in the Big 12 are Baylor, Iowa State,
Kansas, Kansas State, Missouri,  Oklahoma , Oklahoma State,  Texas ,
 Texas A&M  and Texas Tech.  Every Big 12 home football game will now be broadcast on
ABC, a  Fox network  or by institutional platforms.  The Big 12 will continue its partnership with Walt Disney
Co.’s ABC and ESPN for its over-the-air football and men’s
basketball rights, including the league’s men’s basketball
championship, through 2015-16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  