-- 
Bismarck Spat ‘Blood and Iron,’ Had Huge Chamber Pots: Books

-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 
2011-04-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bismarck-spat-blood-and-iron-had-huge-chamber-pots-books.html
Everything about  Otto von Bismarck 
was off the scale: his rages, his disloyalty, his mendacity, his
gargantuan appetite and his colossal chamber pots. So, too, was
the political genius of the greatest, if least lovable,
statesman 19th-century  Europe  had to offer.  In “Bismarck,” historian  Jonathan Steinberg  guides us
through the towering life of the man who unified  Germany  around
his native Prussia and, Steinberg argues, helped lay down its
domineering, militaristic traditions. The author augments the
power of the book by keeping his opinions to a necessary minimum
throughout.  A great hater, Bismarck’s first antipathy was directed at
his mother: “Hard and cold,” he called her. His father -- a
weak, ineffectual Junker, if you can imagine such a thing --
merely embarrassed his brilliant son, whose bullish character
first surfaced in drinking and dueling.  In parliament, Bismarck proved a wild reactionary and
savage debater who did his bit to stoke the anti-Semitism so
characteristic of his class and country: He would feel deeply
dishonored, he once declared, “to have before me, as a
representative of the King’s Sacred Majesty, a Jew whom I would
have to obey.”  Yet not even his phobia about Jews interfered with his
hard-faced pragmatism. The father of Realpolitik in foreign
affairs, Bismarck was content to work with talented Jewish folk
-- notably his personal banker -- when it suited him. The
diehard reactionary was also happy to champion a united German
parliament as a weapon against recalcitrant German princelings,
who understandably feared Prussian dominance.  Ferocious Will  High intelligence and a ferocious will made Bismarck
indispensable as chancellor to William I of Prussia. His hold
over the king divided the royal household -- the queen and the
crown princess detested him -- yet nothing could prevent the
arch-schemer from getting his way at court.  “There is a long way between my skin and my heart,” he
once wrote, describing his political staying power with
commendable insight and considerable understatement.  The remark came a few years before his most infamous
assertion to parliament: “The great questions of the day will
not be settled by speeches or majority decisions,” he declared,
“but by  blood and iron .”  And so they were. For the spike-helmeted chancellor,
statesmanship meant a brutal power play during the height of his
career, between 1866 and 1871.  Unity Through War  The final forging of German unity was achieved on the
battlefield -- first by a war Bismarck imposed on  Austria  over
an otherwise obscure issue concerning the principality of
Schleswig-Holstein on the Danish frontier, then by a bloody and
protracted fight picked with Napoleon III of  France , the Franco-
Prussian War that gave rise to the Paris Commune.  “Bismarck has made us great and powerful but he has robbed
us of our friends, the sympathies of the world, and -- our
conscience,” Crown Prince Frederick lamented.  Steinberg, a professor of modern European history at the
 University of Pennsylvania , does his best to show that there was
another side to the country, and to Bismarck. Under his
chancellorship, Germany became the best educated, most
technologically advanced and most productive country in the
world, he says. And for all of Bismarck’s fear of socialism (or
because of it) German workers enjoyed the earliest social-
security system.  Bully and Hypochondriac  As for Bismarck himself, he was a man of contradictions,
Steinberg insists. The giant and bully was a lifelong
hypochondriac. The habitual liar and schemer could display
personal charm and had a fine prose style. And though he amassed
a fortune, he lived simply and never cared much for the
elegancies of life: His wife, it was remarked, looked like a
cook but didn’t know how to give a dinner.  Yet these attempts to polish the Iron Chancellor’s image
are halfhearted. It’s not just history that views him as a
demonic figure; German contemporaries saw him that way, too.
Steinberg describes how the country became fatally conditioned
to the chancellor’s dictatorial style, and how Germany went to
its doom in World War I under the rigidities he had imposed.  After another go at European domination under  Adolf Hitler ,
Bismarck’s beloved Prussia was to gain the distinction of being
the only state in history to be abolished by decree.  “The Prussian State, which from early days has been a
bearer of militarism and reaction in Germany, has ceased to
exist,” the Allied occupation authorities declared in a law
signed in February 1947.  Imagine Bismarck’s reaction to that.  “Bismarck: A Life” is from  Oxford  (577 pages, 25 pounds,
$34.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (George Walden, a former U.K. diplomat and member of
Parliament, is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
 George Walden  in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 