-- 
Black & Veatch Bid for U.S. Aid on South Africa Coal Plant Draws Criticism

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-04-13T22:32:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/black-veatch-bid-for-u-s-aid-on-african-coal-plant-draws-fire.html
Black & Veatch Corp.’s request for
$800 million in U.S. financing for a coal-fired power plant in
 South Africa  is drawing complaints from environmental groups as
the lender prepared to decide.  The U.S. Export-Import Bank board is set to vote today on
backing Eskom Holdings Ltd.’s 4,800-megawatt project, according
to a meeting agenda. The plant would be one of the world’s
largest coal-fueled stations, and if approved would generate the
most carbon pollution since the bank began tracking emissions
from its projects in 2001, according to its data.  “A huge coal-fired power plant will have damaging effects
in South Africa for 40 or 60 years,” said Sunita Dubey,
director of  GroundWork South Africa , an environmental group
fighting the funding. “Why not invest in future technology?”  Eskom, South Africa’s state-owned electric utility, in 2008
said it would hire  Overland Park , Kansas-based Black & Veatch
for project management and engineering services to expand the
project, now called Kusile. Black & Veatch, which is closely
held, had no comment before the board’s decision, said Linda
Lea, a spokeswoman.  Government-backed financing has expanded following the
economic crisis of 2008, producing record annual lending by the
 Export-Import Bank  for loan guarantees, insurance and direct
lending to U.S. exporters. The bank is backed by the U.S.
government, and provides a guarantee to boost exports.  The increase in lending has included more projects that
pollute. Bank-supported ventures approved in the past fiscal
year will emit more than 20 million metric tons of carbon
pollution annually, the most since the lender started releasing
data in 2001.  Eskom Emissions  The Eskom power plant will emit 30 million metric tons a
year, 50 percent more than the total for the previous year,
according to data from the environmental impact assessment
published on the lender’s website.  Phil Cogan, a bank spokesman, declined to comment before
the vote. In an interview last month, Export-Import Bank
President Fred Hochberg defended the project, saying it’s part
of a strategy in South Africa to clean up the environment.  “South Africa has one of the most responsible, long-term
plans,” Hochberg said March 29. “If South Africa’s economy
continues to grow at 5 percent, they’ll have nothing more than
rolling blackouts.”  “What are the alternatives?” he said. Without
electricity, “they burn a lot of other things that are far
worse for the environment.”  Full Costs  Dubey said the Export-Import Bank’s support provides
legitimacy to the project, letting it obtain financing in
commercial markets. The lender isn’t taking into consideration
the full environmental cost of the project, she said.  “Electricity provides many health benefits worldwide and
is a significant contributor to economic development, a higher
standard of living, and an increased life expectancy,” Kristen
Welker-Hood, director for environmental health at  Physicians for
Social Responsibility , wrote to Hochberg on March 14. “However,
it does so at the cost of harming human health and compounding
many of the major public health problems facing the
industrialized world.”  Building the Kusile power plant would harm the health of
South Africa’s population, she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  