-- 
Bluenext Exchange’s New CO2 Trading System to Help Protect Against Theft

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-04-13T15:28:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bluenext-exchange-s-new-co2-trading-system-to-help-protect-against-theft.html
BlueNext SA, the Paris-based
emissions exchange, plans to start a trading system that tracks
ownership of spot carbon permits to protect against fraud
following a series of carbon-permit thefts last year.  Only permits that can be traced to their source will be
allowed to trade in the new market starting May 3, Bluenext said
today. ICE Futures  Europe , the region’s biggest emissions
exchange, has yet to re-open its spot market after  Austria , the
Czech Republic and  Greece  reported thefts of permits that may
have been re-sold via exchanges to unwitting buyers.  Banks and compliance buyers that have committed to
starting the market include Barclays Plc, GDF Suez, Enel SpA and
Orbeo, the carbon trading venture of Societe Generale SA and
Rhodia SA, BlueNext Chief Executive Officer Francois-Xavier Saint Macary said in a telephone interview from Paris today.  “It’s enough to bring confidence back to the market,” he
said. “It’s the uncertainty we’ve taken away. Traders will know
the permit will have a compliant value.”  Trading in the BlueNext  spot market  for permits in the
second phase of the European Union’s cap-and-trade program has
plunged this year on concern that stolen permits may be sold
through the exchange. Spot trading on BlueNext closed on Jan. 19
for 15 days because of reported permit thefts. The highest daily
volume so far this year was 1.1 million tons on March 25, a
third of last year’s daily high, Bloomberg data show. Bluenext
is the biggest exchange for spot trading of EU allowances.  Lack of Liquidity  “The spot market suffered extensively and clients decided
not to deal directly with the exchange, so we have seen a lack
of liquidity as they couldn’t take the risk of ending up with
stolen EUAs,” Saint Macary said. The new system will allow
volumes to “gradually recover,” and this year’s allocation of
new permits and allowances from national auctions will be enough
“to bring initial liquidity,” he said.  The new system will require carbon traders to give BlueNext
“read-only” access to emissions accounts to let the exchange
trace permits. The information will remain confidential, said
Keiron Allen, a spokesman for BlueNext.  “There are a few in the minority that haven’t yet come to
terms with giving up read-only access,” he said.  Thieves transferred more than 2 million allowances valued
at about 33 million euros ($48 million) at today’s prices from
accounts in carbon registries in Austria, the  Czech Republic  and
Greece in January.  Reputation Hurt  Even though the stolen allowances accounted for only 0.1
percent of the European Union average annual cap in the 2008-
2012 trading period, the attacks hurt the reputation of the ETS
and sparked criticism from some analysts that the supervision of
the system is not adequate.  The thefts followed instances of “carousel fraud”
involving value-added tax collection and password “phishing”
in previous years. Fortis Bank NV, the Belgian banking unit of
BNP Paribas SA, fell victim to tax fraudsters and lost more than
72 million euros in 2009 after buying emission permits from a
criminal organization, De Tijd newspaper reported today.  “Transparency, security and trust are essential for the
existence of the carbon market, its development and its
efficiency is a key tool to fight  climate change ,” Jerome Malka, managing director at Orbeo, the carbon-trading venture of
Rhodia SA and Societe Generale SA, said in the Bluenext
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  