-- 
Bank of Korea Must Raise Rate to at Least 4% to Fight Prices, Adviser Says

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-13T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bok-must-raise-rates-to-4-to-curb-inflation-adviser-says.html
The Bank of  Korea  should raise its
benchmark interest rate to “at least” 4 percent this year to
rein in inflation and household debt, an adviser to the nation’s
central bank and finance ministry said.  “Household debt needs to be handled while it’s still
manageable,” Kim Tae Joon, president of  Korea Institute of
Finance ,  South Korea ’s largest private financial think tank,
said in an interview in Seoul yesterday. “We also have room to
allow the won to strengthen further to curb inflation.”  The central bank projected yesterday consumer prices will
rise 3.9 percent this year, close to the 4 percent upper limit
it is targeting through 2012. South Korea’s campaign to rein in
inflation is part of efforts across the region, where countries
from  Thailand  to  India  are tackling with higher costs.  “The interest rate should be raised to 4 percent at
least,” from the current 3 percent, he said. “Major exporters
will survive even if the currency appreciates to 900 per
dollar.” The won traded at 1,087.93 at the 3 p.m. close in
Seoul yesterday.  BOK Governor Kim Choong Soo said this week he will take
monetary policy action “neither too slowly nor too fast.” The
central bank projected growth will slow to 4.5 percent this year
from 6.2 percent in 2010. Accelerating inflation spurred by
economic growth and higher oil and food prices prompted the
central bank to raise interest rates from a record-low 2 percent
since mid-2010.  Higher Rates ‘Do Good’  “Higher  interest rates  will do good to the entire economy
as it will help stabilize prices, which in turn boosts real
income,” Kim said.  Kim, who advises the central bank governor and finance
minister Yoon Jeung Hyun on policy, said that officials should
tackle household debt by boosting borrowing costs and providing
rescue measures for lower-income defaulters after an extended
period of record-low interest rates encouraged many people to
borrow beyond their means.  With the  property market  at risk of peaking out, if not
slumping, swelling debt could threaten the nation’s sustainable
growth, Kim said.  “The real-estate market won’t likely repeat the boom seen
in the past decade and South Korea’s aging population could
cause a drop in housing prices,” he said.  Record Debt  South Korea’s household debt including credit purchases
climbed to a record 795.4 trillion won ($730 billion) at the end
of 2010, the central bank said on Feb. 21. Banks’ lending to
households increased to a record 434.1 trillion won in March,
led by  mortgage loans , the central bank said on April 11.  Financial Supervisory Service Governor Kwon Hyouk Se warned
about heightened concern about the high levels of household
debt on April 12. The FSS and the Financial Services Commission
have set up a  task force  to create a plan to contain household
debt, the FSC said on March 9.  The ratio of household debt to disposable income was 1.43
times in South Korea in 2009, higher than 1.26 in the U.S., 1.12
in  Japan  and 1.23 in average for the members of Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, according to the
commission.  “We may fall into a vicious cycle if household debt is
left unchecked,” he said. “A heavy debt burden at a time when
borrowing costs are rising can limit people’s spending, which in
turn slows the economy and income growth, resulting in a higher
debt ratio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  