-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Declines for Fourth Day on China Economic Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-13T20:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-as-commodities-prices-gain.html
Brazilian stocks declined for a
fourth day, the longest losing streak in more than two months,
on speculation  China  may take further measures to cool the
economy and curb inflation in  Brazil ’s biggest trading partner.  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer whose top
export market is China, fell as metals prices sank.  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) 
plunged on  a plan by raise as much as 5.5 billion reais ($3.5
billion) in the region’s biggest stock sale in almost seven
months.  The Bovespa stock index slid 0.6 percent to 66,486.49 at
the close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. The
measure is down 3.9 percent in the past four trading session, a
streak unmatched since Jan. 31. Thirty-six stocks rose on the
index, while 30 fell. The real advanced 0.5 percent to 1.5871
per  U.S. dollar .  “Investors are more cautious after the bad news we saw in
the past few days,” Silvio Campos Neto, an analyst at
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada, a Sao Paulo-based advisory
firm, said in a telephone interview.  The Bovespa fell the most in two months yesterday after
Japan said its nuclear crisis may exceed that of Chernobyl and
oil capped the biggest two-day drop in almost a year.  Copper, a bellwether for global growth, slid the most in
five weeks today on concern that China may take more steps to
tighten credit in a fight against inflation, potentially slowing
metal demand.  China will implement “prudent” monetary policy and ensure
stable consumer prices, the State Council said in a statement.
In March, the country’s copper imports fell 33 percent from a
year earlier, customs data show.  Vale  slid 1.1 percent to 45.92 reais.  Share Sale  Gerdau sold 68 million new common shares for 15.60 reais
each and 134.8 million new preferred shares for 19.25 reais
apiece, while existing investors sold 69 million preferred
shares, according to regulatory filings yesterday. The  Porto
Alegre , Brazil-based company may issue an additional 10.2
million common shares and 20.4 million preferred shares in a
supplementary offer.  The steelmaker’s preferred shares fell 2.4 percent to 18.91
reais, the lowest price since July 2009.  Brazilian steelmakers are bound to have lower profit
margins as the country’s currency strengthens, said Will Landers, manager of BlackRock Inc.’s $1.06 billion Latin America
Fund.  Steelmakers Vulnerable  “Even if steel prices rise in the global market, this
would be offset by real’s gains,” Landers said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s office in  Sao Paulo . “Current stock
prices don’t reflect this scenario yet.”  Rossi Residencial SA, a Brazilian homebuilder, gained 1.3
percent to 14.12 reais, after saying contracted sales increased
20 percent in the first quarter from a year ago to 1.01 billion
reais.  Santos Participacoes SA advanced 2.3 percent to 26.30 reais
after earlier jumping 6.9 percent. The port operator was raised
to “outperform” from “market perform” at Itau Securities.  Investors are piling into Brazilian port operators,
counting on cargo backlogs and record shipping volumes to
bolster profit. Exporters are facing shipping delays on rising
demand for Brazil’s sugar, soybean and iron ore exports, while
record imports augment revenue for ports.  Growth Potential  “The demand is certainly there and shipping has huge
growth potential,” said Andre Vainer, who helps manage 600
million reais as equity fund manager at Rio de Janeiro-based XP
Investimentos.  The Bovespa is down 4.1 percent this year as homebuilders
and banks declined on concern inflation will limit growth,
overshadowing a rally in telecom shares.  The index trades at 11 times analysts’ earnings estimates,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to
a ratio of 14.1 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 7.7 for
 Russia ’s Micex, and 15.2 for  India ’s Sensex.  Investors pulled 2.54 billion reais from Latin America’s
biggest equity market this year through April 6, data from the
Sao Paulo exchange show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  