-- 
BP Faces Calpers, Florida Fund Opposition on Annual Report

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-13T09:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bp-faces-opposition-from-calpers-florida-fund-at-agm-tomorrow.html
BP Plc (BP/) , whose share price has
dropped 29 percent since last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill,
faces votes against approving its annual report from two of the 
U.S.’s  largest pension funds at the company’s annual general
meeting tomorrow.  The $225 billion  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , which holds about $450 million in BP shares, will vote
against approval, according to a proxy vote posted on its 
website. Florida State Board of Administration, which manages 
more than $100 billion of securities, will also vote no, 
according to its website.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  is facing anger from
investors over the company’s handling of the largest U.S. oil
spill. He will also face questions about the $7.8 billion share
swap with OAO Rosneft that BP’s billionaire partners at TNK-BP
blocked in court. The swap agreement expires tomorrow.  “It will be a contentious AGM,” said Ivor Pether, who
oversees about $12 billion of U.K. securities, including BP
shares, at Royal  London  Asset Management. “They’ll have to
reach out to dissenting shareholders and listen to their
concerns.”  Christian Brothers Investment Services Inc. will also
oppose the annual report, one of 23 proposals that shareholders
will vote on in the first shareholder meeting since the Gulf
blowout that killed 11 workers. CBIS, Calpers and the Florida
fund will also vote against the re-election to the board of
William Castell, head of the safety, ethics and environment
assurance committee.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  “If we can get the abstentions and against votes in the 25
percent range, that would be a huge wake-up call to the
company,” said Julie Tanner, a spokeswoman for CBIS. “It
raises concerns when they go ahead and do deals like Rosneft.”  AAR Group, which represents BP’s Russian partners, went to
court to stop the swap and exploration agreement with Rosneft,
arguing that it violated the agreement that BP would pursue all
its operations in  Russia  through TNK-BP. The Russian venture
accounts for a quarter of BP’s production and a fifth of its
reserves.  BP may consider purchasing the half of TNK-BP it doesn’t
already own, worth as much as $27 billion according to  Barclays
Capital , to rescue the Rosneft deal. Dudley may also seek to
extend the deadline for completing it. Russian Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Sechin , who orchestrated the deal with Dudley,
resigned this week as chairman of Rosneft on orders from
President  Dmitry Medvedev .  Next Step  “I wonder what the next step is for BP if this deal falls
apart,” said RLAM’s Pether. “The vision laid out by Dudley was
to dispose of non-core assets at high valuations, leaving a
company that is somewhat smaller but with higher growth
potential. It’s not clear that is what is materializing.”  BP has sold more than $24 billion in assets since the Gulf
spill to focus on higher-growth projects after taking a $41
billion provision for cleanup and legal costs. It suspended the
$10 billion annual dividend for the first three quarters of 2010
to help shore up its balance sheet.  Pension Investment Research Consultants Ltd., a U.K.-based
adviser to investors that doesn’t own shares, said that
shareholders should reject the annual report because the company
didn’t allow for a vote on reinstating the dividend at 7 cents a
share in the fourth quarter, half the level before the spill.  Hayward, Inglis  PIRC also opposes the pay given to  Tony Hayward , who
stepped down as CEO in October, and  Andy Inglis , the former head
of exploration and production. They were treated as “good
leavers” by keeping an interest in shares that could be worth
more than 6 million pounds ($10 million) each, PIRC said.  While most BP executives, including Dudley, received no
bonus for last year,  Iain Conn , the head of refining and
marketing, and Chief Financial Officer Byron Grote each got 30
percent of their maximum payout.  Pay packages should have been “more moderate” in light of
the spill,  Norway ’s KLP Bank spokeswoman Jeanett Bergan said.
Objections to executive pay may be the loudest at an
international  oil company  since Royal Dutch Shell Plc
shareholders rejected bonuses paid to executives in 2009 even
after performance targets weren’t met.  “They’ll really be going for blood,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in London.
“It could be the most ineffective meeting for a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  