-- 
BP Risks Losing $1.6 Billion as Russian Oil Deal Nears Collapse

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/bp-risks-losing-1-6-billion-as-russian-oil-deal-nears-collapse.html
BP Plc (BP/)  stands to lose $1.6 billion
and see its lead over rivals in  Russia  jeopardized as a $7.8
billion share swap and exploration deal with state-owned OAO
Rosneft faces collapse.  Rosneft may pick another company to help explore the Kara
Sea given BP’s failure to win over its partners in the TNK-BP
venture before today’s deadline. The value of the equity
exchange for BP has increased by $1.6 billion since the deal was
announced in January after the London-based company’s shares
fell and Rosneft stock gained.  Robert Dudley , 55, who took over as BP’s chief executive
officer in October following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, risks
losing access to one of the world’s largest untapped oil troves.
After focusing on exploration projects with greater potential
for growth, Dudley today faces shareholders at the first annual
general meeting since last year’s spill.  “The Rosneft deal’s problems seem to put BP’s strategy for
turning the company around on the back foot,” said Doug Youngson, an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in London.  BP’s billionaire partners in TNK-BP, represented by the AAR
group, halted the deal in a London court, claiming that the
venture has exclusive rights to negotiate on behalf of BP in
Russia. The injunction has been prolonged indefinitely by an
arbitration panel, which gave BP the right to seek an extension
of the swap deadline.  Exxon, Shell  Rosneft may work with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  or Royal Dutch
Shell Plc to explore the Kara Sea, according to Otkritie
Securities Ltd., a brokerage that met with Rosneft this week.
The region may contain as much as 100 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, BP said in January.  Rosneft hasn’t been in touch with Shell or Exxon about the
project, said Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for the Moscow-based
company. The two companies have expressed interest in other
regions, he said.  TNK-BP, set up in 2003 and owned 50-50 by BP and AAR, made
BP the biggest foreign oil producer in Russia, accounting for a
quarter of BP’s production and a fifth of its reserves. This
year, Shell CEO  Peter Voser  said he’s interested in projects
with Rosneft, and Exxon agreed to help the company explore the
 Black Sea  in January.  Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, will “take
measures to protect its own interests” if the BP deal
collapses, Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said last week.
Sechin stepped down as Rosneft’s chairman on April 11 after
President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered government officials to leave
the boards of companies in industries they regulate.  ‘Less Than Helpful’  If AAR’s court action stops the BP-Rosneft deal from going
through, it would be “less than helpful to TNK-BP’s future
prospects in Russia,” Lucy Haskins, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in London, wrote in a research note last week. AAR’s
stake in the venture may have a market value of as much as $27
billion, she said.  “AAR is a long-term strategic investor in TNK-BP and has
no plans to exit,”  Stan Polovets , CEO of AAR, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “TNK-BP is a great company with
excellent management and great growth prospects.”  The dispute has reignited tensions between BP and TNK less
than three years after Dudley, the former CEO of TNK-BP, was
forced to flee Russia in 2008.  Mikhail Fridman , one of the four
billionaire owners of AAR, later took over as interim CEO.  Asset Sales  Last year, Dudley took over BP’s response to the  Gulf of
Mexico  disaster as the blowout at the Macondo well led to the
worst U.S. spill. BP has sold more than $24 billion in assets
since the Gulf spill after taking a $41 billion provision for
cleanup and legal costs. It suspended the $10 billion annual
dividend for the first three quarters of 2010 to help shore up
its balance sheet.  While Dudley said the Rosneft tie-up had nothing to do with
the spill, for BP the holding in Rosneft would be equivalent to
replacing almost all the reserves it had sold off to pay for it.  It was Dudley’s biggest deal since taking the top job.
Putin said in January that BP’s experience in the Gulf of Mexico
had made it the preferred partner for Arctic exploration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  