-- 
Brain Size and Shrinkage Predicts Alzheimer’s Disease in Harvard Study

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-13T20:44:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/brain-size-and-shrinkage-predicts-alzheimer-s-disease-in-harvard-study.html
Doctors may one day be able to
identify a person’s risk of developing  Alzheimer’s disease  by
examining the size of the brain, researchers said.  More than half of people with the smallest measurements in
the area of the brain typically engulfed by Alzheimer’s disease
developed the condition within seven to 10 years, according to a
study released today in the journal  Neurology . None of those
with the largest areas of the brain developed the condition,
researchers said.  The study, involving 65 volunteers with no signs of
Alzheimer’s disease, used magnetic resonance imaging to measure
areas of the brain that are involved when the disease develops.
The findings may be used in the future to gauge a person’s
chance of getting the disease and predict how long before
dementia develops, said researcher  Bradford Dickerson , associate
professor of neurology at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston .  “We think these people are actually having shrinkage,
changes in the brain that are associated with  Alzheimer’s
disease , but they aren’t yet showing symptoms,” he said.
“These are preliminary results that are not ready to be applied
outside of research studies right now, but we are optimistic
that this marker will be useful in the future.”  The volunteers were about 75 years old when they were
scanned. Previous studies show that 20 percent to 30 percent of
people in this age range have Alzheimer’s-related changes in the
brain, Dickerson said in a telephone interview.  Growing Number  About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s disease,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association . By 2050, that number
is expected to increase to as many as 16 million, the Chicago-
based advocacy and research group estimates.  In the first part of the study, researchers followed 33
people with no signs of Alzheimer’s disease for about 11 years.
Eight eventually developed the condition. The second analysis
included 32 people who were followed for seven years, with seven
eventually diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease.  The researchers divided the volunteers into three groups,
with small, average and large sizes of the brain typically
involved with Alzheimer’s disease. Six of 11 people with the
smallest brains developed the disease, compared with none of
those with the biggest measurements. Of the remaining 45 people
whose brain size fell into the middle ground, 20 percent
developed the condition.  Doctors already know that changes related to Alzheimer’s
disease occur years before symptoms appear. Researchers are
looking for non-invasive technologies, like imaging tests, that
will help them identify those people before the disease is full-
blown, Dickerson said.  “Eventually we want to find the cholesterol of Alzheimer’s
disease,” he said. “We don’t have a way of measuring it yet
and we’re hoping these tools will give us more insight into the
basic biology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  