-- 
Brazil Port Stocks Quadruple on Record Shipping Backlogs: Freight Markets

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-04-13T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/brazil-port-stocks-quadruple-on-record-shipping-backlogs-freight-markets.html
Investors are piling into Brazilian
port operators at prices three times as expensive as the broader
market, counting on cargo backlogs and record shipping volumes
to bolster profit.  The three companies that trade on the Sao Paulo stock
exchange and operate Brazilian ports at least quadrupled in the
two years through March. Exporters are facing shipping delays on
rising demand for Brazil’s sugar, soybean and  iron ore  exports,
while record imports augment revenue for ports.  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , owned by Eike Batista, is building a
complex in Rio de Janeiro state that the billionaire says will
be the world’s third-biggest  port .  Santos Brasil Participacoes
SA (STBP3) , operator of port Santos, Brazil’s biggest by value shipped,
may triple capacity within seven years, according to fund
manager  Studio  Investimentos in Rio. Triunfo Participacoes e
Investimentos SA, which runs a port in the state of Santa
Catarina, is seeking licenses to open a terminal in port Santos
and has seen its stock rise to 8.69 reais yesterday from 1.35
two years ago.  “The demand is certainly there and shipping has huge
growth potential,” said Andre Vainer, who helps manage 600
million reais ($376.2 million) as equity fund manager at Rio-
based XP Investimentos. “For a port already operating, the
earnings growth is very visible.”  Vainer added to holdings in Santos Brasil and sold all
shares of LLX in February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Acu port project, which is scheduled to begin
operation in the second half of next year, has too much
“execution risk,” he said. The difficulty in obtaining
environmental licenses in  Brazil  could delay other port
projects, helping Santos Brasil because it is already moving
cargo, Vainer said.  Iron Ore  Shipping  volumes  in Brazilian ports grew 14 percent in 2010
to 833.9 million tons, bolstered mostly by record exports of
iron ore, according to the Agencia Nacional de Transportes
Aquaviarios, Brazil’s water-transportation regulator. Imports
surged 42 percent to $181.6 billion last year as the fastest
economic growth in two decades fueled consumer demand. Exports
rose 32 percent to $201.9 billion, the Trade Ministry  said .  Brazil  ranked  114 out of 183 countries for ease of trading
across borders in the  World Bank ’s “Doing Business 2011”
survey, falling 16 places from the previous year. Export
shipping costs are 46 percent higher than they are across Latin
America and the Caribbean, at $1,790 per  container .  “If we don’t strongly invest in ports we will be facing a
logistical blackout,” said Nelson Carvalhaes, owner of Porto de
Santos Comercio, Exportacao e Importacao Ltda., the exclusive
buyer and exporter of Brazilian coffee for Trieste, Italy-based
Illycaffe SpA. “With the size of the agricultural harvest and
commodity production we need huge investments.”  Worst Backlog  About 38 ships were waiting to load on April 1 at the Port
of Paranagua, Brazil’s second-largest for shipping soybeans
after Santos. That’s the worst backlog in four years for this
time of the year, Lourenco Fregonese, a director at the port,
said in a phone interview.  Warehouses are full of the oilseed and the port is granting
permission for 1,000 trucks to unload each day, about half the
demand, according to Fregonese.  Brazil is “very productive in the field but then when we
want to ship the things out, 40 percent of this advantage is
lost because of trucks that have to line up for 100 kilometers
to unload,” Batista, 54, Brazil’s richest man, said in a March
14 interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York .  The growing demand for commodities could be crimped by a
global economic slowdown, while the share run-up for port
operators gives little room for construction delays that would
crimp earnings prospects, said  Ed Kuczma , who helps oversee $30
billion at Van Eck Associates in New York.  ‘Headline Risk’  Santos Brasil fetches 32.4 times earnings, while Triunfo
has a price-to-earnings ratio of 37.3 percent. LLX is pre-
operational so it has no earnings. The 69-member Bovespa index
trades at an average 11.3 times profit.  “It’s a strong long-term story, but in the near term it’s a
question of valuations,” said Kuczma, who holds no Brazilian
port stocks in his emerging-markets fund. “The individual
political and headline risk is high because of the environmental
issues and the difficulty to get licenses.”  Brazil is boosting spending on infrastructure as it
develops the biggest  oil fields  in the Americas since 1976 and
prepares to host the 2014  soccer World Cup  and  2016 Summer
Olympics . Expenditures to improve airports, ports, highways and
the  power grid  is set to rise to 160 billion reais by 2012 from
121 billion reais in 2009, according to the Association of
Infrastructure and Industries.  Manhattan  Twice  “Investors like  Eike Batista  used great insight by moving
in this sector because they knew the government takes a long
time to act,” said Adriano Pires, head of the Brazilian Center
for Infrastructure, a Rio-based consultancy. “The bottlenecks
are so big and the demand is so pent-up that it will take a long
time to see ports get competitive against each other.”  Batista’s logistics company, LLX, says Acu will have a
shipping capacity of 350 million metric tons a year, 42 percent
of last year’s total volume in Brazil. LLX is negotiating 70
possible agreements with companies seeking to do business at the
port’s industrial complex, which Batista says will be more than
twice the size of Manhattan.  “Once we have these investments anchored and the projects
completed, a countless number of other companies that provide
services will install themselves there,” said Otavio Lazcano,
chief executive officer of LLX, in a telephone interview.  Connected to the Hinterland  “We are de-bottlenecking part of the economy,” Batista
said in the March 14 interview. “It would be the world’s most
holistically engineered industry port because you have the
supply chain of pipeline, iron ore and railway connected to the
hinterland. Korea Inc., China Inc., Germany Inc. can move in.”  The site, Batista said, will have a shipyard, steel plants,
car factories and oil treatment facilities, while his own energy
company, MPX Energia SA, will offer electricity.  Batista’s vision has yet to be realized. London-based miner
 Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s Minas-Rio project in the Acu complex is at
least two years behind its original schedule because of delays
in obtaining environmental and construction permits.  The project consists of an iron ore mine, a processing
plant and a 326-mile (525-kilometer) slurry pipeline to
transport the mineral from Minas Gerais state. The company plans
to start shipping from Acu in 2013.  Licensing and finding financing are the biggest hurdles to
opening new ports in Brazil, said Carlo Bottarelli, chief
executive officer of Sao Paulo-based Triunfo Participacoes e
Investimentos, an operator for toll-roads, ports and energy
generation.  The company spent 500 million reais to build Navegantes
port in the southern state of Santa Catarina, he said in a
telephone interview. Shipping rose 40 percent last year to
580,000 containers, Bottarelli said.  “It’s the part of the business we’d like to grow the most
but getting through the regulation for ports is a tough task,”
said Bottarelli.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  