-- 
Brazil May Force Sugar Cane Companies to Stockpile Ethanol, Analyst Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-04-13T01:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/brazil-may-require-producers-to-stockpile-ethanol-analyst-says.html
Brazil’s fuel regulator may require
sugar-cane processors such as  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio (CSAN3)  and
 Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3)  to store ethanol in an effort to prevent future
rate shocks, an analyst said.  Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas Natural e Biocombustiveis
is considering policies that may prevent a repeat of the
seasonal shortfall that has triggered record-high ethanol prices
this year, according to Jacqueline Bierhals, a manager at the
Sao Paulo-based research agency  Informa Economics FNP .  Requiring cane producers to stockpile ethanol would be a
move away from an existing incentive program that offer them
access to credit lines for every liter of stockpiled fuel, a
policy that has become less appealing as prices have surged this
year, she said.  Companies “lose interest” in the  credit line  when the
rising price of ethanol makes it more profitable to sell than
store, Bierhals said in an e-mail yesterday. If the regulator
imposes a storage requirement, it will also likely take on
responsibility for managing the reserves, she said.  Prices for anhydrous ethanol that’s mixed with gasoline
have climbed 74 percent since Dec. 30, when sugar-cane mills
began to close down for the annual inter-harvest season,
according to the research company  Centro de Estudos Avancados em
Economia Aplicada , known as Cepea. Cane producers in Brazil
refine the plant into fuel and sugar and typically close their
mills in the country’s south from January to April for the rainy
season.  Credit Line  The credit line offers producers access to a credit worth
0.56 reais (35 cents) for every liter of anhydrous ethanol
stored.  That figure is calculated at about two-thirds of the value
of the fuel, assuming ethanol costs 0.83 reis a liter, according
to  Brazil ’s national development bank Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, which is one of two state-
run banks that offers the line.  Those incentives made more sense last year, when average
weekly ethanol prices during the 2010 inter-harvest season
peaked at 0.73 reais, according to Cepea.  Average prices for ethanol rose 6.8 percent to 2.13 reais a
liter for the week ended April 8 from the prior week, a record
high, Cepea said on its website.  Another option is requiring mills to tell the fuel
regulator how much ethanol they expect to produce, according to
Alisio Vaz, president of  Sindicato Nacional das Empresas
Distribuidoras de Combustiveis e de Lubrificantes , a Rio de
Janeiro-based fuel distributor association.  “If the government believes there’s a danger that supply
won’t meet demand, it may take measures to stimulate production
like opening credit lines,” for mills, he said.  ‘More Investment’ Needed  The measures being considered may not curb the current run-
up in ethanol prices, according to Josias Messias, director of
the Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo-based consulting company Procana.
“What’s needed is more investment” in mills to boost
production capacity and match increasing demand, he said.  A spokeswoman for the Brazilian fuel regulator confirmed
that the government is evaluating ways to increase its control
over Brazil’s ethanol industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  