-- 
Brazil Giving Up Efforts to Weaken Real, Deutsche’s Faria Says

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-04-13T20:47:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/brazil-giving-up-efforts-to-weaken-real-deutsche-s-faria-says.html
Brazil ’s  central bank  has given up
efforts to stop the real’s appreciation as foreign inflows
continue to rise, said Jose Carlos de Faria, chief economist at
Deutsche Bank in Brazil.  “The government is giving in to the power of flows,”
Faria said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo  yesterday. “They
are not throwing in the towel, but there is little they can do
to stop the real from appreciating.”  The real has advanced 46 percent since the end of 2008 as
rising commodity prices and investors looking for higher yields
offered by Latin America’s biggest economy boost foreign-
currency flows. Brazil’s currency last week touched its highest
level since August 2008 at 1.5664 per  U.S. dollar . The real
strengthened 0.5 percent today to 1.5887.  Foreign currency inflows reached $35.6 billion in the year
through April 8, compared with $25.5 billion for all of last
year, according to central bank data released today.  “Inflows have been stronger than we expected; volumes in
January, February and March came in extremely high,” Faria
said.  Still, the economist predicts the currency may weaken to
1.70 per dollar by year-end as commodity prices will probably
ease and the U.S. Federal Reserve may start to increase  interest
rates  in December.  Additionally, Brazil’s government will probably implement
new tax measures to limit foreign inflows, he said.  The government has changed tax rules three times since
March 29 in an effort to slow the currency rally that crimps
exporters’ profits by making their goods more expensive to
foreign clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  