-- 
BRICs Said to Seek End to West’s Monopoly on Leadership of World Bank, IMF

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-04-13T17:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/brics-said-to-seek-end-to-u-s-western-europe-monopoly-of-world-bank-imf.html
Five of the largest emerging
nations will push the U.S. and  Europe  to end their 65-year
monopoly on leadership positions at the  World Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund , according to two diplomats who
helped negotiate a statement by the countries.  The management structure of the institutions needs to
reflect changes in the world economy, the draft statement by
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa says, according to
the diplomats, who asked not to be identified because the final
text isn’t public. The section calls for a bigger role for
developing countries in global institutions, a reference to
concerns with how leaders are chosen at the World Bank and IMF.  “We will insist on the fact that governance at the IMF and
the World Bank cannot be a systematic rotation between the U.S.
and Europe, with the other countries excluded,” Brazilian
President  Dilma Rousseff  told reporters in Beijing April 12.
“There is no reason for that.”  The 2008 banking and credit crisis and subsequent recession
in the U.S. and Western Europe eroded the influence of developed
nations, a vacuum the so-called BRIC countries and other
emerging nations are seeking to fill. Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luiz Zapatero, in Beijing April 12-13, lauded China’s role
in staving off a financial crisis in his country. China owns 25
billion euros ($36 billion) of Spain’s debt.  BRIC Summit  China is hosting a summit with Brazil, India, Russia and
South Africa. Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management International, coined the term BRIC for the largest
emerging markets -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- in 2001.
 South Africa  was invited to the meeting at the southern beach
side resort of Sanya as well.  Foreign currency reserves held by the five nations rose 13
percent to $3.93 trillion in the past year, accounting for more
than a third of the global total, driven by their faster-growing
economies. China leapfrogged  Japan  at the end of last year to
become the world’s biggest economy after the U.S. following more
than three decades of growth averaging 10 percent.  India’s GDP expanded 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter of
2010, Brazil’s by 5 percent, Russia’s 4.5 percent and South
Africa’s 3.8 percent. Growth in the U.S. was 2.8 percent in the
three months to Dec. 31, while the Eurozone’s was 2 percent.  World Bank   presidents  have been nominated by the body’s
biggest contributor, the U.S., since the international lender of
last resort was founded in 1946 at the end of World War II. The
10  managing directors  of the IMF have all been European.  Citizenship Change  Australian-born James D. Wolfensohn, who headed the World
Bank from 1995-2005, took U.S. citizenship before he was
nominated. Four Frenchmen, two Swedes, a Dutchman, a Spaniard, a
German and a Belgian have been elected as  managing director  of
the IMF, originally founded to ensure exchange rate stability.  The draft statement reflects changes already under way in
global diplomatic and trade relations.  South Korea in November became the first non-western nation
to host a summit of leaders from the Group of 20 countries --
which itself has usurped the Group of 7 as the pre-eminent forum
for world leaders.  The U.S. came under attack at the meeting in  Seoul  over
President Barack Obama’s policies of flooding the economy with
cheap money in a bid to revive growth.  The U.S. “has not fully taken into consideration the shock
of excessive capital flows to the financial stability of
emerging markets,” China’s Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao 
said Nov. 8. Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  told reporters
yesterday that the BRIC nations “still face economic
overheating issues such as inflationary pressure and asset
bubbles.”  China Criticized  China has been criticized by countries including the U.S.
and Brazil for keeping its currency undervalued.  The IMF  agreed  in November to shift more than 6 percent of
voting rights to  developing countries , weakening the influence
of European members including Belgium -- which provided the
agency its first managing director -- and  Germany . China became
the organization’s third-most powerful member.  At the time, the IMF’s current French Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn said on Nov. 6 that the decision would
allow China to take more “responsibility” in the global
economy.  The change in voting rights was “the biggest ever shift of
influence in favor of emerging and developing countries to
recognize their growing role in the global economy,” he said in
a  statement  on the IMF’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  