-- 
Buying Spree in Italy by French Banks Hits Shield a la Francaise

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-04-13T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/buying-spree-in-italy-by-french-banks-hits-shield-a-la-francaise.html
For French financial companies, a
five-year, 22.3 billion-euro ($32 billion) Italian acquisition
binge that made Rome and Parma second homes for  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  may be coming to an end.  Taking a page out of  France ’s playbook, Italian Finance
Minister Giulio Tremonti is seeking to block foreign bids for
domestic assets after French cheese maker Groupe Lactalis became
the biggest shareholder in March of dairy company Parmalat SpA.
Tremonti said his moves are modeled on French measures that
protect key domestic assets and create national champions.  “Milk is much less strategic than banking,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $11 billion at Banque Martin Maurel
in Marseille and owns shares of Societe Generale SA, France’s
third-largest bank by assets. “It’s sure to dissuade a big
foreign bank from launching a big operation in  Italy .”  Efforts by French banks to buy Pioneer Global Asset
Management, a unit of Italy’s biggest lender  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , and
Groupama SA’s plan to acquire a stake in a company that controls
Italy’s second-largest insurer, may serve as test cases. Italy’s
government favored a domestic option for Pioneer, while the
markets regulator has halted Groupama’s stake purchase plan.  “Italian capitalism is withdrawing into itself,” said
Valerie Cazaban, who helps manage 100 million euros at Stratege
Finance in Paris and owns shares in financial companies such as
BNP Paribas and Natixis SA. “French banks that entered Italy in
the past years reaped a historic opportunity.”  Parmalat Shield  The Italian government said on March 31 that it may acquire
a stake in Parmalat to prevent France’s Lactalis, which bought
29 percent last month, from taking control. The decree allowing
state purchases is “a law identical to the French one,” so it
shouldn’t be questioned by the European Union, Tremonti said on
April 2 in Cernobbio, Italy. “Actually, we will write it in
French,” he said.  At the height of the financial crisis in October 2008,
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  created a sovereign fund to
invest in companies to keep foreign “predators” away. That was
after France approved a bill in 2006 that allows the use of so-
called poison pills to deter hostile takeover attempts and make
it easier to keep companies in French hands.  In the same year, France arranged the marriage of energy
companies Gaz de France SA and Suez SA to ward off a bid for
Suez’s Electrabel unit by Italy’s  Enel SpA. (ENEL)   France’s power and rail markets remain largely closed to
Italian companies, while Electricite de France SA controls about
50 percent of Italy’s No. 2 power company, Edison SpA, and SNCF,
France’s state-owned rail operator, bought a 20 percent stake in
Italy’s Nuovo Trasporto Viaggiatori, or NTV, in 2008.  Reciprocity Sought  Europe  “is based not only on the market, but also on
reciprocity,” Tremonti said in a March 27 interview on Rai 3
TV. “We get the impression that in many cases a state like
Italy believes in the market while another believes in
monopolies.”  French companies are the most acquisitive in Europe with
212 announced deals in Western Europe this year valued at $38.7
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They unveiled
$7.2 billion of Italian purchases, making it their biggest
takeover destination outside France. Italian companies have
announced 36 deals for $1.5 billion, including one in France.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the Paris-based luxury
goods maker -- the world’s largest -- said last month it plans
to purchase jeweler Bulgari SpA for about 3.7 billion euros.  Since 2006, French financial firms including BNP Paribas,
Europe’s largest bank by assets, and  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-
largest insurer, have bought Italian assets with little
government opposition.  Fortress France  By contrast, no foreign entity has acquired a major French
consumer-banking network since HSBC Holdings Plc’s 11 billion-
euro purchase of Credit Commercial de France SA in 2000.  Speculation of a possible takeover of Societe Generale in
2008 by UniCredit was quashed by the French government. Prime
Minister Francois Fillon told parliament at the time that
“ Societe Generale (GLE)  is a great French bank and will remain a
great French bank.”  “Governments are often successful in their efforts to
intimidate buyers,” said Nicolas Veron, an economist at
Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics research group.  Italy’s decision to follow France’s example may make it
harder to buy financial assets such as UniCredit’s asset-
management unit, although smaller purchases may get a pass, said
Banque Martin Maurel’s Forneris.  “If a little regional bank, and there are lots in Italy,
became the target of an acquisition, I don’t see the government
blocking that,” he said. “With UniCredit or Intesa Sanpaolo,
the government would probably use a veto.”  Blocked Bids  UniCredit told bidders for its Pioneer unit -- Natixis,
Resolution Ltd. and Amundi, a joint venture of  Credit Agricole 
and Societe Generale -- that it’s abandoning the sale, Il Sole
24 Ore newspaper reported on April 8.  While UniCredit said no decision has been made, the
government earlier backed a merger of the unit, which has about
185 billion euros of assets under management, with that of
Milan-based Intesa Sanpaolo.  Groupama’s planned purchase of a 17 percent stake in
 Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , which controls insurer Fondiaria-Sai
SpA, was halted by the Italian regulator last month.  Consob, the regulator, said accords between Groupama and
Premafin’s largest shareholder, the Ligresti family, gives the
French company governing control, which triggers a mandatory
offer for all of Fondiaria and Premafin. The ruling effectively
blocked the deal.  Scarce Capital  French financial companies had it easier before. BNP,
France’s biggest bank, and Credit Agricole, the second largest
by assets, bought two of Italy’s 10 largest lenders after Former
 Bank of Italy  Governor Antonio Fazio was forced to resign in
December 2005. He faces criminal charges over his efforts to
block foreign takeovers of Italian banks.  BNP, which acquired Rome-based Banca Nazionale del Lavoro
SpA in 2006 for 9 billion euros, has 900 branches in Italy and
plans to reach 1,000 by 2013. Credit Agricole operates about 960
branches in Italy. BNP’s 19,000 and Credit Agricole’s 12,000
employees in Italy are the most outside their home market.  Groupama has about 1.7 million insurance clients in Italy
after the 1.25 billion-euro purchase of a unit of  Assicurazioni
Generali SpA (G)  in 2007. Axa gained access to 1.8 million clients
in Italy in 2007 by buying 50 percent of Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA’s insurance unit for 1.15 billion euros.  Foreign banks’ ability to make further inroads may be a
function of Italian companies’ capital needs, Veron said.  “Capital is scarce, especially for a country that is as
indebted as Italy, and nationalizations aren’t efficient,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  