-- 
California to Join Canada Provinces in Carbon Market Next Year, Group Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-04-13T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/california-to-join-canada-provinces-in-carbon-market-group-says.html
California, the most populous U.S.
state, will join two Canadian provinces in setting up a market
for carbon dioxide pollution next year, according to a group
that helped design the program.  “California, British Columbia and  Quebec  will start in
2012,” the Western Climate Initiative said in a statement on
the status of the regional cap-and-trade program. Ontario and
Manitoba in  Canada  “will join after the program starts,”
according to the statement.  The  Western Climate Initiative  aims to cut carbon dioxide
and  greenhouse gases  15 percent by 2020. The regional program is
similar to the national cap-and-trade system President  Barack Obama  failed to get through Congress last year.  British Columbia passed the necessary laws to take part in
the carbon-trading program next year. The government hasn’t made
a final decision about when it will join, Colin Grewar, a
spokesman for the province’s  Ministry of Environment , said in an
e-mail. “The timing remains subject to provincial government
decision,” he said.  California ’s cap-and-trade regulations, approved by the
state in December, may be delayed after a judge ordered last
month that alternatives, such as a carbon tax, be fully studied.  The  California Air Resources Board  failed to analyze
alternatives that might be better than a cap-and-trade program,
Judge Ernest Goldsmith said in a March 18 ruling. The  Center on
Race, Poverty & the Environment  and other advocacy organizations
sued the board, arguing its climate-change rules don’t do enough
to clean up poor, polluted neighborhoods.  ‘Resolved Expeditiously’  The board is waiting to see what specific actions Goldsmith
will order, Stanley Young, a spokesman for the environmental
agency, said in an e-mail.  “We are hopeful that this case can be resolved
expeditiously and that we will hit our target start date of
January,” Young said.  Alegria De  La Cruz , the center’s legal director, said it’s
possible the agency “could pull out all the stops and meet
their deadline.” Environmental justice groups doubt a court-
ordered study of alternatives will support a cap-and-trade
program for California.  “We don’t believe the environmentally superior alternative
is a trading program,” De La Cruz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  