-- 
Cameron Calls For ‘Good’ Immigration in Appeal to Tory Voters

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/cameron-calls-for-good-immigration-in-appeal-to-tory-voters.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
seeking to reassure his  Conservative Party ’s supporters that he
is dealing with policies that matter to them, will call today
for “good, not mass” immigration.  Cameron is under pressure from his own lawmakers to
demonstrate that his coalition with the  Liberal Democrats  is
paying dividends for his own party on its core issues such as
law and order and immigration. In a separate speech today, he
will also make the case against an overhaul to the voting system
that Britons will vote on in a referendum May 5 and that is
supported by the Liberal Democrats.  “I believe controlling immigration and bringing it down is
of vital importance to the future of our country,” Cameron will
say in Hampshire, southern  England , according to excerpts of his
speech released in advance by his office. “I want to get the
policy right: good immigration, not mass immigration.”  Cameron is seeking to bring net annual immigration down to
the “tens of thousands” compared with almost 200,000 in 2009.
He has faced criticism from Liberal Democrat ministers including
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  who argue the changes may make it
more difficult for companies to hire talented foreign staff.  Critics say “these policies will deny British business of
the talent they need to succeed. That’s plain wrong,” Cameron
will say. “Nothing -- nothing -- is more important to this
government than growing our economy, creating jobs and
prosperity across our country.”  Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg , are
also taking advantage of Parliament’s break for the Easter
vacation to campaign on different sides of the argument over
whether Britain should revamp its first-past-the-post system to
elect House of Commons lawmakers.  Cameron will use a speech later today in Surrey on the
outskirts of London to set out the case for retaining the
system, another way of differentiating his party from Clegg’s,
The Liberal Democrats back the introduction of the alternative
vote, in which voters’ second and further preferences for
candidates are taken into account to ensure lawmakers have the
support of 50 percent of the electorate in each district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 