-- 
Canada Dollar Weakens Against Most Peers as Central Bank Keeps Rates Flat

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-13T21:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/canada-dollar-weakens-against-most-peers-as-central-bank-keeps-rates-flat.html
Canada ’s dollar fell against
higher-yielding peers including the  New Zealand  and Australian
currencies as the  Bank of Canada  said economic growth will slow
following a burst at the start of the year after keeping its
interest-rate target at 1 percent.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fluctuated
against its U.S. counterpart after the central bank said exports
may be curbed by “headwinds” caused by strength in its
currency. Analysts forecast BOC interest-rate increases later
during the year. The loonie gained earlier as silver led
commodities higher and crude oil futures rose.  Raw materials ,
including oil, account for about half of Canada’s exports.  “It may be cause for a bit of a pause in the Canadian
dollar’s upward ascent,” said  Steve Butler , managing director
of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia.
“We got a pretty clear signal from the Bank of Canada yesterday
that they were a little bit worried about the strength of the
currency, but I don’t think it was enough to derail the Canadian
dollar.”  The loonie weakened against 8 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts, dropping 0.7 percent versus New Zealand’s kiwi and
0.6 percent compared with the Aussie. The Canadian currency rose
0.1 percent to 96.23 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:16 p.m. in
Toronto. It had gained as much as 0.5 percent. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.03918.  Canada’s central bank said economic growth will slow, with
auto production hampered by  Japan ’s earthquake and exports
curbed by the nation’s strong dollar.  Central Bank Reports  Central bank policy makers are forecast to keep the rate
target at 1 percent during the second quarter before boosting it
to 1.5 percent during the third quarter and 2 percent during the
fourth quarter, according to the median in the Bloomberg News
survey of 24 analysts.  The Bank of Canada hasn’t changed its benchmark rate since
September, and reiterated that further increases would be
“carefully considered.” The Canadian dollar last week reached
the strongest since November 2007 on higher commodity prices.  The loonie has gained 1.8 percent during the past three
month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indices, a measure of 10 developed-nation currencies.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year down four basis points, 0.04 percentage point,
to 3.37 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing
in June 2020 gained 33 cents to C$100.04.  Crude oil futures rose as much as 1.1 percent to $107.43 a
barrel in New York.  Silver futures advanced 1.5 percent to
$40.67 an ounce on the Comex.  Budget Deficits  U.S. President  Barack Obama  vowed to cut $4 trillion in
cumulative deficits within 12 years through a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases. Sales at U.S. retailers rose in
March for a ninth consecutive month, showing the improving job
market is helping Americans cope with higher costs for fuel and
food.  “ Oil prices  have firmed up and people have basically
shrugged off yesterday’s Japan quake event,” said Rahim Madhavji, president of Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange Inc. in
Toronto. “The factors that are driving the Canadian dollar
higher are the same they have been over the past half year, and
that is commodity prices, equity markets.”  The yen and Swiss franc rose against most of their major
counterparts yesterday on reduced demand for higher-yielding
assets after Japan raised the severity rating for the nuclear
crisis that began last month and more earthquakes shook
buildings in  Tokyo .  Gold will rise as much as 13 percent this year to a record
$1,600 an ounce, extending a rally that began in 2001, as
investors boost demand for the metal as an inflation hedge, said
researcher GFMS Ltd. Crude oil futures extended gains after a
U.S. government report showed a larger-than-forecast decrease in
gasoline inventories.  “All in all, it’s a bit of a risk on day, Canada’s hanging
in,” Butler said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  