-- 
Canada Provinces Can ‘Opt in’ for Securities Regulator, Supreme Court Told

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-04-13T14:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/canada-provinces-can-opt-in-for-securities-regulator-supreme-court-told.html
Canada ’s government isn’t trying to
take over securities regulation from the country’s provinces,
which are free to “opt in” to the proposed single regulator,
the  Supreme Court of Canada  heard today.  The federal government doesn’t plan to oversee securities
regulation without co-operation from the provinces, Robert
Frater, a lawyer for the national government, told the court
today in Ottawa.  “You need only apply, not expand, existing law, in order to
get to yes” for whether a single regulator is constitutional,
said Frater. “What that yes would represent is a recognition of
the relative importance of the regulation of capital markets to
the management of the national economy.”  Canada is the only industrialized country in the world
without a national securities watchdog, and instead relies on a
system of 13 provincial and territorial agencies.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  released draft legislation
last May to set up a single oversight body and submitted it to
the  Supreme Court  of Canada. The court is hearing arguments
today and tomorrow on whether the proposed Canadian Securities
Act is within the legislative authority of Canada’s Parliament
or whether it falls under provincial jurisdiction.  Provinces that have voiced opposition to the plan include
 Quebec ,  Alberta , Saskatchewan, British Columbia, Manitoba, and
New Brunswick. Courts in Alberta and Quebec have ruled that a
national securities watchdog is unconstitutional and some
provinces have argued that securities regulation is a provincial
matter.  Ontario, home to Canada’s main stock-market regulator, has
said it supports the single regulator.  To contact the report on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Ottawa at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan in Toronto at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  