-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Rises Amid Storm Forecasts in U.S. North

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-04-13T15:42:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/canadian-natural-gas-rises-amid-storm-forecasts-in-u-s-north.html
Canadian natural gas prices rose as
a storm is forecast to reach the U.S. Midwest later this week,
bringing snow and colder-than-normal weather to the largest
consuming region for the nation’s gas exports.  Demand for heat in  Minneapolis  will average 34 percent
above normal in the coming week, peaking at 57 percent higher
April 15, according to Belton, Missouri-based Weather
Derivatives. High temperatures in the Minnesota city that day
will be 46 Fahrenheit (8 Celsius), about 11 degrees below
normal, with snow overnight, said AccuWeather Inc., a  State
College , Pennsylvania-based forecaster.  “A lot of the worst snow potential is farther west,” said
Joel Widenor, a meteorologist at Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda,  Maryland . “There are not a lot of signs of warming in
the next 30 days for the far northern Midwest and  Canada .”  Alberta  gas for May delivery rose 4.5 cents to C$3.3625 per
gigajoule ($3.29 per million British thermal units) as of 11:20
a.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to users in Canada and
the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 5.6 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $4.154 per million
Btu.  Alberta System  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.4
billion cubic feet as of 10 a.m. in New York, about 34 million
above target. Gas on the system, or linepack, dropped 61 million
cubic feet in the last 24 hours.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.96 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.51 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 632 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.88 billion cubic feet today, about 75 percent of its
capacity of 2.51 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3
billion cubic feet at 10:05 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 