-- 
Century Foundation's Wall Street Connections Can't Halt 39% Drop in Assets

-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/century-foundation-s-wall-street-ties-can-t-halt-39-asset-drop.html
As guests dined on tea-smoked quail
at a party in Washington last month, Lieutenant General Douglas Lute, President  Barack Obama ’s coordinator for Afghanistan
policy, stood to offer praise for a new report.  “All of us, and certainly those of us in the
administration, should take this glossy little book home and
look at it carefully,” Lute said of the study advocating talks
with the Taliban published by the  Century Foundation , the New
York-based policy institute hosting the event.  It was a bright moment for a think tank that has lost
money, prestige and its president. Century, founded in 1919 by
bargain-basement retail pioneer Edward Filene, and an early
proponent of social security and stock-market regulation, has
seen net assets fall 39 percent to $38 million last June from
$61.7 million in 2000. Over that period, it cut annual spending
to $3.8 million from $5.9 million.  The foundation, where economist John Kenneth Galbraith and
physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer once served as trustees, has
been eclipsed by more aggressive peers. Its current board,
studded with Wall Street figures, spent more than three years
considering a proposal to merge with the Washington-based  Center
for American Progress , a plan it rejected last October. It has
put Century’s four-fireplace Upper East Side townhouse on the
market for  $30 million  and is looking to replace Richard C. Leone, 70, who’s retiring after 22 years.  “Would I like for the Century Foundation to be more
influential and blah-blah-blah?” said Bradley Abelow, a former
head of operations at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and a member of
the foundation’s finance committee. “Sure. Would I like to be
6-foot-5 and blonde? Maybe. I’d like everything I do to be more
impactful and be more successful.”  Endowment Dipping  The trustees, including Abelow, now president and chief
operating officer of futures and options broker  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MF) , and Lewis Kaden, a  Citigroup Inc. (C)  vice chairman
who is Century’s treasurer, have dipped into the endowment to
cover foundation expenses. Tax filings for fiscal years ending
June 30, 2000, to June 30, 2010, show that the foundation spent
$10.6 million more than its revenue.  “At our bottom, if we had not drawn more money out of the
endowment, we would have basically had to stop all of our
activities,” said Alan Brinkley, 61, chairman of Century’s
board and a professor of history at  Columbia University  in New
York. “We just wouldn’t have been able to sustain our staff and
sustain our activities at all.”  No Fundraising  Century’s investments are handled by Leone, a former
president of the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and managing
director at Dillon Read & Co., who said the arrangement has
saved the foundation millions of dollars in money-management
fees. Kaden, the Citigroup vice chairman, is “there for
advice,” Brinkley said. Kaden declined to comment.  “When Dick is faced with a question, he calls,” said
Abelow.  Even with its Wall Street connections, Century has done
almost no fundraising outside of receiving support from
institutions such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund.  “That wasn’t part of the job description when I took it,
and that wasn’t part of what the board does,” said Leone, who
plans to step down as Century’s president when a replacement is
found. “Indeed, it was said that I wouldn’t have to do that.”  ‘Scrooge McDuck’  Leone defended the group’s financial management in a March
16 interview. Wearing a tie that featured the title of
Shakespeare’s “The Tempest” and was decorated with blood-like
splotches, he said he regrets only “the way the country has
moved,” not anything about his tenure.  “The endowment is only there to be spent,” said Leone,
who during his presidency also served as the unpaid chairman of
the Port Authority of  New York  and  New Jersey  and head of New
Jersey Governor Jon Corzine’s transition team. “It’s not like
something Scrooge McDuck has in a bin somewhere to go swim
around in. It’s there to be used.”  Century paid Leone $290,567 for the year ending in June and
a total of $3.4 million for the past 11 years, the foundation’s
tax filings show.  Since its founding by Filene, who had started Filene’s
Basement to sell extra merchandise from his father’s Boston
department store, Century has been a fount of “progressive,
well-reasoned, well-researched  ideas ,” as late board chairman
Theodore Sorensen put it. He and former Century trustee Arthur Schlesinger Jr. were advisers to President  John F. Kennedy .  ‘Group of Argonauts’  The foundation, originally the Cooperative League and then
the Twentieth Century Fund, was a  “broker of ideas”  whose
views on issues such as U.S. debt and labor relations were
conveyed to President  Franklin D. Roosevelt , wrote historian
James Allen Smith. Adolf A. Berle, a Century trustee and member
of Roosevelt’s Brain Trust, called his colleagues at the
foundation a “group of argonauts” who fought to “relieve
present evils.”  In recent decades, the foundation has had less impact.
Leone says that when he took over in 1989 Century wasn’t
“producing much.” In Leone’s first years, Century continued to
be a place that published books, “and that was pretty much
it,” Brinkley said. More recently, the foundation has supported
fewer long publications, sponsored more events and developed
material for its website, he said.  “He wanted to make this a different kind of place,”
Brinkley said of Leone.  ‘Diminished’ Prestige  Among the topics listed on Century’s  website  are
inequality, health care, election reform, education and  homeland
security .  “If you look at their agenda, they’re all over the map,
and not with a lot of depth,” said James McGann, director of
the Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program at the University of
Pennsylvania.  Century wasn’t included in a ranking of the  top 50 U.S.
think tanks  compiled by the program last year. The foundation
was listed in a 2008 compendium called “The Practical
Progressive.” That book’s editor, Erica Payne, said in an
interview that Century’s “prestige has diminished” and that
its “senior management team and the board does not seem
particularly focused on being relevant.”  David Callahan, co-founder of  Demos , a research and
advocacy group in New York that has contributed to Century, said
that while Leone was “a visionary” about the need for
progressive think tanks, the “endowment took a hit at the same
time that other places were scaling up.”  “If two mansions get built on either side of you, you’re
no longer the biggest house on the block,” said Callahan, a
former Century fellow and author of “Fortunes of Change: The
Rise of the Liberal Rich and the Remaking of America.”  ‘Not My Wish’  Century’s board has weighed winding down the foundation.  “We didn’t have enough money to have as big an impact as
we’d like to have on the public dialogue,” said Richard Ravitch, a former New York lieutenant governor. The head of the
finance committee before Kaden, he advocated that the foundation
spend itself out of existence. Filene himself had written that
it was “not my wish” to have Century live on in perpetuity.  The board didn’t approve the plan.  “I was there for that decision,” said Morton Halperin, a
former Century senior vice president and now senior adviser to
billionaire George Soros’s Open Society Foundations. “Nobody
wants to go out of business, so it was a very easy decision.”  ‘Fine Line’  Instead, the board decided to “draw more from the
endowment than most institutions think is appropriate,”
Brinkley said. Leone said the group has long been able to “walk
the fine line between spending at a high rate and staying in
business,” and doesn’t want it “self-obsessed” with survival.  At first, the plan worked. While Century’s net assets
declined 13 percent to $53.7 million in June 2007 from $61.7
million in 2000, the fair market value of those assets
increased. That’s because the value of its townhouse rose to
$25.1 million from $6.1 million, as reported on tax returns.  “We did pretty well,” Brinkley said.  That didn’t last. Over the next three years, during the
financial crisis, net assets fell another 29 percent, to $38
million by June 2010 from $53.7 million, filings show. This time
the value of the townhouse didn’t increase enough to offset the
losses. Christy DeBoe Hicks, a spokeswoman for Century, said in
an e-mail that the group’s net assets “have since appreciated
to approximately $41 million.”  Abelow, who like Leone is a former treasurer of New Jersey,
said there wasn’t any panic on the Century board.  “Why should there be?” he said. “The value of the assets
goes down because of the world around us.”  Merger Talks  Foundations that Leone and Brinkley described as Century’s
peers didn’t suffer as much, according to tax filings available
from the New York Attorney General’s  office  and the  Foundation
Center , a nonprofit research group. Net assets and spending were
higher in 2009 than they were in 2006 at the  Brookings
Institution , Demos, the Economic Policy Institute and the Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities.  Century considered merging with the Center for American
Progress as far back as 2006, according to  John Podesta , who
started the policy organization in 2003. Podesta, a Century
board member and former chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton , said he admires the work of Century fellows such as
Richard Kahlenberg, whose  writing on education  he called
“amazingly good.”  Brinkley said he favored the merger because it would boost
resources and productivity. He also said he was “uneasy” that
the foundation would become “a small part of a very big
organization.”  ‘Painful Decisions’  Jessica Tuchman Mathews, president of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, who said she left Century’s
board about a year ago, found the ambivalence frustrating.  “The possibility of the merger, and the long, long, long
drawn-out discussion of it, shielded the board from seeing the
urgency of making difficult, painful decisions that needed to be
made one way or another,” she said in an interview.  Harvey Sloane, a board member since 1974 and a former mayor
of Louisville, Kentucky, said in an e-mail that a requirement of
unanimity for major decisions made the merger talks
“particularly challenging.” He also said he was “more than
satisfied” with the job Leone has done.  Other board members include Kathleen Sullivan, a partner at
Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in New York who has
represented American International Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley; Alicia Munnell, a professor at the Carroll School of
Management at  Boston College  and a former research director at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and Matina Horner, a former
president of Radcliffe College and a member of a BlackRock Inc.
board that oversees mutual funds.  ‘Ambivalent’ Board  Horner said that Century has done a “terrific job”
adapting to a new age. Munnell declined to comment, and Sullivan
didn’t respond to two e-mails.  The talks with the Center for American Progress came to a
head during the board’s meeting in October, according to
Brinkley and Leone. After a speech in favor of the merger by
Brinkley, the first trustee who spoke opposed the plan, which
needed unanimous support, according to Leone.  “At that point, it was clear it was not going to go
forward,” Leone said.  That year assets and spending reached their lowest in at
least 11 years, according to tax filings available on the
 website  of the  Massachusetts  Attorney General’s office. During
that span, in which the foundation brought in an average of
$841,000 a year, the board remained “ambivalent” about
fundraising, Brinkley said.  ‘Finally Got Tired’  “That’s not something that Century has set out to do,”
Abelow said. “Should we do that? I don’t know what the answer
is. It’s very hard to step into that in the current fundraising
environment.”  Once Leone announced his departure to colleagues last
September, the board felt it shouldn’t undertake any big shifts,
Brinkley said. When the option of throwing fundraisers had come
up previously, it was “hard for us to gauge how successful
fundraising could be,” he said, because “we have a board that
doesn’t include major donors.”  Alan Sagner, who also served as chairman of the  Port
Authority  and is an honorary Century trustee, tried to raise
money for the Century Institute, a summer program at  Williams
College  in Williamstown, Massachusetts. The institute taught
students from around the country about “progressive ideals,
policy and politics,” according to the foundation’s description
of the program. While Sagner helped bring in donors, including
Goldman Sachs, “people were more interested in contributing to
political campaigns,” he said. The program ended in 2003.  “I finally got tired of spending $100,000,” Sagner said.  Having an endowment, which most of its peers lack, makes it
hard to attract donors because of the assumption that the
foundation would spend its own money if the work were important,
said Halperin, the former senior vice president.  ‘In 100 Years’  The board and its next president will need to talk about
Century’s future and what issues to focus on, Abelow said.  “Does that mean we don’t cover health care?” he said.
“That we don’t talk about education? That we give up our
foreign policy work? Those are the kind of hard conversations
that we’ll have to have.”  At the March 22 dinner in  Washington , Afghanistan study co-
chairs Lakhdar Brahimi, a former United Nations special
representative, and Thomas R. Pickering, a former U.S.
undersecretary of state, spoke about their  proposal  to negotiate
with the Taliban.  “Every institution is thinking about how to be relevant,”
Steven Clemons, master of ceremonies for the event and a senior
fellow at Washington-based policy institute  New America
Foundation , said after the dinner. “This is a sign that it
could be rewiring itself.”  Even if it does, Century won’t live forever, Leone said.  “You do the work you can do as effectively as you can,
while you can,” he said. “I don’t think there’s anybody on the
board who thinks in 100 years it’s very important that this be
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 