-- 
Cetes ‘Super Trade’ Luring Strongest Demand in Seven Months: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-04-13T12:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/cetes-luring-strongest-demand-in-seven-months-mexico-credit.html
Investors are stepping up purchases
of the shortest-term Mexican government bills to a seven-month
high to tap into a rally in the peso.  The government sold 11 billion pesos ($933 million) of 28-
day notes during the past two weeks, the most since September,
according to the central bank. The 28-day cetes, as the
securities are known, drew bids in an April 5 auction worth 4.9
times more than the 5.5 billion pesos sold, the highest bid-to-
cover ratio since September. Cetes due on May 12 yield 4.28
percent, compared with 0.02 percent for similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries.  Purchases of the securities are rising as accelerating
growth in Latin America’s second-biggest economy fuels a 4.7
percent gain in the peso this year and near-zero rates in the
U.S. spur demand for higher-yielding assets. Foreign investor
holdings of Mexican government debt maturing in less than a year
 surged  to 33 percent this month from 7 percent a year earlier
and reached a record 37 percent in March, according to the
central bank.  “If the fundamentals for the currency are strong, the
central bank isn’t intervening and the yields are attractive,
this is a super trade for me,” Alejandro Urbina, who helps
oversee $800 million of assets at Silva Capital Management LLC,
said in telephone interview from  Chicago . “There is a lot of
value in the short end of the curve.”  The peso rose to 11.7305 per dollar on April 8, the
strongest level since October 2008, as Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  predicted the economy will grow as much as 5 percent
this year after a 5.5 percent expansion in 2010 that was the
fastest in a decade.  Nuclear Crisis  Cetes are luring investors wary of buying longer-term
securities amid a worsening nuclear crisis in  Japan  and growing
bailouts in  Europe , according to Alejandro Hernandez, who
manages about $1.2 billion at Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA.  Japan raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis to
the highest, matching the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, after
increasing radiation prompted the government to widen the
evacuation zone and aftershocks rocked the country. Portugal is
seeking an estimated 80 billion-euro aid program, the third
euro-region nation to request a bailout in a year.  “The 28-day cete allows you to cover your positions and
you’re not tied down in the long term,” Hernandez said in a
telephone interview from  Mexico  City. “Everyone is aware of
what’s happening in Japan. The people that are buying these
instruments are looking to wait and see how the market
settles.”  ‘Volatility’  Foreign investor demand for cetes will taper off as the
 Federal Reserve  raises  interest rates  and the rally in oil
wanes, said Jaime Ascencio, a fixed-income analyst at
Corporacion Actinver SA. He predicts the peso will weaken to
12.34 per dollar by the end of the year.  “We have seen the volatility the peso can have even though
the economic outlook is very favorable,” Ascencio said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “We are not very
optimistic on the peso. Any little change and the peso will
slip.”  The peso rose 0.4 percent to 11.7875 per  U.S. dollar  today.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 5 basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 125, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 2 basis points to 100, according to CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  Rate Outlook  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in August
fell 4 basis points to 4.96 percent, indicating traders no
longer expect a rate increase that month. In the past five
years, the gap between the 28-day TIIE and the overnight rate
has averaged 36 basis points.  Banco de Mexico  will keep its benchmark lending rate at a
record low 4.5 percent at its policy meeting on April 15,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 14 economists.  Mexican peso debt has returned 1.8 percent in the past
month, compared with a 1 percent gain for local-currency bonds
sold by developing nations, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  “As an investor based in the U.S., anytime the peso is
doing better that means I get a better return,” Silva Capital’s
Urbina said. “My return in that case is going to be great.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  