-- 
Chilean Swap Rates Advance as Traders Boost Bets on Faster Rate Increases

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-04-13T18:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/chilean-swap-rates-advance-as-traders-boost-bets-on-faster-rate-increases.html
Chilean interest-rate swaps climbed
as traders increased bets on a third straight half-point rate
increase next month after the central bank lifted borrowing
costs yesterday.  The six-month swap rate in pesos increased eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.31 percent as of 1:03
p.m.  New York  time, the highest since January 2009. The one-year
rate climbed six basis points to 5.72 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chile’s central bank has increased borrowing costs by more
than any other major rate-setter tracked by Bloomberg in the
past six months after raising the benchmark rate by 50 basis
points yesterday to 4.5 percent. Traders, who until today were
betting on quarter-point increments in coming months, are now
split between a quarter- and half-point increase next month,
according to Siobhan Morden, head of strategy for Latin America
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The market is wondering when the bank will start to
decelerate, when the inflection point will be, and it’s starting
to think it may not be at the next meeting,” said Stamford,
Connecticut-based Morden. “The market is pricing in 37.5 basis
points, which is fair. Hopefully today is the worst and I can
suffer through it. Our view is that it’s 25 basis points at the
next meeting and if that’s right I’ll make my money back.”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in New York called for a half-point increase, citing
faster-than-forecast economic growth and rising oil prices.  Peso Rebounds  Chile’s peso gained, snapping a two-day losing streak, as
stocks rose on positive economic data even as copper fell and
oil rose, eating into Chile’s trade surplus. U.S. retail sales
rose for the ninth-straight month in March and European
industrial output accelerated.  The peso climbed 0.4 percent to 472.16 per  U.S. dollar  from
473.86 yesterday.  Foreign investors in the forwards market had a net bet of
$1.8 billion that the peso would fall against the dollar as of
April 11. That means local banks had a bet of $1.8 billion that
the peso would gain, according to central bank data.  The central bank today paid an average of 473.48 pesos per
dollar for $50 million as part of its plan to buy $12 billion,
weakening the peso.  The swaps yield curve in pesos flattened as shorter
maturity rates rose faster than longer ones. The five-year swap
rate in pesos increased two basis points to 6.06 percent as of
2:24 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market expects rises to come now and then stop for a
while,” said Jose Miguel Gredilla, a trader at Banco Santander
 Chile  in Santiago.  The central bank sold 48.3 billion pesos ($102 million) of
bonds due in two and five years at a yield of 6.02 percent and
6.38 percent, respectively.  Pension funds bought 31.8 billion pesos of the 36.3 billion
pesos of five-year bonds sold. Demand was 76.1 billion pesos,
the bank said. Banks bought 11.7 billion pesos of the 12 billion
pesos of two-year bonds. The bank received 32 billion pesos of
orders, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  