-- 
Chile Lifts Rate to 4.5% as Traders Forecast Pace to Slow

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-04-13T19:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/chile-raises-rate-to-4-5-as-investors-forecast-pace-to-slow.html
Chile ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate for the tenth time in 11 months in a bid
to anchor inflation expectations and give policy makers leeway
to slow the pace of rate increases in the months ahead.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, raised the overnight rate by a half-point yesterday
for the second straight month to 4.5 percent, matching the
forecast of 19 of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two
analysts expected a quarter-point increase to 4.25 percent.  Chile accelerated the pace of rate increases in March after
a quarter-point increase in February and a pause in January to
contain the effect of rising energy prices on inflation
expectations. The bank yesterday sustained the March tempo as
prices and economic growth quicken, giving policy makers room to
ease the pace of increases if inflation expectations improve,
Cristobal Doberti, chief economist at Bice Inversiones, said.  “If inflation expectations moderate, we could return to
the slower pace of increases,” Doberti said from Santiago after
the bank’s decision. “However, if inflation expectations don’t
change, we probably will see another half-point increase.”  Chile’s peso gained for the first time in three days,
climbing 0.4 percent to 472.16 per  U.S. dollar  from 473.86
yesterday.  Rate Horizon  Chile’s three-month interest-rate swap, which reflects
traders’ views of future rates, traded at 4.79 percent yesterday
before the bank decision. The rate implied a half-point increase
yesterday followed by a quarter-point increases in May and June,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  While traders increased bets today on another half-point
rate increase, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said the pace of
tightening may slow as the central bank’s actions and government
spending cuts help contain inflation expectations.  “It’s somewhat reasonable to think that the rhythm of
expansion of  interest rates  will moderate in a scenario where
measures taken by the government and the central bank have an
impact on inflation in the market,” Larrain told reporters
today in Santiago.  Swap Yields Rise  The three-month swap yield gained nine basis points to 4.88
percent at 2:41 p.m. New York time while the six-month swap
increased eight basis points to 5.31 percent, the highest since
January 2009. The one-year rate climbed six basis points to 5.72
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers will opt for a quarter-point increase in May,
according to the median forecast of 71 economists in an April 12
central bank survey. The benchmark rate will reach 5.75 percent
in six months and 6 percent in a year, according to the median
estimate of 51 traders and investors in a central bank survey
published today.  “The interest rate will tend to be closer to a neutral
rate by the end of the year,”  Alejandro Puente , an economist
with  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in Santiago, said in an
interview. A neutral rate -- that would neither pressure
consumer prices to rise or fall -- would be 5.5 percent to 6
percent, he said.  Neutral rates in Chile could be closer to 5.25 percent or
5.5 percent because global interest rates are lower than four or
five years ago, when the South American country’s neutral rate
exceeded 6 percent, Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones in Santiago, said yesterday.  Market, Policy Maker View  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’ view
of average price increases over the next 12 months, fell to 4.30
percent yesterday before the bank decision from 4.42 percent
April 11. It rose to 4.34 percent today.  Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in March from February,
the fastest since September 2009, the National Statistics
Institute said last week. Consumer prices will rise 0.4 percent
in April from March, according to today’s survey of traders and
investors.  Inflation excluding fuel and produce rose 0.4 percent in
March from the previous month, matching the pace reached in
September 2010, the institute said.  Annual inflation will accelerate to 4.3 percent by year-end
from 3.4 percent in March, the central bank said in its latest
quarterly monetary policy report, published April 4. The bank
targets annual inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus 1
percentage point, over a two-year horizon.  Annual Inflation  Chile’s annual inflation rate will return to levels within
the bank’s target range by the second quarter of next year
before closing 2012 at 3 percent,  De Gregorio  told senators
April 4.  Policy makers are concerned higher  oil prices  could create
inflationary pressures on other  consumer goods , he said. Chile
imports 99 percent of its oil, whose price in the Brent futures
market rose 5 percent in March to $117.36 a barrel.  “We confront important risks,” De Gregorio told senators
in reference to international price shocks. “Those shocks could
spread from specific sectors to remaining prices in the economy.
Preventing that spread today is the principal task of monetary
policy.”  The central bank said in a statement accompanying
yesterday’s decision it would continue to remove the monetary
stimulus at a pace that depends on economic conditions.  Chile’s economic growth also could contribute to
inflationary pressures if demand exceeds output capacity, De
Gregorio told senators.  Output Gaps Close  “Chile’s economic recovery has consolidated and output
gaps are closed,” De Gregorio said. “It can’t be ruled out
that activity and demand will evolve above expectations, causing
them to exceed normal levels of productive capacity use in the
economy and, as a result, causing inflationary pressures.”  The economy will grow as much as 6.5 percent this year,
which would be the fastest annual expansion in more than 10
years, policy makers said in their policy report. Chile’s gross
domestic product rose 5.2 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  