-- 
China's Banks Said to Need $131 Billion of Capital to Meet Stricter Rules

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T04:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/china-banks-said-to-need-131-billion-of-equity-over-six-years.html
Chinese banks may have to raise
about 860 billion yuan ($131 billion) of stock over six years to
meet stricter capital rules, according to estimates from the
industry regulator, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Lenders are likely to need an additional 1.26 trillion yuan
in supplementary capital by the end of 2016, the person said,
declining to be named because the calculations aren’t public.
The estimates, compiled in January, assume economic growth of 8
percent a year and 15 percent credit expansion, the person said.  Chinese lenders including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (601398)  Ltd. sold a combined $70 billion of shares last year after
record credit expansion fueled concern that their assets might
be eroded by bad debts. Banks’ dependence on loan growth to
increase profits means they’ll likely have to raise more equity
capital, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “Capital erosion is a long-term issue facing Chinese banks
because they don’t really have the motivation to reduce reliance
on loan expansion,” said Wen Chunling, a Beijing-based analyst
at Fitch. “The focus of China’s rules is to ensure that banks
arm themselves with abundant capital to be well-prepared for a
crisis, so that the cost of any government bailout would be
minimized.”  Increased Pressure  China’s banking regulator has drafted rules forcing banks
to have  Tier 1 capital  ratios of at least 8.5 percent by the end
of 2016, a person with knowledge of the matter said in January.
The nation’s lenders had an average Tier 1 ratio of 10.1 percent
at the end of last year, according to the watchdog.  That’s below the average 12.3 percent among the world’s 100
largest banks by market value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Capital is very important for banks’ development,” Jiang Jianqing, chairman of ICBC, said at a Bloomberg TV interview in
Sanya, Hainan province, today. “With the ongoing global
regulatory reform, banks are facing increased pressure to raise
capital. We can always go to capital markets to raise debt or
equity. Subordinated debt is an option.”  ICBC doesn’t plan to sell shares until 2012, if possible,
Jiang said. The company also doesn’t plan to sell debt “for
now,” he said.  The estimates for funding requirements to be met through
stock sales account for about 13 percent of the $1 trillion
combined market value of China’s 17 publicly traded lenders,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The forecasts don’t
apply to so-called policy lenders like China Development Bank
Corp. and Export-Import  Bank of China , the person said.  Pace of Fundraising  China’s banking regulator said it has drafted a plan to
implement global rules on  capital requirements .  “At present, the Regulation on the Management of
Commercial Banks’ Capital Adequacy Ratio is still being
revised,” the China Banking Regulatory Commission said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “After its official publication,
each commercial bank will -- based on their own operating
conditions -- estimate and decide on the method, pace and amount
of fundraising.”  Shares of ICBC dropped 0.9 percent in Hong Kong trading to
HK$6.53 as of 11:36 a.m., after earlier falling as much as 1.8
percent. The stock had fallen 8.4 percent last year, compared
with a 5.3 percent gain in the  Hang Seng Index .  Bank of China
Ltd. (3988)  fell 1.4 percent today, while  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) 
lost 1.1 percent.  Stability Threat  Tier 1 capital comes from equity, retained earnings and
hybrid securities such as preference shares. Global regulators
have been pushing banks to bolster equity capital after the
financial crisis and a real estate collapse in parts of  Europe 
forced governments to amass debt to bail out lenders.  Globally, banks will be required to maintain at least 7
percent core Tier 1 capital ratios, a measure that excludes
perpetual preferred stock, the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  said last year. Lenders have until 2019 to phase in
the requirements.  While Chinese banks’ focus on domestic loans shielded them
from the fallout of the global credit crisis, the CBRC in the
past year has stepped up measures to ensure a two-year lending
boom that started late 2008 won’t threaten financial stability.  Banks including ICBC, the world’s most profitable lender,
have responded by cutting dividend payout ratios, curbing loan
growth or expanding non-lending businesses. ICBC, Construction
Bank and Bank of China said last month they have no plans to
sell more stock for as long as three years.  ‘Conservation Buffer’  Under the new rules being considered, lenders must have a
minimum 6 percent of Tier 1 capital, up from 4 percent under
current regulations. Banks will also be required to hold another
2.5 percent as a “conservation buffer,” the person familiar
with the matter said in January.  Lenders considered systemically important would need an
additional 1 percent of Tier 1 capital, bringing their total
requirement to 9.5 percent, the person said. The nation’s five
biggest banks -- ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank of China,
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  and Bank of Communications Co.,
are now deemed systemically important, the person said.  Those banks will have to comply with the new capital ratio
requirements by the end of 2013, three years earlier than other
lenders, the person said in January.  An additional buffer of as much as 2.5 percent that Chinese
lenders may be subjected to if credit growth is deemed excessive
wasn’t used by the regulator in calculating their fundraising
needs, according to the person.  Curtailing Dividends  Lenders will need to increase their Tier 1 capital by about
5.26 trillion yuan over the six years through 2016, of which
about 4.4 trillion yuan may come from profits, the person said.
The  China  Banking Regulatory Commission based calculations on
earnings rising 12 percent annually and banks distributing 40
percent of net income as dividends, the person said.  China’s five largest banks cut their average dividend
payout ratio to about 37 percent last year from 39 percent in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as they sought to
preserve capital.  The new rules would also require banks to hold a minimum
10.5 percent overall capital adequacy ratio, with systemically
important banks needing an additional 1 percent, the person said.  That means lenders will need to raise 960 billion yuan in
supplementary capital by the end of 2016, the person said. They
may have to raise an additional 300 billion yuan if subordinated
bonds and hybrid bonds, which don’t qualify as regulatory
capital under the new Basel rules, need to be replaced.  Record Earnings  Chinese banks currently raise supplementary capital by
issuing subordinated bonds. In a bankruptcy, holders of
subordinated notes receive payment only after other bond claims
are paid in full.  China’s lenders boosted combined profit 35 percent to a
record 899.1 billion yuan in 2010, the fastest pace of earnings
growth in three years, the CBRC said last month.  ICBC plans to increase loans in 2011 at the slowest pace in
three years, Jiang last month. Construction Bank, the nation’s
second-largest lender, and Bank of China have also said credit
growth will slow.  China Merchants Bank Co. will face a “relatively big
capital shortfall” over the next five years because of stricter
regulatory requirements, Xinhua News Agency reported on April 10,
citing comments from the bank’s President Ma Weihua.  -- John Liu , with assistance from Liza Lin, Stephen Engle and
Christine Hah. Editors: Chitra Somayaji, Philip Lagerkranser  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at 
 Jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  