-- 
China Milk, Meat Hunger Spurring Kiwi Dollar to Record: Chart of the Day

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-04-13T22:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/china-milk-meat-hunger-spurring-kiwi-dollar-to-record-chart-of-the-day.html
New Zealand ’s dollar may climb to a
record after its central bank said surging prices for meat,
grain and milk will boost farmer incomes in the world’s biggest
dairy exporter, possibly forcing  interest rates  higher.  The CHART OF THE DAY maps the so-called kiwi dollar against
the Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s trade-weighted
index of prices for the nation’s key commodity exports and
benchmark New York crude oil. The  New Zealand dollar  climbed 6.6
percent over the past month against the  U.S. dollar , the best
performance among 31 of its peers. The currency dropped 2.7
percent in February when the nation was hit by its deadliest
earthquake in 80 years.  Food prices have climbed above their 2008 records and may
fan inflation if households boost spending and borrowing,
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard told a farmers
group on April 11. The lower panel shows expectations that the
central bank will increase the 2.5 percent benchmark rate by 56
basis points in a year, compared with 32 basis points a month
ago, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps
trading.  “Bollard is throwing a spotlight on the high terms of
trade in New Zealand, while the market has been focusing instead
on the earthquake,” said Greg Gibbs, a strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “New Zealand’s dollar hasn’t
made new highs yet and the risk is for a catch-up move from the
kiwi.”  RBS forecasts the currency will advance to 84 U.S. cents by
the third quarter. The highest it has reached since exchange-
rate controls were scrapped in 1985 was 82.14 U.S. cents on Feb.
27, 2008. The kiwi bought 78.82 U.S. cents as of 10:11 a.m. in
Wellington.  Prices for New Zealand’s agricultural exports “are likely
to remain at elevated levels,” the central bank said April 12.
“Demand is underpinned by urbanization and wealth growth in
 developing countries , especially  China .” The nation’s exports
to China, its second-biggest market, rose 39 percent in the year
ended Feb. 28 to NZ$5.21 billion ($4.1 billion).  (For a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  