-- 
China First-Quarter Growth Probably Eased in Boost for Wen Inflation Fight

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-14T08:41:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/china-s-growth-may-cool-in-boost-for-wen-s-inflation-campaign.html
China ’s growth probably slowed in
the first quarter, helping to defuse the risk of overheating in
an economy where inflation is estimated to be running at its
fastest pace since 2008.  The government will report tomorrow that gross domestic
product rose 9.4 percent from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists,
down from last year’s peak rate of 11.9 percent. Data today
showed that new loans were 679.4 billion yuan ($104 billion) in
March and M2 money supply rose 16.6 percent from a year earlier.  A deceleration in the world’s second-biggest economy would
help address inflation that billionaire investor  George Soros 
warned this week is “somewhat out of control” in the aftermath
of a record credit boom and higher commodity prices. Premier  Wen Jiabao  will need to use a stronger currency and some further
increase in  interest rates  to help rein in prices, analysts said.  “Policy makers would welcome some slowdown,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Agricole CIB.
“With  price levels  still elevated for the time being, however,
that’s likely to invite some tightening measures,” he said,
predicting the central bank will boost banks’ reserve ratios
this month and increase borrowing costs by the end of June.  Overtaking Europe  The yuan traded at 6.5307 per dollar as of 4:15 p.m. in
 Shanghai  after touching a 17-year high of 6.5298. China’s
foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest, topped $3
trillion for the first time, according to central bank data
released today.  Economic growth was an annual 9.8 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year. China’s share of the global economy may
surpass  Europe ’s in five years and approach the U.S.’s in a
decade,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said in
 New York  yesterday.  Separate figures tomorrow will show consumer prices climbed
5.2 percent in March from a year before, the median forecast
indicates.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said today that an increase
in banks’ reserve requirements may be “imminent,” after Wen
described liquidity as ample in comments published by the
official People’s Daily.  Property Prices  China’s cabinet said yesterday that rising property prices
in many cities and increasing inflation expectations are key
concerns as the nation wrestles with the aftermath of a record
17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of lending over 2009 and 2010.  Investors have signaled confidence that  China’s economy 
will achieve a so-called soft landing, with inflation being
brought under control without arresting the expansion. The
Shanghai Composite Index advanced 7.8 percent in the past three
months, as the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.6 percent.  Quarter-on-quarter GDP figures will be released by the
 statistics bureau  for the first time tomorrow. Citigroup Inc.
calculates that growth may have cooled to 8.8 percent from 10
percent in the fourth quarter after monetary tightening and
curbs on home purchases. The bank cites estimates of seasonally
adjusted annual rates.  The  International Monetary Fund  says the nation still
hasn’t escaped overheating risks, warning in its semiannual
economic outlook this week that “an abrupt slowdown of economic
activity in China, perhaps following a credit and property boom
and bust cycle, would adversely affect the whole region.”  Inflation Pressure  “The moderation in growth will help relieve inflation
pressure but it is still too early to be complacent now,” said
Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist with  Barclays Capital ,
who previously worked at the  World Bank  and Hong Kong Monetary
Authority. “Tightening measures should be maintained to anchor
inflation expectations.”  Rising real-estate valuations and inflation have raised
stress on the banking system, which will at some point require
government help,  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Fitch Ratings’s Asia-
Pacific sovereign unit, said in a statement two days ago. Fitch
cut its outlook for China’s AA- local-currency sovereign rating
to “negative” from “stable” this week, and Colquhoun said
it’s “not inconceivable” banks’ total bad-debt ratio will
reach 30 percent.  Among the economic data scheduled for release tomorrow is
industrial output growth, forecast to slow to 14 percent in
March from a 15 percent year-on-year pace in February. Urban
fixed-asset investment may have expanded by an annual 25 percent
in the first quarter, while retail sales growth accelerated to
17 percent from 16 percent in March, survey medians show.  Soros on Yuan  China’s expansion this year may be bolstered by a
government plan to build 10 million units of low-cost housing.
Climbing profits are stoking  capital spending  by companies.  Exports of $152 billion in March were close to the record
of $154 billion set in December. A surge in imports caused a
trade deficit in the first quarter, highlighting both strength
in domestic demand and the jump in commodity costs that is
adding to price pressures.  “It would be very advantageous to allow the currency to
appreciate as a way of controlling inflation,” Soros, chairman
of Soros Fund Management LLC, said at a conference in  Bretton
Woods ,  New Hampshire , on April 10. “The authorities missed that
opportunity. You now have inflation somewhat out of control, and
causing some serious danger of wage-price inflation.”  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  