-- 
Chrysler to Open Call Centers on Sunday to Improve Service

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-04-13T18:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/chrysler-to-operate-call-centers-on-sundays-to-improve-service.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , plans to keep customer-support
telephone lines open on Sundays to improve its relationship with
car buyers.  The Sunday call-center hours are part of an effort by
Pietro Gorlier, head of Chrysler’s Mopar brand service, parts
and customer care, to better meet consumers’ expectations.  Gorlier is pushing franchise owners to carry replacement
parts for vehicles made by other automakers and to open their
shops on Saturdays. He is also beginning an effort to keep more
service centers open on Sundays. Chrysler moved its call center
support work to  North America  last year from  India , and customer
call-wait times were slashed, he said.  “As a customer, I look for having service on Saturday and
Sunday,” Gorlier, 48, said in an interview last week at
Chrysler’s headquarters in  Auburn Hills , Michigan.  The automaker last year opened its call center on
Saturdays, and the number of calls has since doubled to about
20 percent of weekday traffic, said Paul Alcala, head of
Chrysler customer care and call centers.  Callers under the old system typically couldn’t reach a
live representative for more than 2 minutes, and that time has
been shortened to 30 to 45 seconds, Alcala said.  “I wouldn’t say that it was set up to get rid of people,”
Gorlier said of the previous system. “But the most important
driver was to contain costs, and the best way to contain costs
is to reduce the number of calls you have.”  1.5 Million Contacts  The automaker gets about 1.5 million customer contacts,
including calls, letters and e-mails, a year, Gorlier said.  Chrysler also has begun contacting customers about recalls
if they haven’t responded six months after a campaign, he said.
The automaker is piloting a program to call some customers who
may have a recurring repair problem.  “We try to detect potential future problems,” Gorlier
said.  Gorlier has targeted getting 80 percent of Chrysler’s about
2,300 U.S. dealers open on Saturdays. About 72 percent of
dealers are now open then, up from 60 percent in 2009, he said.  “We’re more or less growing one point every month so we
should be in good shape to get to 80 for the end of the year,”
he said.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, is pushing Chrysler to raise global sales 32 percent
this year and turn its first annual profit since emerging from
bankruptcy reorganization in 2009.  Mopar Partnership  Chrysler also announced today that Mopar is partnering with
Magneti Marelli, Fiat’s auto-parts unit, and Shell Lubricants,
the maker of Pennzoil motor oil, in a deal that will allow
Chrysler’s franchises to fully service rivals’ vehicles.  Chrysler dealerships last year performed some maintenance
on more than 2.6 million competitors’ vehicles. The deal with
Magneti Marelli, beginning this month, will provide Chrysler’s
dealers with replacement parts for vehicles made by  General
Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Magneti Marelli is beginning by supplying brakes, shocks,
oil filters and other items, and more parts will be added during
the year, Chrysler said in a statement.  Chrysler dealers will be able to service about 85 percent
of the vehicles on the road, Gorlier said during an event at a
Mopar facility in Center Line,  Michigan .  “We want to become, as I said, the single source of parts
for our dealers,” Gorlier told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  