-- 
Cisco Refocuses on Switch Business as It Scraps Flip Camera

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-13T20:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/cisco-refocuses-on-switch-business-as-it-scraps-flip-camera.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s shutdown of
the Flip video division lets Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  get started on a bigger challenge: shoring up the main
business of routers and switches.  The largest maker of networking gear faces a threat from
lower-priced rivals, such as  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co. Routers and  switches , which help businesses and
carriers handle  Internet traffic , account for about half of the
company’s revenue.  Cisco, which said yesterday it will cut 550 jobs as part of
the Flip closure, faces a trade-off between profit and market
share. Its traditional networking gear has been its highest-
margin source of revenue, propelling its dominance in the
industry. As new competitors introduce cheaper alternatives,
Cisco is struggling to maintain its lead without matching
rivals’ price cuts, said Sean Conner, an analyst with Nuveen
Asset Management in  Minneapolis .  “If a customer only needed a  Chevrolet , Cisco would sell
them a Porsche even if they didn’t need the extra speed,” said
Conner, whose firm sold its Cisco stake in January after holding
the shares for more than five years. “Now they can’t because HP
and Juniper came in and said to consumers, ‘Why are you paying
for all that extra stuff?’”  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest computer maker, is
selling more networking gear to capitalize on the growth of data
centers -- the vast server facilities that power the Internet.
Juniper, meanwhile, entered the switching market in 2008,
building on its routing business.  Karen Tillman, a spokeswoman for  San Jose , California-based
Cisco, declined to comment.  ‘Tough Market’  Chambers said last week that Cisco is taking a hard look at
the  switching  business, where it has more than 80 percent global
market share. Cisco is seeking ways to bring new products to
profitability more quickly, he said.  “Switching is our challenge,” Chambers said last week at
an investor conference in San Francisco, singling out
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Hewlett-
Packard as rivals. “It’s going to be a tough market for us.”  Sales of switches rose 12 percent to $13.6 billion in the
fiscal year ended in July, accounting for about a third of total
revenue. In the subsequent six months, year-over-year growth has
slowed to 7.2 percent.  Some networking  rivals  are willing to accept 40 percent
gross margins on switches, while Cisco has typically seen 70
percent to 80 percent margins, Chambers said at the investor
conference. Gross margin measures the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting product costs.  Time to Choose?  “Cisco needs to choose between protecting share or
preserving margins,” John Slack, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in  San Francisco , said yesterday in a note to clients. “It
simply can’t do both.”  Chambers said in an April 4 memo to staff that he would
make several “targeted moves” to restore lost credibility and
sharpen the company’s focus. Shutting Flip, which Cisco bought
for $590 million in 2009, isn’t enough to compensate for the
declining profitability of its broader consumer business, said
Alex Henderson, an analyst at New York-based Miller Tabak & Co.
The company should exit that area entirely, he said.  “They’ve got a lot of work to do, and this is just a drop
in the bucket,” Henderson said of the Flip decision.  The job cuts yesterday represent less than 1 percent of
total employees and will take place by the end of the fiscal
year, the company said. Cisco’s consumer division also includes
 Linksys  home networking, and audio and media-storage products.  Home Video  Cisco bought Flip to expand its expertise in home-video
networking, a bid that never paid off. Flip posted about $325
million in revenue last year, less than 1 percent of total
sales, Citigroup’s Slack said.  Cisco’s gross margin narrowed to 64 percent last fiscal
year from 70 percent in 2003, in part a reflection of the push
into consumer products and pressure from rivals on prices of its
corporate products.  The slump has taken its toll on Cisco’s shares, which have
declined 35 percent in the past year. That’s wiped out about $50
billion in market value. The stock fell 19 cents to $17.25 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Competition continues to mount. As Cisco was pushing into
new areas, smaller companies such as Riverbed Technology Inc.,
F5 Networks Inc. and Aruba Networks Inc. have been able to gain
an edge, according to Mizuho Securities USA Inc.  While these competitive pressures may have caught Cisco by
surprise, they’re unlikely to keep the company down for long,
said Rohit Mehra, an analyst at IDC in Framingham,
 Massachusetts .  “I don’t see a lot of these challenges as Herculean,”
Mehra said. “We can call these small missteps. You will lose
some market share when you’re the 800-pound gorilla.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  