-- 
Citigroup Hires Ex-Citadel Executive Kurtzman for U.S. Equity Derivatives

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-04-13T13:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/citigroup-hires-ex-citadel-executive-kurtzman-to-lead-equity-derivatives.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, hired former Citadel LLC senior executive Brad Kurtzman as head of U.S. equity derivatives trading.  Kurtzman started this month and reports to Simon Yates,
head of equity derivatives for the Americas, said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank.
Kurtzman previously led equity derivatives in the securities
unit of Citadel, an $11 billion hedge fund run by billionaire
 Kenneth Griffin . He left the unit as of January.  Trading revenue may continue to decline for Wall Street
banks as they prepare to report first-quarter earnings.
Citigroup may say equity trading revenue dropped 13 percent to
$1.1 billion from the same period last year, according to Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York . The
bank reports quarterly results next week.  Kurtzman’s departure from Citadel along with two other
senior executives was reported in January, bringing to nine the
number of top-level employees who had left the Chicago-based
hedge fund company within 15 months. Griffin, who founded
Citadel 20 years ago, opened a securities unit in late 2008, at
the height of the financial crisis, to offer underwriting,
stock, bond and derivatives trading, and advice on mergers,
acquisitions and restructurings.  Kurtzman worked for Merrill Lynch & Co., which was taken
over by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
and then joined Citadel in 2009, according to Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority records.  An equity derivative is a financial instrument, such as an
option or a warrant, whose value is based on an underlying
security, such as a share of common stock.  -- With assistance from Bradley Keoun in New York. Editors:
Peter Eichenbaum, Rick Green  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 Bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  