-- 
Clinton Warns Arab Leaders Time Is Short for Political Reform

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-13T00:34:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/clinton-warns-arab-leaders-time-is-short-for-political-reform.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called on Bahrain’s leaders to avoid violence in their
response to protests and to talk with the opposition instead.  Clinton warned that Arab leaders facing restive populations
have a limited time to make changes. They must include women,
minorities and young people as they address widespread
frustration, she said in a speech today.  Bahrain has come down hard on its Shiite Muslim majority,
which is demanding equal rights and greater political freedoms
from the Sunni royal family, which has brought in Saudi security
forces to suppress protests.  The U.S. Navy’s Fifth fleet, the main counter to Iranian
military influence in the region, is based in the nation of 1.2
million. Bahrain and neighboring  Saudi Arabia , also a Sunni
monarchy, have portrayed the protests as provoked by
predominately Shiite  Iran .  “Security alone cannot resolve the challenges facing
Bahrain,” Clinton said at the  U.S.-Islamic World Forum  in
 Washington , echoing an argument she expanded on in her speech.
“Violence is not, and cannot be, the answer. A political
process is.”  Clinton’s speech addressed the challenges facing Bahrain
and its North African and Middle Eastern neighbors as they cope
with unrest. In many of these places, the U.S. has had to
balance its allegiance to longtime autocratic leaders with
recognition of peoples’ demands for democracy.  ‘Opportunity for Change’  “For the first time in decades, there is a real
opportunity for change,” Clinton said. “A real opportunity for
people to have their voices heard and their priorities
addressed. This raises significant questions for us all.”  Simply changing leaders, Clinton warned, “won’t be enough
to satisfy” unhappy populations. Regional leaders have “a lot
to lose if the vision vacuum is filled by extremists and
rejectionists.”  Clinton did not refer to the situation in  Libya  in her
prepared remarks.  Clinton called on Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh, a
key ally in U.S. efforts against al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, to resolve the political impasse with the opposition
in a peaceful manner. Protests against the country’s lack of
freedoms and extreme poverty have left 120 dead since mid-
February.  And  Syria , which vowed today to crush a ‘conspiracy’
against its regime, “must respect the universal human rights of
the Syrian people, who are rightly demanding the basic freedoms
that they have been denied,” Clinton said.  Social Networks  Where the regional balance of power was once measured in
tanks and missiles, Clinton said that Middle Eastern policy
makers now have to factor in “connected, organized and
frustrated” citizens who want economic opportunities, political
freedoms and an end to corruption.  “In the 21st century, the material conditions of people’s
lives have greater impact on national stability and security
than ever before,” Clinton said, an observation she made to
Arab leaders in a January speech in Doha, Qatar, just before
unrest began to escalate.  Clinton noted “troubling signs” in  Egypt  and  Tunisia 
regarding the rights of women, who she said have so far been
excluded from key transitional decision-making processes. “You
can’t claim to have a democracy if half the population is
silenced,” she said.  Clinton outlined assistance the U.S. is providing to help
transitional democracies, including $150 million for Egypt and a
$2 billion to encourage private investment across the Middle
East and North Africa, particularly for small- and medium-sized
businesses.  The goal, she said, is to promote sustainable growth,  job
creation , investment and trade in the region. Other initiatives
include an effort to spur private sector investment and a
longer-term plan to encourage economic integration within the
region and with  Europe  and the  United States .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  