-- 
CMBS Rules Needs Changing to Avert Shutdown, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-04-13T17:15:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/cmbs-rules-needs-changing-to-avert-shutdown-deutsche-bank-says.html
A U.S. government proposal to curb
the type of lending that contributed to the financial crisis
needs to be reworked to avoid shutting down the $700 billion
commercial-mortgage  bond market , according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Firms packaging property loans into securities would need
to set aside certain cash that is typically collected upfront,
under rules released by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
 Federal Reserve  for public comment on March 29. The requirement
effectively precludes originators from making money until the
bond is paid off, reducing the incentive to issue securities
backed by commercial mortgages, Deutsche Bank analysts led by
Harris Trifon in New York wrote in a report yesterday.  “The proposed rules are a negative with a large number of
unintended consequences,” Trifon said in a telephone interview.
“There is a need to address some of the excesses of the
previous cycle. With a few tweak and changes, the proposed rules
should result in a satisfactory outcome.”  Policy makers are designing the rules to align financial
institutions’ incentives with those of investors to prevent
lenders from writing shoddy loans they would not make for their
own books.  A provision related to lenders retaining 5 percent of the
risk of the transaction may increase borrowing costs, the
analysts said in the report. Regulators may calculate this
amount on the market value of the securities instead of the face
value, potentially increasing the amount of the deal the holder
of the risk needs to retain, the analysts said.  Relative yields on debt ranked BBB may widen by 300 to 500
basis points, increasing financing costs to borrowers by as much
as $8 billion over a 10-year period, they said. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Sales of commercial mortgage-backed securities are set to
climb to $45 billion this year, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Banks arranged $11.5 billion of the debt in 2010 compared
with a record $234 billion in 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Issuance plummeted to $3.4 billion in 2009 as
credit markets froze, choking off funding to borrowers with
maturing loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  