-- 
Cocoa Climbs to One-Week High Amid Ivory Coast Violence; Cotton Declines

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-13T19:51:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/cocoa-may-advance-on-ivory-coast-disruption-coffee-climbs-sugar-drops.html
Cocoa rose to a one-week high on
concern that turmoil in  Ivory Coast , the world’s largest grower,
will delay the resumption of exports. Cotton declined for the
fourth straight session.  Sporadic gunfire and reports of looting in the Ivorian
commercial capital, Abidjan, damped hopes of a quick recovery
after four months of conflict following a disputed presidential
election. Cocoa production may continue to be disrupted because
farmers fled plantations after the violence, said  Exclusive
Analysis , a London-based company that forecasts commercial risk.  “The political problems are not over,” said Drew Geraghty, a commodity broker at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  Cocoa for July delivery added $14, or 0.5 percent, to
settle at $3,070 a metric ton at 11:59 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York . Earlier, the price reached $3,095, the highest
since April 4. The price has climbed 6.6 percent in the past 12
months.  In  London , cocoa futures for July delivery climbed 9
pounds, or 0.5 percent, to 1,946 pounds ($3,168) a ton on NYSE
Liffe.  The Republican Forces that supported Alassane Ouattara, the
newly elected leader, are patrolling the streets of Abidjan
following reports of looting by their own soldiers, thieves and
militias loyal to Laurent Gbagbo, the former president.  Ports will open this week, Reuters reported, citing a
spokesman for Ouattara.  Cotton futures for July delivery dropped 4.93 cents, or 2.7
percent, to $1.8064 a pound in New York. Earlier, the price
touched $1.7862, the lowest for a most-active contract since
Feb. 25.  China , the world’s largest buyer, is reducing purchases as
demand slows and some mills delay orders, according to Eastern
Trading Co., a U.S. exporter.  Futures have more than doubled in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 