-- 
Corn Rebounds as Price Drop May Spur Demand From Feedmakers; Wheat Falls

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T19:34:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/corn-rebounds-after-price-drop-spurs-demand-from-feedmakers-wheat-gains.html
Corn futures rose on speculation
that yesterday’s 3 percent decline will spur purchases by
livestock producers facing increased overseas demand for U.S.
meat. Wheat fell as rain may aid U.S. crop.  U.S. beef exports jumped 25 percent in February from a year
earlier and pork shipments increased 8 percent, the  U.S. Meat
Export Federation  said today. Corn prices have more than doubled
in the past year as rising demand erodes U.S. inventories that
the government estimates will drop before the harvest to the
lowest since 1996.  “The market supplies are tight, and yesterday’s drop
provided livestock producers an opportunity to buy ahead,” said
 Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst for Prudential Bache
Commodities LLC in  Chicago .  Corn futures for July delivery rose 3.5 cents, or 0.5
percent, to close at $7.61 bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The grain touched a 33-month high of $7.8875 on
April 11, on increasing demand for feed and grain-based ethanol.  Prices also rose on forecasts for cool, wet weather during
the next 10 days for most of the Midwest, the main U.S. growing
region, which may slow planting and increase risks to yields
from hot weather in July and August, McCambridge said.  On March 1, corn inventories dropped to 6.523 billion
bushels as demand rose to a record in the December-through-
February quarter, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Supplies held by farmers fell 26 percent from a
year earlier and represented 52 percent of total stockpiles, the
smallest for the date since before 1960, USDA data show.  “We need to get ideal weather throughout the growing
season and across the Midwest to increase corn supplies to a
more comfortable level next year,” McCambridge said.  Wheat Declines  Wheat fell on forecasts for rain in the southern Great
Plains. Parched fields from western  Texas  to Nebraska will get
as much to 2 inches (5.1 centimeters) the next two weeks,
benefitting crops beginning to develop grain, said  Drew Lerner ,
the president of World Weather Inc. in  Overland Park ,  Kansas .  About 36 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat was in good or
excellent condition as of April 10, compared with 65 percent a
year earlier and the lowest rating since 2002, the USDA said
this week.  “The forecasts are a little wetter and should provide some
short-term benefits,” said Ben Buckner, a market analyst for
AgResource Co. in Chicago. “There’s been some yield loss from
the dry weather, but the rains should help to stabilize some
crops.”  Wheat futures for July delivery fell 4.25 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $7.88 a bushel in Chicago, the third straight
decline. Prices have risen 61 percent in the past year after
adverse weather reduced production in  Russia , Ukraine,  Canada 
and  Australia , boosting demand for U.S. supplies.  Corn, the main ingredient in livestock feed, is the biggest
U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in 2010. Wheat is the fourth-
largest, with a value last year of $13 billion, behind soybeans
and hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 