-- 
BRICS Prod China's Hu to Import Value-Added Goods as Well as Raw Materials

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-13T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/countries-at-brics-summit-push-china-to-import-more-airliners-medicines.html
President  Hu Jintao  was pushed by
fellow BRICS members Brazil, Russia,  India  and South Africa to
open the Chinese market to goods ranging from Indian drugs to
Brazilian planes as leaders gathered on a tropical south  China 
island for a summit.  Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh pressed Hu in a
bilateral meeting yesterday to find ways to reduce India’s trade
deficit with China by boosting imports of Indian  information
technology  and pharmaceutical products, Indian National Security
Adviser Shivshankar Menon said in Sanya, China.  “The prime minister mentioned that these would conceivably
help to reduce the imbalance,” Menon told reporters.
“President Hu Jintao said this was an issue that concerned
them.”  China, Russia, India, Brazil and  South Africa , brought
together under the Goldman Sachs Group Inc.-coined acronym, are
divided by a host of trade disagreements. Brazil and India are
pushing China to buy more value-added goods. South Africa wants
more  iron ore  and other raw materials processed at home before
exporting them to China. Brazil and India have also complained
that China’s yuan is undervalued, undermining their exports.  The countries “don’t have the same interests,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management
International, who came up with the term BRIC in 2001, said in
an April 6 interview. “The wealth per head is very different,
the politics is very different, and the philosophy and their
natural economic edge is different.” South Africa was invited
to join the BRIC this year, giving the group its “S”.  Overheating  Chinese Commerce Minister Chen Deming assured his
counterparts in a closed-door meeting yesterday that China would
make it a priority to import more value-added products from
BRICS countries, Indian Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  told
reporters in Sanya.  Oleg Fomichev,  Russia ’s deputy economic development
minister, said China had pledged to set up high-technology
projects with Russia, “not just importing our resources and
exporting industrial goods.”  The five nations yesterday agreed to push for Russia’s
entry into the  World Trade Organization  and called for progress
in the Doha Round of World Trade Organization trade talks. Chen
told reporters that the BRICS nations “still face economic
overheating issues such as inflationary pressure and asset
bubbles.”  Today, the leaders will meet as a group and issue a joint
statement.  Anti-Dumping Measures  The difficulties faced by Brazil, Russia, India and South
Africa in increasing high-technology and manufactured exports to
China was underscored this week by Brazilian aircraft-maker
 Embraer SA. (ERJ)  The company failed to get China’s government to
approve final assembly of its E-190 aircraft in China because of
concerns it would compete with a domestic regional jet, Chief
Executive Officer Frederico Curado said April 12 in Beijing.
Embraer will build business jets in China.  “We had the goal of building the 190 here but the Chinese
government didn’t approve the project,” Curado said. The
government was concerned that there wouldn’t be enough demand
for both the E-190 and China’s rival ARJ21, he said.  Complaints from Brazilian unions and industry groups,
including toymakers and textile producers, have led the
Brazilian government to enact 29 anti-dumping measures aimed at
Chinese-made goods, more than those against any other country
and almost four times more than directed at the U.S., according
to the Trade Ministry.  The measures aim to limit imports on goods the government
believes are being sold below cost. Last week,  Brazil  approved
higher levies on Chinese-made viscose textiles.  --Michael Forsythe in Sanya. With assistance from Andre Soliani
in Beijing, Stephen Engle and Christine Hah in Sanya. Editors:
Peter Hirschberg, Mark Williams  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  