-- 
Crude Oil Advances as U.S. Gasoline Inventories Drop the Most in 12 Years

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-13T19:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/crude-oil-rises-for-the-first-time-in-three-days-before-u-s-supply-report.html
Crude oil rose after a U.S.
government report showed inventories of gasoline plunged the
most in 12 years as demand climbed and refineries idled units.  Futures advanced 0.8 percent after the Energy Department
said gasoline supplies dropped 7 million barrels to 209.7
million last week. Stockpiles were forecast to decline by 1
million barrels, according to the median of 17 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. Consumption of the fuel climbed the
most in more than five months.  “The report today was very interesting because the draw in
gasoline stocks was seven times bigger than what people
expected,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource analyst with
 Weiss Research  in Jupiter,  Florida . “High prices haven’t had
enough of an impact on demand to end the bullish trend.”  Crude oil for May delivery increased 86 cents to settle at
$107.11 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
up 27 percent from a year ago.  Gasoline for May delivery climbed 7.83 cents, or 2.5
percent, to end the session at $3.2424 a gallon in New York.  Crude oil slipped briefly as President  Barack Obama  called
for an overhaul of the U.S. tax code for individuals and
businesses and said he wants to raise an additional $1 trillion
through tax increases over the next decade. The president spoke
at George  Washington  University in the capital.  Obama urged Congress to raise cash by eliminating so-called
tax expenditures, which would generate revenue that could be
used to reduce tax rates and also increase the government’s take
from the economy. He didn’t provide details about which tax
breaks he would curtail or eliminate.  Gasoline Stockpiles  The drop in gasoline inventories was the largest on a per-
barrel basis since Oct. 9, 1998. Gasoline supplies have slipped
31.4 million barrels, or 13 percent, in the past eight weeks,
the report showed. It’s the longest stretch of declines since
the summer of 2008 when prices were at a record.  Demand for the fuel rose 3.7 percent to 9.18 million
barrels a day, the biggest increase since the week ended Oct.
22, the report showed.  Refineries operated at 81.4 percent of capacity, down 3
percentage points from the prior week. It was the lowest level
since February. An 0.5 percentage-point increase was forecast in
the Bloomberg news survey.  Inventories of crude oil rose 1.63 million barrels to 359.3
million, the department said. Supplies were forecast to increase
by 1 million barrels.  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate crude oil, gained 26,000
barrels to 41.9 million, the highest level since at least 2004
when the department began tracking stockpiles at the hub.  ‘Plenty of Oil’  “We have plenty of oil,” said Philip Silverman, a
principal at Kingsview Management LLC, a commodity trading
adviser in New York. “There are record stockpiles at Cushing,
which shows that we’re not primarily trading on inventories.”  Prices have advanced 17 percent this year as unrest spread
from  Tunisia  to  Egypt , Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and  Syria .
Elections in  Nigeria  this month may lead to decreased output
from  Africa ’s top crude-producing country.  Libyan rebels require further support to defend civilians
against the forces of  Muammar Qaddafi , allied nations said
following a meeting in Qatar. A United Nations resolution
authorizing a no-fly zone over  Libya  provides for self-defense
and Qatar would “look into” supplying equipment for this,
Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim Al-Thani said today.  ‘Short-Sighted’ Trade  “It’s very short-sighted to trade on inventory data for
last week when the main factor driving the market is
geopolitical risk,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York.  Brent oil for May settlement climbed $1.96, or 1.6 percent,
to end the session at $122.88 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Oil prices  are likely to remain “high” as the impact on
fuel demand from this year’s rally will probably be limited,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Prices may
temporarily exceed $140 a barrel in the next three months as
consumption expands “rapidly” and armed conflict curbs
supplies from Libya, according to the Merrill report dated
yesterday.  Crude oil also rose after the Commerce Department said U.S.
retail sales climbed in March for a ninth consecutive month,
showing the improving job market is helping Americans cope with
higher costs for fuel and food.  Purchases increased 0.4 percent following a 1.1 percent
February gain that was larger than previously estimated,
government figures showed today in Washington.  Retail Sales  “The retail sales today show that consumers aren’t pulling
back, which is a good sign for the overall economy and demand,”
said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in
Houston.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 902,115
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 1.09
million contracts yesterday, 36 percent above the average of the
past three months and the highest level since Feb. 24. Open
interest was 1.58 million contracts the most since March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 