-- 
Crude Rises a Second Day in New York After U.S. Gasoline Supplies Decline

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-14T07:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/crude-oil-trades-near-a-two-day-high-after-u-s-gasoline-supplies-decline.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on speculation demand for fuel may be growing in the U.S.
after a government report showed gasoline inventories plunged
the most in 12 years.  Crude advanced as much as 0.5 percent after the Energy
Department said yesterday that gasoline stockpiles declined by 7
million barrels last week to 209.7 million, the biggest drop
since Oct. 9, 1998. Inventories were forecast to fall 1 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Futures pared
gains as European equity markets opened lower.  “The talk is that this U.S. inventory report saw a
spectacular draw in gasoline, and that prompted the buying,”
said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at consultants Purvin &
Gertz Inc. in  Singapore . “The bounce is mainly a rebound from
the sharp correction of a couple of days ago.”  Crude for May delivery rose as much as 49 cents to $107.60
a barrel and was at $107.14 in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 8:44 a.m. London time. Yesterday,
the contract climbed 86 cents to $107.11, the highest settlement
since April 11. Prices are up 25 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement traded at $122.90 a barrel, up
2 cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The
contract, which expires today, rose $1.96, or 1.6 percent, to
$122.88 yesterday. The more actively traded June contract was
unchanged at $122.33 after rising 1.6 percent yesterday.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $15.76 a
barrel to U.S. futures yesterday. The difference between front-
month contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa
and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  Kuwait Exports  Kuwait, OPEC’s fifth-biggest oil producer, resumed crude
exports today after the weather improved, said Mohammed al-Ajmi,
spokesman for state-refiner Kuwait National Petroleum Co. Port
operations were suspended as a sandstorm covered the country for
the third time in as many weeks.  Total U.S. crude inventories rose 1.63 million barrels to
359.3 million last week, the Energy Department said. They were
forecast to increase 1 million barrels, the Bloomberg survey
shows. Cushing supplies gained 26,000 barrels to 41.9 million,
the highest level since at least 2004 when the department began
tracking stockpiles at the hub.  “The numbers are supportive for gasoline, but crude
inventories continue to increase,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.  Demand Destruction  Gasoline consumption of the fuel rose the most in more than
five months, climbing 3.7 percent to 9.18 million barrels a day,
the Energy Department report showed. Gasoline futures for May
delivery advanced for a second day, gaining 0.23 cent, or 0.1
percent, to $3.2447 a gallon in New York.  “Despite the positive demand signal, the market remained
concerned over potential demand destruction due to rising retail
 gas prices ,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in
an e-mailed note today.  Refineries operated at 81.4 percent of capacity, down 3
percentage points from the prior week. It was the lowest level
since February. A 0.45 percentage-point increase was forecast in
the Bloomberg news survey.  Libya ’s opposition said it is discussing with allies the
possibility of borrowing $2 billion to import food, medicine,
fuel and possibly weapons to combat Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.
The Libyan conflict is the bloodiest in a wave of uprisings that
has toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia and spread to Algeria,
 Bahrain ,  Iran , Oman, Syria and Yemen.  Prices Remain High  Syrian activists reported disruptions to phone, Internet
and electricity connections in areas where protests have broken
out, after authorities vowed to crush what they called a
conspiracy against the regime.  Oil prices  are likely to remain “high” as the impact on
fuel demand from this year’s rally will probably be limited,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Futures may exceed
$140 a barrel in the next three months as consumption expands
“rapidly” and armed conflict curbs supplies from Libya,
according to the Merrill report dated April 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  