-- 
Cuomo Scores Highest Approval Among Governors in Quinnipiac Opinion Poll

-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/cuomo-scores-highest-approval-among-governors-in-quinnipiac-opinion-poll.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has
the highest approval rating among his peers around the nation,
with New Jersey’s  Chris Christie  coming second, according to a
Quinnipiac University  poll  released today.  Cuomo’s score among registered voters rose to 64 percent
from 56 percent in February, higher than governors in five other
states polled by the Hamden, Connecticut-based college.
Christie, a first-term Republican, has the next highest rating
at 52 percent, according to a Feb. 9 survey.  “Cuomo comes out of the budget vote -- usually a punishing
time for politicians -- with impressive job-approval numbers,”
said  Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute, in a statement.  New York lawmakers approved the state’s first on-time
budget in five years March 31. Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat,
pushed lawmakers to close the  budget  gap with $9.3 billion of
spending cuts, including reductions in education and health care
that were opposed by a majority of voters, according to earlier
surveys.  Almost half of respondents supported the new budget while
31 percent didn’t, and the same percentage said the governor was
most responsible for the final concord. Cuomo won his first
budget battle on the merit of his arguments, 47 percent said,
while a quarter said he used intimidation.  The governor has threatened to fire almost 10,000 workers
unless they agree to $450 million in concessions.  Quinnipiac surveyed 1,704 registered voters around the
state by telephone from April 5-11. The survey had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.4 percentage points, the institute
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  