-- 
Daimler Keeps Forecast as New Cars Outweigh Japan Quake Effect

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-04-13T09:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/daimler-keeps-forecast-as-new-cars-outweigh-japan-quake-effect.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  stuck to its forecast
for higher earnings this year as sales prospects for the updated
Mercedes-Benz C-Class sedan and revamped SLK roadster outweigh
the repercussions of last month’s earthquake in Japan.  The world’s second-largest maker of luxury cars plans to
sell more than 1.3 million Mercedes-Benz and Smart-brand
vehicles in 2011 compared with 1.28 million deliveries last
year, Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said today in a
speech at Daimler’s annual shareholders’ meeting in Berlin.  “So far there are no signs that the global economy has
been knocked off the path to recovery in the longer term,”
Zetsche said. While the consequences of the deadly tremor on
March 11 in  Japan  and political unrest in North Africa are
difficult to predict, “we still assume that the global
automotive markets will continue to expand.”  Daimler, which owns Kawasaki, Japan-based truckmaker Fuso,
reiterated that operating profit in 2011 will “significantly”
exceed the 7.2 billion euros ($10.4 billion) earned last year.
Mercedes-Benz, which increased sales 12 percent in the first
quarter, updated the top-selling C-Class with new interiors and
cleaner engines and overhauled the hard-top SLK roadster.  Mercedes-Benz will also introduce a revamped M-Class sport-
utility vehicle this year as well as a new B-Class compact, the
first of a line of four small cars.  Daimler rose as much as 1 percent to 50.98 euros and was up
0.2 percent as of 11:29 a.m. in  Frankfurt  trading. That pared
the stock’s decline this year to 0.4 percent, valuing the
Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer at 53.9 billion euros.  Tognum Bid  The carmaker and London-based plane-engine maker Rolls-
Royce Group Plc are jointly seeking to buy  Tognum AG (TGM) , an engine-
manufacturing affiliate of the German company. The bidders  said 
today that Daimler had tendered its 28.4 percent stake in
Tognum, accounting for almost all the investor acceptances as of
yesterday of the 24 euro-a-share offer. The tender offer started
April 6 and is scheduled to expire on May 18.  Tognum rose 0.3 percent to 26 euros in Frankfurt. Daimler
has repeatedly stated that it expects to obtain more than
50 percent of the stock in Friedrichshafen, Germany-based Tognum
with the bid, even though it’s below the current share price.
The transaction will enable Tognum to boost sales and raise
market share, Zetsche said today.  The lack of early acceptance from independent shareholders
is “the usual course of things and doesn’t indicate anything
about the success of the offer,” said Florian Martens, a
spokesman for the carmaker.  Investor Resistance  Holders of about 30 percent of Tognum stock are seeking a
higher price, a person familiar with the situation said April 8.
ING Groep NV, First Eagle  Investment Management  and Delta Lloyd
Asset Management are among investors who have written to Tognum
opposing the bid, while others representing about 10 percent of
the shares have expressed objections orally, the person said  Wyser-Pratte Management Co., a shareholding vehicle of U.S.
investor  Guy Wyser-Pratte , said yesterday that it opposed the
bid terms for Tognum.  Daimler’s net income last year of 4.5 billion euros marked
the carmaker’s highest profit since 2002. The manufacturer’s
shareholders will vote today on a dividend of 1.85 euros a share
for 2010. The payout for the previous year was dropped after
Daimler reported a net loss.  Chinese, U.S. Boosts  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , Mercedes-Benz and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi, the world’s top three high-end carmakers, are
targeting record 2011 deliveries because of growing Chinese
wealth and a U.S. spending rebound. Daimler aims to sell 1.5
million Mercedes-Benz cars by 2015, a 17 percent jump from last
year, as it builds a new factory in  Hungary  to accommodate an
expansion into compact vehicles.  “We are on a path of profitable growth,” Zetsche said.
“Actual developments are even more positive than expected.”  Daimler’s trucks unit, the world’s biggest maker of heavy-
duty vehicles, is also benefiting from the economic rebound. The
division is targeting a “substantial” increase in sales this
year lifted by more robust markets in  Europe  and  North America ,
it said.  The manufacturer, which also makes Freightliner trucks in
the U.S., raised its 2011 forecast for the North American heavy-
vehicle market today to growth of 30 percent to 35 percent,
compared with the previous projection of an increase of 20
percent to 25 percent. The Daimler Trucks division’s first-
quarter deliveries rose 27 percent, while orders surged 65
percent. Growth will probably accelerate in coming months,
 Andreas Renschler , the unit’s chief, said on March 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 