-- 
Dangote Group to Invest $3.9 Billion on Cement Production

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-04-13T15:22:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/dangote-group-of-nigeria-to-invest-3-9-billion-boosting-cement-production.html
Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) ,  Africa  biggest
producer of the building material, plans to invest $3.9 billion
constructing plants in countries including Ethiopia, Tanzania,
Republic of Congo and Gabon.  Each facility will have capacity to produce 1.5 million
metric tons a year, with construction work taking off “within
the next three months,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The company signed an agreement to build the
plants with  Sinoma International Engineering Co. (600970) , a unit of
China National Materials Co., the world’s largest producer of
cement-making equipment.  Separately, “the group plans to construct a 3 million
metric ton per annum plant in  South Africa  and one grinding
plant in Cameroon with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per
annum,” the company said. Dangote is planning a new cement line
at its Obajana plant in  Nigeria  with capacity of 3 million tons
a year and two additional lines at Ibese in Ogun state,
increasing capacity by 6 million tons a year.  Dangote Cement is the biggest company traded on the
Nigerian Stock Exchange with a market value of 1.9 trillion
naira ($12.3 billion). The company’s parent, Dangote Industries
Ltd., has a 64 percent stake in  Sephaku Holdings Ltd. (SEP) , a South
African mineral exploration and development company that also
produces cement. Dangote Cement expects production capacity
across its operations to advance to 50 million tons a year in
the next five years.  Shares Fall  Dangote chose Sinoma as it “understands the peculiarities
of doing business in Africa and offers cheaper cost of
construction when compared to its European counterparts,”
Devakumar Edwin, group executive director of business
development at Dangote, said in the statement.  Dangote Cement shares retreated for the first time in 13
days, losing 2.5 naira, or 2 percent, to 123 naira by the 2:30
p.m. close in Lagos, reducing the stock’s gain this year to 2.5
percent, compared with a 1 percent increase in the  Nigerian
Stock Exchange  All-Share Index over the same period.  “Investors are waiting for more news and explanations on”
whether the units will report separately or if it will remain a
consolidated company, Dare Fajimolu, a Lagos-based cement
analyst with CSL Stockbrokers Ltd., said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 