-- 
Deficit-Reduction Plan May Mark Positive Turning Point, Moody’s Hess Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-13T20:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/deficit-reduction-plan-may-mark-positive-turning-point-moody-s-hess-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to
cut $4 trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years may be a
“positive” for the nation’s credit quality and mark a reversal
in the budget debate, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The U.S. is the only large AAA-rated country that saw its
debt rise during the crisis that until recently had no plan that
would reverse the trend, said  Steven Hess , senior credit officer
at Moody’s. Budget cuts would mean the U.S. wouldn’t likely sell
as much debt, which has grown to $9.13 trillion in marketable
Treasuries from $4.34 billion in mid-2007 as the government
boosted spending to pull the economy out of recession.  “It seems both sides of this debate are now targeting
lower debt and lower deficits,” said Hess, based on the
president’s speech today. “We do see this as a turning point in
terms of the debate. We would view that as a positive, but we’ll
have to wait to see the outcome.”  In presenting his long-term plan for closing the budget
shortfall through a combination of spending cuts and tax
increases, Obama set a target of reducing the annual U.S.
deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2015,
compared with 10.9 percent of GDP projected for this year.  Yields on the benchmark 10-year note fell 4 basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.46 percent at 4:31 p.m. in  New
York , according to BGCantor Market Data. Yields dropped nine
basis points yesterday, the most since March 16.  ‘Unquestionably Positive’  Two-year yields declined 2 basis points to 0.73 percent,
the lowest level since March 25.  “The Obama story is unquestionably positive now that the
conversation is how much do we cut and where do we cut it rather
than whether or not to cut,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “That said, the
next two years the market doesn’t expect much progress on that
front given the election cycle.”  The administration is aiming to provide a counterpoint to
the budget plan released last week by Representative  Paul Ryan ,
which relies on deep cuts in federal spending to trim the
deficit.  The Ryan plan to overhaul the federal budget would slash
the deficit in coming years by about three-quarters, with a $6
trillion cut in spending and 25 percent cap on tax rates. The
Republicans’ first comprehensive budget plan since the November
elections would cut the deficit next year to $995 billion from
about $1.4 trillion now, though it wouldn’t balance the
government’s books until 2040.  Government Shutdown  “We do hope to see the achievement of lower debt and
deficits over time,” Hess said in a telephone interview from
New York. “How you arrive at deficit reduction is clearly a
matter of very contentious debate.”  Congress leaders and Obama agreed late on April 8 to cut
about $38 billion from federal spending this year, pulling the
government back from the brink of a shutdown. The final
compromise slashes about $23 billion less than Republicans had
initially sought, yet tens of billions more than Democrats
originally said they could accept.   Cindy Stroller and Mimi Barker, spokeswomen in New York for
 Fitch Ratings  and   Standard & Poor’s , respectively, said the
firms couldn’t immediately comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  