-- 
Demjanjuk Lawyer Seeks Halt to Nazi Trial After Russia Evidence Questioned

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-04-13T11:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/demjanjuk-seeks-to-halt-nazi-trial-on-suspicion-id-evidence-may-be-forged.html
A lawyer for  John Demjanjuk , who is
on trial over charges he aided in the murder of 27,900 Jews as a
Nazi death camp guard, sought a halt to the proceedings after
U.S. documents indicated evidence in the case may be forgeries.  A report prepared by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
about Demjanjuk indicates an identification card relied on by
prosecutors may have been forged by the  Soviet Union , Ulrich
Busch told judges in Munich today. The 26-year-old documents
were uncovered by the  Associated Press .  “We always took the view that the ID card is a forgery,”
Busch said in an interview.  Busch’s motion may interrupt the trial of the 91-year-old
Demjanjuk, which has dragged on for more than 17 months due to
health issues and disputes over evidence. Demjanjuk, a Ukraine
native and former U.S. citizen, was extradited in May 2009 to
 Germany  to stand trial in what is likely the country’s last case
linked to the Holocaust.  The report found by the AP in the National Archives College
Park,  Maryland , said that FBI agents in Cleveland, where
Demjanjuk lived, believed the ID card may have been forged by
the Soviet Union after World War II. Prosecutors said at trial
that the identification card was among evidence that proved
Demjanjuk was a guard at the Sobibor death camp in 1943.  ‘Obsolete’ Review  Prosecutor Hans-Joachim Lutz today told the court that the
FBI report dated back to 1985 and was an “obsolete” review of
the reasons that Soviet officials might not have allowed the
examination of the identification card at the time. He said that
he examined the FBI document in 2009.  “I didn’t give it any weight then and I don’t now,” Lutz
said. The photo ID has been used as evidence at hearings and
trials in the U.S. and  Israel  previously.  The court will review the motion and continued with closing
arguments by lawyers for victims of the Sobibor camp.  Busch said he doesn’t believe the request will be
successful, as the court has repeatedly denied his motions. The
documents may be important for an appeal, he said.  The identification card and documents showing that
Demjanjuk was brought to Sobibor were the central pieces of
evidence in the case. The prosecution claims that they were
enough to convict him because whoever aided in the camp’s
operations is complicit in the murders.  The Nazis issued IDs to Russian prisoners of war who were
trained at the Trawniki camp in what was then German-occupied
Poland to become guards. The Germans captured Demjanjuk, who was
fighting in the Russian Army, in 1942, according to the
indictment.  He lived near  Cleveland  until stripped of his U.S.
citizenship and extradited to Israel in 1986. Demjanjuk was
tried there on charges he was “Ivan the Terrible,” the guard
who tortured Jews while herding them into the Treblinka
concentration camp gas chambers.  His death sentence and conviction in the case were
overturned in 1993 by Israel’s  Supreme Court , which  said  there
was reasonable doubt that he served at Treblinka. Demjanjuk
returned to the U.S., regaining his citizenship. In 2002, a U.S.
court revoked it again over his alleged role at Sobibor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  