-- 
Deutsche Bank Said to Restructure U.S. Subsidiary Ahead of Capital Rules

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-13T10:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/deutsche-bank-said-to-restructure-u-s-unit-before-capital-rule.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest
lender, plans to alter the status of its main U.S. subsidiary in
response to capital rules being imposed under a U.S. regulatory
overhaul, two people briefed on the decision said.  The restructuring will help the division, known as Taunus
Corp., shed its status as a bank holding company, which would
have subjected it to the capital rules, the people said,
declining to be identified because the plan isn’t public.
Instead, the firm will move a U.S. banking unit out of Taunus
and link it to the Frankfurt-based parent, the people said.  Overseas lenders including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are altering their
U.S. holding subsidiaries because the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010
would otherwise force the divisions to comply with the same
capital rules as domestic banks. Deutsche Bank estimated last
year it might need to inject almost $20 billion into Taunus to
comply with the rules, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing an internal company document it obtained.  New regulations “make it necessary for Deutsche Bank to
adjust the organizational structures with which it currently
operates through its NY branch and subsidiaries in the U.S.A.,”
the company wrote in a list of proposals for this year’s
shareholder meeting on May 26.  John Gallagher , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank in  New York ,
said he couldn’t comment. Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger said
in June the bank’s U.S. holding structure was designed only to
ensure the lender had the same tax benefits as U.S. competitors.  ‘Decision is Easy’  The operating units are “well capitalized,” Banziger
said. One of the U.S. units has a Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, of more than 30 percent, he said.  “If you have the option of injecting $20 billion in
capital into a holding company or keeping a small tax benefit,
then the decision is easy,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets who recommends buying the stock.  The shares climbed 1 percent to 42.40 euros as of 12:40
p.m. in Frankfurt trading today. The stock has risen 8.5 percent
this year for a market value of 39 billion euros ($57 billion).  Barclays said in February it deregistered Barclays Group
U.S. as a  bank-holding company , partly to sidestep the  capital
requirements . Non-U.S. banks were previously exempt as long as
their overseas parents were regulated by a government-recognized
watchdog.  Weekly Meetings  Taunus encompasses most of Deutsche Bank’s U.S.
subsidiaries, according to the company’s 2010  annual report .
Holdings include the banking business, as well as investment-
banking and capital-markets operations known as Deutsche Bank
Securities, the filing shows.  For months, a group of more than 15 executives has been
holding weekly meetings to discuss Taunus’s situation, the
Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter.  The U.S. bank unit holds $45.5 billion in assets and $17.7
billion in U.S. deposits, according to the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.’s website. The unit counts the  Federal Reserve 
as its primary regulator, according to the FDIC.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 