-- 
DirectBuy Bonds Drop as States Object to Proposed Class-Action Settlement

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-04-13T21:10:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/directbuy-bonds-drop-as-states-object-to-proposed-class-action-settlement.html
Bonds of DirectBuy Holdings Inc.
plunged after 37 states,  Puerto Rico  and the  District of
Columbia  objected to a proposed settlement of a class-action
lawsuit over the consumer club’s sales practices.  Its $335 million of 12 percent notes due in February 2017
dropped about 10 cents to a mid-price of 65.5 cents on the
dollar, according to three people with knowledge of quotes in
the market, who declined to be identified because the trading is
private. The debt has declined from 99.2 cents in February,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Connecticut,  West Virginia  and New York were among the 37
states whose attorneys general filed an objection to a proposed
settlement of claims, according to court papers filed yesterday
in U.S. District Court in  Connecticut . The class-action suit
alleged the Merrillville, Indiana-based company receives “tens
of millions of dollars in ‘kickbacks’ from manufacturers and
suppliers out of the purchase prices paid for products by
DirectBuy members.”  The company is “confident that the settlement is fair,”
DirectBuy said in an e-mailed statement. It said it plans to
address this at a hearing on May 10 before U.S. District Judge
Janet Hall. “DirectBuy negotiated long and hard and in good
faith to arrive at a settlement,” it said. The company has
“consistently maintained that its business practices are honest
and lawful in all respects.”  West Virginia separately sued DirectBuy in January in civil
court claiming the company induced customers to buy memberships
with “high-pressure sales practices” and “deceptions and
falsehoods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  