-- 
Dodd-Frank Swaps Rules Help the ‘Real Economy,’ Gensler Says

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-13T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/dodd-frank-swaps-rules-help-the-real-economy-gensler-says.html
Regulation of the $583 trillion
over-the-counter derivatives market will “bring tangible
benefits to the real economy,”  Gary Gensler , chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said today in  New York .  “It is essential that we have comprehensive oversight of
these markets to protect and benefit both end-users of
derivatives and the broader American public,” Gensler said at a
conference sponsored by the Levy Economics Institute of Bard
College.  The Dodd-Frank Act, approved last July, directs the CFTC
and the Securities and Exchange Commission to write rules
governing the derivatives market. The law was meant to reduce
risk and increase transparency after unregulated swaps trading
exacerbated the 2008 financial crisis.  The agency is tasked with setting margin requirements to
secure trades against default, impose restrictions on the number
of contracts a single firm can hold in commodities such as wheat
and oil, and increase transparency by ordering that most
standardized trades be guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded
on exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  “Derivatives markets and effective oversight of those
markets matters to corporations, farmers, homeowners and small
businesses,” Gensler said. “The recent increases in commodity
prices highlight the need for effective oversight that promotes
fair and orderly derivatives markets.”  Crude Gain  Crude oil futures have advanced 16 percent this year on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  while corn has gained 20 percent on
the Chicago Board of Trade.  The CFTC has faced criticism from Republican lawmakers, the
CME Group Inc. and others in financial industry for moving too
quickly and not adequately estimating the costs of regulations.  “The CFTC has placed speed over deliberation,”
Representative Michael Conaway, Republican of  Texas , said at a
House Agriculture Committee hearing today in Washington. “The
rules have been proposed in a sequence that has created
confusion.”  Gensler has said the commission will finish some rules
after the mid-July deadlines required under Dodd-Frank.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to commodities, stocks, bonds,  interest rates  or events, such as
the default of a company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  D.C. at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 