-- 
Dollar Maintains Advance Versus Euro as Jobless Claims Expected to Decline

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-04-13T23:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/dollar-maintains-advance-versus-euro-as-jobless-claims-expected-to-decline.html
The dollar held yesterday’s advance
against the euro before reports economists said will show fewer
Americans filed for  unemployment benefits , indicating the labor
market is recovering.  The greenback yesterday advanced from its lowest level in
15 months as President  Barack Obama  vowed to cut $4 trillion in
cumulative deficits within 12 years. The yen rose against most
of its major peers on speculation declines in equities and
commodities this week have increased demand for safer assets.  “The dollar weakness story has just about run its course
for this week,” said  Tony Allen , global head of foreign-
exchange trading in Sydney at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., the nation’s third-largest lender by market
capitalization.  The dollar traded at $1.4444 versus the euro at 8:34 a.m.
in Tokyo, from $1.4443 yesterday, when it slid to $1.4520,
matching the weakest level since January 2010. The greenback
fetched 83.74 yen from 83.84. The euro declined to 120.95 yen
from 121.08 yen.  The number of people filing first-time claims for
 unemployment insurance  fell for a third week in the period to
April 9, with applications declining to 380,000 from 382,000,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Continuing
claims for jobless benefits dropped 18,000 in the week ended
April 2 to 3.71 million, according to a separate survey before
the Labor Department report.  ‘Moderate’ Growth  The dollar remained higher versus the euro yesterday after
the  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige Book report that the
economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of the U.S.
in February and March, led by manufacturing. Labor markets
showed improvements in most regions, the central bank said.  Dollar sentiment also will be driven by the Monetary
Authority of Singapore’s policy review today, Allen said. The
authority, which uses the currency to conduct monetary policy,
is forecast in a Bloomberg survey to favor a stronger  exchange
rate .  “If they leave the band where it is, then basically
there’s a whole lot of people short the  U.S. dollar  so there
will be short-covering,” pushing the greenback up against
Singapore’s dollar and other Asian currencies, he said. “Euro
and Aussie will also go down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 