-- 
Draghi Says ECB Policy Still Accommodative After Rate Rise

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-04-13T14:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/draghi-says-ecb-policy-still-accommodative-after-rate-rise-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Mario Draghi  said that monetary policy remains
“accommodative” even after the bank raised its benchmark rate
last week for the first time in almost three years.  “We’re evaluating the timing and ways to exit from the
exceptional expansive policies that have characterized monetary
policy in the area after the crisis,” Draghi said in a speech
in Turin,  Italy , today. These policies “remain, even after the
interest-rate increase decided last week, very accommodative.”  Draghi is a possible successor to ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , whose term ends later this year.  The ECB raised its benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent
from a record low of 1 percent on April 7 and left the door open
for further increases. The Frankfurt-based institute is growing
more concerned that soaring commodity costs will drive up wages
and lead to higher consumer prices. Inflation in France and
 Germany , the euro-region biggest economies, accelerated last
month amid higher crude oil prices, adding pressure on the ECB
to continue raising borrowing costs.  “Monetary policy must take into account the emergence of
inflationary tensions, pushed by rising food and energy
prices,” he said.  Draghi, who is also governor of the Bank of Italy, said
global leaders have reached a consensus on ending fiscal and
monetary stimulus. He added that a “courageous” overhaul of
the international financial system is needed.  Andrea Beltratti, chairman of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s
second-biggest bank, said that European rates remain “very
low.” Beltratti, who attended the speech, said he agreed with
economists’ expectations for two rate increases by the end of
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 