-- 
Drake & Scull May Get $1.9 Billion in New Orders From Saudi Arabia in 2011

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-04-13T06:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/drake-scull-may-get-1-9-billion-in-new-orders-from-saudi-arabia-in-2011.html
Drake & Scull International (DSI)  PJSC, a
Dubai-based construction and engineering company, may get as
much as 7 billion dirhams ($1.9 billion) in new orders in Saudi
Arabia this year as political turmoil curbs growth in other
Middle East markets, its chief executive officer said.  “We are growing and I can easily see another 5 billion by
the end of the year,” Khaldoun Tabari said in an interview.
“We could get 7 or 4 billion, but there is no reason why we
can’t get more contracts.”  Drake & Scull has expanded in the Middle East and North
Africa since 2008 as Dubai’s property crisis caused orders to
decline in its home market. Growth in  Saudi Arabia , which
accounts for 50 percent of the company’s 7.5 billion dirhams in
unfinished projects, will help support earnings as political
unrest causes uncertainty in markets such as Syria and  Egypt ,
Tabari said.  “In Saudi Arabia I’d say we should take our fair share,”
the CEO said. “If we can get a grip and become a major player
there, it will give us the grace period to wait and see what
happens in the region. It would also mean we would be on target
in terms of profit for the next two years without taking major
risks.”  Drake & Scull is betting on a Saudi  construction industry 
that’s set to benefit from $82 billion of housing projects
announced in February and March by King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz.
The company’s work in  Libya  has been suspended, though the
political unrest in Egypt and Syria hasn’t stopped its
operations there.  Indian Acquisition  Abu Dhabi  is the second-biggest market for Drake & Scull,
which is aiming to make an acquisition in  India  before the end
of the year, Tabari said.  “With growth rates of 8 percent, nobody can afford to be
out of India,” he said. Drake & Scull is looking at several
potential purchases but hasn’t decided which company would be
the best fit. Tabari declined to specify the amount he would be
willing to spend on an acquisition or how it would be financed.  The contractor also started operations in Djibouti, Vietnam
and  Thailand , though its experience in Thailand was hampered by
many operational problems, the CEO said.  “ We are pretty sure now that Thailand is not the right
place to go on to the rest of  Asia ,” he said. “They have very
skilled workforce, but it’s very difficult to work in
Thailand,” he said. “We will keep a small presence.”  Drake & Scull is carrying out mechanical, plumbing and
electrical works on the River, a 73-story skyscraper that’s
expected to be Thailand’s tallest.  In the  United Arab Emirates , more developers are succeeding
in securing bank funding to complete projects halted in the
aftermath of the global credit crisis, which caused property
values in Dubai to slump by 62 percent from their 2008 peak.  “We are seeing this every day now,” the CEO said.
“Buildings that were stopped are now back on track. Those are
mostly projects in the Palm Jumeirah, Jumeirah Lake Towers and
Business Bay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 