-- 
Durbin Blasts Dimon’s ‘Dismissive Critique’ of Debit Caps

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-04-13T14:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/durbin-responds-to-dimon-s-dismissive-critique-of-debit-caps.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , in a
letter to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , defended a law limiting debit-card “swipe” fees after
Dimon wrote a “dismissive critique” in a message to investors.  “I am compelled to respond, and I ask that you share this
response with your shareholders as well as your customers,”
Durbin wrote in a five-page letter to Dimon dated yesterday. The
caps on interchange fees “will carefully but firmly rein in the
fee collusion that your bank and thousands of other banks
currently engage in” through the card networks, Durbin wrote.  The Illinois Democrat’s letter on the eve of JPMorgan’s
first-quarter earnings announcement, came less than a week after
Dimon wrote in his annual letter to shareholders that Durbin’s
amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act “is an example of a policy that
has little basis in fact or analysis.” JPMorgan has said it
will end debit-card rewards programs for almost all its
customers in July, when the caps are set to take effect.  “When policy makers undertake such a significant rewrite
of the rules, there often is a tendency to adopt ideas with
surface appeal,” Dimon wrote. “In this case, some potentially
significant, unintended consequences exist, particularly for
consumers.”  Durbin’s letter, which included a five-point rebuttal to
Dimon’s critique, noted that the CEO’s 2010 compensation totaled
$20.8 million and that JPMorgan reported a $17.4 billion profit
last year.  Dimon said on a conference call today that he hadn’t seen
Durbin’s letter.  12-Cent Cap  U.S. lenders including JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
reaped more than $16 billion from debit-card swipe fees in 2009,
according to the  Federal Reserve . The central bank has proposed
capping the fees as 12 cents a transaction, replacing a formula
that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or about 44
cents. Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat, has introduced
legislation that would delay the Fed rulemaking required by
Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July.  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest bank-
card networks, set interchange fees and pass the money to card-
issuers. Shares of both firms tumbled more than 10 percent after
the Fed published its proposed rule in December amid investor
concern that the caps would damage their business model.  JPMorgan, the second biggest U.S. bank by assets, said
today that profit rose 67 percent in the first quarter on lower
provisions for bad mortgages and credit-card loans. Net income
climbed to $5.56 billion, or $1.28 a share, from $3.33 billion,
or 74 cents, in the same period a year earlier and from $4.83
billion, or $1.12, in the fourth quarter, the company said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  