-- 
Dynegy Hires Lazard for Debt Restructuring, Asset Sales

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T21:39:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/dynegy-hires-lazard-for-debt-restructuring-asset-sales-1-.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , the Houston-based
power producer that warned it may seek  bankruptcy protection 
this year, has hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and the law firm of White &
Case LLP to advise it on debt restructuring and possible asset
sales.  Dynegy’s shares rose and its bonds fell after the company
made the announcement. Lazard, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , and
with executive offices in New York, is the world’s largest
corporate merger adviser that doesn’t also lend money.  In a March 8 filing, Dynegy said it would “likely” face
bankruptcy in the second half of the year unless it can ease
terms on its credit, restructure debt or sell assets.  The investment and legal advisers will work with the
finance and restructuring committee of Dynegy’s board, comprised
of four directors elected in March after shareholders rejected
two takeover bids, the company said today in a statement.  “Although we still think Dynegy has some options to
refinance or amend its bank credit or come up with alternative
financing, the hiring of advisers is the opening salvo in what
could become contentious negotiations,” Kim Noland, a New York-
based analyst for Gimme Credit, said today in an e-mailed
message.  Activist shareholders now represented on the board may want
bondholders to give up value. Bondholders probably will want
compensation, such as equity or a higher interest rate, Noland
said.  Shares Up  Dynegy shares rose 4 cents to $5.70 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Dynegy’s $175 million of
7.125 percent bonds due May 2018 declined 2.5 cents to 74.5
cents on the dollar as of 2:31 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The board’s restructuring committee includes E. Hunter Harrison, who was named interim chief executive April 11 and was
nominated to the board by New York hedge fund Seneca Capital,
Dynegy’s second-largest shareholder, according to filings.
Seneca had opposed the takeover bids in favor of debt
restructuring and asset sales.  Icahn Nominee  The chairman of the restructuring committee is Vincent
Intrieri, a nominee of New York billionaire  Carl Icahn , who’s
$5.50 a share bid for the company failed Feb. 21. Icahn is
Dynegy’s largest shareholder.  Franklin Advisers Inc. is the largest Dynegy bondholder
with at least $961.5 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Other holders include  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , Lord Abbett &
Co. and the asset management unit of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 