-- 
LeBron James Has Top-Selling NBA Replica Jersey for First Time Since 2004

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T14:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/lebron-james-has-top-selling-nba-replica-jersey-for-first-time-since-2004.html
LeBron James, in his first season
with the  Miami Heat , had the top-selling jersey in the National
Basketball Association for the first time since 2004.  James moved past Kobe Bryant for the top spot, which the
Los Angeles Lakers’ guard had held since the start of the 2008-
09 season. The list, distributed by the NBA, is based on sales
on  NBAStore.com  since October 2010.  Sales figures weren’t released.  James, 26, signed with Miami in July -- saying he was
“taking my talents to South Beach” -- after spending his first
seven seasons with the Cleveland Cavaliers. He last had the
NBA’s best-selling jersey after his rookie season.  James, the NBA’s reigning two-time Most Valuable Player,
has helped lead the Heat to the third-best record in the league
playing alongside  Dwyane Wade , who had the NBA’s top-selling
jersey in 2005 and 2006.  Wade ranked sixth in jersey sales this season.  Rajon Rondo of the  Boston Celtics  ranked third, followed by
Amar’e Stoudemire, who is in his first season with the  New York
Knicks . Derrick Rose of the Chicago Bulls is sixth, followed by
Wade,  Kevin Durant  of the Oklahoma City Thunder and Carmelo Anthony of the Knicks. Anthony joined the Knicks in a trade with
the  Denver Nuggets  in February.  Dwight Howard of the Orlando Magic and rookie point guard
John Wall of the Washington Wizards round out the top 10.  The Lakers, who are pursuing their third straight
championship, had the top-selling gear in the league for the
eighth time in nine years. The Celtics ranked second for the
third year in a row, followed by the Heat and Knicks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  