-- 
Economists Ask U.S. Probe of College Football’s Bowl Championship Series

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/economists-ask-u-s-probe-of-college-football-s-bowl-championship-series.html
College football’s  Bowl
Championship Series  should be investigated for violating U.S.
antitrust laws, a group of economists and legal professors says.  In a letter sent today to Assistant Attorney General
 Christine Varney  in  Washington , the 21-member group called the
BCS a “cartel” that controls distribution of competitive
opportunities and benefits associated with the postseason in
major college football. It said the BCS is the principal
impediment to a championship playoff system that would generate
additional revenue for all schools.  Andrew Zimbalist , a professor of economics at  Smith College 
in Northampton,  Massachusetts , and one of the letter’s co-
signers, said the bowl series is similar to what would happen if
 Major League Baseball  limited its postseason to teams with
minimum payrolls of $100 million.  “So if a team like Texas last year becomes a Cinderella
team, sorry Texas, but the  New York Yankees  get to play in the
 World Series ,” Zimbalist said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “You end up establishing a caste system.”  BCS Executive Director Bill Hancock didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  Gina Taloma, a spokeswoman at the Department of Justice,
said the agency hadn’t received the letter “but we would look
into it as any other matter and respond as appropriate.”  The Antitrust Division has previously reviewed information
to determine whether to open an investigation into the legality
of the BCS system and would continue to do so, Taloma added in a
telephone interview.  Six Conferences  Under the 13-year-old Bowl Championship Series, the winners
of six conferences -- the Big Ten, Big East, Big 12,
Southeastern, Atlantic Coast and Pacific 10 -- automatically
qualify for one of the five BCS games.  Five leagues -- Conference USA, Mid-American, Mountain
West, Sun Belt and Western Athletic -- don’t have automatic
qualifier status with the BCS. Those conferences also get less
revenue from the system, a disparity Zimbalist’s group estimates
to be $614 million over the past seven seasons.  Auburn University from the Southeastern Conference and the
University of  Oregon  from the Pac-10 played in last season’s BCS
championship game, with Auburn winning.  Texas  Christian of the
Mountain West played in the Rose Bowl, where it beat the
University of Wisconsin to cap an undefeated season after
finishing third in the BCS standings behind Auburn and Oregon.
The top two schools in the BCS rankings play for the national
title.  Undefeated  TCU was the 11th team in the BCS’s tenure to go undefeated
while playing in a league without an automatic qualifier. None
have played for the championship.  “The BCS shields preferred schools from competition by
erecting barriers to competitive postseason entry, provides
favored schools with fixed benefits, and harms consumers of
postseason college football,” the group told the Department of
Justice.  On its website, the BCS says 93 percent of head coaches
favor the current system over a playoff. It says the BCS has
provided more access to the major bowls, more television
exposure, and more postseason revenue than ever before.  Teams from conferences without annual automatic
qualification have played in BCS bowls in six of the last seven
years. The BCS called this a “drastic improvement” over the
prior 56 years, when this occurred six times.  University Lineup  In addition to Zimbalist, members of the requesting group
include professors Ira Horowitz at the University of  Florida ,
Richard Thaler at the University of  Chicago , Raymond Yasser at
the University of Tulsa, Roger Abrams at Northeastern University
and Daniel Rascher at the University of  San Francisco .  “The BCS effectively cartelized BCS Bowls, which once
encouraged and participated in competition for conference and
team affiliation,” the letter said. “The BCS Bowl cartel also
further immunizes the BCS from competition by mandating the key
championship contenders not invited to the BCS’s ‘national
championship game’ must accept BCS Bowl invitations rather than
join a rival post-season system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  