-- 
Hedge-Fund Billionaire Steve Cohen Said to Be Among Bidders for Mets Stake

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-04-13T18:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/hedge-fund-billionaire-steve-cohen-said-to-bid-for-stake-in-n-y-mets.html
U.S. hedge fund billionaire  Steve Cohen  is among the bidders for a minority stake in the  New York
Mets , according to a person familiar with the effort.  Cohen, 54, is the founder of SAC Capital Advisors LLC,
which is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and manages about $12
billion in assets. Cohen declined comment through a spokesman.  The Mets’ owners, the Wilpon family, have discussed selling
a stake of between 25 percent and 49 percent in the Major League
Baseball team. They’re seeking to retain control of the
franchise while covering losses and fighting a $1 billion
lawsuit tied to the  Ponzi scheme  created by Bernard L. Madoff.  Cohen, who was born in Great Neck,  New York , is a long-time
Mets fan, according to the  Wall Street Journal , which reported
his involvement in the bidding. The person who confirmed Cohen’s
involvement was granted anonymity because the matter is private.  Steve Starker, co-founder of the trading company BTIG; Ken Dichter, co-founder of Marquis Jets; and Douglas Ellin, creator
of the HBO show “Entourage,” are part of another group that
has bid for the Mets, the Journal said.  Another competitor is a group formed by hedge-fund manager
Anthony Scaramucci, the founder of Skybridge Capital; and James McCann, the founder of 1-800-Flowers.com, which is a sponsor of
the Mets, the New York Times reported.  An investment group led by David Heller, co-head of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s securities unit, and Mark Spilker,
president of private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC,
is out of the bidding, the Times said.  Pat Courtney, a spokesman for  Major League Baseball , said
only the Mets can comment on potential bidders.  Mets officials said in a statement that they’re “neither
confirming nor denying any speculation.”  Mets Value  The Mets are valued at  $747 million , 13 percent less than a
year ago, according to Forbes magazine’s annual list of team
values. The franchise’s valuation ranks fifth in the majors and
a sale of 25 percent to 49 percent would be worth between $187
million and $366 million, based on the Forbes figures.  Trustee Irving Picard, who is liquidating Madoff’s
business, is seeking to recover $300 million in alleged phony
profits made by Sterling Equities Inc., which owns the Mets, and
as much as $700 million in principal. Mets owners  Fred Wilpon 
and Saul Katz said last month that Picard concocted his
allegations against them to force a settlement, describing the
accusations as a “work of fiction.”  Cohen has a net worth of $8 billion, ranking 114th on the
Forbes magazine list of the  world’s billionaires . SAC Capital
has generated about 30 percent in annual returns over the past
20 years, the Times said. Cohen made $1.3 billion in
2010, fifth in an annual ranking of the highest-paid
U.S. hedge-fund managers published by AR Magazine.  Medicine, Art  Cohen  donated $50 million  last year for pediatric care at
Long Island Jewish Medical Center, where the Mets’ Katz is a
former chairman and current  executive committee member .  Cohen also is an art collector, paying $137.5 million for
the Willem de Kooning painting “Woman III” in 2006 and $84
million for an Andy Warhol image of  Marilyn Monroe  in 2007. Last
month, he won a dismissal of his ex-wife’s lawsuit accusing him
of cheating her out of money in their 1990 divorce. A U.S.
District Court judge ruled Cohen’s ex-wife took too long to
bring the case in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  