-- 
Lee Shau-Kee Pays $1.3 Billion to Boost Henderson Stake, Funding New Homes

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-13T08:36:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/lee-shau-kee-s-1-3-billion-investment-in-henderson-may-fund-home-projects.html
Billionaire Lee Shau-kee’s HK$10
billion ($1.3 billion) investment in Henderson Land Development
Co. may help finance the developer’s plan to convert farmland
and old buildings in  Hong Kong  to as many as 45,000 homes.  Lee, 83, and his family exercised 172.4 million warrants
into the same number of shares at HK$58 each, a 5.9 percent
premium to the latest close, as it wouldn’t be easy to buy the
bulk of stock in the market, Henderson said in a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange late yesterday. Lee and his family
have also bought 28.2 million shares since March 18, according
to the statement.  Henderson plans to build as many as 45,000 residential
units across the city to cope with demand driven by Chinese
buyers, Lee said last June, without giving a timeframe. Hong
Kong’s home prices have risen more than 65 percent since early
2009 on record low mortgage rates, a recovering economy and a
lack of new supply.  “The funds will be used for developing their Hong Kong
projects,” said Eva Lee, an analyst at Macquarie Securities
Ltd., who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. The share sale
has probably “eliminated investors’ concerns that he won’t
exercise the warrants, but it won’t change our outlook on the
company yet.”  The Hong Kong-based developer stands to raise as much as
HK$24.9 billion when all 429 million warrants held by investors
are converted to shares at the HK$58 price.  Boosting Stake  Lee’s stake in the company has risen to 59.2 percent from
56.2 percent after exercising the warrants, Bonnie Ngan, a
spokeswoman for Henderson, said today.  Henderson’s shares rose as much as 4 percent in Hong Kong
today before closing the day 2.7 percent higher at HK$56.25. The
stock has advanced 6.1 percent this year, twice the 3 percent
increase in the seven-member Hang Seng Property Index, of which
the developer is a constituent. Henderson last closed above
HK$58 on Nov. 17.  Lee will continue buying Henderson shares, the company said
in yesterday’s statement.  While most Hong Kong developers bought land at government
land auctions, Henderson has since the 1970s sent negotiators to
persuade owners of dilapidated buildings in older residential
areas in the New Territories that border  China  to sell.
Henderson also acquires agricultural land from the government
and owners.  The share sale “gives Henderson strong financial
flexibility on acquiring old buildings and converting farmlands
in Hong Kong,” Ken Yeung, Hong Kong-based analyst at Citigroup
Inc., wrote in a report yesterday. “It has shown Lee’s strong
confidence in Henderson.”  Gearing Ratio  The company’s gearing ratio, which measures its debt over
equity, has fallen 7.6 percentage points to 20.6 percent, wrote
Yeung, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Lee, ranked by Forbes Magazine this year as Hong Kong’s
third-richest man with a net worth of $19.5 billion, founded
Henderson in 1973. The developer’s landmark properties include
the International Finance Centre, co-developed with Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd., and luxury residential projects such as the
Grand Promenade in Sai Wan Ho in the Eastern district of  Hong
Kong Island  and the Grand Waterfront in East Kowloon.  The buying by Lee and his family since March 18 has been
the first insider purchases since October, according to filings
to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  The stock surged 23 percent since March 17, the day before
Lee started buying the stock, almost three times the  Hang Seng
Index ’s gain.  ‘Large Retail Following’  “Lee has quite a large retail following and a lot of
people do follow what he buys,” said  Andrew Sullivan , director
of institutional sales at OSK Securities Hong Kong Ltd.
“Normally these guys buy the stock when it’s trading around the
lows, so there will be a lot of speculation” on Lee’s plan for
the company, he said before the announcement.  Investors typically exercise warrants when stock values
exceed the strike price to profit from the transaction. That
means Henderson’s shares need to exceed the HK$58 strike price
before the June 1 expiration date to draw investors to exercise
their warrants.  The company was investigated by the government and raided
by police last year after sales of its luxury apartments,
including one it claimed would have fetched a world record price,
fell through.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  