-- 
Egypt’s Shares Rise Most in Almost 2 Weeks on Mubarak Detention

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-04-13T11:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/egypt-s-shares-rise-most-in-almost-2-weeks-on-mubarak-detention.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index
gained the most in almost two weeks after the country’s public
prosecutor detained former President  Hosni Mubarak  and his sons
while they are being investigated for alleged corruption.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding, the country’s largest
publicly traded real-estate developer, gained 1.9 percent.
Telecom Egypt, the biggest fixed-line telephone company in the
Middle East, snapped a five-day drop, advancing the most since
April 5. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  rose 1.1 percent, the most since April
3, to 5,261.2 at 12:20 p.m. in Cairo.  Mubarak and his sons Gamal and Alaa were detained for 15
days, state-run Nile News television reported today, citing the
prosecutor’s office. The three men were summoned for questioning
about alleged embezzlement of public funds and attacks on
protesters during the uprising against Mubarak’s regime, the
prosecutor said April 10. Egypt’s ruling military council
confirmed on  its Facebook page  that investigators have started
questioning Mubarak and his family.  Stocks are seeing a “technical rebound” from the 5,200
level, which is “supported” by “the easing of political
tensions” after Mubarak’s detention, said Tamer Nigm, head of
sales and trading at Cairo-based Watheeqa Securities Brokerage.
“We expect this to be a short-term rebound as big uncertainties
remain on the political and economic fronts.”  Talaat Moustafa advanced to 4.29 Egyptian pounds, valuing
the company at 8.6 billion pounds ($1.4 billion).  Telecom Egypt (ETEL) 
rose 1.6 percent to 16.8 pounds.  Delta Sugar, Egypt’s biggest publicly traded sugar refiner,
climbed 3.6 percent, the most since April 3, to 21.55 pounds.
The company agreed to buy a 300 feddan (311 acre) plot of land
from the Ministry of Endowments for 53 million pounds to build a
new plant,  Al Mal  reported, citing Masoud Hamed, Delta’s
director of administrative affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  