-- 
Telecom Italia Says CEO Bernabe to Add Chairman Role; Patuano Becomes COO

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/telecom-italia-says-ceo-bernabe-to-add-chairman-role-patuano-becomes-coo.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  said Chief
Executive Officer Franco Bernabe will take on the additional
role of chairman of the board as  Italy ’s biggest phone company
seeks to revive a flagging domestic business and growth abroad.  Marco Patuano, who joined the company’s board yesterday,
will serve as chief operating officer and managing director in
charge of domestic operations, reporting to Bernabe, the company
said in a statement today. Aldo Minucci was named deputy
chairman.  “The focus will be on the breadth of powers attributed to
the new chairman’s role,” Andrea Devita, an analyst at Banca
Akros, wrote in a note today before the announcement. “We don’t
see discontinuities in the governance, also given the stronger
representation of institutional investors.”  Telco SpA, Telecom Italia’s largest shareholder, maintained
control of the board at the company’s annual meeting yesterday
as its list of directors won 46.9 percent of the votes, giving
it the right to appoint 12 members. The Fossati family’s Findim
Group SA, which owns about 5 percent of Telecom Italia as the
second-biggest investor, failed to get any seats.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  own Telco, which indirectly controls
22.4 percent of Telecom Italia.  Bernabe in his role of chairman will be Findim’s
“reference point” in relation to “discussions on the growth
of the company with the aim of creating value for all
investors,” Findim said in an e-mailed statement today.  Cutting Debt  Bernabe, 62, has cut debt and resolved disputes over
Telecom Italia’s investments in Argentina. He has failed to stem
the slide in the domestic business, which accounts for 70
percent of the company’s revenue. Telecom Italia’s debt stood at
35.7 billion euros at the end of 2007, when Bernabe took over.
It fell to about 31.5 billion euros at the end of 2010.  Bernabe will take full responsibility for the governance of
the group, including oversight of the COO, definition of
strategic directions and responsibility for extraordinary
operations and financial transactions to be submitted to the
board, Telecom Italia said.  In Latin America, Bernabe has worked on putting Telecom
Italia’s house in order. The company bought control of Telecom
 Argentina  in October with the purchase of an 8 percent stake
from the Werthein family. The accord enabled the resolution of
all outstanding legal proceedings with the local partner.  Italy Revenue  Disputes with the Wertheins and the Argentine government’s
attempt to force Telecom Italia to sell its stake amid tighter
regulations had led the company to hire Credit Suisse Group AG
in 2009 to analyze options, including the sale of its unit.  At home, things have been less smooth for Bernabe. Like his
counterparts at former phone monopolies such as Telefonica,
Bernabe is struggling to revive growth in the company’s domestic
market as a sluggish economy and rivals’ price cuts take their
toll. Telecom Italia’s sales at home fell 7.4 percent to 20
billion euros last year, as mobile revenue dropped 11 percent.  Telecom Italia fell 0.3 percent to 1.06 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Milan, giving the company a market
value of 19.9 billion euros ($28.7 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 