-- 
Telefonica Forecasts Sales Growth Through 2013, Plans $39 Billion Spending

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-13T16:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/telefonica-forecasts-sales-growth-through-2013-plans-39-billion-spending.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s former phone
monopoly, forecast revenue growth of at least 1 percent annually
through 2013 and budgeted as much as 27 billion euros ($39
billion) in spending as part of its Latin American push.  Group sales will increase at a range of 1 percent to 4
percent over three years from an adjusted base of 63.1 billion
euros in 2010, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta told investors in London today. Operating margin before
depreciation and amortization will be at “upper 30’s” percent,
falling from 38 percent in 2010.  Madrid-based Telefonica is betting on higher dividends and
Latin America’s rapid growth to win back investors discouraged
by the Spanish government’s austerity measures and the highest
 unemployment rate  in the euro region. Alierta raised his bid
three times last year to convince  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  to
sell its part of their venture that controlled Brazilian
wireless operator  Vivo Participacoes SA. (VIVO4)   “The top-line guidance is much more modest and reasonable
than previous ones,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C Bernstein in London. “However Telefonica was bullish
on its margin forecast and there’s a real big question on
whether or not that’s manageable. If they’re to meet these
numbers they need to find some pretty meaningful cost cuttings
throughout their business.”  Shares Fall  Telefonica,  Europe ’s second-largest phone company, fell 0.3
percent to close at 18 euros in  Madrid , after rising as much as
1.1 percent earlier today. The stock slumped 13 percent in 2010
and is up 6.1 percent this year. The company, which trails
Deutsche Telekom AG in sales, has a market value of 82.2 billion
euros.  The Spanish company’s subscriber base will expand to more
than 340 million users by 2013 from 287.6 million in 2010, Chief
Operating Officer Julio Linares said.  The operator will get a total of 1.5 billion euros in
synergies through 2013 from its alliance with  Telecom Italia
SpA. (TIT)  That compares with 1.3 billion euros between 2008 and 2010.  Telefonica, Mediobanca SpA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and
Assicurazioni Generali SpA indirectly control about 22.4 percent
of  Italy ’s former phone monopoly through holding company Telco
SpA.  Telefonica reiterated a plan to pay a 2012 dividend of at
least 1.75 euros per share. That will also be the minimum level
beyond 2012, Alierta said.  Atento Transaction  The company also plans to take the Atento call center unit
public “sooner rather than later,” Chief Strategy Officer
Santiago Fernandez Valbuena said. Telefonica, which aims to
lower its debt, has a “solid” liquidity position, he said.  “The market is essentially pricing the company for no
growth,” Bruno Lippens, a  fund manager  at Pictet Asset
Management SA in Geneva, said before today’s announcement. “If
we assume that the Spanish operations will be under pressure for
the foreseeable future, this means that they will need to show
significant growth in Latin America in order to make the shares
attractive.”  In  Brazil  alone, Telefonica is investing 24.3 billion reais
($15 billion) through 2014 to modernize and expand networks.  Latin America “will grow faster than other regions and
we’re there in a better position than our peers,” Alierta told
investors in  London .  Fourth-quarter revenue from Latin America soared 20 percent
to 7.6 billion euros from a year earlier, accounting for 46
percent of total sales. Revenue from Spain dropped 7.5 percent
to 4.7 billion euros in the period.  Mobile Broadband Growth  The company said it sees further potential growth in mobile
and broadband, while the steepest growth will come from mobile
broadband.  “Our biggest priority is to capture that growth in a
profitable way,” Linares said.  Annual growth in revenue and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization should be “at least in the
mid-single digits in order to get a positive surprise,” said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at Madrid-based FGA-MG Valores.  In  Spain , Telefonica’s mobile-phone market share dropped to
41.5 percent in February, according to the country’s phone
regulator.  Telefonica said on Feb. 25 it plans “further workforce
restructuring” in the Spanish business, as well as cutting
manager positions by 6 percent and possible outsourcing to
service providers. The operator will also divest “non-strategic
activities” in Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  