-- 
Telefonica Must Pledge Latin American Growth to Win Investors

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-13T08:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/telefonica-ceo-alierta-must-pledge-latin-american-growth-to-win-investors.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , Europe’s second-
largest phone company, needs to promise shareholders growth in
Latin America to make up for intensifying rivalry in the Spanish
market, according to investors.  “The market is essentially pricing the company for no
growth,” said Bruno Lippens, a fund manager at Pictet Asset
Management SA in Geneva. “If we assume that the Spanish
operations will be under pressure for the foreseeable future,
this means that they will need to show significant growth in
Latin America in order to make the shares attractive.”  Telefonica, which is set to give financial guidance at a
meeting with investors in  London  starting today, may increase
group revenue to 65.9 billion euros ($96 billion) by 2013 from
60.7 billion euros last year, according to the average of 20
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Madrid-based
company is investing 24.3 billion reais ($15 billion) in  Brazil 
alone through 2014 to modernize and expand networks.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is
betting on higher dividends and Latin America’s rapid growth to
lure investors discouraged by the Spanish government’s austerity
measures and the highest unemployment rate in the euro region.
Alierta raised his bid three times last year to convince
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  to sell its part of their 50-50 venture
that controlled  Vivo Participacoes SA. (VIVO4)   Fourth-quarter revenue from Latin America soared 20 percent
to 7.6 billion euros from a year earlier, accounting for 46
percent of total sales. Revenue from Spain dropped 7.5 percent
to 4.7 billion euros in the period.  Spanish Costs  Telefonica needs to show that revenue from Brazil is
gaining momentum, said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about 1.1
billion euros at Aramea Asset Management in Hamburg.  Annual growth in revenue and earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization should be “at least in the
mid-single digits in order to get a positive surprise” said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at Madrid-based FGA-MG Valores.  Telefonica may forecast increased savings in the Spanish
operations, which may be limited by investments needed to curb
declining market share, according to a research note by  Espirito
Santo . Telefonica’s mobile-phone market share in  Spain  dropped
to 41.5 percent in February, according to the country’s phone
regulator.  Telefonica said on Feb. 25 it plans “further workforce
restructuring” in its Spanish business, as well as cutting
manager positions by 6 percent and possible outsourcing to
service providers. The operator will also divest “non-strategic
activities” in the Spanish unit.  The shares rose 17.5 cents, or 1 percent, to 18.23 euros at
10:24 a.m. in  Madrid , bringing their gains this year to 7.4
percent. The stock slumped 13 percent in 2010. The company,
which trails Deutsche Telekom AG in revenue, has a market value
of 83.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  