-- 
Tenet Loses Out to Snooki in Virtue Department: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-04-13T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tenet-topped-by-snooki-in-virtue-department-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Imagine Snooki calling one of her
“ Jersey Shore ” cast mates a trashy boozer, or  Alex Rodriguez 
bemoaning the rampant use of steroids in baseball, or  Bernard Madoff  calling one of his old rivals a Ponzi schemer.  Now you have a rough idea of what it’s like for  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC)  to be accusing  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  of
overbilling the government’s Medicare program by hundreds of
millions of dollars, as Tenet did this week in a lawsuit aimed
at sabotaging Community Health’s unsolicited takeover attempt.  Tenet succeeded in knocking off $1.3 billion, or 36
percent, from Community Health’s stock-market value on April 11,
the day Tenet’s complaint was filed. News of the lawsuit also
sliced $539 million, or 15 percent, off Tenet’s market value
that day. Grand acts of self-immolation aside, what makes this
lawsuit comical is Tenet’s own history of ripping off the
government, as well as its own shareholders.  Here’s a company that paid more than $900 million as part
of a 2006  settlement  with the  Justice Department , after the
government accused Tenet of fraudulently overbilling the
nation’s Medicare and Medicaid programs. (The settlement was
structured so there would be no formal finding that Tenet had
engaged in illegal behavior.)  Tenet paid a $10 million fine to the Securities and
Exchange Commission in 2007 to settle  accounting fraud  claims.
That was about a year after the company agreed to a $216.5
million class-action settlement with Tenet investors.  Hurricane Horror  This also is the company that ran Memorial Medical Center
in  New Orleans  during  Hurricane Katrina , where the bodies of 45
patients were discovered after the storm hit in August 2005.
Some doctors later acknowledged they had injected patients with
drugs to hasten their deaths, as the news service ProPublica
chronicled in a 2009 Pulitzer Prize-winning  story . Tenet, led by
Chief Executive Officer Trevor Fetter, settled a class-action
complaint over the episode shortly after a trial in the case
began last month.  And yet Tenet, the third-largest publicly traded U.S.
hospital operator, has the audacity to accuse the second-largest
chain of running a crooked outfit. Talk about gall. Perhaps
Tenet could argue that it takes one to know one. A Tenet
spokesman, Rick Black, declined to comment.  The backdrop here is that Community Health in November
offered to buy Dallas-based Tenet for $6 a share in cash and
stock, or about $3 billion, back when Tenet’s stock was trading
for $4.65. Community Health, based in Franklin,  Tennessee ,
disclosed the offer in December, after Tenet’s board had already
rejected it. The news of the offer sent Tenet shares soaring.  Rising Shares  Community Health followed up in January by saying it would
nominate its own slate of 10 directors for election at Tenet’s
next annual meeting. Tenet’s stock had climbed as high as $7.70
this month, before the company filed its suit. It finished
yesterday at $6.54, or 9 percent more than Community Health’s
original offer. Community Health shares meanwhile have recovered
some of their lost ground, ending yesterday at $32.83, up 27
percent since trading closed on April 11.  Some of Tenet’s largest investors got hit two ways by the
market’s initial reaction to the suit. Both companies count
Franklin Mutual Advisers as their largest shareholder. Franklin
had a 10.4 percent stake in Tenet and a 9.5 percent stake in
Community Health, as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vanguard Group  owned 5.6 percent of Tenet and 4
percent of Community Health, while State Street Corp. held 3.3
percent of Tenet and 2.1 percent of Community Health.  Those are just shareholders of record, of course. The
customers whose money they manage are the ones whose portfolios
got hit.  Medicare Billing  Tenet said the purpose of its suit was to force Community
Health “to disclose fully its practice of systematically
admitting, rather than observing, patients in CHS hospitals for
financial, rather than clinical, purposes.” Tenet estimated
that Community Health improperly billed Medicare by $280 million
to $377 million from 2006 to 2009 by improperly boosting patient
admissions.  The upshot, Tenet said, is that Community Health is making
false and misleading statements “in the hope that they will
exert pressure upon Tenet to accept an inadequate offer, or
elect CHS-nominated directors who will approve a transaction
with CHS.” Community Health, as would be expected, denied
Tenet’s allegations, calling them a “scorched earth defense.”  Whatever the merit of Tenet’s claims, they smack of a board
and management team that will try anything to stay in power.  “In any case, Tenet has fired off all its cannons now in a
last ditch effort to remain independent,”  Vicki Bryan , an
analyst at Gimme Credit, wrote in an April 11 research note.
“If Tenet doesn’t prevail, its generals may have just shot
themselves.”  They certainly didn’t make many new friends this week.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  