-- 
EU Energy Efficiency Plan May Double Pace of Carbon Reductions

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-13T12:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/eu-energy-efficiency-plan-may-double-pace-of-carbon-reductions.html
Greenhouse-gas discharges in the
European Union’s emissions-trading system could drop as much as
43 percent by 2020 if the EU meets its  energy-efficiency  and
renewable-energy targets, according to a climate study today.  The pace of reducing emissions in the European cap-and-
trade program, known as the ETS, could double compared with the
current goal of a 21-percent cut from 2005 levels should the EU
increase the use of renewable energy and improve energy
efficiency by 20 percent, consultancies Ecofys and Climate
Strategies said in a report published in Brussels.  “The cap of the emissions trading system will need to be
adjusted if energy efficiency and renewables targets are to be
met,” Niklas Hoehne, director for energy and climate policy at
Ecofys, said in an e-mailed statement.  The study showed “there would be a reduction of 29 percent
to 43 percent below the 2005 level” in the ETS as a result of
the energy efficiency and renewable goals.  The EU cap-and-trade imposes pollution limits on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturing companies, including Royal
Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s largest oil company; ThyssenKrupp,
 Germany ’s biggest steelmaker; and Electricite de France SA,
Europe’s No. 1 power generator.  The program is the cornerstone of the EU plan to fight
 climate change  and meet its internal commitment to cut overall
emissions by 20 percent by 2020 compared with 1990 levels. While
the bloc is on track to meet the binding emission-reduction goal
and the renewables target, it lags behind on political pledges
to boost energy efficiency.  “Implemented policies are not yet sufficient to meet the
energy efficiency target, despite the cost effective
potential,” according to the report.  The 27-nation EU has said it’s ready to deepen the headline
emissions-reduction target to 30 percent if other nations show
comparable efforts.  “The full implementation of the energy efficiency and the
renewables target would lead to an emission level in 2020 which
is significantly lower than 20 percent below 1990,” the report
published in Brussels said. “The results of this study suggest
a reduction of up to 30 percent.”  The European Commission, the EU executive arm, said in an
analysis earlier this year the bloc may cut  greenhouse gases  25
percent domestically by 2020 compared with 1990, as long as it
steps up energy-saving measures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  