-- 
Euro-Region Industrial Output Growth Accelerated in February

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-13T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/euro-region-industrial-output-growth-accelerated-in-february.html
European industrial production
growth accelerated in February, led by demand for intermediate
and capital goods, indicating that the economy is gathering
strength.  Production in the 17-member euro area rose for a fifth
straight month, increasing 0.4 percent from January, when it
advanced 0.2 percent, the European Union’s  statistics office  in
Luxembourg said today. Economists forecast a gain of 0.8
percent, the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Production jumped 7.3 from February 2010.  European manufacturers have fueled the region’s recovery
from stalling growth in the fourth quarter as surging export
demand prompted companies to boost hiring and spending, helping
offset the impact of tougher austerity measures.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles ,
said on April 8 that deliveries had jumped 21 percent in March.  “We might see a slight dent with one or two months showing
weaker output growth,” said  Christoph Weil , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “We’ll have a very strong first
quarter overall with  Germany  and France driving production.”  Euro-region growth probably quickened to 0.5 percent in the
first quarter from 0.3 percent in the previous three months, the
European Commission forecast on March 1. The economy may expand
1.6 percent in the year, with Germany driving growth, it said.  Portugal Bailout  In Germany, which has powered the region’s recovery from
recession, industrial output rose 1.4 percent in February from
the previous month, when it gained 0.4 percent. In France, Italy
and Spain, production also increased, helping to offset declines
in Ireland, Greece and the Netherlands.  With governments from Spain to Italy seeking ways to narrow
their budget gaps and Portugal earlier this month becoming the
third euro-region nation to seek external aid in a year,
companies have relied on faster-growing economies to boost
sales.  Daimler AG (DAI)  expects Mercedes-Benz brand sales in  China  may
grow at least 15 percent this year, Ulrich Walker, the company’s
chief executive officer for northeast  Asia , said on April 11.  European economic confidence held close to the highest in
more than three years in March while services and manufacturing
industries expanded more than initially estimated. In Germany,
 Europe ’s largest economy, factory orders jumped almost five
times as much as economists forecast in February.  ‘Record’ Sales  “We expect to increase sales to a new record of
significantly more than 1.5 million vehicles” in 2011, BMW
sales chief  Ian Robertson  said on April 8. The Munich-based
company on that day reported a gain of 21 percent in its brand
sales last month.  Production of intermediate goods rose 0.5 percent from
January, when it jumped 2.7 percent, today’s report showed.
Output of capital goods increased 0.6 percent after declining
0.2 percent and production of non-durable  consumer goods  rose
0.9 percent, rebounding from a January drop. Energy production
fell 0.6 percent from January, when it slipped 3.7 percent.  With the recovery gathering strength, the  European Central
Bank  on April 7 raised its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis
points to 1.25 percent to fight inflationary pressures.
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on April 9 said that it’s
important to avoid higher costs from feeding into wage demands.  We see signs of “a continued positive underlying momentum
of economic activity in the euro area in early 2011,” Trichet
said at a meeting of European finance ministers in Godollo,
Hungary, on that day. “We consider this economic outlook as
being broadly balanced as regards the risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  