-- 
Stocks in Europe Advance, Rebounding From Biggest Retreat in Four Weeks

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-13T16:29:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/european-stock-index-futures-advance-casino-schneider-electric-may-move.html
European stocks gained, rebounding
from their biggest drop in four weeks, as the region’s factory
output rose and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported record profit.  Alcatel-Lucent SA jumped 7.5 percent as Morgan Stanley
recommended the shares.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the designer of chips
that help power Apple Inc.’s iPhone, rallied 6.8 percent.
Building-material shares advanced across Europe after Exane BNP
Paribas raised the companies to “outperform.”  The Stoxx 600 Europe Index rose 0.7 percent to 278.25 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the biggest gain since April 1.
The gauge, which slumped 1.7 percent yesterday as  Japan  raised
its warning on the stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant and Alcoa Inc.’s sales missed analysts’ estimates, has
declined 4.4 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17.  “The global economic recovery is about the return in
industrial and consumer confidence in the U.S. and western
 Europe , so the impact of Japan’s problems on European companies
is limited,” said Rob Radelaar, a  fund manager  who oversees 1
billion euros ($1.5 billion) at ING Investment Management in  The
Hague . “The recovery is still on track.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index and France’s CAC 40
Index advanced 0.8 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX Index climbed
1.1 percent.  Economic Data  European industrial production growth accelerated in
February, led by demand for intermediate and capital goods,
indicating that the economy is gathering strength.  Factory output in the 17-member euro area rose for a fifth
straight month, increasing 0.4 percent from January, when it
advanced 0.2 percent, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. The median of 34 economists’ estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey had predicted a gain of 0.8 percent.  Sales at U.S. retailers rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, showing that the improving job market has
helped Americans cope with higher costs for fuel and food.  Purchases increased 0.4 percent following a 1.1 percent
February gain that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . That
fell short of the median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News for a 0.5 percent increase.  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, said
first-quarter profit rose 67 percent to a record, beating
analysts’ estimates, as its provisions for bad mortgages and
credit-card loans fell.  Alcatel, ARM  Alcatel soared 7.5 percent to 4.05 euros as Morgan Stanley
upgraded  France ’s largest telecommunications-equipment maker to
“overweight” from “equal weight.”  ARM surged 6.8 percent to 598 pence, its largest gain in
three months. Morgan Stanley analysts cited an Engadget article
that said Microsoft Corp. unveiled a version of Internet
Explorer 10 running on a 1GHz ARM-based processor at a developer
conference in  Las Vegas  yesterday.  “Whilst Microsoft has only recently announced that it
would port Windows next generation on ARM, we are positively
surprised that software development is well advanced,” Francois Meunier, a London-based analyst, wrote in a report to clients
today.  Construction and materials companies posted the biggest
advance in the Stoxx 600 after Exane raised its recommendation
on the shares to “outperform.”  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , Europe’s second-
biggest cement maker, increased 4.4 percent to 73.95 Swiss
francs, its biggest advance in 11 months. The brokerage raised
its rating on the company to “neutral” from “underperform.”  Improved Demand  Holcim and its competitors will benefit from rising their
prices and from improved demand in U.S. infrastructure and
European property markets, Exane analysts led by Paul Roger
wrote in a note to clients today.  Porsche SE, the sports-car maker that plans to merge with
Volkswagen AG, rallied 2.8 percent to 44.56 euros, helping a
gauge of European automakers to the second-largest gain of the
19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600. Porsche had a high
acceptance rate for its 5 billion-euro rights offering, a person
familiar with the situation said.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  added 1.4 percent to 29.82 euros. Germany’s
biggest steelmaker may sell “several billion euros” of units
to reduce debt and expand its technology business, the Financial
Times Deutschland reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA advanced 2.6 percent to
7.16 euros after signing an agreement with three Chinese
companies including China Longyuan Power Group Corp. to supply
them with 900 megawatts of  wind turbines .  Commerzbank, OMV  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, fell 5
percent to 4.69 euros, its lowest price since July 2009. The
bank that’s selling conditional mandatory exchangeable notes to
investors as part of a capital increase earlier slid as much as
4.2 percent. Commerzbank is likely to price the notes, called
Comen, at a minimum of 4.25 euros apiece, according to three
people familiar with the offer.  OMV AV, central Europe’s biggest oil company, rose 2.7
percent to 31.97 euros in Vienna after announcing it has
discovered gas on the North West Shelf of  Australia  in the Zola-
1 exploration well.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  sank 6.1 percent to 72.45 francs, the
largest drop in 18 months, after the maker of chemicals for drug
companies predicted that its first-half performance will be
weaker than last year because of the strong franc and rising
raw-material prices.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  slid 3.8 percent to 28.29 euros after the
semiconductor equipment maker said that first-quarter orders
dropped as some chipmakers delayed deliveries following Japan’s
March 11 earthquake. The Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company
booked 845 million euros of systems in the first quarter,
compared with 1.17 billion euros of bookings in the year-earlier
period. Compared with the fourth quarter, orders dropped 63
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  