-- 
Europe Faces Bank, Sovereign Funding ‘Challenge,’ IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-13T15:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/euro-nations-face-bank-sovereign-funding-challenge-imf-says.html
The funding of banks and
governments, especially in some vulnerable euro-area countries,
poses a “pressing challenge” to the global financial system
even as stability improves elsewhere, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  European banks need to increase the quality and quantity of
their capital to regain access to funding markets and will
probably need help from governments, the IMF said today. At the
same time, financing conditions are still “tense” for some
European countries, which run the risk of having to rely
increasingly on their domestic investors to sell debt, it said.  “At the heart of the global financial crisis was an abrupt
rediscovery of credit risk,” the IMF wrote in its Global
Financial Stability Report. “The turbulence in some euro-area
financial markets over the past six months suggests that the
process is still ongoing.”  While the improved outlook for the world economy and
“strong prospects” in emerging markets bolster global
stability, the IMF stressed that confidence has not yet been
restored in the banking systems of many advanced countries.
Global financial institutions face $3.6 trillion of maturing
debt in the next two years, the IMF said.  High debt levels are a vulnerability for many rich nations,
the IMF said. Besides sovereign and banking debt, that also
includes  household debt  in the U.S. and  Spain  and corporate debt
in parts of the euro region and  Japan .  ‘Investor Doubt’  “In the euro area, the prospects for the financial sector
remain closely tied to sovereign stress,” the IMF wrote. The
report added that “many banks still face investor doubt about
their financial future.”  Jose Vinals, director of the IMF’s monetary and capital
markets department, said “financial stability risks have
eased” because of the improved economic outlook and
“accommodating policies that have been pursued.”  Vinals, speaking at a press conference in  Washington  today,
said the policies “have also masked serious, underlying
financial vulnerabilities that need to be addressed as quickly
as possible.”  In  Europe , Spain has decoupled, or separated itself, from
Portugal and Ireland, Vinals said.  ‘Different Cases’  “I think we’re talking about completely different cases,
and policy action has been taken in the case of Spain in the
context of fiscal consolidation, in the context of the
restructuring,” he said.  The IMF welcomed the efforts under way to address the issue
of weaker banks in Europe, particularly in Germany and Spain.
The stress tests being prepared by European regulators are a
“golden opportunity” to improve transparency, the report said.  The Washington-based fund said the tests should include the
broadest possible coverage of banks in each country and “have a
more stringent capital hurdle, especially for banks that rely on
wholesale funding markets,” among other recommendations.  Last year’s tests, which allowed national regulators to use
their own capital definitions, were criticized by bank analysts
for not being tough enough.  “A comprehensive set of policies -- including capital-
raising, restructuring and where necessary resolution of weak
banks, and increased transparency about banking risks -- is
needed to solve banking system vulnerabilities,” the IMF said.  Risk Indicators  The IMF looked across a range of risk indicators for a
sample of banks in 12 countries. It found that banks in  Greece 
and Ireland, which received bailouts from the European Union and
the IMF, “are currently facing the greatest balance sheet
pressures.”  Spain’s cajas and Portuguese banks are also vulnerable
“from their holdings of sovereign bonds,” while banks in
 Austria , the U.K. and the U.S. “have high loan losses, but are
aided by relative profitability.” Some German banks, as well as
“weak Italian, Portuguese and Spanish savings banks” have low
levels of capital, making them vulnerable to further shocks, it
said.  The IMF also did projections of average funding costs for
countries through 2015, using its own growth forecasts and data
on debt maturity. It found that costs are set to rise by as much
as 249 basis points for Greece, 149 points for  Portugal  and 117
points for Spain.  In the U.S., the large debt burden of households threatens
to weaken banks’ balance sheets further and should be decreased,
the IMF said.  “The housing market’s inventory overhang raises the risk
of further mortgage default,” it said.  Emerging-market economies’ main task at the moment is to
limit overheating as they face a surge of capital inflows “to
avoid ‘cleaning’ later,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  