-- 
Ex-Och-Ziff’s Fancy Sues Lawyers Over Failed Singapore Property Purchase

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-04-13T03:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ex-och-ziff-s-fancy-sues-lawyers-over-failed-singapore-property-purchase.html
Zain Fancy, the former head of Och-
Ziff Capital Management Group LLC’s Asian real estate unit, sued
the lawyer who acted for him in several  Singapore  deals after
the collapse of a home purchase in the city state.  Fancy, who has sued hedge fund manager Och-Ziff for unfair
dismissal, asked Singapore’s  High Court  to assess the damages
he’s owed by law firm Tan Peng Chin LLC and its head of real
estate  Gwendoline Ong  after his agreement to buy a bungalow for
S$18.5 million ($14.7 million) in June was terminated in August.
A closed hearing is scheduled for April 15.  The Singapore law firm has countersued to cap its liability
to the forfeited deposit of S$184,600, “reasonable” legal
costs and any difference to the property’s value in August. Ong
has also asked the court to remove her as a defendant in the
lawsuit, which was intended to embarrass her personally,
according to court papers. Fancy has indicated he’s seeking
damages including a S$10 million difference with the house’s
current valuation, according to Ong’s filing.  Tan Peng Chin, managing director of the law firm, declined
to comment, as did Alvin Yeo, who’s representing Fancy.  Singapore had the  third-fastest price growth  in the global
luxury residential market last year after Shanghai and Mumbai,
according to an index compiled by Knight Frank LLP. Singapore’s
home prices  climbed to a record  in the first quarter after
rising 18 percent in 2010 even as the government applied new
curbs to damp speculation and cool the market.  Mistaken Payment  Fancy, 36, who used to head Morgan Stanley’s real estate
business in  Asia , sued  Tan Peng Chin LLC  after the firm started
legal proceedings on Jan. 26 seeking to limit its compensation.
The Singapore lawyers failed to advise him to pay a further
required deposit directly to the seller, according to court
filings.  Tan Peng Chin LLC accepted that it made a mistake in the
scuppered property purchase and in February paid S$184,600 to
their former client, according to Ong’s court papers. Ong was
Fancy’s lawyer in at least six other property transactions last
year including three on the Singapore resort island of Sentosa,
according to court papers.  Fancy, an ex-Pakistan citizen who has taken Singaporean
nationality, has also sought to dismiss Tan Peng Chin’s lawsuit
as it’s “frivolous and vexatious,” according to court papers.  “It’s clearly unfair for me to be made a defendant in such
legal proceedings as this could adversely impact my reputation
and standing,” Fancy said in his court filing.  Fancy sued two units of New York-based hedge  fund manager 
Och-Ziff in October, claiming they withheld $7.9 million in pay
and stock that he was owed after he was wrongfully fired. Och-
Ziff spokesman Jonathan Gasthalter declined to comment on the
case last month.  The cases are Tan Peng Chin LLC v Zain Asif Fancy OS68/2011
and Zain Asif Fancy v Tan Peng Chin LLC S117/2011 in the
Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  