-- 
Two More Air-Traffic Controllers Suspended for Sleeping on Duty

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-04-13T21:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/faa-adds-midnight-shift-controllers-after-more-found-asleep-1-.html
Two more U.S. air-traffic
controllers were suspended for sleeping on the job, regulators
said as they boosted staffing at 27 towers to prevent more
fatigue failures.  One slept while a medical flight with an ill patient tried
to land today at Reno-Tahoe International Airport in  Nevada , the
 Federal Aviation Administration  said in a statement. The flight
landed safely with help from a California worker. The other
controller fell asleep April 11 at Seattle’s King County
International Airport, the FAA said. That worker was facing
disciplinary action for falling asleep twice on a Jan. 6 shift.  The reports bring to four the number of controllers
reported by the FAA as sleeping on the job this year. That
number may grow. Two more were suspended for failing to hand off
control of a departing plane in Lubbock,  Texas , on March 29 and
for failing to respond until contact attempts were repeated, the
FAA said.  “I am sick of this,” Senate Commerce, Science and
Transportation Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat, said in a statement. “We can’t have an aviation
system where some of the people responsible for safety are
literally asleep at the switch.”  Midnight Controller Added  The agency will add an extra controller at the 27 towers
staffed with one worker on the midnight shift, the FAA statement
said. Agency chief  Randy Babbitt  and the controllers’ union
president, Paul Rinaldi, will visit facilities around the
country next week to reinforce the need for “the highest
professional standards,” according to the FAA.  Doug Church, a spokesman for Rinaldi of the National Air
Traffic Controllers Association, didn’t immediately return a
telephone call for comment.  Representative John Mica, the Florida Republican who chairs
the House transportation committee, criticized the decision to
add controllers.  “Only in the federal government would you double up on
workers, averaging $161,000 per year in salary and benefits,
that aren’t doing their job,” Mica said in a statement. Mica
has pushed legislation that would allow as many as 90 smaller
airports to switch from federal to private controllers.  The fatigue problem is not a new one, said John Goglia, a
former National Transportation Safety Board member.  Known Problem  “People have known these problems with fatigue have
existed for years,” said Goglia, a Boston-based aviation safety
consultant. “They’re now showing up. The FAA is admitting they
exist. Now the FAA needs to work on it.”  The NTSB four years ago asked the FAA to work with the
controllers’ union to revise work schedules and practices, and
to develop a fatigue awareness program. The safety board
singled out the common practice of scheduling controllers to
work increasingly early shifts over a week as “especially
problematic.”  Babbitt said April 6 a controller was in the process of
being fired for deliberately sleeping on the job at the McGhee
Tyson Airport in Knoxville,  Tennessee , on February 19.  The four controllers in Nevada, Seattle and Texas have been
suspended pending investigations, the FAA said.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s United Airlines planes carrying a combined 154
passengers landed without tower assistance after midnight on
March 23 at  Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport  after
failing to make contact with a controller, who told
investigators he had fallen asleep. That controller was
suspended in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net 
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  