-- 
FDIC, Law Firm Settle Dispute Over Executive Documents From Failed Banks

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-13T18:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/fdic-law-firm-settle-dispute-over-executive-documents-from-failed-banks.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
settled a lawsuit filed by a law firm representing former
executives at four failed banks, who said they need access to
bank files and records to defend against possible fraud claims.  A federal court in Atlanta yesterday dismissed McKenna Long
& Aldridge LLP’s lawsuit against the FDIC after both parties
requested the case be closed. McKenna Long sued in November
after the FDIC demanded the law firm return records it received
from its clients before the banks collapsed.  “I think the FDIC understands it is reasonable for bank
officers and directors to have some access to documents,” said
David L. Balser of McKenna Long in Atlanta. He declined to say
in an interview how the suit was resolved.  The FDIC has a pending complaint against Bryan Cave LLP,
alleging the St. Louis-based law firm broke federal privacy laws
and  Kansas  trade secret laws by acquiring bank files while
representing executives at Hillcrest Bank in  Overland Park ,
Kansas. A federal judge in Atlanta is considering whether to end
the case without a trial.  The FDIC said the records sent to Bryan Cave’s Atlanta
office included customer information, as well as financial
statements, business plans, and “confidential information
relating to the FDIC’s regulatory activities,” according to
court papers.  McKenna Long represents executives from four banks that
failed last year: Darby Bank & Trust Co. in Vidalia,  Georgia ;
McIntosh Commercial Bank in Carrollton, Georgia; Northwest Bank
& Trust in Acworth, Georgia; and K Bank in Randallstown,
 Maryland . As part of that representation, the firm said it
received copies of board and committee minutes, commercial loan
files, and reports prepared by the bank executives.  Balser said the FDIC has not filed any lawsuits against his
clients.  Three Boxes  McKenna Long turned three boxes of materials over to the
court shortly after asking for a ruling that the firm must have
access to the materials. On Feb. 17, U.S. District Judge Richard Story ordered the documents released to the FDIC. He ruled that
McKenna Long could access the documents in order to create an
index, according to court records.  FDIC spokesman  David Barr  declined to comment on the
matter.  The cases are McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP v. FDIC, 10-cv-
3779, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia
(Atlanta) and FDIC v. Bryan Cave LLP, 10-cv-03666, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  