-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says Exit Plan Should Start With Sale of Assets

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-13T21:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/fed-s-bullard-says-exit-plan-should-start-with-sale-of-assets.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of  St. Louis 
President  James Bullard  said that when the central bank begins
withdrawing record monetary stimulus it should sell assets and
ensure that inflation remains low.  “First take back some of the balance sheet policy and then
later move off zero on the policy rate,” Bullard told reporters
prior to a speech today in St. Louis. “This is very much a live
debate within the Federal Reserve. There is a lot of uncertainty
about the optimal way to proceed as we haven’t been in that
situation.”  Bullard has said since February that the Fed should trim
its plan to buy $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries through June
amid reports of stronger economic growth. He reiterated his view
today, while saying there’s “not a groundswell of support for
that” among other policy makers.  “We have an ultra-easy, uber-easy monetary policy in the
U.S. and we have to think of how we are going to exit from this
policy in a way that keeps inflation low and stable,” Bullard
said.  “I do think the economy has come in stronger than we
anticipated at the time of the November decision to embark on”
the bond purchases, Bullard told reporters before introducing
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , who is scheduled to give a
lecture at the St. Louis Fed.  “Inflation has probably bottomed out in the U.S. and
started to turn higher,” he said. “Expected inflation” has
“definitely moved higher than it was last fall.”  ‘Passive Policy’  Shrinking the Fed’s $2.65 trillion balance sheet should be
done actively rather than by “runoff” through maturing
mortgage-backed securities, Bullard said. “That is a passive
policy,” he said. “That doesn’t sound like optimal policy to
me.”  While first-quarter growth projections have been downgraded
by private-sector economists, growth is likely to pick up in
later quarters, Bullard said.  “Most forecasts, and my own as well, suggest that we will
get more growth in the second quarter and through the rest of
the year,” Bullard said.  “A lot of the anecdotal reports I hear are about a pretty
strong economy,” he said. “Labor markets certainly look
stronger in the U.S. than they have in a long time. That should
boost household incomes.”  Fed officials will update their economic forecasts at their
April 26-27 meeting amid a strengthening labor market. The  U.S.
economy  is estimated to have expanded at a 2.6 percent rate last
quarter and forecast at a 3.2 percent rate in the second
quarter, according to the median of 72 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News this month.  Bullard, 50, doesn’t vote on policy this year as part of
the annual rotation. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research
department in 1990 and became president of the bank in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  