-- 
Federal Reserve Computer Hacker Suspect Pleads Guilty to Account Fraud

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-13T16:32:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/federal-reserve-computer-hacker-suspect-pleads-guilty-to-account-fraud.html
A Malaysian man charged with
hacking the  Federal Reserve ’s computers and conducting a credit-
card scheme pleaded guilty to illegally possessing card account
numbers with intent to defraud.  Lin Mun Poo, 32, entered his plea today before U.S.
District Judge Dora L. Irizarry in Brooklyn,  New York . Poo
pleaded not guilty Nov. 22.  The computer network of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Cleveland  was hacked in June, resulting in thousands of dollars
of damage from the effects on 10 or more computers, according to
court papers filed Nov. 18, the day Poo was charged in a four-
count indictment. No Federal Reserve data or information was
accessed or compromised, June Gates, a spokeswoman for the
central bank, said in November.  The credit card numbers Poo sold didn’t come from the
Federal Reserve, his lawyer, Kannan Sundaram, said in court. Poo
admitted he added “malicious code” to a Federal Reserve
computer.  Sundaram and Assistant U.S. Attorney Melissa Marrus told
Irizarry that federal guidelines would call for a prison
sentence of the maximum 10 years under the count Poo pleaded to.
Sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 13.  Sundaram didn’t immediately return a call for comment after
the hearing.  Credit Unions  When he was arrested Oct. 21 shortly after arriving in the
U.S., Poo possessed more than 400,000 stolen credit and debit
card numbers, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney Loretta Lynch in  Brooklyn . He was able to gain access
to data of several federal credit unions, according to
prosecutors.  Poo has made a career of compromising computer servers of
financial institutions, defense contractors and corporations to
sell or trade on the information, Lynch said in a Nov. 18
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Lin Mun Poo, 10-cr-891, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 