-- 
Ferragamo Is Said to Be Third Italian Luxury Company to Seek IPO This Year

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-04-13T16:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ferragamo-may-file-for-initial-public-offering-in-milan-as-soon-as-today.html
Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA, the
Italian maker of 390-euro ($564) suede sandals, filed for an
initial public offering in Milan, according to a person familiar
with the situation.  The application to the Italian stock exchange and the
market regulator will allow Florence, Italy-based Ferragamo to
sell shares to the public as soon as July, said the person, who
asked not to be named ahead of an official statement. The offer
will be extended to the U.S. and as much as 30 percent of the
capital may be sold, the person said.  The IPO would value the shoemaker at as much as 1.7 billion
euros and was approved at a March 30 shareholders’ meeting, MF
newspaper reported earlier today, citing company documents.  The Ferragamo family may sell shares to the public in 2011,
Chairman Ferruccio Ferragamo said last year. The company, which
is being advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca SpA and UBS
AG, hasn’t taken any decision on the proposed IPO, Chief
Executive Officer  Michele Norsa  said in February.  Ferragamo, whose shoes have been worn by  Marilyn Monroe  and
 Jennifer Lopez , would be the third Italian luxury company to
seek a listing this year. Moncler SpA, the sportswear maker
partly owned by  Carlyle Group , submitted an application to the
Italian bourse on April 5. Prada SpA, the fashion house known
for its triangular logo, has filed to the Hong Kong Exchange,
two people familiar with the matter said March 31.  Family Stake  The Ferragamo family sold an 8 percent stake in the
shoemaker to Hong Kong businessman Peter Woo in March,
strengthening its presence in  Asia , which accounts for more than
50 percent of sales. The 84-year-old company has ruled out
listing in  Hong Kong  and Norsa said last year it was committed
to the Italian stock market for an IPO.  Ferragamo reported net profit of 60.8 million euros in 2010
compared with a loss of 14.7 million euros a year earlier. Sales
climbed 26 percent to 781.6 million euros, led by demand in its
own stores. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization advanced 83 percent in the period to 113.1 million
euros. Ferragamo directly operates 312 of 578 branded stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  