-- 
Fighters Attack Qaddafi Air Defenses in Continuing U.S. Role

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-13T18:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/fighters-attack-qaddafi-air-defenses-in-continuing-u-s-role.html
U.S. fighter jets have flown 97
missions over  Libya  since April 4 to choke off Muammar Qaddafi’s
air defenses as part of the NATO military operation, a Pentagon
spokesman said.  Those missions were conducted by a contingent of six
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighter jets and five  Boeing Co. (BA) 
EA-18 Growler electronic warfare planes provided to NATO,
according to Marine Corps Colonel Dave Lapan. The planes dropped
munitions to wipe out an air defense site on three occasions, he
said.  “There are still mobile and other air defense systems out
there,” Lapan told reporters at the Pentagon today. “They
haven’t all been destroyed.”  The U.S. has conducted 35 percent of all types of sorties,
77 percent of air-refueling flights and 27 percent of
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions since
April 1, Lapan said.  The Pentagon is seeking to deflect concern that reduced
U.S. participation in the Libya operation is hampering NATO’s
ability to protect civilians and provide the rebels with a
military edge.  The U.S. turned over full command to the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization on April 4 and withdrew from most attack
operations, to fulfill a pledge by President  Barack Obama  to
limit American military involvement in Libya.  NATO’s Numbers  NATO said yesterday it has conducted 2,038 sorties since it
started phasing into command March 31, of which 832 were
missions seeking possible ground targets to attack. Many of the
NATO sorties were to patrol and enforce the no-fly zone. Others
were to identify targets such as tanks that threatened civilian
populations.  Libyan rebels earlier today appealed for international help
before a meeting with their U.S.-led allies in Doha, Qatar. They
said Qaddafi’s forces are stepping up attacks on Misrata and
firing rockets into the besieged city.  As part of the plan limiting U.S. involvement, NATO must
submit a request when it wants U.S. strike aircraft for the
mission of protecting civilians, a role mostly handled by other
coalition members, Lapan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 