-- 
Finland’s Anti-Euro Mood May Upset Global Investors, Aide Says

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-04-13T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/finland-risks-anti-euro-government-amid-backlash-top-government-aide-says.html
International investors
underestimate the deepening anti-euro mood in  Finland  that risks
producing a government opposed to measures needed to quell the
euro area’s fiscal crisis, a top Finnish civil servant said.  Martti Salmi, a European policy adviser in the  Finance
Ministry , said the region “should not take for granted”
Finnish support for crisis-fighting tools. The latest poll
before Finland’s April 17 election showed combined 47.3 percent
support for parties against a bailout for Portugal and a
reinforcement of the temporary aid mechanism, he said.  “It is a very distinct possibility that the next
government and parliament of Finland will not want to agree to
the things that the current government has signed up for, namely
supporting Portugal and agreeing to the permanent and temporary
crisis mechanisms,” Salmi, speaking in a personal capacity,
said in a telephone interview from Helsinki yesterday.  Finns go to the polls as euro leaders hammer out an 80
billion-euro ($116 billion) aid package for  Portugal  amid
speculation that  Greece , the trigger of the fiscal crisis, won’t
manage to pay back its debts.  Salmi, 39, is deputy head of the Finance Ministry’s
division for European Union and international affairs. A career
civil servant, he said he has no party affiliation and will stay
at his post regardless of the election outcome.  As one of the euro area’s six AAA rated states, Finland
would shoulder an above-average burden in offering guarantees to
meet the EU goal of bringing the temporary aid facility up to
its full capacity of 440 billion euros, something the EU has
pledged to do by June.  Increased Risk  Crisis-management steps require approval of all 17 euro
countries. Pressures in Finland echo the opposition in  Germany 
that limits Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s leeway for expanding the
euro rescue operations that were thrown together last year.  Finland’s next government will be bound by pledges made by
the current government, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  “I want Finland to remain euro-pragmatic, euro-realistic,
strictly and profoundly European,” Juncker, who heads the panel
of euro finance chiefs, told reporters in Luxembourg yesterday.  Just back from a two-week lecture tour of 14 Finnish
cities, Salmi said he told voters that a veto of Portuguese aid
and a strengthened safety net would make Finland “a factor that
increases risk in the EU, especially in the financial markets.”  Jyrki Katainen, the current finance minister, has his
sights set on the job of prime minister, with this week’s poll
showing his National Coalition Party in the lead with 20.2
percent.  Poll Standings  The April 12 survey, by  Helsingin Sanomat  newspaper, put
the opposition  Social Democrats  in second place with 18 percent
and Prime Minister Mari Kiviniemi’s Center Party in third with
17.9 percent.  While support for the euro-skeptic True Finns party ebbed
to 16.9 percent from 18.4 percent, the newspaper said the
startup party’s backing is volatile and difficult to gauge.  Last year’s emergency loans of 110 billion euros to Greece
and 67.5 billion euros to Ireland have triggered a backlash,
Salmi said. For the first time since Finland joined the EU in
1995, European issues are playing a “decisive role” in a
national campaign, he said, summing up the impressions of his
cross-country tour.  Compared with a 2006 tour during which he spoke in 18
cities, Salmi said he detected “a shift in the general mood.
Now they were dismayed about what was happening in the EU. On
the other hand, many people seem to understand the need to act
in order to avoid an even bigger crisis.”  Responding to that sentiment, the current government is
calling for strict conditions on any loans to Portugal. Katainen
last week demanded that Portugal make budget cuts that go beyond
an austerity package that was rejected in parliament in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  