-- 
FirstRand in Talks to Invest in Nigeria's Sterling Bank, Olambiwonnu Says

-- B y   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-04-13T14:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/firstrand-in-talks-to-invest-in-nigeria-s-sterling-bank-olambiwonnu-says.html
     April 13 (Bloomberg) --  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ,  South Africa ’s
second-biggest financial services company, is in talks to invest
in Nigeria’s  Sterling Bank (STERLNBA)  Plc, said Adebimpe Olambiwonnu,
Sterling Bank’s financial controller.  Discussions are continuing, she said in an interview with
Johannesburg-based CNBC Africa from Lagos. Sterling Bank wants
more capital injected into its business to expand, Olambiwonnu
said. FirstRand is busy evaluating Sterling Bank, she said,
adding that Sterling Bank is “positive” on the talks.  FirstRand has been considering Nigerian banks since 10
lenders failed a central bank audit in 2009 and asset prices
fell. The Nigerian central bank then invited bidders for both
healthy and distressed banking assets. FirstRand said on Dec. 2
it intends to enter  Nigeria , Tanzania, Angola, Ghana and  Kenya .
The lender wants to expand its investment-banking, retail and
insurance offerings across a continent that has more than 1
billion people.  Sterling is already trading at a 28 percent premium to
banks of a similar size in Nigeria and FirstRand’s pricing
“will likely be in excess of the 28 percent premium above
peers,” Adesoji Solanke, a banking analyst for Renaissance
Group in Lagos, said in a note today. Sterling, a 100-branch
bank, is “better positioned at the dealing table with a
potential acquirer, but the focus of the market still remains
the price,” Solanke said.  FirstRand rose 1.1 percent to 20.40 rand as of 3:40 p.m. in
Johannesburg trading while Sterling was unchanged at 2.19 naira
in Lagos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  