-- 
First Solar Falls After President Announces Plans to Step Down

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-04-14T21:47:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/first-solar-president-sohn-to-step-down-this-month-won-t-be-replaced.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
largest maker of thin-film photovoltaic panels, fell the most in
almost four weeks after announcing that its president of
operations will leave the company.  The world’s largest maker of thin-film photovoltaic panels
dropped $3.83, or 2.7 percent, $140.90 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading today, the biggest daily closing decline since March 18.
The company said yesterday that Bruce Sohn will step down as
president of operations at the end of this month.  Sohn’s decision may be related to a 2009 management shift
when the Tempe, Arizona-based company’s chief executive officer
Michael Ahearn became chairman, and was replaced by an outsider,
Rob Gillette, according to Mark Bachman, an analyst with New
York-based investment bank Auriga USA LLC.  “Some people believed that Bruce Sohn might have been the
heir apparent” at the time, Bachman said. “Everybody aspires
to have those three letters after their name, CEO,” and
Gillette may have “impeded his path.”  It’s “very possible” that Sohn may end up running a rival
solar company someday, Bachman said, after a non-compete
agreement expires. He rates First Solar’s shares as “hold.”  According to a First Solar  filing  yesterday, “Mr. Sohn
will not compete with the company or solicit company associates
for 24 months after termination of his employment.”  Manufacturing Expertise  Sohn, 49, joined the company from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in 2007, and
his expertise was in developing a reliable manufacturing
process, Bachman said. Those skills were invaluable at First
Solar, and may be equally valued at another solar company.  Nathaniel Bullard, lead solar analyst for  North America  at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said that Sohn may move into other
areas. “My guess is that he lays low for a little while and
either enhances his government activity with his involvement
with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Manufacturing Council, or
enters  venture capital ,” he said.  First Solar said that Sohn won’t be replaced after his
departure, effective April 30.  Bachman said it’s notable that the company will not find
someone to take over the role, a sign that the task of
developing the company’s manufacturing technology is largely
complete.  “That heavy lifting has been done,” he said. “Now it’s a
reiteration process.”  Wanting ‘More’  Sohn’s position has become “less significant than when he
joined the company in 2007 and we can see how he would want
more, not less,” Timothy Arcuri, an analyst with Citigroup
Global Markets Inc. in  San Francisco , said in a research note
yesterday. Arcuri rates First Solar’s shares as “hold.”  “We would not be surprised to see him pursue other
opportunities in a more CEO-type role. Our recent field work has
not revealed any major operational or FSLR-specific issues.”  Sohn oversaw the construction of four manufacturing plants
in  Malaysia . “His leadership in establishing and building our
manufacturing capabilities on a global scale has been a key
driver of our success,” Gillette said in the statement.  Bullard suggested another option -- that Sohn will take
time off. “The years of ramp-up to global commercial operations
are extremely busy for any executive.”  Bachman didn’t expect Sohn’s departure to drive the
company’s share price. “It probably shouldn’t move,” he said.
“The share price is predicated on being able to sell product,”
and Sohn’s departure doesn’t change First Solar’s ability to
produce and deliver solar cells.  A First Solar spokesman said he couldn’t comment on Sohn’s
departure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  