-- 
Fragmented Swaps Rules Will Weaken Markets, Rohner Says

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-04-13T12:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/fragmented-swaps-regulation-will-weaken-markets-rohner-says.html
Regulation of the global over-the-
counter derivatives market will weaken the financial system if
it’s not coordinated globally, according to Urs Rohner, vice
chairman at Credit Suisse Group AG.  U.S. and European regulators are seeking changes to the
market to increase transparency and prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis. The industry supports reforms that reduce
systemic risk, such as central clearing, as long as they are
coordinated, Rohner said at the  International Swaps &
Derivatives Association ’s annual meeting in  Prague  today.  “A fragmented approach will lead to weaker institutions,
and greater risk,” Rohner said. “We urge regulators and
governments to embrace a global vision of a centrally cleared
and transparent OTC market that is regulated and strong, rather
than fragmented, inefficient and weak.”  Cooperation between regulators and the industry is
important, Rohner said. The credit-default swaps market is a
“model” of successful cooperation in averting potential
problems, he said.  A series of changes to the credit derivatives market since
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and rescue of
American International Group Inc. have standardized trading and
settlement processes.  Fix Shortcomings  “Our challenge -- our duty -- is to fix our industry’s
shortcomings before others try to fix them for us,” Rohner
said. “Greater standardization, better access for regulators to
data via trade repositories, increased central clearing, and
compression -- these are all important ways to reduce risk in
the financial markets.”  The European Securities & Markets Association has formed a
consultation group of stakeholders in the  derivatives market  to
participate in the regulatory process, Steven Maijoor said in
his first public speech as chairman of the organization. ESMA
will seek to ensure views of market participants are taken into
consideration, he said in his keynote address at ISDA’s meeting.  “Industry commitments, although important, are not
sufficient,” he said. “To achieve the key objective of
reducing counterparty and systemic risk and increase
transparency to both market participants and regulators, global
financial reforms are needed.”  The main challenge to ESMA’s regulation of the derivatives
market will be balancing “the need to align global regulatory
outcomes and the need to respect the specific characteristics of
European markets,” he said  “International coordination is essential in a global
market. To ensure safe and sound markets, regulatory arbitrage
has to be avoided. However, from an international perspective we
not only need to avoid regulatory gaps, we also need to avoid
overlap by taking into account the regulations and supervisory
systems in other jurisdictions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  