-- 
French Inflation Accelerated to Two-Year High Last Month on Energy, Food

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-13T09:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/french-inflation-accelerates-adding-to-pressure-on-ecb-to-raise-benchmark.html
French inflation accelerated in
March and German wholesale prices jumped the most in almost
three decades, adding pressure on the  European Central Bank  to
continue raising borrowing costs.  French consumer prices, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, increased 2.2 percent from a year earlier
after rising an annual 1.8 percent in February, Paris-based
national statistics office Insee said today. That’s the biggest
gain since October 2008. German wholesale-price inflation
quickened to 10.9 percent, the fastest since 1981.  The ECB, which aims to keep euro-region inflation just
below 2 percent, on April 7 raised its benchmark interest rate
for the first time in almost three years with President Jean- Claude Trichet leaving the door open for a further increases to
fight price pressures. In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
inflation quickened to 2.3 percent in March.  “Given that the ECB does seem to be itching to tighten
policy, inflation above 2 percent in core markets gives them a
reason to act,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank
AG in  London . “The pace of tightening in the near term will
remain modest, but will start picking up in 2012.”  The euro rose as much as 0.3 percent against the dollar
today, trading at $1.4495 at 11:51 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  ‘Powerful Impact’  Economists had forecast French harmonized inflation to
accelerate to 2 percent in March, according to the median of 12
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices rose 0.9 percent
from February, the most since data was first compiled in 1996.
Non-harmonized inflation accelerated to 2 percent from 1.7
percent, Insee said.  Crude  oil prices  have surged 16 percent this year after
unrest in the Middle East and North Africa disrupted supplies.
Crude oil traded at $106.59 a barrel today.  “Rising energy and food prices are still having a powerful
impact,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist at Exane
BNP Paribas in Paris.  Adding to signs of increasing price pressures, German and
French producer-price growth also accelerated in February. The
two countries are the largest economies in the euro region.  In the U.K., consumer prices rose an annual 4 percent in
March. While that’s down from a 4.4 percent gain the previous
month, it’s still double the Bank of England’s target.  The ECB last week raised its benchmark interest rate a
quarter point to 1.25 percent to keep faster inflation from
feeding into wage demands. Trichet has said that the increase is
not necessarily the beginning of a rate series and Executive
Board member  Juergen Stark  signaled yesterday that the bank will
raise borrowing costs at an appropriate pace.  “The ECB will adjust its policy interest rates and its
provision of liquidity at a pace and to a degree commensurate
with the evolution of risks to  price stability ,” Stark said in
a speech in  Hong Kong . “The maintenance of price stability over
the medium term guides all” decisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  