-- 
FrontPoint Partners’ Skowron Is Charged With Securities Fraud, Obstruction

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-14T08:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/frontpoint-partner-chip-skowron-surrenders-to-fbi-in-new-york-u-s-says.html
Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC
portfolio manager Chip Skowron joined those accused in a U.S.
crackdown on insider trading of  hedge funds  when he was charged
with conspiracy, securities fraud and obstruction.  Skowron, 41, of Greenwich, Connecticut, surrendered
yesterday to agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New
York office, said James Margolin, an FBI spokesman. Information
Skowron obtained from an insider about hepatitis C drug trials
enabled FrontPoint to avoid more than $30 million in losses,
prosecutors said.  Skowron was linked to the case brought in November by U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission against Dr. Yves Benhamou, an expert in
hepatitis drugs and a former adviser for  Human Genome  Sciences
Inc., prosecutors said. He pleaded guilty April 11 to federal
charges and is cooperating with the U.S., prosecutors said.  “This case is also an example of insider trading gone
global,” Bharara said at a news conference yesterday. “The
alleged trail of cash and trade of information took the
defendants from  Manhattan  to Milan and from  Boston  to
 Barcelona ,” he said. “When Dr. Skowron needed information, Dr.
Benhamou was always on call, helping Skowron and his hedge fund
illegally benefit to the tune of $30 million.”  Albuferon Trials  Benhamou acted as a paid consultant to hedge funds while
also working as an adviser to HGSI and serving on its steering
committee for trials of Albuferon, a hepatitis treatment, the
U.S. said.  The U.S. alleged that Benhamou shared inside information
with an unidentified co-conspirator at a hedge fund. The U.S.
yesterday identified Skowron and FrontPoint as the recipients of
Benhamou’s tips, prosecutors said. Skowron provided benefits to
Benhamou, including paying him more than $14,600 in cash as well
as other gratuities such as hotel rooms and expenses, the U.S.
said.  Bharara said Skowron’s arrest marks the 47th person to be
charged with  insider trading  as part of a U.S. probe of hedge
funds and so-called expert networkers in the last 18 months.  “This case shows once again that there are consequences
for casually breaking the laws against insider trading,”
Bharara said.  ‘Perfect Hedge’  Janice Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York office, said
yesterday the case is the latest in the office’s “Perfect
Hedge” investigation, initiated three years ago, which uses
traditional techniques used in organized crime investigations
while investigating insider trading at hedge funds. The probe
seeks to use court-authorized wiretaps, consensually-recorded
calls, analysis of phone and other records as well as
significant use of cooperating witnesses, she said.  Skowron appeared briefly yesterday before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Ronald Ellis, who agreed to release him on $6 million bond
secured by his Connecticut home and the signatures of three
financially-responsible people. He declined to speak to
reporters as he left the courthouse.  “Dr. Skowron intends to plead not guilty,” his lawyer
James Benjamin Jr. said in a statement. “We look forward to
responding to the allegations more fully in court at the
appropriate time.”  Guilty Plea  The SEC yesterday separately accused Skowron of insider
trading. Six hedge funds previously named as defendants in the
case agreed to settle and pay more than $33 million in
disgorgement and interest, without admitting or denying
wrongdoing, the SEC said.  Benhamou, of Neuilly-sur-Seine,  France , pleaded guilty
before U.S. District Judge George Daniels in  New York , said
 Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office. He has agreed
to cooperate with prosecutors, according to a plea agreement
unsealed yesterday. He was originally arrested and charged by
Bharara’s office with insider trading on Nov. 2.  Benhamou pleaded guilty to four counts, including
conspiracy, securities fraud, conspiracy to obstruct justice and
making false statements to the FBI during their investigation of
the expert-networking scheme. Securities fraud carries a term of
as long as 20 years in prison, court papers said.  “Dr. Benhamou has acknowledged his serious mistakes in
judgment and intends to live up to his obligations under his
cooperation agreement,” David M. Zornow, his lawyer, said in a
statement. “Dr. Benhamou’s conduct in this instance must fairly
be considered in the overall context of his extraordinary
contributions to his patients and to medical science.”  Benhamou is no longer a HGSI consultant and the company has
“cooperated fully” with the SEC, spokesman Jerry Parrott said
in November when Benhamou was arrested. Parrott didn’t return a
voice-mail message yesterday seeking comment about Skowron’s
case.  Oct. 20 Sentencing  Sentencing is for Oct. 20 before Daniels, said Zornow, a
partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  Skowron was named in a three-count felony complaint
unsealed yesterday in federal court in New York, charged with
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, securities fraud and
conspiracy to obstruct justice. He faces as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of securities fraud.  The U.S. alleges that between February 2008 and last
November, Skowron engaged in an insider-trading scheme to obtain
information from Benhamou. Skowron was in charge of FrontPoint’s
investments in publicly-traded drug companies involved in the
development of treatments for hepatitis C, a disease which
affects the liver, prosecutors said.  Clinical Trials  Benhamou, an expert in that field and a known participant
in the clinical trials of various hepatitis drugs, had access to
non-public information about “serious adverse effects” that
occurred during the Albuferon trials, the U.S. said.  Skowron arranged for telephone calls and meetings with
Benhamou and others through an unidentified expert-networking
firm that was advising FrontPoint, prosecutors said. The two met
after a meeting in 2006 where Albuferon clinical trials were
announced, the U.S. said.  While Skowron knew that Benhamou was engaged in drug trials
and had an obligation not to disclose the results of such
trials, he paid Benhamou for the information and traded on it
for FrontPoint, the U.S. said.  Skowron also signed an annual ethics statement with
FrontPoint agreeing to maintain the confidentiality of HGSI’s
material, non-public information and pledging not to
misappropriate or trade on it, the U.S. said.  Prosecutors described at least three payments Skowron made
to Benhamou, including one in Barcelona in April 2007, where
Skowron paid 5,000 euros ($7,223). In September 2007, Skowron
paid Benhamou more than $4,624 in cash in Manhattan, the U.S.
said.  Meeting in Milan  During a meeting in Milan in April 2008, Skowron gave
Benhamou an envelope containing at least $10,000 in cash after
telling Benhamou that he wanted to hire him as a consultant or
“permanent adviser,” the U.S. said.  Benhamou repeatedly shared with Skowron non-public
information he gleaned from working for Rockville, Maryland-
based HGSI, prosecutors said. From Feb. 1, 2007, through Dec. 3,
2007, the hedge fund bought about 6.2 million shares of HGSI for
about $64 million, at an average price of about $10.32 a share.  By late November 2007 and early December, HGSI learned that
during the third stage of the Albuferon trial, a participant
died and another developed a  lung disease  as a possible side-
effect of the drug, the U.S. said.  Benhamou and other members of the HGSI steering committee
discussed how to proceed with the trials by early December 2007,
the U.S. said. On Dec. 5, the company sent an e-mail to the
steering committee indicating that the trial’s independent
safety committee members believed the adverse effects required
further examination.  Instant Message  The U.S. said that Benhamou tipped off Skowron to the
concerns about Albuferon. On Dec. 7, 2007, Skowron sent an
instant message to a trader at the hedge fund, ordering the sale
of HGSI shares. On or about the same day, the safety committee
members “had become more alarmed” and were considering whether
to stop part of the trial, prosecutors said.  Two days later, Human Genome held a conference call with
steering committee members, which was scheduled partly to allow
Benhamou to participate while he was at a hepatitis conference.
Benhamou and Skowron exchanged e-mails that day, the U.S. said.  As a result, from Dec. 7, 2007, through Dec. 18, 2007,
FrontPoint sold about 2.9 million, or about 47 percent, of its
Human Genome shares at an average price of $10.65, the U.S.
said.  On Dec. 12, 2007, HGSI’s independent safety committee
agreed to permit the trial to continue. The panel said it would
meet again to halt part of the trial if more adverse events
occurred.  Safety Committee  By Jan. 17, 2008, HGSI recommended that a part of the
Albuferon trial be stopped. The next day, the company sent
Benhamou an e-mail describing the safety committee’s
recommendation and asking for his advice on how to convey that
in a news release, according to the U.S.  On Jan. 18, Skowron told a trader to “sell the hgsi”
adding “all of it,” Bharara said. On Jan. 22, the day before
the HGSI announced it would discontinue a portion of the trial,
Benhamou tipped Skowron to the news release over the telephone.  As a result, FrontPoint sold about 600,000 shares of HGSI
on Jan. 22, 2008, at an average price of $10.37, the U.S. said.  The next day, the company issued a press release about the
safety committee’s recommendation to stop part of the Albuferon
trial, prompting the stock to plunge 44 percent to $5.62.  Fund Closed  FrontPoint, which manages several hedge funds, closed its
health-care funds last year because of the probe. It was
subsequently spun off from Morgan Stanley in February.  The hedge fund had $7.5 billion under management at the
start of November, before the charges were brought against
Benhamou. The firm now manages $3 billion.  Skowron, whose employment contract at FrontPoint was
terminated in December, was previously an analyst at hedge funds
Millennium Partners LLC in New York and SAC Capital Advisors LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , according to FrontPoint’s marketing
documents dated September.  Skowron graduated with a Ph.D. in cellular and molecular
biology from  Yale University , according to the documents.  FrontPoint yesterday said in an investor letter that it had
entered into a settlement with the SEC and that the payment
won’t have any financial impact on the fund.  Amount Set Aside  “The alleged conduct of the former portfolio manager is
completely contrary to FrontPoint’s principles and represents a
clear violation of FrontPoint’s policy against insider
trading,” the hedge fund said yesterday in the letter.  FrontPoint said in the letter that no investor funds are
being used to pay for the SEC fine and that the settlement was
funded by an amount set aside before its February spin off from
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , meaning that the investment bank will be footing
the bill for the payment to the government.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment.  Steve Bruce , a FrontPoint spokesman,
declined to comment.  In January, the Regulatory Compliance Association hosted a
seminar on insider trading that drew 3,800 people, according to
Walter Zebrowski, chairman of the New York-based non-profit
group. That’s more than triple the number who registered for an
event on general enforcement issues in 2009, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-MAG-997, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  