-- 
G-7 Boosting Currency Reserves as UBS Sees Intervention Revival

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-04-14T18:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/g-7-nations-boosting-currency-reserves-as-ubs-senses-intervention-revival.html
Group of Seven governments are
boosting their currency reserves as strategists at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  detect the potential for more
intervention to quell exchange-rate swings in coming years.  G-7 finance ministers and central bankers meet in
Washington late today for the first time since uniting to sell
yen March 18, after avoiding such action for more than a decade.  They meet as Mansoor Mohi-uddin, UBS’s chief currency
strategist, suggests the growing risk of currency sell-offs in
the next decade means G-7 nations may increase reserves from
about $200 billion in the euro area and $50 billion each in the
U.S., U.K. and Canada. British and Canadian officials have
signaled they will raise their stockpiles to meet commitments to
the  International Monetary Fund .  Japan ’s now top $1 trillion.  “The more currency volatility we experience, the more
policy makers will seek the greater degree of comfort that comes
from a higher level of foreign-exchange reserves,” Singapore-
based Mohi-uddin said in a telephone interview. He calls greater
swings in currencies and interventions “mega-trends” for
investors to monitor.  The G-7 is composed of the U.S., Japan, Germany, France,
U.K., Canada and Italy. Its finance chiefs, including U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , will meet about 5:30 p.m.
Washington time. They may keep to their recent practice of not
making a statement, given that the G-20 meets tomorrow and is
now deemed the main forum for international economic policy.  Soaring Yen  Four weeks ago, the G-7 agreed to counter a soaring yen
after its rise to the highest level against the dollar since
World War II threatened Japan’s ability to recover from the
country’s record earthquake on March 11.  The intervention, the term used when governments buy or
sell their currencies, was the first by the G-7 since its
September 2000 effort to buoy the euro and suggested it still
carries clout at a time when some investors question the G-20’s
ability to find common ground. The effort worked, with the yen
falling 10 percent versus the dollar from its peak of 76.25 on
March 17.  ‘Call for Cooperation’  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in
 Washington  that he will use today’s meeting to “call for
cooperation when necessary, while closely monitoring the
 currency market .”  “Concerted interventions are an indispensable means of
safeguarding our international monetary system,” French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who chairs the G-20 this year, said
March 31, adding that they are an “instrument of the last
resort.”  Any newfound willingness to enter exchange markets would
mark a reversal from the G-7’s practice of the last decade, said
 Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at BNY Mellon in
London. Until the 2000s, interventions were more regular, with
U.S. Treasury  data  showing that in 1995 alone it intervened on
eight separate days.  That changed, with policy makers spending much of the past
decade speaking of the need for exchange rates to “reflect
economic fundamentals.” Derrick now senses a shift, citing an
October 2008 occasion when G-7 policy makers also hinted they
may tackle a soaring yen, and how the group didn’t criticize
Japan’s solo intervention last September. Among other rich
nations,  Switzerland  has also sought to restrain its franc.  “We’ve been quietly and slowly moving back to a world
where a more activist approach to FX markets could become a
little more of the norm,” Derrick said.  More Ammunition  That may require greater ammunition, given the size of the
$4-trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market. That’s the lesson
learned by emerging markets, which followed the Asian financial
crisis of the mid-1990s by boosting their reserves to protect
against investors dumping their currencies.  Mohi-uddin at UBS, the second-largest foreign-exchange
trader, calculates that global reserves now total more than $9
trillion, up from $2 trillion in 2000 and $1 trillion in 1990,
with  China ’s alone standing at about $3 trillion.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said March
23 that Britain has decided to “rebuild the U.K.’s foreign-
currency reserves, which are at a historically low level,”
while citing the need to meet higher IMF pledges as the main
reason. His plan will involve 6 billion pounds ($9.8 billion)
being added this year and a similar amount over each of the
subsequent three years, he said.  Canada , Japan  Canada’s March 22 budget, which failed to pass before the
country’s election, also featured an intention to increase its
reserves by about $10 billion, with the IMF also cited as a
rationale. Japan’s total has expanded about 18 percent since
January 2007 and in October reached $1.06 trillion, the most
since records began in April 2000.  Even if they bolster reserves, G-7 officials may remain
wary of intervening because the size of the market has more than
doubled since the late 1990s.  While he acknowledges some are increasing reserves to meet
IMF pledges,  Steve Barrow , a currency strategist at Standard
Charted Bank Plc, said there won’t be a return to the practice
of repeat interventions and currency accords.  Yen Campaign  The recent yen campaign was a reaction to a natural
disaster and increased interventions would conflict with the G-
7’s free-market ideology and calls for China to let the yuan
gain faster, he said.  “It looks a bit unfair to say you need a more flexible
exchange rate in China and then intervene like there’s no
tomorrow in your own currency,” said Barrow.  Rather than stabilizing markets, last month’s yen sales
also spurred instability,  David Bloom , global head of currency
strategy at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , told Bloomberg Television on
April 5. That’s because investors can now sell the yen in the
knowledge that the G-7 will likely offset any renewed rise, he
said.  “They’ve created a little monster here,” said Bloom.
“There’s nothing more a trader likes than a free trade. If my
yen position goes wrong the G-7 will be there to protect me and
if it goes right, happy days.”  As the G-20 is now the forum for coordinating global
policy, the G-7’s March intervention may also have made some in
the broader group “feel that they are not equal partners,”
said  Jim O’Neill , London-based chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management. The G-20 includes emerging markets such as China and
India.  Officials may be moving to address such complaints, with
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  telling reporters on
March 29 that exchange-rate discussions will migrate toward the
G-20 from the G-7 by the end of the year. Given the unwieldy
nature of the larger group, one option is for the topic to be
overseen by a sub-group consisting of the G-7, Brazil, Russia,
India and China.  “Needless to say, other G-20 countries are not too pleased
about these possibilities,” said O’Neill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 