-- 
MG Cars Revives Production Using Bolt-Together Chinese Parts

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-04-13T17:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/mg-cars-revives-u-k-output-with-bolt-together-parts-from-china.html
Britain’s iconic  MG  sports-car
brand began producing its first new model in the U.K. in 16
years today using bodyshells, engines and powertrains shipped
from China by Shanghai-based parent SAIC Motor Corp.  The MG6, a hatchback priced from 15,500 pounds ($25,000)
and with a top speed of 120 miles per hour (190 kmph), is being
produced for the U.K. market, with MG targeting as many as 3,000
sales this year, sales chief Guy Jones said in an interview.  SAIC inherited MG’s Longbridge plant in Birmingham through
its 2007 merger with Nanjing Automobile Group Corp., which had
bought the site after MG Rover, Britain’s biggest carmaker, went
bust with the loss of 6,500 jobs. SAIC had previously paid $116
million for Rover design rights and may be renewing U.K. output
as a prelude to selling a Chinese-built version of the MG6 in
 Europe , according to automotive analyst Peter Schmidt.  “It’s quite a cunning, window-dressing exercise to prepare
the public for the inevitability of Chinese-made cars being
imported into the U.K. market,” said Schmidt, managing director
of Warwick, England-based Automotive Industry Data. “I’d view
it as a pilot scheme, just to test the water.”  ‘Sports Fastback’  The MG6, designed by Tony Williams-Kenny, a former Rover
employee, has a 1.8 liter turbocharged petrol engine and can
accelerate from a standing start to 60 mph in 8.4 seconds.  The five-door car, which MG is styling a “sports fastback,”
goes on sale later this month via a network of 38 U.K.
dealerships, with a further 23 to be added “fairly soon,”
company spokesman Doug Wallace said.  Longbridge currently employs more than 300 designers and
engineers, and MG will also introduce a sedan version of the MG6
in the U.K. this summer, Wallace said. Future projects and
engine variants could lift production to “tens of thousands”
of vehicles in coming years, according to Jones.  SAIC,  China ’s biggest carmaker, is already producing the
MG6, which is based on the Rover-derived Roewe 550 model, in its
home market.  “The plan is to create a strong foothold in China and then
a presence in the key European markets,” Jones said on Bloomberg
Television’s The Pulse with Maryam Nemazee. “The next five years
will be a very exciting high growth period for our business.”  U.S. Market  It’s “too early to say” whether MG will target the U.S.,
previously one of its biggest markets, Wallace said, though
expansion into continental Europe will begin when a new diesel
engine becomes available next year.  Asian automakers have bought European assets to gain access
to technology and brands that will encourage sales.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold  Sweden ’s Volvo Cars to Zhejiang Geely
Holding Group Co. of China last year for $1.5 billion after
disposing of U.K.-based Jaguar Land Rover to  India ’s Tata Motors
Ltd. for $2.4 billion in 2008.  MG was cast aside by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in 2000 as
the world’s biggest luxury car maker unwound its 1994 takeover
of Rover Group, from which it retained only the Mini brand.  BMW had bought the U.K. company in 1994 for 1.2 billion
euros ($1.74 billion) and ended up losing 6 billion euros over
the next six years as the unit’s market share shrank, with the
results sparking the dismissal of then-CEO Bernd Pischetsrieder.  The German company sold MG Rover for a nominal 10 pounds to
Phoenix Venture Holdings, a private-equity firm run by ex-Rover
manager John Towers, before the venture collapsed owing 1.3
billion pounds in 2005.  MGB, Midget  MG was founded in 1924 near Oxford, becoming known for two-
seater sports cars including the MGA, Midget and MGB, which
ceased production in 1980 after the company was bought by the
precursor of Rover Group as the U.K. car industry consolidated.  For 12 years the MG badge was applied to sportier versions
of other models until Rover revived the two-seater in 1992 and
added the all-new MGF in 1995. Phoenix continued making the MGF
and new MG TF, together with rebadged models, with production
switching to China following the takeover by Nanjing Auto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  