-- 
Galleon’s Schutte Won’t Say Whether Hedge Funds Are ‘Highly’ Competitive

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/galleon-s-schutte-won-t-say-whether-hedge-funds-are-highly-competitive.html
Richard “Rick” Schutte, the ex-
president of hedge-fund company Galleon Group LLC, sparred with
a prosecutor at the insider-trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam over
the nature of competition, pressure and investor expectations.  After testifying for two days in Manhattan federal court on
behalf of Rajaratnam, Schutte, once Galleon’s head of research,
began fielding questions yesterday from Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Reed Brodsky , who asked him whether the hedge-fund industry is
competitive.  “I’m not going to say whether it’s highly or lowly”
competitive, Schutte answered. He was also noncommittal when
Brodsky asked about the pressure to perform well at Galleon.  “It’s the same as every other industry,” Schutte said.
“I don’t know what you mean by pressure.”  Asked if Galleon investors would be content with an annual
profit of 20 percent, a combative Schutte said, “I can’t speak
to what investors would be happy with.”  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager and co-founder of Galleon is accused
of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders
and hedge-fund traders. He denies wrongdoing, saying he based
his trades on research.  The cross-examination followed two days of questioning by
defense lawyer Michael Starr, who had Schutte review analyst
reports, news accounts, internal firm e-mails and other
documents designed to show that Rajaratnam’s trades were based
on Galleon research, not inside information.  Ten Hours  During about 10 hours of direct testimony, Schutte sought
to support the defense case that the trades by his ex-boss were
lawful. Prosecutors had claimed, for example, that Rajaratnam
possessed inside information that  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  would
acquire Starent Networks Corp.  Starr questioned Schutte about a dozen different analyst
reports from inside and outside of Galleon, many recommending
that the firm buy shares in Tewksbury, Massachusetts-based
Starent, which Rajaratnam did in 2009.  “Stock will pop,” Galleon’s Rengan Rajaratnam -- an
analyst and the defendant’s brother -- wrote in an e-mail that
year.  Schutte attempted to rebut accusations that Krish Panu, the
chief executive officer of @Road Inc., tipped Rajaratnam to
information that the company would be acquired by  Trimble
Navigation Ltd. (TRMB)  in December 2006. He said Rajaratnam had
selected @Road in March 2006 in Galleon’s internal “Best Stock
Idea” contest.  “His pick was a long,” Schutte testified, meaning that
Rajaratnam anticipated the shares would rise.  No Wiretaps  Schutte’s direct testimony contained no accounts of
government wiretaps, secret offshore payments or “e-mail
trails” to hide  insider trading , as prosecution witnesses had
described earlier in the trial. Rather, he told jurors about
price targets, corporate earnings releases and investment bank
ratings changes.  The tenor of the testimony changed when Brodsky began his
cross-examination. The prosecutor asked Schutte whether Galleon
investors wanted the firm to “cheat.”  “I don’t know what investors want,” Schutte replied.
“But that’s not a business plan I would put forth.”  As the cross-examination continued, Schutte grew more
responsive to Brodsky’s questions. He acknowledged that press
reports, which the defense suggested were a basis for some of
Rajaratnam’s trading, may not have been seen at Galleon.  Goldman Sachs  He also said that some outside analyst reports that the
defense had introduced into evidence may have contained
unreliable or contrary conclusions.  “We reviewed thousands and thousands of reports,” Schutte
said.  On April 12, the defense suggested on Schutte’s direct
examination that Rajaratnam bought shares in  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  in September 2008 because a Galleon consultant predicted
that Congress would inject billions of dollars into U.S. banks,
and not because he was tipped that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. would
invest $5 billion in the bank. Brodsky had Schutte testify that
Rajaratnam didn’t buy shares directly in other banks when he
purchased Goldman stock.  The prosecutor asked Schutte about a meeting he and
Rajaratnam had on July 31, 2008, with Goldman Sachs President
 Gary Cohn .  “You wouldn’t ask Mr. Gary Cohn for confidential
information that was discussed at a Goldman Sachs board
meeting?” Brodsky asked. Jurors earlier in the trial heard
testimony that Rajaratnam solicited such tips from a Goldman
Sachs board member.  “I think that’s a fair statement, yes,” Schutte said.  “Waiting for Superman”  The defense was permitted to interrupt the cross-
examination to summon as a character witness Geoffrey Canada,
creator of the Harlem Children’s Zone, a  New York  nonprofit
group focused on education. Canada, who was featured last year
in the documentary “Waiting for Superman,” said he met
Rajaratnam in the early 2000’s as he was soliciting donations.  “Raj and I hit it off right away,” Canada said, calling
Rajaratnam generous. “He has a genuine concern for children.”  Canada said he agreed to guarantee Rajaratnam’s
$100 million bond on the day of his friend’s arrest on Oct. 16,
2009.  “I would also like to say that I personally don’t have the
$100 million to guarantee,” Canada said to laughter in the
courtroom.  Schutte’s cross-examination will continue today. Summations
in the case are expected next week, the judge said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  