-- 
GE Says Report on Returning $3.2 Billion to Treasury a Hoax

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-13T17:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ge-says-report-on-returning-3-2-billion-tax-refund-to-treasury-is-a-hoax.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  refuted a
statement claiming the company would return a “$3.2 billion  tax
refund ” for 2010, following criticism of its tax rates and
policies.  “It is a hoax,” said Anne Eisele, a GE spokeswoman. The
statement, which purported to be from GE Communications, claimed
the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company was responding to a
“public outcry” and would “allow the public to decide how to
spend” the returned money.  Responsibility for the hoax was claimed by US Uncut, a
group protesting corporate tax issues and government service
cutbacks.  “By pretending GE did the right thing by re-gifting their
tax refund, we hold them accountable to that better future,”
said Andrew Boyd, a spokesman. “People are moving very fast and
are going to reprint the release, and we think there’s also an
unconscious motivation that they’re happy to see the news.”  The Associated Press mistakenly published a story based on
the fake statement, which was sent by e-mail and included a GE
logo and a link to a website designed to look like GE’s.  “The AP did not follow its own standards in this case for
verifying the authenticity of a news release,” Hal Ritter,
business editor, said in a story AP published about the event.  ‘Compliant Way’  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has said he’s happy
to defend GE’s  tax rate .  “Like any American, we do like to keep our tax rate low,”
Immelt said in a speech March 31 at the Economic Club of
 Washington . “But we do it in a compliant way, and there are no
exceptions.”  Immelt, who is also chairman of GE, commented after a March
24 report in the New York Times that GE had a tax bill of zero
in 2010, an assertion the company called misleading on its GE
Reports website.  GE refuted the tax bill claim specifically and  said  the
company received no rebate, refund or payment from the
government on its 2010 taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  