-- 
GE Tax Hoax Claimed by Activists Seeking $3.2 Billion Refund 'Re-Gifting'

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T21:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ge-tax-hoax-responsibility-claimed-by-activist-group-us-uncut.html
US Uncut, a group protesting
corporate tax issues and government service cutbacks, claimed
responsibility for a fake press release that said  General
Electric Co. (GE)  would return a "$3.2 billion  tax refund .”  The release, which was picked up by the  Associated Press ,
was part of the group’s effort to pressure companies to pay
their taxes, Andrew Boyd, a spokesman for the group, said in an
interview.  US Uncut  had the idea for the GE tax effort and then
cooperated on execution of it with a group known as the Yes Men,
which has been involved in similar hoaxes.  “By pretending GE did the right thing by re-gifting their
tax refund, we hold them accountable to that better future,”
said Boyd. “People are moving very fast and are going to
reprint the release, and we think there’s also an unconscious
motivation that they’re happy to see the news.”  The statement, which purported to be from GE
Communications, claimed the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
was responding to a “public outcry” and would “allow the
public to decide how to spend” the returned money. Earlier this
month, GE said on its  website  that it received no 2010 tax
rebate, refund or payment from the government.  GE fell 7 cents to $19.94 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Shares have risen 9 percent this
year.  GE Logo  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has said he’s
happy to defend the company’s  tax rate .  “Like any American, we do like to keep our tax rate low,”
Immelt said in a speech March 31 at the Economic Club of
 Washington . “But we do it in a compliant way, and there are no
exceptions.”  Immelt commented after a March 24 report in the New York
Times that GE had a tax bill of zero in 2010, an assertion the
company called misleading on its GE Reports  website .  The Associated Press said the fake release, which was sent
by e-mail, included a GE logo and a link to a website designed
to look like GE’s own site.  “The AP did not follow its own standards in this case for
verifying the authenticity of a news release,” said Hal Ritter,
business editor, in a story AP published about the event. US
Uncut had studied the font and language of previous GE press
releases, Boyd said.  Yes Men  Yes Men co-founder Mike Bonanno confirmed US Uncut’s
responsibility for the idea and his group’s help. He said that,
although GE has the right to take legal action, he thinks
misrepresenting the company’s actions in a comic way is part of
free speech and protected by the First Amendment.  “If you speak as GE, people listen,” said Bonanno. “If
we spoke as ourselves, no one would listen. We come clean with
our lies right away.”  The Yes Men have claimed responsibility for several other
political hoaxes, including issuing a fake press release by U.S.
Chamber of Commerce President  Thomas Donohue  in October 2009
that said the business group was reversing its position on
 climate change . The Chamber of Commerce sued the Yes Men and the
case is still ongoing, according to Bonanno.  History of Scams  Phony news releases in the past have caused sharp stock
price movements. On Aug. 25, 2000,  Emulex Corp. (ELX)  plunged as much
as 62 percent after a fake release said the maker of networking
products reversed its quarterly profit to a loss and was being
investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Days later, a 23-year-old community college student was charged
with defrauding the company’s investors.  Lucent Technologies Inc. temporarily lost about $7 billion
in market value on March 30, 2000 after a day-trader posted a
fake profit warning on a Yahoo! Internet message board. Last
year, PR Newswire transmitted a hoax press release that said
U.S. President  Barack Obama  had ordered a probe into  General
Mills Inc. (GIS) ’s supply chain.  This year,  California  made it a  crime  to impersonate
someone online with malicious intent. Pranksters imitating
another person can be fined up to $1,000 and spend a year in
jail. Victims can also file civil lawsuits for additional
damages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  