-- 
Ghana’s Inflation Slows First Time in Three Months in March

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-04-13T12:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ghana-s-inflation-slows-first-time-in-three-months-in-march-1-.html
Ghana ’s inflation slowed for the
first time in three months in March as the effects of a 30
percent increase in gasoline prices in January eased and the
cedi stabilized.  The inflation rate fell to 9.1 percent from 9.2 percent in
February,  Grace Bediako , a statistician at the  Ghana  Statistical
Service, told reporters today in the capital, Accra. Prices rose
1.1 percent in the month, she said.  The increase in gasoline prices on Jan. 4 by Ghana’s
National Petroleum Authority pushed inflation up to 9.1 percent
in January from 8.6 percent the month before. Price-growth had
slowed in the previous 18 months from a five-year high of 20.7
percent in June 2009.  “Although fuel prices are high, the effects in March were
moderate compared to the surge in prices in January,” Yvonne Mhango, a sub-Saharan Africa economist at  Renaissance Capital ,
said in an e-mailed note today.  The Ghanaian cedi has also stabilized, easing pressure on
the cost of imports. After falling as much as 5.7 percent
against the dollar this year, the cedi is now down 1.7 percent
against the U.S. currency.  Deteriorating Outlook  Food inflation accelerated to 4.7 percent in March from 4.6
percent the month before, while non-food inflation eased to 12
percent from 12.1 percent, Bediako said.  “Given the nature of price pressures, and the likelihood
of further currency vulnerability, the outlook for Ghana’s
inflation is rather a deteriorating one,”  Razia Khan , London-
based head of Africa research at Standard Chartered Bank Plc
said, in an e-mailed note today. “It does not matter that
inflation is well behaved now.”  Slowing inflation enabled the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 4.5 percentage points last year. The last
reduction in July took the rate to 13.5 percent from 15 percent.
The rate was maintained for the third consecutive meeting at
13.5 percent on Feb. 18.  “The inflation print will buy the  Bank of Ghana  some time,
allowing it to monitor all economic variables before making that
tightening decision,” Khan said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 