-- 
Glencore Starts $11 Billion IPO as Goldman Says Flee Commodities

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-04-14T17:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/glencore-seeks-11-billion-ipo-as-goldman-says-flee-commodities.html
Glencore International AG is
starting the year’s largest initial public offering, valuing the
company at as much as $60 billion, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
urges a retreat from commodities and IPO investors shun the U.K.  The Swiss commodities trader plans to sell as much as $11
billion in shares in  London  and  Hong Kong , it said today in a
statement. The IPO may value Glencore at about $55 billion to
$60 billion, said two people with knowledge of the sale, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.  Goldman said this week the risks of investing in
commodities outweigh potential gains, dropping its
recommendation to buy a basket of raw materials including crude
oil, copper, cotton and platinum. Three companies have shelved
plans for a London IPO this month as Europe’s debt woes and a
nuclear crisis in  Japan  sap investor demand.  “They have been a private-run company and made a truck-
load of money and you’d have to think that these guys would have
more market intelligence than most,” said Ric Ronge, who helps
manage the equivalent of $1.3 billion at Pengana Global
Resources Fund in Melbourne, adding that he will study the IPO
pricing. “In the near term we wouldn’t be surprised if there
was a correction or a pull-back but the long-term story is still
very much intact.”  Glencore is targeting $6.8 billion to $8.8 billion from a
sale of new stock, while existing holders may sell $2.2 billion
in shares for tax purposes, it said. Pricing may be announced
around May 19, according to a term sheet for the offering.  FTSE Entry  The company will use the funds for expansion and
acquisitions, according to the statement. The IPO includes an
overallotment option, known as the greenshoe, of 10 percent of
the offer, which may increase the total proceeds to $12.1
billion. Glencore is likely to be included in the FTSE-100 Index
on the first day of trading in London, it said.  “I wouldn’t completely rule out participating, but I can’t
say that I’m naturally drawn to the business because of my
perception that commodities trading is unpredictable,” said  Ian Henderson , who manages $10 billion of natural-resources stocks
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “It’s obviously extremely
well run and presumably with a little bit more firepower the
company can succeed in growing its market share.”  A valuation of as much as $60 billion would place Glencore
within $10 billion of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the world’s sixth-
largest mining company by market value, and ahead of  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , one of the biggest commodity traders on Wall Street.  Murray as Chairman  Glencore named Simon Murray as non-executive chairman.
Murray, who retired from the board of Vodafone Group Plc last
year, is currently based in Hong Kong and is the founder and
executive chairman of  General Enterprise Management Services , as
well as director of Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd.  Glencore appointed  Tony Hayward , former chief executive
officer of BP Plc, as a senior independent director and Peter
Coates, Leonhard Fischer, William Macaulay and Li Ning as non-
executive directors. CEO Ivan Glasenberg and Chief Financial
Officer Steven Kalmin will remain in their roles, it said.  Commodities, which jumped 20 percent last year, slumped the
most in four weeks on April 12 as Japan’s nuclear crisis raised
investor concern the global economic recovery will slow. This
year’s 16 percent advance in the S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials is helping to drive up inflation, spurring central
banks to consider higher  interest rates  that may hamper growth.  About $5 billion will be allocated to capital spending over
the next three years, Glencore said. It agreed to pay $3.2
billion to local partners to increase its stake in Kazakhstan-
based metals producer TOO Kazzinc to 93 percent from 50.7
percent. The purchase will be funded by $2.2 billion in cash and
$1 billion in new Glencore shares, it said.  IPOs Postponed  U.K. vacuum-pumps maker Edwards Group Plc, Indian
billionaire Gautam Thapar’s BILT Paper Plc and Internet-payment
provider Skrill Group Plc deferred London IPOs this month citing
a lack of investor demand. That’s the biggest monthly number
since November 2007, when three IPOs were pulled in the city,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s been a rough environment for European IPOs and
investors are being very selective,” said Josef Schuster,
founder of Chicago-based IPOX Capital Management LLC, which
oversees about $2.5 billion. “It should have little impact on
Glencore because it’s got a secondary portion in Hong Kong, and
a deal of this nature will attract investors around the world.”  No IPOs have been canceled in Hong Kong this year, even as
Japan’s earthquakes prompted a global market selloff, Bloomberg
data show. Fifteen companies have raised $2.6 billion in the
city this year.  Close Partnership  Glencore, which changed its name from Marc Rich & Co. after
management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier Marc Rich
in 1994, is ending more than three decades of operating as a
closely held partnership.  “It’s a bit of a one-of-a-kind, this offering, a very
special company, an unusual sector and set of risks that
investors do not necessarily have a chance to get exposure to
typically,” Henri Alexaline, an analyst at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA in
London, said yesterday by phone. “As things stand, I don’t
think that we will see this transaction being derailed.”  Glasenberg, who has been with the trader since 1984 and
CEO for nine years, is set to benefit from the share sale along
with other executives of the company, which is owned by senior
management. Blackstone Group LP paid its founders  Stephen Schwarzman  and Peter G. Peterson $2.33 billion after its IPO in
June 2007, which raised $4 billion.  Lock-Up  Executive directors have entered into a lock-up agreement
for their stock until five years after the IPO, with a staggered
release after the first year, Glencore said in the statement.  “All the partners are still invested for the long term; no
one is taking money off the table,” Glasenberg said in a phone
interview. “We are not aiming to catch the top of the cycle and
do the IPO right at the top of the cycle.”  An increase in prices for metals including copper, aluminum
and nickel helped boost Glencore’s profit 39 percent to $3.8
billion in 2010. Sales rose to $145 billion from $106.4 billion,
ranking the Baar, Switzerland-based company behind Vitol Group,
which reported revenue of $195 billion.  Glasenberg said today there would be “good value” in
combining the company with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the Zug, Switzerland-
based miner that’s 34 percent held by Glencore.  “Any consideration of this matter will be for the new
board post the IPO,” Glasenberg said. “We’ve always said there
would be good value in putting the two companies together but
this is not a decision for today.”  Glencore Holdings  Glencore also owns 8.8 percent of United Co. Rusal, the
largest aluminum producer, 74 percent of  Katanga Mining Ltd. (KAT)  and
71 percent of Australian nickel miner Minara Resources Ltd. It
has stakes in Century Aluminum Co. and zinc producer Nyrstar NV.  “What Glencore really tries to achieve by the listing is
to get currency for further acquisitions which allows them to do
larger deals,” IPOX’s Schuster said. “When raw-material prices
were much lower five years ago, it would be good for investors
but now it’s a big risk. Given current commodity prices, it’s
possible that Glencore will overpay for the acquisitions.”  A 2009 convertible bond sale, raising $2.2 billion and the
company’s first such offering, attracted investors including
BlackRock Inc., Government of Singapore Investment Corp., Zijin
Mining Group Co. and First Reserve Corp. and valued Glencore at
$35 billion, it said at the time.  “Glencore’s IPO is good news for all debt holders but a
particularly good payday for the strategic investors holding
Glencore’s convertible bond,” said Miriam Hehir, director of
credit research at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “They will
almost double their money in a timeframe of 17 months.”  Conservative Value  The company’s 2010 profit indicates that a value of $60
billion may be “conservative,” given typical earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization multiples in the
industry, RBC said March 3. Glencore posted Ebitda of $6.2
billion for last year.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  valued the company pre-IPO at $52
billion to $70 billion, according to a research note sent to
investors and obtained by Bloomberg News today.  UBS AG (UBSN)  valued
Glencore at $51.6 billion to $67.1 billion, it said in a note.
Both banks are bookrunners for the IPO.  Glencore employs 2,700 people at trading units across 40
nations and about 54,800 people at its industrial units in more
than 30 countries, according to today’s statement. It’s the
largest shareholder in Xstrata, with a $24 billion stake.  Progressive Dividend  The company plans to pursue a “progressive” dividend
policy and maintain or increase its payout each year. Interim
dividends will represent about one-third of the total ordinary
dividend each year, it said, adding that a $350 million interim
payout will be declared in August, equating to a full-year
dividend of more than $1 billion.  Rich founded the company in 1974 after spending more than
20 years at Philipp Bros., then the biggest commodities trader.
He sold his share to management 20 years later and the company
was renamed  Glencore , short for “global energy commodity
resources.”  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Morgan Stanley
will manage the IPO as global coordinators, along with Bank of
America and BNP Paribas as joint bookrunners, according to the
statement.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and UBS were
appointed co-bookrunners and Liberum Capital Ltd. as a syndicate
member. Glencore expects the offer to be completed in May.  Goldman Sachs, this year’s biggest manager for share sales
worldwide, wasn’t selected.  “There’s a buzz in general about this particular IPO, it’s
been talked about so much,” BNP’s Alexaline said. “There is
definitely an excitement and euphoria around. Maybe it’s a
little bit too excessive, but from that standpoint it’s really
one of the hot stories this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net . 