-- 
MGM Resorts Gains Control of Macau Casino as Ho Sells Stake

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-04-14T07:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/mgm-resorts-to-take-control-of-macau-casino-with-ho-stake-ipo.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the
casino company founded by billionaire  Kirk Kerkorian , will gain
control of its Macau joint venture by acquiring shares from
partner  Pansy Ho .  Ho will sell 1 percent of MGM  China  Holdings Ltd. to
Kerkorian’s company, lifting his stake in the venture to 51
percent, the companies in a statement yesterday. Ho also plans
to sell as much as 23 percent of the business in a Hong Kong
initial public offering.  Majority control will enable MGM Resorts to consolidate
the Macau operation on its books and take advantage of a
gambling destination where  revenue  is four times that of the
 Las Vegas Strip . Ho’s sale follows a family dispute that ended
with her and some family members getting a stake in the company
that controls  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) , which her father built into
Asia’s biggest casino operator.  “Everyone will be a bit relieved now as the control from
Pansy is reduced after what happened to the Ho family,”
Gabriel Chan, a Hong Kong-based consumer and gambling analyst
for Credit Suisse Group AG, said in by phone today. “The
structure is different from what the market expected.”  Shun Tak Holdings Ltd. (242) , a property developer that also
operates ferry services from Hong Kong to Macau, rose as much
as 8.9 percent to HK$4.90, the biggest intraday gain in four
months. Ho is managing director of Shun Tak, which traded at
HK$4.84 as of 3:07 p.m. Hong Kong time.  Convertible Notes  Ho, a daughter of casino billionaire  Stanley Ho , will also
purchase $300 million of MGM Resorts’ convertible senior notes
due 2015. The agreements are subject to regulatory approval and
the IPO should be completed by June 30, MGM Resorts said. Ho
wasn’t available for comment.  MGM Resorts, the largest casino operator on the  Las Vegas
Strip , climbed $1.09, or 8.6 percent, to $13.70 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The gain was the biggest in
five months.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau unit of billionaire Sheldon Adelson, led Hong Kong-listed casino operators higher today,
gaining as much as 5.3 percent to HK$20.70, an intraday record,
before trading at HK$20.40 as of 3:07 p.m. local time.  MGM Resorts’ half stake in the venture with Ho delivered
$129.6 million operating income in 2010. The company follows
 Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  in listing a
minority stake in its Macau venture.  ‘Growing so Rapidly’  “Ownership in a property in Macau is the last thing any
casino companies want to give up at this point, because it’s
growing so rapidly and it’s been so profitable,”  David Katz , a
New York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a phone
interview yesterday. Katz recommends owning MGM Resorts’ stock
and has a price estimate of $17 on the shares.  MGM Resorts has lost 9 percent of its market value over
the past year, compared with an 84 percent gain for Las Vegas
Sands and a 56 percent increase for Wynn Resorts.  Casino gambling revenue in Macau soared 58 percent last
year to 188.3 billion patacas ($23.5 billion), about four times
more than the Las Vegas Strip, according to government data.
The gains continued in the first quarter with a 43 percent
surge.  The Macau casino repaid $192 million in loans to MGM
Resorts last year.  Cotai Strip  The partners previously announced plans to develop a
second Macau casino on the Cotai Strip, an isthmus of reclaimed
land connecting two offshore islands in the former Portuguese
colony.  MGM China is one of six licensed Macau casino operators.
It competes with Sands China, Wynn Resorts’  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128) ,
and Asia-based  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , Stanley Ho’s SJM
Holdings Ltd. and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)   SJM, which runs most of Macau’s 33  casinos , rose 1.5
percent to HK$16.22 in Hong Kong trading and has more than
tripled in value over the past year.  Stanley Ho gave up almost all his holding in Sociedade de
Turismo e Diversoes de Macau SA to resolve a family dispute
that led to two lawsuits. Pansy Ho and some family members got
25.538 percent of STDM, as the company is known, while SJM
Managing Director Angela Leong On Kei, mother of Ho’s youngest
children, was given 6 percent. STDM owns 56 percent of SJM,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  