-- 
Senate Panel Says Goldman Bet Against Clients, Misled Congress

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T23:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/goldman-sachs-cdos-bet-against-clients-misled-congress-senate-panel-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  designed,
marketed and sold collateralized debt obligations that misled
investors and created conflicts of interest as the company built
short positions before the U.S. housing market collapsed, a
Senate panel said in its report on the financial crisis.  In the case of one CDO, Hudson Mezzanine, Goldman Sachs
told investors its interests were aligned with theirs while the
firm held 100 percent of the short side, according to the report
released today by the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who
leads the panel, urged regulators to review all of the
structured finance transactions described in the report.  At a briefing today, Levin said he believed Goldman Sachs
executives weren’t truthful about the company’s transactions in
testimony before the subcommittee at an April 2010 hearing. He
said he would refer the testimony to the  Justice Department  for
possible perjury charges.  “In my judgment, Goldman clearly misled their clients and
they misled the Congress,” Levin said.  With today’s release, the Senate panel completes a two-year
investigation of mortgage firms, federal regulators and Wall
Street banks highlighted by the expletive-laden interrogation of
Goldman Sachs executives including Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  a year ago this month.  “Our investigation found a financial snake pit rife with
greed, conflicts of interest, and wrongdoing,” Levin told
reporters today.  Public Hearings  Levin and Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , the panel’s top
Republican, held four public  hearings  on the financial crisis
last year, examining regulatory failures, the collapse of
 Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , the role of credit-rating firms in
fueling bets on high-risk debt and the business practices of
Goldman Sachs and rival investment banks.  The report comes less than a year after Goldman Sachs paid
$550 million to resolve Securities and Exchange Commission
claims that it misled investors in a collateralized debt
obligation and its executives were called to testify before two
congressional panels and a commission formed to investigate the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. A committee
of Goldman Sachs employees led by E. Gerald Corrigan and J.
Michael Evans released 39 recommendations on Jan. 11 for the
company to reform its business practices.  The Senate report also faults  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , saying the
Frankfurt-based company created a $1.1 billion CDO with assets
that its traders referred to as “crap” and then attempted to
sell “before the market falls off a cliff.”  The subcommittee urged regulators to “identify any
violations of law” in the investment-bank transactions
described in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  