-- 
Google Has Largest Share of U.S. Searches as Microsoft Gains, Yahoo Slips

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-13T20:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/google-microsoft-s-bing-gain-share-in-march-u-s-online-search.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  gained share in the
U.S. online-search market last month, according to  ComScore
Inc. (SCOR) , a sign that it may be benefiting from changes aimed at
weeding out results that are of little value to users.  The company, reversing two months of declines, had 65.7
percent of searches in March, an increase from 65.4 percent in
February, said Reston, Virginia-based ComScore.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
also gained share, while Yahoo! Inc.’s portion shrank.  Google aims to improve the relevance of results while
facing scrutiny from regulators who are exploring whether the
company uses its lead in search to thwart rivals. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission is weighing a broad antitrust
investigation, people familiar with the matter said this month.  Microsoft’s Bing search engine had 13.9 percent of searches
in March, up from 13.6 percent a month earlier, its eighth
consecutive monthly gain. Yahoo’s share slipped to 15.7 percent,
from 16.1 percent, after being unchanged the previous month.  Google in February altered the way it carries out Web
searches to feature more “high-quality” sites, affecting 12
percent of queries. It was responding to complaints that
spammers and websites game its system to receive prominent
placement.  Social Search  In another tweak aimed at making its search tool more
appealing, Google last month announced features to make the
query results and related advertising more social, letting users
tell their friends whether they like a particular result.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , gained $5.67,
or 1 percent, to $576.28 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The shares have declined 3 percent this year.  The European Commission and Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott have begun investigations into whether Google is skewing
its search results to favor its own businesses over competitors’
websites.  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat who heads a
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, has said he will examine
Google’s business practices, and Senator  Mike Lee  of Utah, the
panel’s senior Republican, has called for hearings.  Earlier this month, Google’s $700 million purchase of ITA
Software Inc. was approved by the U.S. Justice Department after
an eight-month review, on the condition it makes travel data
available to search-engine rivals and creates an appeals process
to handle complaints that it’s acting unfairly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  