-- 
Gulf Rulers Welcoming Arab Democracy Anywhere But Home May Store Up Unrest

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-14T11:16:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/gulf-rulers-backing-democracy-anywhere-but-home-may-risk-unrest.html
Persian Gulf rulers say they
understand that this year’s wave of pro-democracy uprisings has
changed the Middle East. So far, they haven’t allowed it to
change their own countries.  None of the region’s monarchies has taken steps to broaden
political participation that match the spending pledges they
have offered since the start of the unrest that toppled
 Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak .
Instead, the rhetoric about a new era in the Arab world, and the
cash handouts for homes and social security, have been
accompanied by police repression.  Protests have already reached Bahrain, Oman,  Kuwait  and the
eastern province of Saudi Arabia this year. The reluctance of
the Gulf Arab leaders, who control about two-fifths of the
world’s oil, to loosen their grip on power may leave more of
them vulnerable to the wave of unrest that has already pushed
crude prices up more than 20 percent.  “What we have learned from the uprisings in general, and
from Tunisia and Egypt in particular, is that it’s really a
matter of when,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at
 Brookings Institution ’s Doha Center, in a telephone interview.
“Autocracies don’t last forever.”  Oman’s Foreign Minister Yusuf Bin Alawi Bin Abdullah told
Arab counterparts in Cairo last month that regional leaders need
“new thinking” to deal with the “Arab renaissance.” In Abu
Dhabi, then-GCC Secretary-General Abdul Rahman Al-Attiyah said
that “political participation has become a key demand for
development.”  ‘Hydrocarbon Dictatorships’  Qatar’s ruler, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, said in
February that change was coming to the region and that  Europe 
shouldn’t support “hydrocarbon dictatorships” in return for
economic benefits, according to Al Sharq newspaper. He didn’t
say which countries fall into that category.  Qatar, Oman,  Saudi Arabia  and the other three Gulf
Cooperation Council members are listed as authoritarian regimes
in the 2010  Democracy Index  of the Economist Intelligence Unit.  The region’s leaders must convert ideas about change into
concrete steps that will “improve the relationship between the
state and the people,” said Prince Turki Al-Faisal, former
Saudi ambassador to the U.S. “We have to change words into
actions, actions that are arduous,” he said in a lecture in Abu
Dhabi March 21.  Some countries have begun to act. Sultan Qaboos of Oman
agreed last month to boost the powers of the nation’s
consultative council; the  United Arab Emirates  announced Sept.
24 elections to the Federal National Council, an advisory body;
Saudi Arabia said it will hold municipal elections in September,
while backtracking from earlier signals that women would be
allowed to vote.  Saudi ‘Counter-Revolution’  Those measures, though, don’t involve real transfers of
power, Hamid said. Repression has been a more typical response,
with Saudi Arabia as “the leader of the Arab counter-
revolution,” he said. “They are fighting change tooth and
nail.”  Saudi Arabia’s Information Ministry declined to comment and
no one was available to comment at the Saudi Foreign Ministry or
the U.A.E.’s federal government or Federal National Council, in
response to repeated phone calls over two days.  The prospect of unrest spreading to the world’s biggest oil
exporter drove the benchmark Saudi stock index into a 13-day
losing streak through March 5, the longest since 1996. Crude for
May delivery rose above $112 a barrel last week, the highest
since September 2008.  ‘Not Very Worried’  The political upheaval in the Middle East has left markets
“pricing in an element of uncertainty,” said Arthur Hanna, an
industry managing director at  Accenture Plc .  Saudi oil wealth will help it escape the wave of unrest
even though unemployment is high and civil rights limited, said
Kai Stukenbrock of Standard & Poor’s. “We are not very worried
about that scenario,” Stukenbrock, S&P’s director of sovereign
ratings for Europe, the Middle East and  Africa , said March 7.  Simon Henry, chief financial officer at  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , also backed the kingdom to navigate through the political
tensions. “It has the resources, it has the established
capability to handle some of the unrest it may face,” Henry
said on March 8.  One risk to Saudi stability is the succession to  King Abdullah , who turns 87 this year, Henry said. Crown Prince
Sultan is also in his 80s. Next in line is Prince Nayef, the
septuagenarian interior minister who filled central Riyadh with
police to block a planned demonstration March 11, after rallies
by Shiite Muslims in the oil-producing eastern provinces.  Bahrain Crackdown  Saudi rulers offered asylum to Ben Ali, backed Mubarak
before his ouster, and sent troops to Bahrain to support a
crackdown by Sunni royals that has left more than 20 protesters
dead, mostly from the country’s Shiite majority.  The violence in Bahrain showed unrest can be expensive even
when it doesn’t lead to regime change. It pushed borrowing costs
more than 150 basis points higher and Bahrain’s credit rating at
 Standard & Poor’s  three steps lower, and dented efforts to
compete with Dubai as the region’s business hub.  Qatar and the U.A.E. both sent troops to Bahrain to help
the government quell protests. In  Libya , they are on the
opposition’s side, backing a U.S.-led military campaign to help
the rebels fighting  Muammar Qaddafi . Qatar will “look at” the
possibility of providing defense equipment to the insurgents,
Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim Al-Thani said yesterday.  ‘Digging In Heels’  Dubai police on April 8 arrested Ahmed Mansour, a human
rights campaigner, prompting  Human Rights Watch  to criticize the
U.A.E. for “digging in its heels” against democratic reforms.
Two more activists, including an economics professor at the  Abu
Dhabi  branch of  France ’s Sorbonne university, were arrested in
the next two days. In Oman, two people have been killed as
police broke up protest rallies.  Saudi Arabia has also led the spending spree. King Abdullah
ordered $128 billion of measures, including $90 billion on
house-building and home loans, that will help the economy grow
6.6 percent this year, Standard Chartered Plc estimates.  “The enormity of the stimulus package will help the region
overall,” as it’s too much for the Saudi economy to absorb
alone, and reduce the risk of civil unrest, Said Hirsh at
London-based Capital Economics said in a March 21 report.  GCC spending is another reason to expect high  oil prices ,
according to John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Bank Saudi
Fransi. Saudi Arabia needs a price of at least $80 per barrel,
higher than previous breakeven figures, to finance its budget,
he calculated.  ‘Money Lying Around’  The GCC has promised $10 billion apiece to Bahrain and Oman
to help assuage protesters. The U.A.E. allocated $1.6 billion
for water and infrastructure projects in northern emirates that
lag behind Dubai and Abu Dhabi.  Spending conceived as a way of avoiding political change
may end up fuelling popular demands, said Christopher Davidson,
author of “Power and Politics in the Persian Gulf Monarchies.”  “You have the people in Saudi Arabia, for example, now
asking: ‘If all that money was lying around all this time, why
wasn’t it used on us earlier?’,” Davidson said. “These rulers
are just reacting to the events around them, and their citizens
know it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 