-- 
Libya Rebels Seek $2 Billion Loan, Allies Ponder Next Steps

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i ,   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-14T10:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/libyan-rebels-seek-2-billion-loan-as-allies-ponder-steps-in-qaddafi-fight.html
Libyan rebels want to borrow at
least $2 billion to buy food, medicine, fuel and perhaps weapons
as their foreign allies agreed on the need to do more to help
them prevail over Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  Members of the so-called Libyan contact group said in a
statement in Qatar that they may create a “temporary financial
mechanism” to finance the rebels using Libyan government assets
frozen abroad.  Short-term loans are “an option on the table that we
discussed” at the Qatar meeting, Ali Tarhouni, the Interim
Transitional National Council’s finance minister, said in an
interview in Benghazi. The borrowing, which may be for as long
as two years, could be repaid when Libyan assets are unfrozen,
Tarhouni said. Reserves at the rebels’ central bank in Benghazi
may not be enough to cover import needs for a month, he said.  The contact group, which includes the U.S., the U.K.,
 France  and other countries lending military support, agreed at
the meeting that “Qaddafi and his regime had lost all
legitimacy and he must leave power, allowing the Libyan people
to determine their own future,” according to a statement
released yesterday after the meeting in Doha.  Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim Al-Thani said his
country would “look into” supplying military equipment to the
rebels. In London, Prime Minister  David Cameron  told the  BBC 
that the U.K. would provide body armor.  Anglo-French Commitment  Libya  has been effectively split in two since the early
stages of the two-month conflict, a division that has helped
push  oil prices  up 25 percent. Crude for May delivery dropped
0.2 percent to $106.85 a barrel at 6 a.m. in  New York . It
reached a 2 1/2-year high of $112.79 a barrel on April 8.  Libya holds  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves. Qatar confirmed
April 12 that it is marketing Libyan oil on behalf of the
opposition and is providing energy products to Benghazi.  NATO airstrikes against Qaddafi’s military since March 19
haven’t stopped artillery attacks and sniper fire on cities such
as Misrata, in the west of the country, or enabled the rebels to
take and permanently hold strategic towns such as the oil port
of Ras Lanuf.  Eight rebels were killed in an attack by government forces
near Misrata, Al Jazeera television reported today.  No Let-Up  Cameron and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who met in
Paris yesterday, reaffirmed their commitment to ousting Qaddafi
and called for no let-up in air attacks, according to a French
official, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified.
The leaders agreed that arming the rebels wouldn’t violate the
United Nations embargo, the official said.  There are divisions among NATO countries over the means to
achieve democracy in Libya, though the allies are united around
that goal, French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  told reporters in
Berlin today.  Libya’s Foreign Minister Abdul-Ati al-Obeidi said Qaddafi
is seeking a political solution to the war along the lines of
this week’s  African Union  proposal involving a withdrawal of
troops from civilian areas, according to his Cypriot counterpart
Markos Kyprianou, who met Obeidi in Nicosia today. Libya’s
government will cooperate with the European Union and
international organizations over aid supplies, Obeidi said,
according to Kyprianou.  The rebels rejected the African plan because it didn’t
specify Qaddafi’s departure.  NATO foreign ministers, including U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , meet today in Berlin to consider what further
actions might be taken by the alliance, which has been stymied
in its effort to stop the assault on Misrata.  ‘Protected Zone’  Qaddafi’s actions in Misrata may constitute  war crimes ,
Clinton said in a statement yesterday. She gave no indication of
what additional steps NATO can take to stop it.  The rebels’ interim government appealed to the  United
Nations  to declare Misrata an “internationally protected zone”
and help prevent “a massacre of men, women and children” in
the besieged city.  “There is fighting going on and electricity and water have
been cut off throughout the city,” making it difficult to
distribute aid that reaches Misrata by sea, Abdulhamid Elmadani,
secretary-general of the Libyan Red Crescent, said in an
interview yesterday in Benghazi. He said three other west Libyan
towns, with an estimated 15,000 people in each, are in even
worse straits as they lack the port that enables deliveries to
reach Misrata.  More than 1,000 people have been killed and “several
thousand” wounded in Misrata in the six-week siege, according
to Suleiman Fortia, a spokesman for the rebels’ council.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  