-- 
Iceland Social Democrat Government Survives Confidence Vote

-- B y   O m a r   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-13T22:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/iceland-social-democrat-government-survives-confidence-vote-1-.html
Iceland’s Social Democrat-led
government survived a parliamentary vote of no confidence today,
with 32 lawmakers in the 63-member  Althingi  backing the
coalition.  Twenty-nine opposition lawmakers supported the no-
confidence vote, joined by one legislator from the  Left Green
Movement , a partner in the ruling coalition, according to the
results posted on the Althingi’s website. One opposition
lawmaker abstained.  “We’re bringing the government a message from the nation,
stating that it’s no longer trusted,” Bjarni Benediktsson,
chairman of the opposition Independence Party, told the
Reykjavik-based parliament today when he presented his motion to
topple the government. “However, this isn’t only about the
government. With a demand for general elections, we’re offering
a new beginning and giving the people of Iceland a choice on
what route to take out of the circumstances we’re now facing.”  Benediktsson wanted the parliament to be suspended on May
11 and general elections held immediately after that, he said.
Polls indicate that if elections were held now, his bloc would
be expected to win.  Most Popular  The Independence Party, which presided over the
privatization of Iceland’s banks through the 1990s, is the
country’s most popular political group, according to an April 4
poll by Capacent Gallup. The party, whose 18-year rule was
brought to an end by Iceland’s 2008 financial crisis, enjoyed
35.8 percent support in the poll, compared with 22.4 percent
backing for Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir’s Social
Democrats.  The same poll gave the Social Democrat-Left Green coalition
39.3 percent support, compared with 54.3 percent backing for the
opposition.  “We were handed the bankruptcy of libertarianism and greed
after one of the greatest bankruptcy of all times,”
Sigurdardottir told lawmakers in Reykjavik today. “The
government’s task have been winding down the collapse and create
opportunities for progress. I assert that we’ve been
successful.”  Infringement Proceedings  Iceland faces a yearlong international court battle as the
U.K. and the Netherlands try to ensure that they are repaid
after covering depositor claims stemming from the failure of
Landsbanki Islands hf in 2008. The outcome of the legal battle
is “clearly uncertain” while the economic impact of the
process is “extremely hard to quantify,” Danske Bank chief
analyst Lars Christensen said yesterday.  In a referendum on April 9, almost 60 percent of voters
rejected a bill setting the terms for compensating the British
and Dutch governments. The vote was triggered by President
Olafur R. Grimsson’s Feb. 20 decision to veto the bill, even
though it had been approved by the government and passed by a
two-thirds majority in the Althingi.  The European Free Trade Association’s Surveillance
Authority in May last year started infringement proceedings
against Iceland under its obligation to cover all depositor
claims. Those proceedings, which had been halted during
Iceland’s parliamentary handling of Icesave -- as the deposit
accounts offered by Landsbanki were called -- will now be
resumed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  