-- 
Mickey Mantle’s American Story; Don Meyer’s Luck: Sports Books

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/mickey-mantle-s-great-american-story-coach-don-meyer-s-luck-sports-books.html
Was there ever another baseball
hero quite like  Mickey Mantle ? He had that swing, that sense of
style. He could bat from both the right and the left. And he had
the shattering tragedy of his World Series knee injury.  Even his name was magic -- “soft, flowing sounds that
conveyed his grace, alternating with hard, tough consonants that
suggested his power,’’ Jane Leavy writes in “ The Last Boy:
Mickey Mantle and the End of America’s Childhood ” (Harper,
$27.99), a classic biography of an iconic figure.  “With his aura of limitless potential, Mantle was America
incarnate,’’ Leavy says. “His raw talent, the unprecedented
alloy of speed and power, spoke directly to our postwar
optimism.’’ Plus he could hit; six of his World Series records
still stand, including 18 home runs and 42 runs batted in.  Mantle’s was a great American story -- his father was a
miner who scratched the earth, Mantle himself a star who soared
to great heights -- with a sad, even tragic ending, caused
mostly by women and drink and his inability to resist either.  Leavy portrayed another hero of the time,  Sandy Koufax , in
an unforgettable 2002  biography , and in some ways her Mantle is
even more affecting. Like Koufax, he is an innocent, touched
with magical gifts, tortured by fateful vulnerabilities. And
like Koufax, Mantle (who “wrote’’ several autobiographies) will
be remembered not only for what he did on the field but also by
what Leavy wrote on the page.  ‘Say It Loud’  Mantle never had it easy, but at least he didn’t have a
racial barrier to overcome. Josh Gibson, Bill Russell, the
Harlem Globetrotters -- they excelled in an era when the black
athlete’s obstacles weren’t only on the field and in the court.
Which is why Roxanne Jones’s and Jessie Paolucci’s “ Say it
Loud: An Illustrated History of the Black Athlete ’’
(Ballantine/ESPN, $35) is such a necessary reminder.  In addition to the usual sports, this volume covers horse
racing (black jockey Jimmy Winkfield won the  Kentucky Derby  in
1901 and 1902) and track and field (Alice Coachman’s 1948 gold
medal in the high jump was the first by a black woman Olympian).  Other unexpected entries include John Shippen Jr., born in
1879 and likely the first black golf pro, and Lucy Diggs Slowe,
a tennis pioneer and one of the visionaries behind the creation
of the National Council of Negro Women. Heroes all -- and
enthralling stories.  Olney on Meyer  If you’ve been thinking that the basketball heroics of such
universities as Hamline, Lipscomb and Northern State have been
unfairly neglected in the literature of sport, your moment of
redemption has come, thanks to the efforts of Buster Olney, one
of the great students of modern sport. His subject in “ How
Lucky You Can Be’’  (Ballantine/ESPN, $25) is Don Meyer, who
coached at all three schools and is known to the cognoscenti as
the winningest coach in National Collegiate Athletic Association
history.  On the surface, Meyer’s last few years haven’t been all
that lucky, crammed as they have been with an automobile
accident which led to the amputation of his left leg below the
knee and the discovery that he had cancer. This is a morality
tale about a man discovering his improbable fate.  But in  South Dakota , all that travail taught the hard-
charging coach a lesson about winning and losing. Meyers was
tough, demanding and intense, but not very good at showing his
emotions to his wife and children. His troubles changed him, and
his family.  In his last game (his 324th loss, as against 923 wins),
Meyer was able to express his thanks for “the family I have,
and the teams and players and coaches I’ve been able to work
with.’’ The man who watched so many wins had finally realized
that in life, points matter a lot less than assists.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 