-- 
Tiger Woods Is U.S. Open Favorite After Charge at Golf’s Masters

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tiger-woods-is-u-s-open-favorite-after-last-round-charge-at-masters-golf.html
Tiger Woods  is favored by
oddsmakers to win the U.S. Open, golf’s next major
championship, even though he hasn’t claimed a title for
almost 18 months.  Woods, a three-time U.S. Open winner, is a 13-2
favorite at the  Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports Book  to
capture this year’s tournament, which is scheduled for  June
16-19  at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland.  Woods tied for fourth place at the Masters last week
in Augusta, Georgia, after taking a share of the lead in
the final round. It was the  best finish  in six events this
year for Woods. That success, along with his overall
popularity, makes him the clear U.S. Open favorite, said
Andrew Patterson, an oddsmaker at  Las Vegas Sports
Consultants .  “He did look good in two of four rounds,” Patterson
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “He held it
together and didn’t blow up as he has the last several
months. I think he’s still overvalued, but when he wins
again somebody will say, ‘I told you he could do it.’ And
he will win again.”  Phil Mickelson  is the second favorite at 10-1,
followed by Lee Westwood of  England  and Rory McIlroy of
Northern Ireland at 15-1. Defending U.S. Open champion
Graeme McDowell, also of Northern Ireland, has 40-1 odds,
the same as Masters winner Charl Schwartzel of South
Africa.  The last of Woods’s 14 major championship titles came
at the 2008 U.S. Open at  Torrey Pines  in  La Jolla ,
 California . His last victory was at the Australian Masters
in November 2009. He remains winless since returning from
his self-imposed hiatus following admissions of marital
infidelity that led to his divorce last year.  Congressional Win  Woods has had success at Congressional before, winning
the 2009 AT&T National, a tournament held at the course
that was hosted by his foundation. Woods also won  U.S. Open 
titles in 2000 and 2002, and hasn’t finished worse than
sixth at the championship in his past four appearances.  Woods hasn’t said which U.S. PGA Tour event he’ll play
next. The past two years, he’s entered the Quail Hollow
Championship following the Masters. That tournament, now
known as the Wells Fargo Championship, is scheduled for May
5-8 in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  Woods said he’s encouraged by his play at the Masters
and was excited to be back in contention.  “I played well and unfortunately just came up a
little short on the back nine,” Woods told reporters at a
clinic yesterday in Dongguan,  China . “It was fun being in
the mix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  