-- 
High-Risk Medical Devices Fail to Get Full Review, GAO Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-13T22:08:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/high-risk-medical-devices-continue-to-lack-regulatory-scrutiny-gao-says.html
High-risk medical devices are
approved for sale without sufficient proof of safety by U.S.
regulators who don’t monitor recalls when concerns arise during
marketing, the  Government Accountability Office  found.  The  Food and Drug Administration  gave expedited reviews to
at least 67 devices such as pacemakers and hip joints since the
GAO called in January 2009 for “immediate steps” to increase
standards or reclassify potential risks, Marcia Crosse, GAO’s
director of health care, told lawmakers in Washington today.
While the FDA has enhanced its oversight, she said, it continues
to review 26 of 27 types of high-risk devices cited in 2009.  “It remains to be seen whether these actions will help
ensure that medical devices marketed in the  United States 
receive appropriate premarket review,” Crosse told the  Senate
Special Committee on Aging . “Gaps in FDA’s post-market
surveillance show that unsafe and ineffective devices may
continue to be used, despite being recalled.”  A series of device recalls led by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
decision last year to pull 93,000 artificial hips from the
market has heightened scrutiny of the agency’s approval process.
The FDA has been slow to implement a 1976 law requiring that all
high-risk devices undergo a strict review. Many are still
cleared with minimal tests under the so-called 510(k) program if
companies prove they’re similar to existing products, said the
GAO, the investigative arm of Congress.  High-Risk Devices  The FDA requires  extensive testing  for less than one-tenth
of devices. The GAO study focuses on high-risk devices,
including those that are implantable or life sustaining.  William Maisel, deputy director for science in the FDA’s
Center for Devices and Radiological Health, said the agency is
reviewing data on the 26 device categories cited by the GAO and
is “committed to completing this evaluation” by the end of
2012.  After that process, the FDA may reclassify the devices as
“medium risk” or order companies to go through a premarket
approval process that typically requires clinical trials, he
said.  The 510(k) program, which clears about 3,800 to 4,000
products a year, is “critical to a vibrant and successful
device industry,” testified David Nexon, senior executive vice
president for the Advanced Medical Technology Association, a
 trade group . The process “has an exemplary record of protecting
the public from unsafe devices,” he said.  ‘Delicate Balance’  Senator  Herb Kohl , a Democrat from  Wisconsin  and the
committee chairman, said the FDA has an “extremely difficult
assignment” in striking a “delicate balance between safety and
innovation.”  The ranking Republican on the committee, Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , said: “Candidly, I don’t know of anybody
who’s really happy with the FDA.”  Nexon said while companies support the existing 510(k)
program, they have complained of “a very severe deterioration
in FDA performance over the past five years,” including slower
reviews of applications and inconsistent application of
standards.  “I’ve never seen the degree of angst and upset that we
have now,” Nexon said. “It really does need to be fixed.”  Maisel said the agency has undertaken a series of steps to
enhance its review process and tracking of approved devices.  “We would like to deliver more consistency and
transparency in our decision making,” he told the senators.  Regulators also don’t routinely analyze trends in device
recalls or ensure that companies make promised fixes in the
prescribed time frame, increasing the risk that unsafe products
linger on the market, the GAO found.  Previous Recalls  Eighty-one percent of the 113 withdrawn devices deemed
high-risk recalls by the FDA from 2005 to 2009 were approved
under the less-stringent pathway, researchers said Feb. 14 in
the journal Archives of  Internal Medicine .  Cardiovascular devices accounted for a third of the
recalls, among them automated external defibrillators made by
Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ,  Zoll Medical Corp. (ZOLL)  of
Chelmsford,  Massachusetts , and closely held Welch Allyn Inc., of
Skaneateles Falls,  New York , the researchers said.
Defibrillators are devices that shock irregular or stopped
hearts back into normal rhythms.  Senate Democrats say the FDA may need new authority,
including mandatory device registration and recall power, to
more quickly identify potential safety issues.  Internal Review  The FDA is conducting an internal audit of the 510(k)
program and has sought the advice of the  Institute of Medicine ,
an independent arm of the  National Academy of Sciences . The
agency in January announced 25 steps to improve consistency and
transparency in the review process. More changes were referred
to the institute, which plans to issue a report this year.  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s devices center, is
scheduled to testify tomorrow at a separate hearing on medical
device approvals with  the House Oversight & Government Reform 
committee.  Among the devices recalled were 93,000 hip implants made by
the DePuy Orthopaedics unit of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
J&J, including 37,000 in the U.S. In announcing the recall, J&J
cited unpublished U.K. data showing that within five years as
many as 13 percent of the hips failed and needed to be replaced.  Katherine Korgaokar, a J&J hip recipient, had her implant
replaced after her doctor said excessive wear had released high
levels of cobalt and chromium into her body, testified. She said
recovering from the second operation has been “substantially
more difficult than the first,” and she may require more
surgeries.  Before her implant, she thought devices were extensively
tested by regulators.  “It still blows me away that something that goes into
somebody’s body can be approved without proper testing,”
Korgaoker, 41, of Denver, said at the hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Washington at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  