-- 
Higher Energy Taxes, New CO2 Levy Sought by EU Regulators

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-13T14:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/higher-energy-taxes-new-emissions-levy-sought-by-eu-regulators.html
European Union regulators proposed
to raise EU taxes on fuels including diesel and to introduce an
emissions levy on industries that are spared carbon-dioxide
caps, setting up a potential clash with national governments.  The draft law by the European Commission, the 27-nation
EU’s regulatory arm, aims to spur  energy savings  and the
development of low-emission technologies as part of the fight
against  climate change  by taxing all fuels in the same way. The
legislation needs the backing of all EU national governments,
any one of which has veto power.  Current European law  sets minimum tax rates for mineral
oils, coal, natural gas and electricity to prevent distortions
of competition between EU countries rather than to promote
environmental goals. Separate EU legislation caps CO2 from  power
plants  and factories by requiring them to have a permit for each
metric ton they emit and forcing those that discharge more than
their quotas to buy extra allowances.  “Our common goal is a more resource-efficient, greener and
more competitive economy,” EU Taxation Commissioner Algirdas Semeta said today in Brussels. The proposed emissions tax would
apply to households and such industries as road transport and
agriculture, which would also remain subject to the existing
fuel levies.  The commission under President  Jose Barroso  is using the
battle against global warming to venture into the politically
sensitive area of taxation as the EU tries to contain a debt
crisis that over the past year has forced  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  to request emergency aid.  Opposition  Countries including the U.K. have traditionally opposed EU
powers over taxation, saying this is a matter for national
authorities and defending low rates. Opposition may also come
from cash-strapped euro nations whose economic outlook has been
clouded by the  European Central Bank ’s decision last week to
raise  interest rates  for the first time in almost three years.  “The European Union will do nothing to improve its
popularity by imposing tax increases on already sky-high
motoring costs,” said  Jacqueline Foster , a U.K. Conservative
member of the EU Parliament, which has the right to a non-
binding opinion on the matter. “We all want to reduce CO2
emissions from vehicles, but it should be by placing incentives
on people, not by clobbering them.”  Semeta accepted the likelihood of a political fight with
governments over the draft law, saying “any tax proposal is not
an easy-going issue.”  Under the commission proposal, the energy component and the
CO2 element would be combined to produce the overall rate at
which a fuel is taxed. The minimum tax rate based on the energy
component would be 9.60 euros ($13.9) per gigajoule for motor
fuels and 15 euro cents per gigajoule for heating fuels. The
levy based on emissions would be fixed at 20 euros per ton of
CO2.  Diesel Motor Fuel  As an example of the proposal’s impact, the commission said
the minimum EU tax on diesel as a motor fuel would rise to 412
euros per 1,000 liters from a current level of 330 euros. The
commission also said most EU nations including  Germany  apply a
rate above 412 euros per 1,000 liters.  Under the new system, businesses outside the emissions-
trading system as well as households would pay both the energy
component and the emissions element of the taxes. Industries in
the cap-and-trade system would be spared the emissions element.  The new EU minimum taxes would be phased in between 2013
and 2018, with the 20 euro-per-ton emissions levy taking effect
from the start of the period and the energy-component charges
applying gradually over it.  While EU nations would remain free to set their own rates
above the bloc-wide minimum levels, governments would be
required as of 2023 to apply the same rates to all fuels used
for the same purpose. That would mean, for example, that
gasoline and diesel could no longer be taxed at different rates
in an EU country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  