-- 
India’s Nuclear Power May Borrow 30 Billion Rupees This Year

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-04-13T12:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/india-s-nuclear-power-may-borrow-30-billion-rupees-this-year.html
Nuclear Power Corp. of  India , the
nation’s monopoly builder of atomic plants, plans to borrow
about 30 billion rupees ($673 million), including its first
overseas loan, this financial year to finance new projects.  The debt will be part of the total spending of as much as
40 billion rupees planned for the year that started April 1,
Finance Director Jagdeep Ghai said by telephone today.  Nuclear Power plans to double its generation capacity by
December 2016. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said the government
will take measures to ensure the safety of the nation’s atomic
projects after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami crippled a
nuclear plant in Japan.  Ghai said the company plans to raise debt abroad as rates
are lower and because of “growing acceptability of India’s
nuclear program overseas. Banks are keen to participate with us
despite the situation in  Japan .”  The crisis at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant forced
countries to review their nuclear energy programs. State-owned
Nuclear Power submitted its safety review report to the
government last week, Ghai said.  The company expects to add 4,800 megawatts by the end of
2016, Ghai said. India’s nuclear power capacity was 4,780
megawatts, or 2.8 percent of the country’s total, as of March
31, according to the Central Electricity Authority  website .  Nuclear Power is considering forming a venture with state-
owned Uranium Corp. of India to acquire mines overseas to secure
supplies of the reactor fuel to meet demand.  “We are in talks and the joint venture may be ready in
about six months,” he said.  Increased imports of uranium from Russia, France and
 Kazakhstan  helped the company raise capacity utilization and
boost profit threefold last financial year. Ghai declined to
give information about imports of the fuel this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  