-- 
India’s IVRCL Targets 25% of Sales From Abroad in 3 Years

-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-04-13T11:12:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/india-s-ivrcl-targets-25-of-sales-from-abroad-in-3-years-1-.html
IVRCL Infrastructures & Projects
Ltd. (IVRC) , an Indian construction company that counts  Norway ’s
sovereign fund among its investors, is targeting 25 percent of
its sales from overseas in three years as growth at home slows.  The builder of road, water and irrigation networks expects
100 million rupees ($2.3 million), or about 1.4 percent of its
sales, from abroad in the year ended March 31, Chairman E. Sudhir Reddy said in an interview in Hyderabad on April 11.  Infrastructure construction in India is falling short of
target as the government awards fewer projects than planned.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government built an average 6.34
kilometers (4 miles) of roads a day from January to November
2010, compared with a goal of 20 kilometers. Competition from at
least 79 publicly traded construction companies is also
affecting profitability.  “To keep growing fast, we would like to look at new
markets as competition in  India ” intensifies, said Reddy, who
is also managing director. “Today getting a road project has
become very simple. All you have to do is quote the least price.
It reduces margins.”  The company, based in the southern city of Hyderabad,
expects sales of 5 billion rupees from overseas in the year that
started on April 1, Reddy said.  IVRCL, which in October said it won 19.8 billion rupees of
construction contracts from  Nepal  and  Saudi Arabia , expects
orders worth as much as 100 billion rupees in the year ending
March 31, Reddy said. It had contracts of about 240 billion
rupees at the end of last month, he said.  Share Performance  IVRCL gained 4.7 percent to 90.65 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai. The shares have declined 29 percent this year,
compared with a 4 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index
of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  IVRCL Assets & Holdings Ltd., a unit that makes toll roads
and develops real estate, plans to raise as much as 7.5 billion
rupees from selling stakes in some of its road projects, Reddy
said. He didn’t provide more information or a timeframe.  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s second largest,
held a 7.7 percent stake in IVRCL Infrastructure, according to
the annual report of the Oslo-based investor published on March
18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Subramaniam Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  