-- 
Infineon, DHL, Righthaven, AOL: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-13T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/infineon-atmel-dhl-righthaven-aol-intellectual-property.html
German chipmaker  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  sued smaller U.S. rival Atmel Corp., alleging
infringement of 11 patents for microcircuitry used in
automotive, industrial and control-system applications.  Infineon, based in Neubiberg, is seeking a jury trial,
unspecified damages and an order to stop Atmel, of  San Jose ,
 California , from using the technology, according to a complaint
filed April 11 in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Atmel has actual knowledge” of the claims, in part
“based on written notice and at least one or more meetings”
with Infineon, the plaintiff contends in court papers.  Infineon, which also seeks a ruling that it doesn’t
infringe three Atmel patents, reported more than $4.47 billion
in revenue last fiscal year. Atmel logged $1.64 billion in 2010
sales.  “We haven’t seen the details yet but do not believe we
have infringed and plan to vigorously defend our interests,”
Peter Schuman, an Atmel spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  The case is Infineon Technologies AG v.  Atmel Corp. (ATML) , U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Gets Patent on Improved Touch-Screen Response Technology  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and the iPhone, received a
patent on a technology aimed at making touch screens more
responsive to human interaction.  Patent 7,924,271, one of  5,075 U.S. patents  issued
yesterday, covers what Cupertino, California-based Apple says is
a method of “detecting gestures on multi-event sensitive
devices.”  The technology allows a device’s sensor panel to respond to
hand gestures to activate or change the status of graphic user
interface objects. This would emulate functions ordinarily
performed by a computer mouse or trackball input device,
according to the patent.  Apple applied for the patent in June 2007 with assistance
from  San Francisco ’s Morrison & Foerster LLP.  The iPad, which uses a touch screen as its input device, is
expected to dominate the market for tablet devices through 2015,
according to technology research firm Gartner Inc.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  DHL Must Obey French Trademark Ruling Across EU, Court Says  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express unit must abide by the terms
of a French trademark ruling throughout the 27-nation European
Union, the region’s highest court said.  A decision by a national court that DHL Express’s French
unit breached the trademark rights of a rival “extends as a
rule” to the entire bloc because it was acting as EU trademark
court, the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled yesterday,
according to a statement.  The DHL unit lost a trademark dispute in 2007 against La
Poste’s express delivery service Chronopost in a ruling by the
Paris appeals court. The French tribunal said that DHL Express
breached Chronopost’s EU trademark rights for the name
“Webshipping” by using the same word for online courier
services.  France ’s top court sought the EU tribunal’s guidance in
June 2009 on whether such a ruling is valid across the EU or
only in France.  Joerg Wiedemann, a spokesman for DHL’s Express division,
declined to comment.  The case is C-235/09, DHL Express France SAS v Chronopost
SA.  Summer Camp to Change Name Over Trademark Complaint  A children’s summer camp in  Alberta  will change its name
following a complaint by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers
unit, Canada’s Free Daily News Group  reported .  Camp Rivendell, which has been in operation since 2002,
received a cease-and desist letter from Warner Brothers, holder
of the rights to the  Rivendell  name, which comes from J.R.R.
Tolkien’s works, the news group reported.  A spokeswoman for the Bragg Creek Association, which
sponsored the camp, said a name change already had been planned,
because camp activities now range beyond those related to
Tolkein’s fantasy world created in the “Lord of the Rings,”
according to the news group.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven Rebuked in Order in Denver Post Copyright Case  Righthaven LLC, the Las Vegas-based organization that has
been enforcing copyrights for newspapers owned by Stephens Media
Group, received a rebuke from a federal judge in Denver.  In January, Righthaven sued Brian D. Hill of Mayodan,  North
Carolina , for infringing the copyright on a photo that ran in
the Denver Post. The photo was of a Transportation Safety
Administration employee conducting a pat-down search at an
airport.  Righthaven demanded money damages and the transfer of
Hill’s Internet domain name. In a separate suit, Righthaven sued
Matt Drudge for infringement for allegedly placing the same
photo on his Drudge Report website.  Hill, a 20-year-old autistic diabetic responded to the
complaint himself, saying that he couldn’t afford the $150,000
Righthaven sought as he was on Social Security. He also noted
that on the Denver Post page where the photo was originally
posted, “share this gallery” was printed.  Righthaven filed a notice with the court April 10 saying it
would dismiss the case. In that filing, Righthaven accused Hill
of posting “inflammatory statements about Righthaven” and said
he and his lawyers “wish to prolong these proceedings so that
they can continue to use this case as a means for unjustly
attacking Righthaven and its copyright enforcement efforts.”  Making reference to Hill’s medical conditions, Righthaven
said in its filing that that his use of the Internet said “more
about his cognitive ability than one would otherwise surmise
from the press statements made by his counsel.”  U.S. District Judge John L. Kane issued an order the
following day in which he said that most of what was contained
in Righthaven’s dismissal motion was “immaterial and
impertinent.”  He ordered that all the text of Righthaven’s motion be
removed from the court record other than the phrase “The notice
closed the file for this case.”  According to Bloomberg data, Righthaven has filed more than
55 copyright-infringement cases in federal court in  Colorado 
since Jan. 20, many of them relating to that same photo of the
TSA official. Righthaven has filed more than 200 infringement
cases in Nevada federal court since the beginning of 2010, most
of which related to content from the Stephens-owned Las Vegas
Review-Journal.  The case against Hill is Righthaven LLC v. Hill, 1:11-cv-
00211-JLK, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  AOL,  Huffington Post  Sued Over Pay for Writers on Website  AOL Inc. (AOL)  and its newly acquired Huffington Post were sued
in  New York  over claims that the writers of website content
weren’t paid for their work.  The complaint, filed yesterday in U.S. District Court in
 Manhattan , charges that none of the $315 million paid by AOL for
the news and opinion website co-founded by Arianna Huffington
and Kenneth Lerer was shared with the writers and other
producers of the site’s content. The suit seeks class-action, or
group, status.  “The HuffingtonPost.com has been unjustly enriched by
engaging in and continuing to engage in the practice of
generating enormous profits by luring carefully vetted
contributors, with the prospect of exposure,” the complaint
said, “while reaping the entirety of financial gain derived
from such content.”  AOL acquired Huffington Post in March in order to “create
a next-generation American media company with global reach,”
AOL Chief Executive Officer Tim Armstrong said in a statement
when the deal was announced in February. Combining the
companies’ websites yielded an Internet audience of 117 million
Americans, AOL said. HuffingtonPost.com had almost 25 million
monthly visitors as of February.  The complaint claims that the writers provided the site
with free content worth as much as $105 million, which “should
be returned” to the plaintiff and the class. Huffington Post
derives revenue from advertising on the site.  The suit was brought by Jonathan Tasini, who is described
in the complaint as the lead plaintiff in a successful case
against the New York Times over the rights of freelance writers.
He was president of the National Writers Union from 1990 to 2003
and sought the Democratic nomination for U.S. Senator from New
York in 2006, according to the complaint.
York in 2006, according to the complaint.  “The lawsuit is wholly without merit,” AOL said in an e-
mailed statement from Huffington Post Media Group spokesman
Mario Ruiz. “As we’ve said before, our bloggers use our
platform -- as well as other unpaid group blogs across the Web -
- to connect and help their work be seen by as many people as
possible.”  Huffington was named editor in chief of the newly created
Huffington Post Media Group, which includes other AOL sites such
as TechCrunch, AOL Music, Moviefone and MapQuest.  The suit charges that Huffington Post set “an artificially
low price for the valuable digital content created by” Tasini
and other members of the potential class. There are about 9,000
unpaid content providers to the site, according to the
complaint.  A federal judge will decide whether to grant the lawsuit
class-action status.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2001 that the Times and
other publishers violated the copyrights of authors by putting
their articles on websites without permission.  The case is Jonathan Tasini v. AOL Inc., 11-2472, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  McCarter & English Hires Patent Lawyer From Foley & Lardner  McCarter & English LLP hired Steven G. Davis for its
 intellectual-property  practice, the Newark, New Jersey-based
firm said in a  statement  yesterday.  Davis , who does patent-acquisition and patent-related
transactional work, joins from Milwaukee’s Foley & Lardner LLP.
He previously practiced at  Hamilton Brook Smith & Reynolds PC  of
Concord,  Massachusetts .  He has also served as an in-house patent counsel at  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Before he became a lawyer, Davis spent five years
conducting research in the areas of pesticide chemistry and the
preparation of compounds containing stable isotopes.  He has represented universities, startups and
pharmaceutical corporations in the areas of chemistry,
pharmaceuticals and biotech. He also has done work on behalf of
venture-capital investors.  David has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from
Swarthmore College, a master’s degree and a doctorate in organic
chemistry from Johns Hopkins University, and a law degree from
Case Western Reserve University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 