-- 
ING Hires AIG’s Karaoglan as U.S. Business Prepares for Initial Share Sale

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-13T17:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ing-hires-aig-s-karaoglan-as-u-s-business-prepares-for-ipo.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch
financial-services company, hired Alain Karaoglan to prepare for
the initial public offering of U.S. operations after he helped
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  divest businesses.  Karaoglan will be executive vice president of finance and
strategy, Amsterdam-based ING said today in a statement. He
worked most recently at AIG, where he helped with the
$20.5 billion IPO of AIA Group Ltd. He will report to Rodney Martin, chief executive officer of ING Insurance U.S. and also a
former AIG executive, who was hired by the Dutch insurer last
month.  ING is preparing to sell its insurance operations to comply
with a European Union ruling. The firm is considering two IPOs,
one for the European and Asian businesses and one for the U.S.
division. The IPOs will probably take place in 2012, depending
on market conditions, CEO Jan Hommen has said.  “Alain has vast experience and expertise with IPOs and
other public and private market transactions,” Martin said in
the statement. “He is widely respected for his comprehensive
knowledge of the  insurance industry  and the global investment
community.”  AIG, which has sold more than $50 billion in assets since
the U.S. government rescued the insurer in 2008, hired Karaoglan
in 2009 to help coordinate the company’s divestiture efforts. He
previously worked at Bank of America Corp. as an analyst
covering the insurer.  Martin took on a job with MetLife Inc. last year to assist
with the integration of American Life Insurance Co., an AIG unit
he once headed that was sold to MetLife for $16.2 billion in
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  