-- 
Insuring Christie Makes N.J. Inferior Performer in Bond Market

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/insuring-chris-christie-makes-new-jersey-inferior-performer-in-bond-market.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s pledge to
erase New Jersey’s budget deficit by disparaging public-worker
unions has helped make him a national Republican star. Those who
buy the state’s bonds are less impressed.  While the 48-year-old former prosecutor who denied  Jon Corzine  a second term in 2009 says he has made New Jersey a
“national model,” the cost to insure its debt exceeds every
state except Nevada, Illinois and California in the credit-
default swaps market, according to pricing data compiled by CMA.
Protecting $10 million of New Jersey bonds against default for
five years took $149,000 annually yesterday, trailing California
by about $77,000 and Illinois by $67,000 among 16 states tracked
by the London-based firm.  “In most places you’re not going to get much value from
saying what you’re going to do,” said Christopher Mier, chief
municipal strategist at Chicago-based Loop Capital Markets LLC,
the lead underwriter of $468.3 million of municipal bonds this
year. “Investors respond to more quiet efficiency.”  Individual investors began fleeing the $2.93 trillion
municipal- bond market  last year as government deficits mounted
and  Meredith Whitney , the bank analyst, predicted an
unprecedented “hundreds of billions” of defaults in 2011.
While the forecast lacked any supporting evidence and is
considered implausible within the industry, through April 6
there were 21 straight weeks of net withdrawals from U.S. mutual
funds that invest in the debt, totaling about $30.8 billion,
including a record $4 billion for the week ended Jan. 19,
according to Lipper US Fund Flows.  New York  Swaps  Unlike New Jersey investors, New York bondholders were
rewarded in the credit-default swaps market as the state
balanced its budget. The cost to insure $10 million of New York
bonds against default fell to $98,700 a year for five years
yesterday, below a municipal market index at about $150,200,
after Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, and lawmakers in Albany
last month  closed a $10 billion deficit  with $9.3 billion of
cuts and no new taxes. The state’s fiscal year began April 1.  New Jersey faces a $10.5 billion deficit in fiscal 2012,
which at about 37 percent of its current budget is the second
worst among states, according to the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities. The Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit organization
focuses on issues that affect lower-income Americans.  Swap Rates  The rates for both New York and New Jersey credit-default
swaps reached highs this year on Jan. 10, with New York at about
$220,500 a year to protect a $10 million investment for five
years and New Jersey at $223,000, according to CMA, a data
provider owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  that compiles credit-swap
prices from  hedge funds  and other clients. The rates for both
states were roughly equal throughout 2010 and 2009.  “New Jersey has more than $32 billion in debt, so it’s not
surprising that a credit-default market exists on its bonds,”
said  Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for Treasurer Andrew P. Sidamon-
Eristoff, in an e-mail. “New Jersey has always met its
obligations, and it is constitutionally obligated to keep its
budget balanced. History suggests that it’s unwise to bet that
New Jersey will not make its debt payments.”  Credit-default swaps are a type of derivative used by banks
and institutional investors to protect against nonpayment of
debt or to speculate on changes in  credit quality .  California 
Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in September he wants regulators to
prohibit the swaps on municipal bonds because of concern that
they may be used to manipulate the market and cost state
taxpayers. California’s five-year rate to insure $10 million of
bonds was almost $226,000 yesterday, according to CMA data.  Illinois Rate  In Illinois, the five-year protection cost for $10 million
in state bonds fell as much as 42 percent from a 2011 high of
$358,000 a year on Jan. 6, after Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat,
reached a deal with lawmakers in January to raise the state’s
income tax to 5 percent from 3 percent to help close a $13
billion deficit. The rate rose to almost $216,000 yesterday,
data from CMA indicate.  “Christie’s got his own battles going on with the
unions,” said Scott Albrecht, a senior vice president at
Federated Investors in Pittsburgh who manages $1 billion in
municipal debt. “That’s not a credit positive.”  While Christie excluded part-time workers from state
pensions, increased teacher contributions to pay for health care
and canceled a $3 billion federal grant when he scuttled an $8.7
billion commuter-rail tunnel to New York, his attempts to rein
in  government spending  have failed to bolster the state’s
financial strength, according to BMO Capital Markets in Chicago.
The investment bank this month ranked  New Jersey  the fifth-
lowest state on its monthly financial-strength index, just ahead
of Illinois.  New Jersey Budget  The governor’s $29.4 billion spending plan, passed last
year, cut $820 million in school aid and $445 million for
municipalities, while suspending almost $850 million in
property-tax rebates and deferring a $3 billion pension
contribution. His proposed budget for the year that begins in
July holds spending level. Christie also wants to roll back a 9
percent raise in pension benefits since 2001 and halt inflation-
based payment increases.  The state’s credit rating was downgraded one level in
February to AA- by  Standard & Poor’s  after the pension
contribution was delayed while Christie pressed for reforms of
the system. Moody’s Investors Service threatened to do the same.
Moody’s grades  Illinois  debt A1, two levels lower than New
Jersey, at Aa2.  Widening Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold New Jersey’s 10-
year general-obligation debt reached 64 basis points, or 0.64
percentage point, compared with the average AAA tax-exempt rate
for similar maturities on Sept. 9, the widest since at least
November 1994. The difference, or spread, began widening when
Christie took office. It stood at 14 basis points yesterday,
about twice the four-year average under Democrat Corzine. Since
January 2010, the spread has averaged about 40 basis points.  “We’re kind of used to politicians posturing,” said Ed Reinoso, who manages $300 million as chief executive officer of
Castleton Partners LLC in New York. “We don’t dismiss it
completely. It’s that there’s usually a political agenda.”  The state’s Transportation Trust Fund Authority, New
Jersey’s main financing agency for roadwork, plans to issue as
much as $600 million in 30-year securities next month, bringing
its outstanding debt to $12.4 billion, according to the
authority’s website. The agency uses all its $895 million in
annual revenue from fuels taxes to pay debt service.  Bond Offering Cut  The  New Jersey Economic Development Authority  reduced a
bond offering by almost 50 percent to $712.3 million, on Jan.
13, citing “market conditions” as tax-exempt yields on most
maturities of municipal debt climbed. On the same day, the
governor said that health-care costs “will bankrupt” the state
unless it requires workers to pay more for their insurance.  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said at the time
that the bond-sale cut wasn’t connected to the governor’s
comments. On April 12, he referred questions about the
governor’s handling of budget matters and the state’s higher
credit costs to Pratt, the treasury spokesman.  Christie’s political profile began rising last year as he
declared a fiscal emergency in order to close a $2.2 billion
deficit, inherited from Corzine. Christie immediately began
attacking wages and benefits paid to government workers, helping
convince voters to reject budgets in school districts where
unions resisted wage freezes. A record 59 percent were defeated.  “I wasn’t sent here to make people happy,” the governor
said to applause at a town-hall style meeting on March 15 in
Woodbridge, New Jersey. “I was sent here to get the state back
in shape.”  Court Appointee  Christie broke with tradition by not reappointing Justice
John E. Wallace Jr., the only black on the New Jersey Supreme
Court, when his term ended in May. Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  has said he won’t hold confirmation hearings on Anne
Murray Patterson, a Republican lawyer who Christie nominated to
replace Wallace.  The state’s highest court is currently debating whether
Christie unlawfully cut school aid last year. A study filed in
the case last month said the poorest districts were hurt most
and had been underfunded by $1.6 billion.  The state last year failed to win a $400 million Race to
the Top education grant from the federal government because of a
clerical error.  Bret Schundler , the education commissioner
subsequently fired by Christie, said the mistake stemmed in part
from the governor’s unwillingness to work with teacher unions on
the application.  Voters Approve  The governor’s battles have resonated with registered
voters, as 51 percent said they approved of the way Christie is
handling his job, according to a Fairleigh Dickinson University
poll released April 6. That was up from 43 percent about a year
earlier. His disapproval rating climbed to 41 percent from 32
percent in the same period, the survey said.  Christie tied for third among potential Republican
presidential nominees in a straw poll conducted by the
Conservative Political Action Conference in February. Last
month, he told the National Review in an interview posted on the
biweekly magazine’s website that he could win the presidency
even as he insisted he wouldn’t run in 2012.  “He can say a number of things and we’re going to say,
‘Great, I hope that’s true,’” said Matthew Buscone, who manages
state and local government investing at Breckinridge Capital
Advisors Inc. in Boston. The company oversees $12 billion in
assets.  “It’s hard to make a trade on the rhetoric,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 