-- 
Intuit Aims to Spur Growth With Mobile Software, Purchases

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-04-13T20:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/intuit-s-smith-taps-online-software-to-expand-as-pc-sales-slow.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU)  is boosting sales of
its financial-management and tax-preparation programs with
online and mobile versions, helping make up for a slowdown in
desktop software, Chief Executive Officer  Brad Smith  said.  The  Mountain View , California-based company is expanding
its Mint.com website and QuickBooks Online financial software
internationally, and a new iPhone tax-prep application has
garnered more than half a million downloads, Smith said in an
interview yesterday.  The U.S. tax-filing season that ends next week will
punctuate the most profitable quarter of the year for Intuit.
Smith has been transforming the company from a maker of
financial software for personal computers to a provider of
websites, services and software that let consumers and small
businesses manage money more efficiently. Intuit shares have
gained 52 percent in the past year.  “Intuit has the most innovation they’ve had in their
portfolio in five years,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS
AG in San Francisco, citing Intuit’s ability to sell additional
products, such as programs for creating websites, managing
payrolls and processing payments, to small-business customers
that already use its accounting and tax software. Thill has a
“neutral” rating on the shares and doesn’t own them.  In addition to homegrown technology, Intuit may turn to
acquisitions to spur growth, Smith said. The company’s last
purchase was in May 2010.  SnapTax, GoPayment  On Jan. 14, the company introduced a smartphone application
called SnapTax, which lets 1040EZ filers take a photo of their
W-2 forms to automatically fill out paperwork and file their
taxes for $20. And Intuit is developing a version of its
GoPayment credit card-swiping technology for tablet computers,
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc.’s Xoom. The hardware and software also can work with
smartphones such as Apple’s iPhone to let small businesses more
easily process credit-card transactions.  Smith, 47, also has embraced the Internet trend toward
social computing. Intuit has expanded community features in
TurboTax that let filers seek help from other users. It’s also
introduced functions that let QuickBooks users compare their
companies’ expenses and revenue to those of their peers.  By the end of the fiscal year in July, Intuit plans to
expand  Mint.com , the personal-finance website it acquired for
$170 million in 2009, into  Australia ,  New Zealand  and the U.K.,
following its debut in  Canada  in December. This fall, a new
release of QuickBooks accounting program will contain easier-to-
use setup features that resemble those in Mint, Smith said.  Mint’s Influence  “They’re helping us change the DNA of the company,” he
said, referring to Mint, though it constitutes “an
insignificant piece of the company’s overall revenue.”  More than a quarter of Intuit’s 250,000 QuickBooks Online
users have signed up for the company’s online payroll software,
Smith said.  “The move to online software -- that’s where the growth
is,” said Peter Goldmacher, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in San
Francisco. Last year, Intuit rang up $1.1 billion in online
software sales, almost a third of overall revenue.  Intuit shares have jumped 68 percent since the beginning of
2008, when Smith took over as CEO. They rose 36 cents to $53.14
at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  ‘Two Bears’  Small businesses are slowly increasing spending and hiring
after the economic recession, Smith said.  “It’s been a protracted, sluggish recovery,” he said.
“It will take us four years to get back to 2007 levels at this
rate.”  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average expect Intuit’s
revenue to increase 10 percent in each of the next three fiscal
years, compared with average 15 percent growth in 2006 to 2008.  Intuit is winning market share in desktop tax-preparation
software, and along with competitor H&R Block Inc. is taking
share from smaller companies in the online business, Smith said.  “When two bears start wrestling in the woods, sometimes
the rabbits and squirrels get stomped,” Smith said.  Intuit may use acquisitions to further expand, assuming the
deal is right, Smith said. Intuit could absorb three or four
acquisitions within a period of a year, he said.  “If we can find the right opportunity for the right
entrepreneur, we absolutely will look into acquisitions,” he
said in a televised interview with “Bloomberg West.”  Tax Season  The software maker said in a March 17  statement  that it had
sold 16.2 million copies of TurboTax this tax season through
March 12, 7 percent more than a year earlier. About two-thirds
of those copies were TurboTax Online editions.  The company will give a third and final tax-season update
after this year’s April 18 filing deadline. The  Internal Revenue
Service  extended its tax-filing deadline from April 15 this year
because of a  District of Columbia  holiday.  Intuit will reap 92 percent of its annual earnings and
almost half of sales this quarter, analysts estimate. The
company may earn $2.28 a share in the fiscal third quarter,
which ends April 30, according to the average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be more than 20
percent higher than a year earlier. Analysts predict sales will
increase 13 percent to $1.82 billion.  The company’s sales will rise 10 percent this year to $3.82
billion, according to analysts’ average estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  