-- 
Inventories at U.S. Companies Climbed Less-Than-Forecast 0.5% in February

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T14:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/inventories-at-u-s-companies-climbed-less-than-forecast-0-5-in-february.html
Inventories at U.S. companies rose
less than forecast in February, depressed by a drop among
retailers as sales improved.  The 0.5 percent increase in stockpiles followed a revised 1
percent gain in January that was larger than initially estimated,
the Commerce Department said today in  Washington . Economists
projected a 0.8 percent rise, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey. Sales increased 0.2 percent.  Companies are replenishing inventories as a pick up in
employment helps sustain  consumer spending . The amount of goods
on hand at retailers compared to sales dropped to the lowest
level on record, indicating merchants will be placing more orders
to rebuild stocks, contributing to growth and helping keep
manufacturing as the expansion’s frontrunner.  “The level of inventories is still exceedingly low given
the pace of sales, so inventory growth should continue to be
strong,”  Robert Stein , a senior economist at First Trust
Portfolios in Wheaton,  Illinois , said before the report.
”Inventories should be a net positive for growth.”  Inventory estimates ranged from increases of 0.5 percent to
1.1 percent in the Bloomberg News survey of 48 economists.
January stockpiles were revised from a previously reported 0.9
percent gain.  Sales at U.S. retailers rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, showing the improving job market is helping
Americans cope with higher costs for fuel and food, according to
another report from the Commerce Department today. Purchases
increased 0.4 percent following a 1.1 percent February gain that
was larger than previously estimated.  Shares Rise  Stocks held earlier gains after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,316.54 at 10:03 a.m. in
 New York .  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 3.52 percent from 3.49 percent late
yesterday.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, dropped 0.4 in February, the first decrease
since October, as sales increased 1 percent.  At the current sales pace, stores had enough goods on hand
in February to last 1.31 months, the fewest since data began in
1992, according to today’s figures. Stockpiles dropped most at
auto dealers and furniture stores as demand increased.  Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of
total stockpiles, grew 0.8 percent in February, the Commerce
Department said March 31. Another 30 percent of inventories, held
by wholesalers, grew 1 percent during the month, figures showed
April 8.  Lean Inventories  The inventory-to-sales ratio at all businesses held at 1.24
months in February, matching the record low reached the prior
month.  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, slowed in the fourth quarter as sales
jumped. Stockpiling subtracted 3.4 percentage points from the 3.1
percent gain in gross domestic product, according to the Commerce
Department.  The manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 11
percent of the world’s largest economy, led the recovery from the
recession that ended in June 2009 as businesses rebuilt
stockpiles slashed during the slump that began in December 2007.  Factories saw new orders rise in February to a seven-year
high. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s new orders gauge
increased that month to 68, the highest since January 2004.  Oxford Industries Inc. (OXM) , an Atlanta-based manufacturer and
wholesale marketer of branded and private-label clothing for men,
is adding goods following a pickup in sales.  “I’m very happy to have a little extra inventory right now
to continue to fuel our business,” Terry Pillow, chief executive
officer of the company’s Tommy Bahama division, said on a March
29 conference call. “We’ve been in somewhat of a chase mode in
the first eight weeks, trying to catch up” to demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  