-- 
Foxconn in Talks on $12 Billion Brazil Plant, Rousseff Says

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-13T17:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ipad-maker-foxconn-in-talks-to-invest-12-billion-in-brazil-rousseff-says.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
said Foxconn Technology Group may spend $12 billion over five to
six years to expand production in the country, in what would be
the Taiwanese company’s biggest investment overseas.  The maker of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  computers is
holding talks with the government, the Brazilian president told
reporters in Beijing yesterday. Foxconn is giving “serious
consideration” to further investment in the South American
country and has yet to decide on details, said Louis Woo, a
spokesman for the Taipei-based company, declining to comment on
the value.  “It makes sense to move to Brazil but that figure is too
much,” said Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Securities Co.
in Taipei. “The main reasons to go there are for tariff
considerations and to be closer to emerging markets.”  The amount is likely an exaggeration, Chen said.  The expansion may help the Taiwanese company, which employs
more than 1 million people in  China , scale back its reliance on
its manufacturing base in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen,
where wages are climbing.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. have also announced plans to manufacture
in  South America ’s largest economy.  ‘Market Access’  Foxconn, whose Brazilian facilities include production of
notebooks for  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , would make the investments in
order to follow customers and give it “market access,” Woo
said. He declined to comment on what products the company would
make in Brazil.  As of Sept. 30, Foxconn’s Taipei-based flagship Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. and its affiliates had received approval
from Taiwan authorities to invest NT$134 billion ($4.6 billion)
in China since the company’s founding in 1974, according to
filings to the  Taiwan Stock Exchange .  Hon Hai climbed 1 percent to NT$106.50 at the 1:30 p.m.
close of trade in Taipei, while the benchmark Taiex index added
0.6 percent.  Foxconn’s proposed facility could create 100,000 jobs,
 Brazil ’s Science and Technology Minister Aloizio Mercadante said
in Beijing. Foxconn is seeking state infrastructure guarantees
such as  energy supply , broadband Internet and access to
airports, he said. The plant would produce tablets, he said.  Capital Investment  Foxconn has operated in Brazil since 2005, building five
factories that employ 4,300 people, according to an official who
declined to be named because of company policy. Hon Hai’s
worldwide capital spending last year through September came to
NT$43.9 billion, about one-eighth of the announced investment in
Brazil. The entire Brazilian electronics sector currently
employs 175,000, according to the Brazilian Electric and
Electronic Industry Association.  LG, the world’s third-biggest handset maker, plans to start
production of its Optimus Pad in Taubate, Sao Paulo state, by
the second half of this year, according to Mariana Geraldine, a
spokesman for the company.  Motorola Mobility plans to take advantage of tax breaks in
Brazil to produce its Xoom tablets at a factory in Jaguariuna,
Sao Paulo state. It’s waiting for details on the incentives,
Motorola said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Brazil plans to give tax incentives to manufacturers of
tablets to make Latin America’s biggest economy a production
center, according to Development Minister Fernando Pimentel. The
government also plans to give tablets to students at public
schools to modernize Brazil’s education system.  MXT, a Brazilian electronics producer based in Betim, Minas
Gerais state, in February started to manufacture the first
domestic tablet and plans to expand production after the tax
incentives take effect, Etiene Guerra, the company’s CEO, said
in an e-mailed interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  