-- 
Iran LNG Says It Will Overcome Sanctions to Start Exporting Fuel in 2012

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-04-13T12:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/iran-lng-says-it-will-overcome-sanctions-to-start-exporting-fuel-in-2012.html
Iran Liquefied Natural Gas Co.,  the
country’s maiden LNG project, says it’s poised to begin
exporting by the end of next year after tapping domestic funds
to beat international sanctions.  The company, 49 percent owned by the government, aims to
process LNG and ship it from a terminal to be built between the
southern port towns of Assaluyeh and Kangan using foreign
technology and cash from Iranian banks and investors.  “On the path we’re on now, we don’t have investment needs
or technological needs,” Managing Director Ali Kheir-Andish
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Tehran.
“It’s a challenging objective, but we are making all the
efforts towards meeting this target.”  Iran  holds 16 percent of global gas reserves and is the
world’s fourth-largest producer after the U.S., Russia and
 Canada , according to data from BP Plc. While it’s building or
planning pipelines to export gas to regional neighbors such as
Pakistan,  India  and Syria, the country wants also to develop the
ability to produce the fuel in liquefied form for easier
transportation to more distant markets.  Iran had aimed to start exporting LNG at least five years
ago. Indian Oil Corp., a state-run refiner in India, discussed
purchasing LNG as early as 2006. Zhuhai Zhenrong Co. of  China 
agreed with state-run National Iranian Oil Co. to buy fuel
starting in 2008.  Ambitious to Export  “Of course it is our ambition to be a top exporter, but
that has to be in line with preserving our national interest and
standing,” Kheir-Andish said on April 10. “We’re not going to
make our people miserable and give nothing to local companies in
order to export all the gas. Iran has lots of use for the gas
domestically.”  Economic sanctions imposed by the  United Nations , European
Union and the U.S. over  Iran’s nuclear program  have discouraged
investment in the Persian Gulf country.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Europe ’s biggest oil company, and  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  of  Spain  pulled
out of a project in Iran’s South Pars gas field last year. China
National Petroleum Corp. replaced  Total SA (FP)  in the same field in
2009 after the French company postponed an investment citing
Iran’s strained relations with the West.  “Domestic banks have become partners in providing the
investment needed,” Kheir-Andish, 46, said. Iran LNG has cost
some $1.5 billion so far and will need a total investment of
almost $5 billion upon completion, he said.  European Technology  The company has secured the technologies it needs through
contracts with foreigners, including companies in Europe, the
executive said. He declined to identify the partners, citing
concern that the U.S. and its allies might put pressure on them
to try to intensify Iran’s isolation.  “We have the technology needed at our disposal,” he said.
“We concluded the contracts, and these are being executed.”  Iran LNG is based in Iran’s southern Bushehr province in
the Pars II special economic zone. The gas it wants to chill
into a liquid would come from South Pars, which together with
the adjacent North Field in Qatar comprises the largest known
gas deposit in the world. Qatar is the biggest exporter of LNG,
with annual production capacity of 77 million metric tons.  Iran LNG expects to produce 8 million tons of the fuel in
its first year of operation and foresees potential annual output
of 10.8 million tons, Kheir-Andish said.  Iran exported 5.67 billion cubic meters of gas in 2009 and
imported 6.17 billion, mainly from neighboring Turkmenistan,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy issued
last June. Iran was the world’s third-biggest consumer of gas
that year, after the U.S. and  Russia , BP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 