-- 
Iraq Security Training Funding Cut $500 Million in U.S. Budget Compromise

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/iraq-security-funding-cut-500-million-in-u-s-budget-compromise.html
The Pentagon’s plan for training
 Iraq ’s security forces this year would be cut by $500 million
under the proposed budget compromise in Congress, even as the
U.S. prepares to withdraw its troops by the end of December.  The $670.8 billion Defense Department appropriations bill
for 2011, part of legislation to avert a U.S. government
shutdown, contains $1.5 billion toward upgrading Iraqi military
and police operations.  The Obama administration has said that strengthening local
security forces in Iraq and  Afghanistan  lessens the need for
U.S. troops. It had requested $2 billion.  “Cutting the budget now, especially this year when the
U.S. intends to withdraw all its military forces, is a signal to
Iraq that U.S. interest in their future is diminishing,” said
retired Army Lieutenant General James Dubik, who oversaw
recruitment and training of Iraqi forces starting in June 2007.  The U.S. is counting on Iraq’s military and police to fill
the gap when the remaining 47,000 American troops leave by the
end of this year. The funding was intended to supplement Iraq’s
own spending to improve intelligence collection and naval
protection for oil infrastructure, as well as begin setting the
foundation for restoring the country’s air defenses.  “I am disappointed,” said Iraq’s Ambassador to the U.S.
Samir Sumaida’ie, in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Without question, funds spent on these issues in Iraq will
have a disproportionately high return for both our nations.”  Oil Revenue  The cut was spurred in part by Senate Armed Services
Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who has
called for Iraq to use more of its oil revenue to cover the
costs. Republicans led by Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the
top member of his party on the committee, criticized Democrats,
saying the reduction might jeopardize security.  The then-top U.S. commander in Iraq, Army General Ray Odierno, told Levin in a June  committee  hearing that Iraqi
leaders have increased their spending on security for their
military and police forces every year since 2004.  The ministries of Defense and Interior spent $11 billion in
2010, or about 17.5 percent of the country’s total budget,
Odierno said, according to a transcript.  “I think that’s a significant amount,” said Odierno, who
was succeeded by General Lloyd Austin after the U.S. officially
ended its combat mission at the end of August.  Mitigating Risk  Odierno said he requested $2 billion for the fiscal year
that ends Sept. 30 “based on getting them to a certain
capability, which we thought would mitigate and reduce the
risk” of U.S. forces leaving Iraq by the end of 2011.  The Pentagon said it’s too early to determine the impact of
the cut. The proposed $1.5 billion will “help ensure the
minimal modernization and sustainment levels necessary for the
Iraqi Security Forces,” said U.S. Marine Corps Major Chris
Perrine, a spokesman for the Pentagon.  Levin said he would continue to press for further cuts.  “I believe that Iraqis, and not American taxpayers, must
take responsibility for Iraq’s security, including the costs
associated with building the capabilities of its security
forces, and they can afford to do so,” he said yesterday in an
e-mail.  The Iraqi government, which was mired for months in post-
election political disputes over how to distribute power, hasn’t
filled the jobs of defense, interior and national security
ministers.  Large-scale attacks still occur in the country. Last month,
at least 20 people were killed and more than 75 injured after
gunmen dressed in army uniforms stormed local government offices
in northern Iraq’s Salahadin province.  “The Iraqi military is incapable of providing for the
external defense of its nation,” Dubik, a researcher for the
Washington-based  Institute for the Study of War , said in an e-
mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  