-- 
Irish Retailers Fight Investors Over Rents After Economy Sinks

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-04-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/irish-retailers-fight-investors-over-rents-after-economy-sinks.html
Irish retailers are taking on real
estate investors as the country’s economic collapse hollows out
shopping streets and malls.  As spending on everything from flat-screen televisions to
mobile phones falls, storeowners are pushing the government to
abolish contracts that provide only for rent increases and not
decreases. Investors say the proposals have frozen the market,
deepening the worst real-estate crisis in western  Europe .  “It’s akin to using a sledgehammer to crack a nut,” said
 Niall Gaffney , chief executive officer of  IPUT , a real-estate
fund and among the largest owners of offices and stores in
Dublin. “If contracts can be torn up retrospectively, it’s
going to do huge damage to Ireland’s reputation.”  After the country’s boom, bust and bailout, the Irish are
coming to terms with the adage of what goes up can also come
down. In the decade until the financial crisis took hold in
2007, gross domestic product increased by the most in western
Europe. It then shrank 16 percent in three years.  “The economy was on crack cocaine,” said Torlach Denihan,
who represents retailers at the Dublin-based  Irish Business and
Employers Confederation . Upward-only rent reviews were not set
up to deal “with the downturn we are now in,” he said.  Government Review  The month-old government is caught in the middle of the
dispute. Justice Minister Alan Shatter proposes to
retrospectively review all business rents and is seeking the
advice of the attorney general on the new laws amid concern that
investors will challenge changes in court.  Store rents in Ireland more than tripled between 2000 and
2007, increasing 240 percent, according to  Retail Excellence
Ireland , based in Clare in the west of the country. Average
rent accounts for 23 percent of sales for Irish stores, compared
with a European average of about 8.5 percent, according to the
organization, which represents 660 retailers.  “I am conscious of the situation where it appears that
unrealistically high rent levels are being maintained in the
retail sector,” Shatter told parliament on April 7.  At the same time, any drop in rental income might hurt the
government’s National Asset Management Agency, known as NAMA and
set up to take over the risky loans from the country’s decimated
banking industry. The agency told the previous government last
year that changing existing leases would lead to a “dramatic
reduction in the value of income producing assets.”  Spending Sinks  Consumer spending  is down 14 percent since 2008 and
companies including HMV Plc’s Waterstones and Habitat have
closed stores in Ireland. Unemployment has risen to 14.7 percent
in March from 4.4 percent in the same month four years ago.  Commercial property prices have plunged 60 percent since
peaking in 2007, while rents have fallen an average 50 percent,
according to real-estate agent  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   Some retailers said that’s not helping them, as they
negotiated leases before the collapse and the upward-only rent
reviews mean landlords hold all the power.  “For some retailers, there’s no money to pay the rent,”
said Stephen Mackarel, the 42-year-old chief of  Carphone
Warehouse Group Plc (CPW) ’s Irish unit. “Investors are being naive
and being greedy. They will end up with empty units.”  The real estate industry is fighting back. Gaffney at
property fund IPUT said that landlords are cutting rents for
retailers struggling to pay bills. If the law is altered, cash-
strapped storeowners, including large international chains, will
be free to seek rent cuts.  Taxpayer’s Tab  “A small minority of Irish retailers are trying to break
the system, essentially so they can prop up their bottom line,”
said Gaffney, whose clients include  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Irish pension
fund. “The investor, the pension fund, the banks, NAMA and
ultimately the Irish taxpayer will carry the tab.”  Meanwhile the new proposals have frozen the market. Two
property sales were completed in the first quarter of this year
compared with 29 for all of 2010,  according  to CB Richard Ellis.  “The international appetite to buy assets in the Irish
market has been put on hold,” said Marie Hunt, an economist at
CB Richard Ellis in Dublin. Investors “are trying to put a
price on the building and they are trying to do that blind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in  Belfast  at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net 
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  