-- 
Iron Ore Freight Accords May Fall as Much as 20%, Fearnley Says

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-13T15:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/iron-ore-freight-accords-may-fall-as-much-as-20-fearnley-says.html
Derivatives contracts tied to the
cost of shipping  iron ore  in the second quarter may decline 20
percent, according to an analyst who correctly forecast a plunge
in the accords over the past month.  Charter rates for capesize ships will likely average $8,000
a day in the three months to June 30, Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an
analyst at Fearnley Consultants AS, a unit of investment bank
and shipbroking group Astrup Fearnley A/S, said today by phone
from Oslo. He had predicted in March that capesize rates would
average $10,000 a day. Traders of forward freight agreements, or
FFAS, were speculating at the time on costs of $15,175 a day.
The contracts slumped to $10,375 a day today, according to data
from broker Clarkson Securities Ltd.  “Ships keep on coming from yards on a daily basis,”
intensifying competition for cargoes, said Svenning, who also
correctly forecast a collapse in shipping costs in 2008.  China 
may cut coal and iron ore purchases until international prices
for the two commodities decline, further lowering vessel demand,
he said.  Owners are contending with a capesize fleet expanding at
more than twice the pace of seaborne trade. So far this quarter
the spot rate for capesizes, the price that’s used to settle the
derivatives, has averaged $8,647 a day and fell 2.7 percent
today to $7,189 a day, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
London.  The transportation capacity of the capesize fleet will
expand 17 percent this year to 247.1 million deadweight tons,
while trade in iron ore will swell 7 percent, according to
estimates from Clarkson Research Services Ltd.  Higher Global Prices  Clarkson Research and Clarkson Securities are separate
units of Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.  China, the world’s biggest coal producer and consumer, may
cut net coal imports this year because of higher global prices,
an official at the National Energy Administration said
yesterday.  “China’s imports depend on external prices, and prices
aren’t very favorable now,” Xia Xing, director of planning at
the administration’s coal department, said in an interview in
Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  