-- 
Israeli Foreign Minister Lieberman Receives Draft Indictment

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-04-13T21:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/israeli-foreign-minister-lieberman-receives-draft-indictment-1-.html
Israeli Attorney General Yehuda
Weinstein presented Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  with a
draft indictment on suspicion of fraud,  money laundering  and
breach of trust, enabling Lieberman to fight the allegations.  Receiving the draft gives Lieberman the opportunity for a
hearing with Weinstein to argue against issuing an indictment in
the case, which has been under investigation for more than 15
years. Lieberman said he is innocent.  “I have always acted according to the law and I have
nothing to fear,” Lieberman said at the end of a speech to
members of his Yisrael Beitenu party broadcast from  Jerusalem .  Lieberman, whose party is the second largest in Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud-led coalition government,
has accused the police of waging a campaign against him. He has
said he will resign if the charges ultimately lead to an
indictment.  The accusations relate to “transferred funds in the
millions of dollars, whose source was private businessmen, that
were received from 2001-2008 in corporations under his control
during the period when he served in the Knesset and was a
government minister,” Weinstein said in the letter, which was
made available late today by e-mail from  Israel ’s Justice
Ministry in Jerusalem.  Moldovan-born Lieberman, 52, who lives in a West Bank
settlement, has been outspoken about his policy disagreements
with Netanyahu. He told the  United Nations General Assembly  last
year that he supported an “intermediate” accord with the
Palestinians at a time that the prime minister was seeking to
negotiate a final peace agreement.  Lieberman said he believed that negotiating a peace
agreement with the Palestinians “could take a few decades.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Jerusalem at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  