-- 
Hitachi, GE Submit Proposal to Dismantle Crippled Fukushima Nuclear Plant

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-04-13T03:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/hitachi-ge-file-proposal-to-scrap-fukushima-dai-ichi-plant.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE)  submitted a plan to dismantle the crippled Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant they helped build as Japanese engineers battle to
contain the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  The proposal, which also involves  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and Bechtel
Corp., was submitted April 8, said Yuichi Izumisawa, a Tokyo-
based spokesman at Hitachi, Japan’s second-largest maker of
nuclear reactors. He declined to specify details of the plan.  The Hitachi-led proposal will vie against plans from groups
led by  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Areva SA (CEI)  as Tokyo Electric Power Co.
begins preparing to clean up a nuclear disaster that’s led to
the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of inhabitants.
Decommissioning the reactors may take three decades and cost
more than 1 trillion yen ($12 billion) to complete, engineers
and analysts say.  “It’s unclear how much the contract will be worth but it’s
going to be a large amount given it would take decades to
complete,” said Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co. “This isn’t an ordinary dismantling.”  Hitachi rose 0.3 percent to 401 yen at the midday break in
Tokyo trading. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined
0.1 percent.  Rival Groups  Toshiba’s group, which includes  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  and
 Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW) , submitted a plan on April 4 that would take 10
years or more to complete, spokesman Keisuke Ohmori said last
week. Toshiba’s Westinghouse Electric Co., Babcock & Wilcox and
Shaw were involved in the decommissioning of the Three Mile
Island plant, he said. Toshiba, Japan’s largest maker of nuclear
reactors, also helped build the Fukushima reactors.  Areva, the world’s biggest maker of nuclear reactors, plans
to submit a proposal, Jacques Besnainou, chief executive of the
Paris-based company’s U.S. subsidiary, said this week.  Hitachi’s U.S. partners were also involved in the cleanup
work at Three Mile Island and the 1986 Chernobyl incident, the
company said yesterday.  At Pennsylvania’s Three Mile Island in 1979, one reactor
partially melted in the worst U.S. accident, taking $973 million
to repair and almost 12 years to clean up, according to a report
on the World Nuclear Association’s website. More than 1,000
workers were involved in designing and conducting the cleanup
operation, the report said.  Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency yesterday
raised the severity rating of its nuclear crisis to 7, the
highest and matching the Chernobyl disaster. The accident was
previously rated a 5 on the global scale, the same as the Three
Mile Island meltdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 