-- 
Liverpool’s Dirk Kuyt to Extend His Contract to 2014, Mail Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-13T10:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/liverpool-s-dirk-kuyt-to-extend-his-contract-to-2014-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Kuyt at Liverpool Until 2014  Holland striker Dirk Kuyt will this week sign a new
contract with Liverpool that will keep him at Anfield until
2014, the  Daily Mail  reported.  He’s scored nine goals in 10 games for Liverpool and
Holland since Feb. 24, including one in the 3-0 win over
 Manchester City  two days ago.  “You know what you are going to get from Dirk Kuyt -- you
are going to get honesty and goals and we are delighted with
what he has done,” the newspaper quoted Liverpool manager Kenny
Dalglish as saying.  New York Times’s Stake  The New York Times Company is the second-biggest
shareholder in  Liverpool , the  Daily Telegraph  reported, citing
disclosures from the club’s new owner, Fenway Sports Group.  Atletico Goalie for United?  Reports in  Spain  continue to link  Manchester United  with
Atletico Madrid goalkeeper David de Gea. He’s set to join United
in a 20 million-euro ($29 million) transfer on a five-year
contract, Spanish radio station  Onda Cero  reported.  However, Atletico denies such a deal has been reached,
Spanish sports paper As reported.  United’s current goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar will be
retiring at the end of the season.  Barcelona’s Nolito U.K.-bound?  Queens Park Rangers  and  Newcastle United  are both
interested in signing  Barcelona  forward Nolito,  Metro  reported.  Nolito, who plays for Barcelona reserves, has turned down
an opportunity to extend his contract at the Spanish club where
he started as a youngster.  McCarthy Payoff  Benni McCarthy will get a 1.5 million-pound ($2.4 million)
payoff after agreeing to terminate his contract with West Ham,
 the Mail  reported.  The striker failed to score in 14 appearances after his 2.2
million-pound move from Blackburn last year, the newspaper
added.  Stoke Chasing Turkish Defender  Stoke  manager  Tony Pulis  has offered Turkish side
 Galatasaray  1.5 million pounds for defender Servet Cetin, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  Cetin, 30, has a nickname that translates into “a man who
could choke a bear,” the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 