-- 
Ivory Coast Requires $300 Million for Emergency Aid, UN Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-13T16:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ivory-coast-requires-300-million-for-emergency-aid-un-says.html
Ivory Coast  requires $300 million
for “priority humanitarian needs,” including aid to 800,000
people forced from their homes during four months of deadly
post-election conflict, a  United Nations  official said.  “We need to act now,” Valerie Amos, the UN’s emergency
relief coordinator, said to a meeting of the  Security Council 
after former President Laurent Gbagbo was captured and his
security forces surrendered. “The humanitarian situation
remains deeply troubling.”  Amos said a UN crisis assessment team has arrived in Ivory
Coast and that agencies including the World Food Program, UN
Children’s Fund and  World Health Organization  are sending
supplies to the West African nation, the world’s largest cocoa
producer.  Youssoufou Bamba, Ivory Coast’s ambassador to the UN, told
the  Security Council  that the “health alert is high, with the
risk of cholera and meningitis.”  Gbagbo had defied international opinion to cling to office
while disputing results of a Nov. 28 election. While the UN, the
 African Union  and the U.S. recognized  Alassane Ouattara  as the
winner, Gbagbo refused to cede power, claiming voter fraud in
the northern part of the country.  Ouattara will “very soon put together a broad-based unity
government, inclusive, one which will integrate the competencies
of all political forces,” Bamba said. The new government “will
allow our country to enter into an era of peace, stability and
prosperity,” he said.  Managing Own Affairs  The UN special representative for Ivory Coast, Choi Young- jin, said via video conference from Abidjan that the end of the
conflict marked a “success story of a people managing their own
affairs with international support.” He said that, unlike other
current crises, this one had been resolved without “massive
international intervention.”  Choi said Ouattara should act quickly to nominate people to
head 17 of 30 departments that don’t have designated ministers,
organize parliamentary elections and extend government authority
to the northern part of the county, which had been held by
rebels fighting Gbagbo’s government.  Cocoa for July delivery added $9, or 0.3 percent, to $3,065
a metric ton at 10:26 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
after touching $3,095, the highest since April 4.  In  London , cocoa futures for July delivery climbed 2
pounds, or 0.1 percent, to 1,939 pounds ($3,153) a ton on NYSE
Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  