-- 
Ivory Coast's Government Battles Looters, Calls on Troops to Rejoin Units

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-04-14T15:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ivory-coast-battles-looters-as-ouattara-pledges-investigation.html
Ivory Coast ’s new government called
on all soldiers and police to rejoin their units as it struggles
to stem looting in the commercial capital, Abidjan, following a
civil war that culminated in a 10-day battle for the city.  “Unit commanders and heads of services must move
immediately for the rapid restoration of public order,” Prime
Minister  Guillaume Soro  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“The resumption of economic and social activities and the
opening of administration services depend on this.”  The Republican Forces that support President-elect Alassane Ouattara are patrolling the streets of Abidjan following reports
of looting by their own soldiers, thieves and militias loyal to
previous leader  Laurent Gbagbo .  United Nations ’ peacekeepers and
French soldiers are also attempting to impose order.  Many shops and homes were plundered during the battle for
Abidjan that ended with Gbagbo’s capture in a bunker below his
home in the Cocody neighborhood of the city on April 11. Most of
the regular army and police officers supported Gbagbo in the
fighting.  “We are currently trying to get some of our rogue elements
under control,” Meite Sindou, spokesman for Soro, said by phone
yesterday, referring to the Republican Forces. “The looting has
to stop.”  ‘Ghost Villages’  Stability in the world’s largest cocoa producer would mean
a return to exports of the chocolate ingredient. Moeller-Maersk
A/S, the world’s largest container shipping line, says one of
its vessels is likely to arrive in Abidjan next week.  Cocoa for May delivery rose $70, or 2.3 percent, to $3,140
per metric ton at 11 a.m. in  New York  today.  The UN must protect “tens of thousands” of displaced
people throughout the country, said  Amnesty International  in an
e-mailed statement on April 12.  Villages have been burned and looted in the western part of
the country where people are “hiding in the bush in life-
threatening conditions and without any proper food or
sanitation,” said Gaetan Mootoo, U.K.-based Amnesty’s Ivory
Coast researcher. “We have seen ghost villages with nearly no
civilians.”  Gbagbo will face charges on a national and international
level, Ouattara said in a televised speech yesterday. He also
pledged to investigate killings committed during the conflict.  Financial Help  Ivory Coast requires $300 million in emergency aid, the
UN’s emergency relief coordinator, Valerie Amos, said yesterday
in New York. “We need to act now,” she said. “The
humanitarian situation remains deeply troubling.”  World Bank President Robert Zoellick told a briefing in
 Washington  the lender could reactivate loans to the  Ivory Coast 
within a couple of weeks, if the security situation allowed it.  The Tunis-based  African Development Bank  said in an e-
mailed statement that its personnel and World Bank
representatives will meet soon with senior officials from Ivory
Coast to discuss “immediate next steps.”  Looters ransacked shops on the main commercial street of
Rue des Jardins in the Deux Plateaux neighborhood yesterday and
were seen carrying the stolen goods, including sofas and a fake
Christmas tree, on their heads and in wheelbarrows.  “They’ve tried to enter into a building because a guy that
supported Gbagbo is living there,” said resident Moussa Traore.
“For them, it’s like a revenge.”  In the Cocody area, three men were shot by a Republican
Forces patrol at a bakery, according to Salif Attai, who
witnessed the incident and said the trio stole a bag he was
carrying. The body of one of the men that was left by the
roadside was wearing a military uniform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier at Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 