-- 
Japan Must Stop Forecasting Big Tokyo Quake as Models Flawed, Geller Says

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-04-14T06:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/japan-must-stop-forecasting-big-tokyo-quake-as-models-flawed-geller-says.html
The Japanese government should stop
trying to forecast when a major quake will hit near  Tokyo 
because models behind the predictions are flawed, according to a
geophysicist.  Since 1979, a year after Japan introduced a system that
aims to predict big earthquakes three days prior to the event,
temblors causing 10 or more mortalities have struck in areas
assigned a low seismic risk rating, said  Robert Geller , a
professor of geophysics at the  University of Tokyo .  “It is time to tell the public frankly that earthquakes
cannot be predicted,” Geller said in a  Nature  magazine article
published today. “We should instead tell the public and the
government to ‘prepare for the unexpected’ and do our best to
communicate both what we know and what we do not.”  A  magnitude-9 quake  and tsunami that hit  Japan  on March 11
left about 27,500 dead or missing and caused radiation leaks at
a nuclear power plant in the country’s worst crisis since World
War II. The quake shook areas where the probability for high
seismic intensity forecast by Japan’s model was as low as 0.1
percent, compared with as high as 100 percent in places
southwest of Tokyo, government data provided by Geller shows.  Japan may review its policy if scientific study supports a
change, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said today,
declining to comment on specific details.  Dismissing Evidence  “As a politician and not an expert, this is something I
shouldn’t comment on as there are different views among
specialists,” Edano told reporters today in Tokyo. “If
necessary, we will review our earthquake policies based on
expert opinion.”  Japan’s nuclear regulator and Tokyo Electric Power Co., the
owner of the nuclear plant, dismissed evidence two years ago
that a tsunami could overwhelm the plant’s defenses, according
to minutes from a 2009 government committee meeting.  Japan has built its earthquake models on the assumption
that various zones have “characteristic earthquakes,” allowing
scientists to assign quake probabilities to regions, Geller
said.  The locations of temblors that caused 10 or more deaths
since 1979 are outside the main danger regions and “suggest the
hazard maps and methods used to produce it are flawed and should
be discarded,” Geller wrote in the article.  Extensive Monitoring  The only area that Japan monitors extensively and
continuously is off the coast of Suruga Bay southwest of Tokyo,
identified as the only place in the country where detection of
movement in underlying tectonic plates allows a quake to be
forecast, according to Japan’s education ministry.  The possible rupture in the zone southwest of Tokyo has
already been named by the government as the “Tokai
earthquake.”  “We’re not claiming we can predict all earthquakes, just
the Tokai earthquake,” Sadayuki Kitagawa, the education
ministry’s Director for Earthquake Investigation, said by phone
in Tokyo today. The government will review its methods, Kitagawa
said.  A 1979 law requires the  Japan Meteorological Agency  to
monitor the area off the coast of Suruga Bay and report signs of
an approaching quake to a panel of five geophysicists for review
before passing the information to the prime minister.  The cabinet can declare a state of emergency, ceasing most
activity on the adjacent coast, an important industrial area,
according to Geller.  “Over the past 30 years or so, government spokesmen have
used the term ‘Tokai earthquake’ so often that the public and
news media have come to view it as a ‘real earthquake’ rather
than merely an arbitrary scenario,” Geller said. “This
misleads the public into believing that the clock is ticking
down inexorably on a magnitude-8 earthquake that is certain to
strike the Tokai district in the near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  