-- 
Japan's Government Lowers Its Economic Assessment as Quake Damage Mounts

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-13T01:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/japan-cuts-its-economic-assessment-as-earthquake-damage-mounts.html
The Japanese government cut its
assessment of the economy for the first time in six months after
the March 11 earthquake killed more than 12,000 and led to the
worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  “Although the Japanese economy was picking up, it has
shown weakness” since the temblor, the Cabinet Office said in a
report today in  Tokyo . A power shortage that resulted from a
crippled nuclear facility, delays in resolving supply chain
disruptions and rising oil prices threaten to depress growth
further, it said.  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said
yesterday the disaster’s effect on the economy has been larger
than previously thought, an indication reconstruction plans may
exceed the government’s projections. The Bank of Japan last week
established an emergency lending facility to help affected
businesses and warned that the event will exert “strong
downward pressure” on the world’s third-largest economy.  “There’s so much uncertainty surrounding the outlook,”
analysts at Mizuho Research Institute wrote in a note this week.
“We still don’t know the full extent of the damage from the
earthquake and it’s increasingly looking like the nuclear
problem will be prolonged.”  Government officials yesterday raised the severity level of
the accident at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s nuclear power plant
to match the level of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  Japan  is
expanding its evacuation zone surrounding the facility and has
halted shipments of vegetables containing radioactive material
above the legal limit.  Stimulus Package  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  aims to compile a stimulus package
this month that cabinet members say could be as large as 4
trillion yen ($47 billion).  Manufacturers from Fujitsu Ltd. to Nissan Motor Co. haven’t
been able to reopen some of their facilities one month after the
disaster, and intact factories have had to reduce operations to
cope with power shortages. Damages from the earthquake will be
as much as 25 trillion yen, the Cabinet Office said March 23.  Producer prices increased at the fastest pace in 28 months
in March, pushed up by higher commodity costs and supply
constraints after the quake, a  Bank of Japan  report released
today showed.  The costs companies pay for energy and unfinished goods
rose 2 percent from a year earlier, more than the 1.9 percent
median gain estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The number of items costing more exceeded those that were
becoming cheaper for the first time in almost two years, a sign
that deflationary pressure is easing.  Exports may decline, production is stagnating and household
spending is weakening, according to today’s report that
downgraded all three of those components. A survey of purchasing
managers showed manufacturing deteriorated at the fastest pace
in at least nine years in March. Confidence among merchants
closest to Japan’s consumers plunged at a record pace since the
government began tracking the data in 2000.  The  Finance Ministry  is scheduled to release its trade
report for March on April 20. Retail sales data are out April 27
and industrial production reports are due April 28 from the
Trade Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  