-- 
Japan Nuclear Crisis May Have ‘Significant Additional Problems,’ NRC Says

-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-04-13T06:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/japan-hit-by-aftershocks-as-jaczko-says-nuclear-crisis-is-yet-to-stabilize.html
Japan ’s crippled nuclear station is
yet to stabilize and the reactors must be kept cool to prevent
the crisis from deteriorating, the U.S. atomic regulator said,
as more aftershocks rocked the country.  “Currently the situation is static,” Nuclear Regulatory
Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said at a hearing of the
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee yesterday, after
Japan raised the severity rating of the accident to the same
level as Chernobyl. “It is not yet, however, what we believe to
be stable” and “significant additional problems” could still
occur at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, he said in Washington.  The stricken plant, about 220 kilometers (135 miles) north
of Tokyo, is leaking radiation in Japan’s worst civilian nuclear
disaster after a magnitude-9 quake and tsunami on March 11.
While  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s station has withstood hundreds
of aftershocks, efforts to restore cooling systems were hindered
this week as temblors forced workers to evacuate temporarily.  “Integrity of core facilities of the plant will probably
be maintained because of its earthquake-resistant design,” said
Tomoko Murakami, a nuclear researcher at the Institute of Energy
Economics, Japan. “Cooling damaged fuel rods is the major task
in order to bring the reactors under control.”  Jaczko, who said March 16 that “extremely high” radiation
levels from the plant could hinder recovery efforts, didn’t
elaborate in yesterday’s senate testimony as to what problems
could arise at Fukushima.  More Aftershocks  The measures being taken to stabilize the reactors are
posing new threats as filling reactor containment vessels with
water makes them vulnerable to rupturing when aftershocks occur,
according to a March 26 internal report prepared by NRC
engineers sent to assist the Japanese government.  Tepco, as the utility is called, said a 5.2-magnitude
earthquake today didn’t damage the plant and recovery work is
continuing. Japan was struck by two earthquakes stronger than
magnitude 6 yesterday, following a 6.6-magnitude temblor April
11 and a magnitude 7.1 aftershock on April 7.  The March 11 earthquake, the nation’s strongest on record,
and tsunami left about 27,500 dead or missing, according to
Japan’s  National Police Agency . The government has estimated the
damage at 25 trillion yen ($295 billion). Tepco may face claims
of as much as 11 trillion yen, according to one estimate.  Shares Surge  Tepco surged as much as 16 percent to 524 yen after the
Yomiuri newspaper reported that the government may ask Japanese
utilities to contribute as much as 50 billion yen ($595 million)
for each nuclear plant they operate to compensate victims of the
accident. The government denied the report.  “I haven’t heard such an idea,” Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano told reporters today in Tokyo. “That’s not included
among the concrete plans the government is considering.”  Tepco traded 14 percent higher at 515 yen at 2:33 p.m. in
Tokyo. The stock has slumped 76 percent since the crisis began.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency yesterday
raised the rating to 7, the highest on the International Nuclear
and Radiological Event Scale. The ranking was increased from 5,
the same as the 1979 partial meltdown at Three Mile Island in
 Pennsylvania . Each level on the scale represents a 10-fold
increase in severity.  A 7 rating means there has been a “major release of
radioactive material with widespread health and environmental
effects requiring implementation of planned and extended
countermeasures,” according to the INES  factsheet .  Accident Rating  The assessment is based on the combined severity of the
situation at reactor Nos. 1, 2 and 3, according to Hidehiko
Nishiyama, deputy director-general of the Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency, or NISA. The plant has six reactors.  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi station may spew more contamination
than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained, operator Tepco
said yesterday. The plant has so far released about 10 percent
as much radiation as Chernobyl, Japan’s nuclear safety agency
said yesterday.  The leaks won’t be stopped in “a few days or weeks,”
Edano said yesterday.  “We are trying to resolve the situation as soon as
possible and will do our best to cool down the reactors and
prevent the spread of radioactive substances,” Masataka Shimizu, president of the utility, said in a statement
yesterday. Shimizu, who has apologized for the accident, is due
to address a news conference at 3 p.m. local time today.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has asked Tepco to give an
assessment of when the company expects to resolve the crisis.
“An outlook will be presented soon,” he said at a news
conference in Tokyo yesterday.  Health Risks  Edano said April 11 that residents of some towns beyond the
20-kilometer evacuation zone around the plant will have a month
to move to safer areas.  “In contrast with Chernobyl, we have been able to avoid
direct health risks,” Edano said at a public event in Tokyo
yesterday. “The assessment level of 7 may be the same, but in
terms of its shape and content, the process has been
different.”  The disaster in Ukraine spewed debris as high as 9
kilometers into the air and released radiation 200 times the
volume of the combined bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in
1945, according to a  2006 report  commissioned by  Europe ’s  Green
Party .  Fewer people have been exposed to high levels of radiation
from Fukushima than Chernobyl, said  Richard Wakeford , a
professor at the Dalton Nuclear Institute at the  University of
Manchester  in the U.K. “The important thing is monitoring and
protecting people on the ground,” Wakeford said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in  Washington  at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  