-- 
Japan Nuclear Evacuation May Force Hitachi, Boehringer to Abandon Plants

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-04-13T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/japan-nuclear-evacuation-may-force-hitachi-boehringer-to-abandon-plants.html
Hitachi Chemical Co. and Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH may abandon factories largely unscathed by last
month’s  Japan  earthquake and tsunami as engineers struggle to
contain radiation spewing from a crippled nuclear plant.  Boehringer, the world’s largest family-owned drugmaker,
halted production at a factory that makes energy drinks in  Namie ,
about 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from the leaking power station
following the March 11 temblor and tsunami. Hitachi Chemical
shuttered a  plant  making carbon brushes for train motors in the
same town, causing a parts shortage that disrupted rail services.  “We have no idea when we will be able to go back,” said
Masayuki Hasegawa, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) 
unit. The company hasn’t yet decided on the long-term future for
the plant, which employed 200 people and had annual sales of
about 5 billion yen ($60 million), he said.  Workers and homeowners are unable to go within 20
kilometers of the tsunami-hit Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, as the
government has imposed an exclusion zone following the world’s
most serious nuclear accident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.
It may be years before radiation levels are low enough for
people to return to some areas, said Hideyuki Ban, secretary
general of the Citizens’ Nuclear Information Center, a Tokyo-
based anti-nuclear group.  “Manufacturers are going to have to start production at
other places,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600
million in assets in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Companies will have some stock on hand but suppliers are going
to start losing business if they don’t restart production.”  Auto-Parts Makers  Tomiyama Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. and Japan Brake
Industrial Co. have both shuttered plants in the evacuation zone
supplying automakers including Honda Motor Co. and Mazda Motor
Corp. The closures have contributed to carmakers being forced to
curtail production, according to Citigroup Inc. analysts
Noriyuki Matsushima and Manabu Hagiwara.  The shutdowns “are having a major impact on auto-part
production,” the analysts wrote in an April 8  report , as they
downgraded to “sell” Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan Motor Co., and
Honda. “Employees cannot access the plants and there are
absolutely no prospects in sight for recovery.”  The crippled nuclear reactors may eventually leak more
radiation than was released at Chernobyl, Tokyo Electric Power
Co., the plant’s operator, said on April 12. The amount released
so far is about 10 percent of the levels for the 1986 incident,
Japan’s nuclear safety agency said the same day. The severity
rating for the Fukushima nuclear crisis has been raised to seven,
the highest level and the same as for Chernobyl.  The magnitude-9 quake and tsunami left more than 28,000
people dead or missing across the Tohoku region, northeast of
Tokyo, according to the  National Police Agency of Japan . More
than 200,000 buildings were damaged, swept away or destroyed.  Golf-Club Shafts  Fujikura Rubber Ltd. (5121)  has offset the shutdown of a plant
making golf-club shafts in Odaka by increasing output at a
factory in  Vietnam , said Hiroshi Miyata, an acting general
manager. The Japan plant cost about 600 million yen to build and
employs about 160 people, he said.  “We don’t know when we’ll be able to use the factory
again,” he said. “It was largely undamaged by the earthquake
and tsunami.”  Hitachi Chemical has asked other companies to make the
carbon brushes it produced at its Namie plant and is dispatching
workers to help them, Hasegawa said. The factory, which opened
in 1966, had a Japan market share of about 50 percent, he said.  JR West Services  A lack of carbon brushes, which transfer electricity in
train motors, caused  West Japan Railway Co. (9021)  to cut services
following the quake. It resumed a full timetable last week after
being assured by Hitachi Chemical and other carbon-product
makers that alternative supplies would be available, Takayuki Sasaki, president of the Osaka-based company, said last week.  Boehringer has moved production from its factory in Namie
to other parts of Japan and it will also relocate the 40
employees who worked there, said Erika Nakajima, a spokeswoman
for its SSP Co. unit.  “Many people have mixed feelings,” she said. “They are
attached to the area, so they wish to go back one day.”  The company, based in Ingelheim,  Germany , hasn’t decided
yet whether to permanently shut the factory, she said.  Japan Brake abandoned efforts to  repair  its plant in Namie
last month following the evacuation alert, it said on its
 website . The company, which supplies brake-disc pads to Honda,
Mazda and brake-makers, may turn to rivals to help offset the
shutdown, said Yoshihisa Igawa, a spokesman. The plant employed
345 people.  Battery Fluids  Tomiyama, which made electrolytic fluids for  lithium-ion
batteries  at a factory in Okuma, may also ask other companies
for help, said Kazuhiro Endo, a spokesman. It hasn’t started
considering the long-term future for the plant, he said.  Once the Fukushima nuclear plant has been successfully
stabilized and there are no more leaks, authorities will likely
begin to narrow down the exclusion zone to particular hot spots,
said Ban at CNIC. Still, it’s too early to say where those
points will be and even in other parts of the zone it may be
years before it’s safe, he said.  “Radiation levels in the evacuation zone could remain high
for five to 10 years,” he said. “People and companies will
have no choice but to move to other areas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  