-- 
Japan Crisis Shouldn’t Derail U.S. Nuclear Plans, Fanning Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-04-13T21:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/japan-crisis-shouldn-t-derail-u-s-nuclear-plans-fanning-says.html
Southern Co. (SO)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Fanning, whose company won $8.33
billion in U.S. nuclear loan guarantees last year, said the
nation should build reactors without letting radiation releases
from a Japanese plant “distract us from what we must do here.”  Current models are “safe,” and new nuclear units would be
“safer,” Fanning told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in
 Washington  today. The two new reactors proposed by Southern
would provide 3,000 construction jobs, he said. Fanning also
encouraged pursuing energy from coal, natural gas and renewable
technologies.  “We need all the arrows in the quiver,” he said. “We
need nuclear. We must preserve coal as a resource for America’s
energy future. We need natural gas, but it is not a panacea. We
need renewable, but let’s recognize its limitations.”  Southern, based in Atlanta, is awaiting final certification
for the design of its AP1000 reactors, made by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s
Westinghouse Electric Co. Fanning said the U.S. shouldn’t delay
approval, which he expects by the end of the year, because of
the crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Southern’s planned reactors, the only project in the U.S.
backed by federal loan guarantees, would become the first new
American nuclear units built in more than 30 years.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  hasn’t issued a new
construction license since a partial meltdown at Pennsylvania’s
Three Mile Island in 1979, the worst U.S. nuclear accident.  The U.S. gets 20 percent of its electricity from 104
nuclear reactors. Southern wants to add the units to its Vogtle
nuclear power plant, about 26 miles (42 kilometers) southeast of
Augusta,  Georgia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net  