-- 
Japan Megabanks Get $90 Billion in Loan Requests as Quake Hurts Companies

-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-04-13T04:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/japan-s-megabanks-get-90-billion-in-loan-requests-after-quake.html
Japanese businesses sought 7.5
trillion yen ($90 billion) in loans from the nation’s largest
banks including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  to cope with
last month’s record earthquake and tsunami.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. received applications for
about 2.5 trillion yen in loans, said Shinya Matsumoto, a
spokesman for the unit of Japan’s biggest bank. Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. and Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. got requests for
about the same amount, according to spokeswomen for the lenders.  The March 11 temblor triggered a nuclear crisis north of
Tokyo and disrupted power and supply chains, prompting companies
including Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. to cut
production at home and abroad. Large companies seeking funds to
support subcontractors and affiliates with working capital are
probably driving loan demand, according to Hidenori Suezawa,
chief strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  “These are mainly bridging loans that will help to keep
businesses operating in the immediate aftermath of the
disaster,” he said. More loans and government support will be
needed to rebuild the economy, according to Suezawa.  The Bank of  Japan  last week unveiled a 1 trillion yen
lending program to help companies in the quake-stricken areas.
The BOJ earlier injected a record amount of cash into the
banking system in daily money-market operations and doubled an
asset-buying fund to 10 trillion yen on March 14.  Economic Pressure  Central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said this week that
the world’s third-largest economy faces “strong downward
pressure” and the central bank stands ready to take
“appropriate policy action” if needed. He said bank
settlements have been completed smoothly since the disaster and
lenders in affected regions are beginning to recover.  The surge in applications for credit has yet to be
reflected in figures for outstanding loans, which have been
declining for more than a year as companies and households
restrain spending. Lending slid 1.8 percent in March from a year
ago, the 16th straight drop, the  Bank of Japan  said yesterday.  “Bank lending may turn positive in May or June based on
the requests to the megabanks,” said SMBC Nikko’s Suezawa.
“Regional banks are probably also receiving significant
requests for loans.”  Loans outstanding at Japan’s so-called city banks, the
majority of which are accounted for by units of the three
largest financial groups, declined 4.6 percent, or 9.6 trillion
yen, to 197.1 trillion yen in March from a year earlier. At
regional banks, lending rose 1.1 percent, the BOJ report showed.  ‘Limited’ Impact  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest bank, received
about 2.5 trillion yen in loan requests related to the
earthquake, said Chika Togawa, a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based
lender.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s corporate lending unit got
about the same amount, according to Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman
for the country’s third-biggest bank by market value.  The immediate impact from the disaster for Japan’s biggest
banks will probably be “quite limited,” Shin Tamura, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Barclays Plc., wrote in a note to investors on
April 11. Loans by major banks in the disaster-stricken
prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi, Fukushima and Ibaraki, including
unaffected inland areas, account for about 0.55 percent of their
lending, he said. The four prefectures account for about 6.2
percent of gross domestic product, he said.  Japan’s  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  of shares dropped 12 percent
since the catastrophe, more than the benchmark Topix’s 10
percent decline.  Disaster Toll  The magnitude-9 quake and tsunami left 28,500 dead or
missing, according to the  National Police Agency . The government
estimates damage of as much as 25 trillion yen.  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said
yesterday that the hit to the economy “may be bigger than we
initially expected” because of the supply-chain disruptions and
nuclear crisis. The government is preparing a stimulus plan this
week that Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said may reach 4
trillion yen.  The Bank of Japan cut its economic assessment of seven of
the country’s nine regions on April 11. The  International
Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for Japanese growth to 1.4
percent for 2011 from 1.6 percent the same day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  