-- 
JD Sports Fashion Sales Decline as Customers Cut Spending

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-04-13T15:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/jd-full-year-profit-gains-30-sales-growth-slows-in-new-year.html
JD Sports Fashion Plc (JD/) , the U.K.’s
second-largest sportswear chain, said comparable sales declined
in the new fiscal year as higher  sales tax  and rising inflation
squeezed household finances.  Sales at stores open at least a year excluding value-added
tax dropped 1.2 percent in the eight weeks ended March 26, the
Bury, England-based company said in a statement today. That
compares with full-year same-store increases of 3.1 percent.  U.K. retail sales fell the most on record in March, as
consumers faced rising energy and food costs while remaining
concerned about employment, according to the  British Retail
Consortium . JD Sports said today it’s “extremely cautious”
about its outlook, adding that Easter falling three weeks later
in 2011 makes year-to-year comparisons harder.  “There’s a gloom and doom around the market,” Executive
Chairman Peter Cowgill said in a phone interview. “Consumers
are saving a bit more in the face of job insecurity. If parents
are being prudent, there’s not as much to go around.”  January’s increase in VAT means the same level of gross
takings will contribute about 16 million pounds ($26 million)
less than the previous year, JD Sports said. The company
“largely absorbed” the VAT increase, and doesn’t expect to
significantly raise prices this fiscal year, Cowgill said. To
compensate, it will seek to curb discounts and weed out weak-
selling merchandise quicker, he said.  JD Sports fell 64 pence, or 7.1 percent, to close at 837.5
pence at 4:30 p.m. in London, the biggest drop since October
2009. The shares have declined 4.3 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 407.5 million pounds.  ‘Real Pressure’  “A combination of rising VAT, high levels of inflation and
rising unemployment is putting real pressure on  consumer
spending ,” wrote Mark Photiades and Matthew McEachran of Singer
Capital Markets. They have their current “fair value”
recommendation under review.  Net income was 55.9 million pounds, or 114.84 pence per
share in the year ended Jan. 29, compared with 42.9 million
pounds, or 88.16 pence, a year earlier, JD Sports said today.
Total dividend rose 28 percent to 23 pence per share.  JD Sports said it expects a curb in customer spending at a
time when merchandise costs are rising “at a material rate.”  “This might be the year that JD’s younger customers
started to feel the impact of the squeeze on spending,” wrote
Katharine Wynne and David Jeary, analysts with Investec
Securities. Wynne and Jeary said they were cutting their pretax
profit estimate for this fiscal year to 72 million pounds from
81 million pounds, while retaining their “buy” recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  