-- 
Jinan, Laiwu Steel Jump in Shanghai After Merger Plan Change

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-13T03:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/jinan-laiwu-steel-jump-in-shanghai-after-merger-plan-change-1-.html
Jinan Iron and Steel Co. and  Laiwu
Steel Corp. (600102)  shares surged by their 10 percent daily limits in
Shanghai after the companies announced changes to the terms of
their planned merger.  Laiwu Steel shareholders, no matter whether they vote for
or against the new plan, have an option to get 7.18 yuan for
each share held, as an alternative to a swap for Jinan shares,
under the new arrangement, according to the statement. Jinan
Steel shareholders will get an optional offer of 3.44 yuan a
share, the statement said. Previously, only shareholders
opposing the merger plan received the cash offer.  “The share prices surged today to catch up with a gain in
the overall market,” said Li Xiaolu, a Shanghai-based analyst
with Capital Securities Co. “Under the new arrangement,
shareholders don’t need to vote against the plan to get the cash
option. That would help it receive a go-ahead from investors.”  This is the third attempt by Jinan Steel to merge with
sister company Laiwu Steel after shareholders blocked the
previous plans. Jinan Steel and Laiwu Steel’s parents were
merged to form Shandong Iron & Steel in March 2008 amid a
government push to consolidate steelmakers to help them compete
globally and boost their bargaining power for raw materials,
including  iron ore .  Laiwu Steel surged 10 percent to 8.32 yuan in Shanghai as
trading resumed from a closing of 7.56 yuan on Feb. 17. Jinan
Steel also jumped 10 percent to 3.95 yuan today from a closing
of 3.59 yuan on Feb. 17. The Shanghai Composite Index has risen
3 percent from Feb. 17.  Laiwu Steel didn’t get the two-thirds of votes needed to
pass the second proposal to merge the two companies, according
to a statement on Jan. 4. Shareholders of Laiwu would get 2.43
Jinan shares for each Laiwu share they own, or 8.90 yuan in cash
for each share, based on that plan.  --Jiang Jianguo, Helen Yuan. Editors: Alan Soughley, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in  Shanghai  at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net 
Jiang Jianguo in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at  