-- 
JPMorgan Wins Dismissal of Lawsuit From Ex-Deutsche Bank Executive Keays

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-04-13T02:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/jpmorgan-wins-dismissal-of-ex-deutsche-bank-executive-s-suit-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  didn’t violate
law or breach a contract when it fired the Australian head of
its corporate derivatives marketing in 2008, after he objected
to changes in the job, a judge ruled.  Colin Keays sued JPMorgan, claiming the bank lured him from
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2005 and then deceived him and breached his
contract by limiting him to dealing only with JPMorgan clients.
He had sought more than A$6 million ($6.3 million) for his
expected pay to January 2018, when he would be 60 years of age.  JPMorgan, the second biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, had the
right, under its contract with Keays, to fire him by giving him
three months notice or pay in lieu of the notice, Australia
Federal Court Judge  Robert Buchanan  wrote in a 34-page ruling
released today. The bank abided by the terms of the contract,
the judge said.  “Mr. Keays was under no obligation to accept the position
at JPM,” Buchanan wrote. “When he did so it was on the terms
which he had negotiated” and that included “dealing with the
possibility that his employment might come to an end,” the
judge said.  Keays declined to comment after today’s verdict.  Lured by Bonus  Keays testified in October at trial that he was lured to
JPMorgan with a $500,000 signing bonus and a guarantee he’d get
another $450,000 bonus in the first year, as he headed the
foreign exchange desk.  JPMorgan’s Australian operations were restructured during
the 2008 global financial crisis and Keays was to be moved from
the public side to the private side of the business, serving
only JPMorgan clients who were involved in transactions the bank
advised on.  “It was made very clear that JPMorgan was expanding its
fixed income business and he was given an opportunity to be part
of that expansion, which he declined,” Andrew Donohoe, a
JPMorgan spokesman said at the October trial.  Keays said he objected because the move limited his
customers and he would lose bonuses tied to revenue he brought
in to the bank.  “I had gone from being the head of a desk to just another
foreign exchange salesman,” Keays said. “I lost half my staff
and half my revenue.”  Golden Handcuff  Keays, who had earned more than A$1 million a year at
Deutsche Bank plus bonuses, said he was fired by JPMorgan after
voicing objections to the move. He said he received three
months’ severance pay and didn’t get stock he was promised
because he refused to sign a release that would have prevented
him from suing.  “An award of stock in this form (with delayed vesting)
operated as a ‘golden handcuff,’” Buchanan said. “That concept
is inconsistent with any notion that the stock would
automatically vest on earlier termination.”  Keays failed to show he was entitled to the stock, the
judge said.  After Keays left JPMorgan, he worked on contract three days
a week at A$1,200 a day for 14 months to “fix up the derivative
book” at Global Property Trust, he had testified.  In July, Keays said he got a job of vice president of
interest rate sales at  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.’s Sydney desk, earning A$250,000 a year, plus possible
bonuses.  The case is Colin Keays v. J.P.Morgan Administrative
Services Australia Ltd. (P)NSD1375/2008. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  