-- 
JPMorgan Chase Profit Rises 67% on Lower Credit Costs, Beating Estimates

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/jpmorgan-chase-profit-surges-67-on-lower-credit-costs-beating-estimates.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, said profit rose 67 percent to a
second straight record as provisions for bad mortgages and
credit-card loans tumbled.  First-quarter net income climbed to $5.56 billion, or $1.28
a share, from $3.33 billion, or 74 cents, in the same period a
year earlier and from $4.83 billion, or $1.12, in the fourth
quarter, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
The results beat the average per-share estimate for adjusted
earnings of $1.15 by 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Reserve releases, money the bank decides it no longer needs
to hold against future losses, accounted for $2.55 billion, or
almost half, of the profit. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
55, has said he doesn’t consider reserve releases as “quality”
earnings because they don’t represent growth in the bank’s
businesses.  “I thought it was a good quarter, but it’s just not a
quarter that’s going to get people excited,” said  Paul Miller ,
a former examiner for the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
and analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “It
was very noisy,” he said, referring to the earnings attributable
to the reserve releases, which accounted for more than 40 cents
of the per-share profit.  Share Performance  Shares of JPMorgan fell 47 cents, or 1 percent, to $46.17
at 2:53 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. The stock was up 10 percent this year before today.  About 29 cents of the per-share earnings were from the
bank’s $2 billion draw on credit-card reserves. JPMorgan may
record one more “strong quarter” of reserve releases from its
credit-card division before they taper off in the third quarter,
said Shannon Stemm, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis  who rates the stock “buy.”  Provisions for credit losses dropped 83 percent to $1.17
billion as defaults and late payments declined. JPMorgan posted
a record $17.4 billion in earnings last year in part by
releasing about $7 billion of reserves against bad loans back
into income as the  U.S. economy  improved.  Almost 43 percent of JPMorgan’s net income in the first
quarter came from its investment bank, where earnings fell 4
percent to $2.37 billion. Those results were up from $1.5
billion in the fourth quarter as the bank took advantage of
volatility in the market caused by the European debt crisis and
turmoil in the Middle East.  Fixed Income  First-quarter revenue fell 8 percent to $25.8 billion.
Fixed-income and equity markets revenue was $6.6 billion,
compared with $6.9 billion a year earlier and $4 billion in the
fourth quarter.  The retail bank posted a $208 million loss. Dimon said in
the statement that the business had “good underlying
performance” that was “more than offset by the extraordinarily
high losses we still are bearing on mortgage-related issues.
Unfortunately, these losses will continue for a while.”  The bank took a $1.1 billion charge and may add as many as
3,000 employees to comply with a consent agreement with federal
bank regulators over JPMorgan’s foreclosure practices announced
today, Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein told
reporters on a conference call.  Although the expense was a one-time charge, “that’s an
asset that’s continually fair-valued, so we could see further
charges or gains from that line item in the future,” Stemm
said. “We absolutely could see further charges over the next
couple of quarters on mortgage issues.”  Bank of America  JPMorgan is the first of the largest U.S. banks to report
earnings. Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest behind JPMorgan and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , may report first-quarter profit of $2.78
billion when it releases results on April 18, the survey of
analysts shows.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
may report a profit of $2.99 billion on April 15.  Thirty-day delinquency rates on credit cards dropped to
3.57 percent from 5.6 percent in the same quarter in 2010 and
4.1 percent in the fourth quarter. The rate of credit cards
charged off as bad debt also fell, to 7 percent from 11.8
percent the prior year and 7.9 percent in the previous quarter.  JPMorgan’s credit-card division, which lost money for all
of 2009, generated $1.34 billion in profit, or 24 percent of net
income for the quarter.  Retail Banking  The loss in retail banking, which includes home loans and
checking accounts, compared with $708 million of profit during
the fourth quarter and a $131 million loss a year earlier. The
division benefited from a $2.4 billion reduction in provisions
to $1.3 billion, JPMorgan said.  Home prices , which stabilized early last year, have fallen
every month since the middle of 2010 and may slow reserve
releases, which are determined in part by economic forecasts,
said  Jason Goldberg , a senior analyst with  Barclays Capital  in
 New York .  “The most important things should be moving in the right
direction, but you’re not yet firing on all cylinders,”
Goldberg said.  Loan growth remains slow and net interest margins, which
measure the profitability of lending, continue to narrow at U.S.
banks. Bank loans and leases fell $87.4 billion to $6.97
trillion from the end of 2010 through March 30, or 1.3 percent,
according to Federal Reserve data.  Net Interest Margin  JPMorgan and other large banks, which have benefited from
record low costs of funding mortgages and other assets, face a
squeeze on net interest margins -- the difference between what
they pay to borrow money and what they get for loans and on
securities.  The net yield on interest-earning assets -- what the bank
collects on interest on loans and securities minus what it pays
out on deposits and other borrowings -- rose to 2.89 percent in
the first quarter, from 2.88 percent in the fourth quarter and
3.32 percent a year earlier.  “In aggregate, it’s kind of lackluster,” said  Moshe Orenbuch , a bank analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.
“Net interest is still declining. Mortgage-banking revenues are
going to be under pressure because volumes are under pressure
and spreads are under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  