-- 
JPMorgan Says Foreclosure Accord With Federal Reserve, OCC May Come Today

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-13T14:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/jpmorgan-says-foreclosure-accord-with-federal-reserve-occ-may-come-today.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, may settle an investigation into
the bank’s foreclosure practices by federal regulators as early
as today, executives said.  The bank took a $1.1 billion charge and may add as many as
3,000 employees to comply with the consent agreement, Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein told reporters on a conference call today after the
bank reported a 67 percent increase in net income. The accord
involves the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the
 Federal Reserve , the bankers said.  “They are going to issue some very significant changes,”
Braunstein said. The agreement will address “weaknesses with
our processes and controls” when the bank forecloses on overdue
homeowners and cover the New York-based company’s use of
affidavits, fees and documentation, he said.  The $1.1 billion writedown on mortgage-servicing rights led
the retail-banking division to post its first loss in a year.
Revenue from mortgage fees and related income was negative $489
million, the first time the lender has had negative revenue in
that business since at least its merger with Bank One Corp. in
2004. The writedown represented about 8 percent of the $13.6
billion total carrying value of the bank’s MSRs at Dec. 31.  While the agreement doesn’t include fines, Dimon said
regulators reserved the right to levy penalties in the future.  “There are a lot of interested parties, it’s complex and
eventually there will be penalties and fines paid and other
changes made to things. So we just don’t know yet,” Dimon said.  Cummings’s Request  Representative Elijah Cummings, a Democrat from  Maryland ,
sent a letter to the OCC, calling on the regulator to postpone
the consent agreement and brief Congress on its investigation
into foreclosure processes, the lawmaker said today in a
statement. The OCC agreed to brief Cummings on the
investigation, the statement said.  “I remain deeply concerned with any proposed consent
orders that would allow mortgage servicers to continue
disregarding their legal and contractual obligations, and that
fail to rectify the damage that servicers have inflicted on
borrowers, investors, communities, and the  U.S. economy ,”
Cummings said in the letter dated yesterday.  JPMorgan is the third-largest servicer in the U.S.,
trailing  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Wells Fargo & Co. Servicers
collect payments from borrowers and pass them on to mortgage
lenders or investors, less fees. They also keep records, manage
escrow accounts and contact delinquent debtors.  Under U.S. accounting rules in place since 1995, banks
should report the value of mortgage-servicing rights on a fair-
market basis, or roughly what they would bring in a sale. A bank
must record a loss whenever it sells MSRs for a price below
where they’re marked on the books.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  