-- 
Former JPMorgan Executive Llodra May Face SEC Suit Over 2007 CDO Marketing

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-04-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/jpmorgan-ex-structured-product-cdo-head-llodra-may-face-sec-suit.html
U.S. regulators, as part of a broad
probe of how Wall Street firms bundled mortgage-linked financial
products as the housing crisis worsened, notified a former
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive he may be sued for his role in
selling the securities.  Michael Llodra , who was global head of structured-product
collateralized debt obligations when he left JPMorgan, received
a Wells notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission on
Jan. 4 saying investigators planned to pursue civil claims
against him related to the sale of a 2007 product, according to
Llodra’s broker registration filings. The SEC also gave a Wells
notice on Jan. 14 to Edward Steffelin, a former executive at a
firm that helped manage JPMorgan’s 2007 “Squared” CDO, his
brokerage records show.  The SEC has been probing whether JPMorgan, the second
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, and Steffelin’s former firm, GSC
Group, misled investors about hedge-fund Magnetar Capital LLC’s
possible role in selecting underlying assets in the $1.1 billion
Squared deal, according to a person briefed on the matter who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the probe isn’t public.  Magnetar  has said  it bought the junior-most slice of the
Squared CDO as part of its strategy of investing in some
mortgage-linked securities while betting against other housing
debt, sometimes including bonds from the same deals. CDOs
package assets such as mortgage bonds and buyout loans into new
securities with varying risks.  Llodra, who joined JPMorgan in 2006, began working at
Harvard Management Co. in 2008 and then went to Sunrise
Securities Corp. through last November, his records at the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority show. He has since left
Sunrise, a woman who answered the phone there today said.  Steffelin, 41, is now director of institutional sales and
research at  Walton International Group , which acquires and
manages land in  North America , according to his profile at the
Linkedin business-networking website.  SEC Investigation  JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti  declined to comment.
Llodra and Steffelin declined to comment, as did Steven Lipin, a
spokesman for Magnetar, and SEC spokesman  John Nester .  The SEC’s investigation has focused on the role of each of
the three firms involved in the transaction, a person familiar
with the matter said, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the matter isn’t public.  Squared was sold in April 2007, with GSC Group serving as
the CDO’s manager and JPMorgan underwriting the deal, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its collateral consisted partly
of other CDOs tied to bonds backed by assets such as mortgages,
with the initial holdings including credit-default swaps
referencing $968 million of those CDOs, according to an offering
document. CDOs backed by other CDOs were commonly referred to as
“CDOs squared.” Squared went into default the following
January.  Magnetar  The probe is part of the SEC’s wider investigation of how
banks packaged and sold mortgage-linked investments as the
housing market unraveled in 2007. The agency has targeted firms
at various stages of that process, ranging from loan originators
such as Countrywide Financial Corp., to underwriters including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which agreed to pay $550 million last
year to resolve claims it misled investors in a subprime-linked
CDO.  Evanston, Illinois-based Magnetar told investors in an
April 2010 letter that it didn’t help banks create CDOs that
were “built to fail” on a bet that homeowners with bad credit
would default on their loans. The firm offered limited input on
the creation of CDOs, and made bets that would pay off if they
soured as part of a “market neutral” portfolio designed to
profit no matter what happened, Magnetar said in the letter.  Magnetar said in its letter that it didn’t select specific
securities to be included in its CDOs.  Magnetar was started in late 2005 by Alec Litowitz, who
previously worked at  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel Investment Group LLC.
He specialized in trading the stocks of merging companies.  GSC Bankruptcy  GSC, based in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , filed for
bankruptcy last year, blaming losses in its funds caused by the
credit crisis and an “extremely unfavorable global business
environment.” The investment firm, founded by former Goldman
Sachs partner Alfred Eckert III, managed $28 billion at its
peak, according to court papers.  Black Diamond Capital Management LLC won a bankruptcy
auction for its assets.  GSC, which entered into the business of managing CDOs tied
to asset-backed securities in 2006, ran $8.1 billion of them by
the time the market collapsed the next year, according to a
 Standard & Poor’s  report at the time. The company ranked as the
No. 17 manager of such CDOs, S&P said.  The firm’s name surfaced last year in e-mails released by a
U.S. Senate panel investigating the financial crisis. Goldman
Sachs employee Fabrice Tourre, who helped arrange the CDO that
would later force Goldman Sachs to pay the record fine, wrote in
a January 2007  e-mail  that GSC Group had turned down a request
that it serve as collateral manager for that deal, which hedge
fund Paulson & Co. helped select assets for and bet against.  “GSC had declined given their negative views on most of
the credits that Paulson had selected,” Tourre wrote, after
discussing the Abacus CDO again with Steffelin that day,
according to the e-mail.  Tourre, who has denied wrongdoing, is litigating the SEC’s
case against him.  The Senate panel, the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, held a series of hearings about the financial
crisis last year, including a full day questioning Goldman Sachs
executives about the company’s business practices. It is
scheduled to release its findings today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  