-- 
Kiener Confesses to Using Ponzi-Scheme Tactics to Save K1

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-04-14T11:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/k1-group-hedge-fund-s-kiener-to-testify-at-german-fraud-trial.html
K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener,
accused of running a 345 million-euro ($500 million) Ponzi
scheme, told a court he manipulated account statements and
lacked the “courage” to shut his hedge fund after he realized
the scale of the losses.  Kiener, 51, admitted that he attempted to make up for
losses with funds from new investors in a statement read at his
fraud trial today in Wuerzburg,  Germany . His lawyer, Achim
Groepper, described the testimony after the hearing as “a
confession, for the most part.”  “I just didn’t have the courage to liquidate the K1 funds
when I saw they got in trouble,” Kiener said in the statement
read by Groepper. “I trusted that I could make up losses by
investing just more and more new money.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA lost a combined 223 million
euros and private investors lost about 122 million euros in the
scam, prosecutors said. The testimony was a change for Kiener,
whose first lawyer had consistently said his client had done
nothing wrong.  Kiener was arrested in 2009 after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
found suspicious transactions involving K1 when it acquired Bear
Stearns Cos., a person familiar with the matter said at the
time. Dieter Frerichs, the former managing director of two K1
funds in the British Virgin Islands, shot himself in July to
avoid being arrested on the Spanish island of  Mallorca .  ‘Safe Side’  Kiener’s new lawyer, Groepper, said Kiener regrets his
actions and the losses he caused. Big international banks,
including Barclays, are at least partly to blame for the mess,
he said.  “As the banks approved all my investment suggestions, I
felt on the safe side,” Kiener said in today’s statement. “I
thought my investment decisions would be equivalent to market
practices.”  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for  Barclays Capital  in  London ,
declined to comment.  Kiener is charged with  tax evasion , 35 counts of aggravated
fraud and 86 counts of forgery. He faces as much as 15 years in
prison if convicted.  Kiener said he secretly violated agreements with banks on
how to handle funds they entrusted to his operations by using
real estate and aircraft for personal purposes.  “I know that this was a conflict of interest and that I
violated investment rules I had with the bank -- and I bitterly
regret it,” he said in the statement.  ‘Enormous Psychological Pressure’  While successful when he started his funds, he quickly felt
an “enormous psychological pressure” to repeat the profits
again and again, he told the court.  “So I came up with the idea to use my computer to forge
some of the account statements,” he said. “After getting
through with it one time, that nasty habit sort of slipped in.”  His K1 Invest fund eventually developed deficits of 30
percent to 60 percent and his K1 Global fund as much as 25
percent. With the financial crisis in 2008, the spiral
accelerated, said Kiener.  “This wasn’t a  Ponzi scheme  in the classical sense, where
you just accept money with one hand and give it out to the next
investor with the other hand,” Groepper told reporters. “It
had some financial intelligence, as money was indeed invested
and some of it made real profits.”  Today’s statement makes up 20 percent of what Kiener
intends to tell the court. He will complete his testimony on May
4, Groepper said.  Claus Z  Also on trial is a man who by law can only be identified as
Claus Z, a former managing director of K1 funds’ Swiss
administrator Treukapital Treuhandverwaltung AG, which did the
accounting and the calculation of the K1 funds’ net asset value.
He is charged with aiding Kiener in two cases of serious fraud.  Claus Z has denied the charges and told the court on March
23 that he relied on information Kiener sent him.  Kiener had the ability to gain “enormous trust from other
people,” Claus Z testified.  Kiener deceived investors in the funds’ prospectus, which
claimed it used a diversification strategy that could produce
annual average profits of 10 percent. In reality, the funds used
existing money to pay new customers and Kiener forged documents
showing K1 invested in other funds, according to the indictment.  The system broke down in the second half of 2008 when
Barclays and BNP started asking questions about money they had
invested with Kiener, according to the indictment.  K1 Liquidation  K1’s funds are being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands. Kiener’s personal assets were placed in insolvency
proceedings in Germany. X1 Fund Allocation GmbH, a Hamburg-based
K1 company, is also under administration.  Barclays issued notes in 2005 and 2007 with X1 Fund
Allocation as the investment manager. The lender started that
program because the bank relied on Kiener’s false statements
about K1’s successes, according to the charges.  Kiener started K1 in 1995 while still working as an
advertising salesman. The firm claimed returns of 825 percent
from 1996 through June 2009, according to its website, which was
taken down after the disparities came to light. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 49 percent over the same period. The
charges in the trial relate to actions between 2006 and 2009.  Kiener told the court today that he turned to the financial
world after he was unable to find a job as a psychologist.  “It turned out that I wasn’t really suitable for becoming
a psychotherapist, all job applications failed,” said Kiener.
“So starting in the financial world was sort of a workaround
solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Wuerzburg via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 