-- 
Kenya's Flower Exports Seen Growing in 2011 After 15% Decrease Last Year

-- B y   C o n s o l a t a h   L u c a s
-- 
2011-04-13T07:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/kenya-s-flower-exports-seen-growing-in-2011-after-15-decrease-last-year.html
Flower exports from  Kenya , the
world’s largest shipper of the product to Europe, are expected
to increase this year amid expectations of better economic
growth in its key market, the Kenya Flower Council said.  Shipments climbed 10 percent to 22,000 metric tons in the
first two months of 2011, Winnie Muya, spokeswoman for the
Nairobi-based council, said in a phone today. The industry is
expecting a “very good” performance for the year as a whole,
Chief Executive Officer Jane Ngige said in an e-mailed response
to questions. She didn’t provide a more specific forecast.  “We expect a robust performance this year despite many
challenges, mainly from rolling foreign-exchange rates and the
cost of fuel and rising cost of living,” Ngige said.  Kenya accounts for 35 percent of all flower sales in
 Europe , according to the council. The East African nation’s main
markets in the European Union are Holland, the U.K.,  Germany ,
 France  and  Switzerland , it said.  The European Commission raised its economic-growth forecast
for 2011 to 1.6 percent last month from 1.5 percent in November.
The euro has strengthened 12 percent against the shilling so far
this year, meaning exporters receive more shillings when they
convert their proceeds back to the Kenyan currency.  “Most of the sales are secured in the euro, which means
that returns have been favourable,” Ngige said.  Last year, flower exports fell 15 percent to an estimated
32 billion shillings after heavy snowfalls across Europe curbed
demand and the eruption of Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano
resulted in aircraft being grounded in April, delaying
shipments, Muya said.  Agriculture accounts for 25 percent of Kenya’s gross
domestic product, with tea, coffee and horticulture being its
main source of foreign exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Consolatah Lucas in Mombasa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 