-- 
Khazanah Plans Healthcare IPO as Malaysia Pushes for Divestments

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-04-13T03:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/khazanah-plans-healthcare-ipo-as-malaysia-pushes-for-divestments.html
Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state investment company, said it plans to list hospital operator
Integrated Healthcare Holdings Ltd. as the government pushes
state organizations to divest commercial holdings to attract
foreign investors and boost stock market liquidity.  A total 10 government-linked companies will be divested
this year, Prime Minister Najib Razak said yesterday.  Khazanah 
will sell its local postal business and government-owned  Felda
Global Ventures Holdings Sdn.  will take its sugar refining
operations public, he said.  Malaysia wants state institutions to trim stakes in non-
core listed companies to boost stock market liquidity and
attract foreign investors. More than half of the benchmark  stock
index  was owned by government-linked funds as of June last year,
according to calculations by Bloomberg. The  Employees Provident
Fund , a state pension fund, alone accounted for 50 percent of
daily volume in Malaysia’s local equity and bond markets, Najib
said in March 2010.  “They have done some divestments last year, which did
attract some foreign interest and the government wants to make
the market more vibrant,” Ang Kok Heng, who oversees $292
million as chief investment officer at Phillip Capital
Management Sdn., said in a phone interview in Kuala Lumpur.
“This will improve the market’s liquidity.”  Mitsui & Co.,  Japan ’s second-biggest trading company, said
last week it will buy a 30 percent stake in Integrated
Healthcare for 3.3 billion ringgit ($1.1 billion). That values
the company at 11 billion ringgit, which would make it the
biggest among publicly traded hospital operators, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Market Validation’  Integrated Healthcare, which manages hospitals including
 Singapore ’s Mount Elizabeth and Gleneagles, will be listed
within three years in Malaysia or Singapore, Azman told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. The listing will “complete the
market validation further, for us and our partners,” he said.  Khazanah, which manages about 75 billion ringgit of
investments, is also in the “final stage” of selling its 32
percent stake in  Pos Malaysia Bhd. (POSM) , Najib said. The state
investment fund has been gradually trimming its local non-core
business interests and investing more abroad since Najib’s call
a year ago for state companies to create room for private
businesses to grow.  “We have completed a total of 36 major divestment
transactions with total proceeds of 24 billion ringgit
generating some 11.6 billion ringgit of gains” from 2004 to
2010, Azman said. “Into 2011, this overall trend continues.”  The company will also seek acquisitions this year, adding
that it’s constantly on the look-out,” Azman said. “We don’t
sit still.”  Felda IPO  State-owned Felda aims to raise as much as 900 million
ringgit through listing its sugar business in  Kuala Lumpur ,
Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. Chief Executive Officer Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz said in an interview yesterday.  Felda’s share sale would be the country’s biggest initial
public offering since state oil and gas company Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. spun off its petrochemicals interests in a record
12.8 billion-ringgit share sale in November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “This listing will enhance Felda’s leading position in the
sugar industry, providing the group with an opportunity to gain
recognition in the capital markets,” Razak said in the capital
yesterday, after announcing the share sale.  The government also plans to sell four lots of state land,
with estimated proceeds in excess of 1 billion ringgit, he said.
The Federal Land Development Authority, popularly known as Felda,
originated in 1956 as a government agency tasked with handling
the resettlement of Malaysia’s rural poor. Today, it’s one of
the world’s biggest plantation groups and counts global
companies including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  among its partners.  Sugar King  Felda Global, its commercial arm, bought Malayan Sugar
Manufacturing Company Bhd. for 1.22 billion ringgit two years
ago from PPB Group Bhd., a company controlled by the family of
Malaysia’s so-called “Sugar King”  Robert Kuok .  This sugar business is the first of five Felda units that
may be listed, the Business Times reported on April 4, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Malaysia may see a “few” initial public offerings to
raise more than 1 billion ringgit this year, Maybank’s Tengku
Zafrul said yesterday, declining to elaborate on its involvement
with manage Felda’s sugar unit’s share sale.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 