-- 
KKR Buys Masan Stake in Biggest Vietnam Private Equity Deal

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-13T05:03:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/kkr-buys-masan-stake-in-biggest-vietnam-private-equity-deal-1-.html
KKR & Co. agreed to pay $159
million for a stake in Vietnamese fish sauce maker Masan
Consumer Corp. in the largest private-equity investment in the
Southeast Asian nation.  KKR, based in  New York , will buy 10 percent of Masan
Consumer, the companies said in a joint statement today. It is
KKR’s first investment in Vietnam and its fourth in  Southeast
Asia , according to the release. Masan Consumer is a unit of
 Masan Group Corp. (MSN)   KKR, founded by  Henry Kravis , is betting Vietnam’s young
population and growing middle class will help it generate
returns even after inflation soared to a 25-month high and the
country’s currency dropped to a record low against the
dollar. TPG Inc. and BankInvest, a Danish investment fund,
bought a $50 million stake in Masan Group in October 2009.  “Most foreign investors are looking beyond the near term
and thinking about where this country is going to be in five
years if the macro policy gets back on track and inflation comes
down,” said Adrian Cundy, Ho Chi Minh City-based head of
research at VinaSecurities Joint-Stock Co. “ Vietnam ’s young
demographic is where investors see major growth and that’s the
attraction.”  Cundy said the agreement marks the biggest private equity
deal in Vietnam.  Currency Plummets  Masan Group shares were unchanged at 83,000 dong at the 11
a.m. local time close. The stock has gained 11 percent so far
this year, compared with a 4.9 percent decline in the VN Index,
the benchmark measure of the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange.  The deal comes as Vietnam struggles to tame inflation that
almost reached 14 percent in March and tries to stabilize the
local currency after devaluing it for the fourth time in 15
months in February. The Vietnamese dong dropped to a record low
against the dollar as of 10:43 a.m., according to data from
banks compiled by Bloomberg.  Private equity investors are looking to invest in
industries like  consumer goods , cosmetics and food, where
companies can pass on price increases, said Cundy.  “Vietnam is a large country with a young and growing
population where there has been considerable economic progress,
structural reforms, and a notable increase in  living
standards ,” said Ming Lu, a senior operating executive at KKR,
in an e-mail. “Demographic and social trends favor the rise of
domestic consumption.”  Tripling Profit  Vietnam aims to expand its economy 7 percent to 8 percent
per year over the next decade and wants to triple per capita
income to $3,000 in that time, the former leader of the ruling
Communist Party, Nong Duc Manh, said in January.  Masan Consumer, formerly known as Masan Food, is the market
leader in fish, soya and chili sauce and the second largest
producer of branded instant noodles in Vietnam, according to
today’s statement. Its profit tripled to 1.25 trillion dong ($60
million) in 2010 from 402 billion dong in 2008.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Masan Group on the deal.  Mount Kellett Capital Management LP, a U.S. private equity
group, said in January it spent $100 million for a 20 percent
stake in Masan Resources, another unit of Masan Group that owns
a tungsten mine in the country.  “Domestic companies are much more open to accepting
partnerships than they previously did,” said Cundy of
VinaSecurities. “Their valuation expectations are much more
realistic than they were two years ago, given the macro issues.
That will make it more attractive.”  --Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. With assistance from K. Oanh Ha and
Giang Nguyen. Editors: Philip Lagerkranser, Chitra Somayaji  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  