-- 
Korea Hydro Shuts Oldest Nuclear Power Reactor; No Radiation Leak Detected

-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-13T01:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/korea-hydro-shuts-oldest-nuclear-power-reactor-no-radiation-leak-detected.html
Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. ,
which supplies 40 percent of the nation’s electricity, shut its
oldest nuclear reactor to fix a technical problem.  The unit of  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  closed the 33-year-
old  Kori No. 1 reactor  at 8:46 p.m. local time yesterday after
the circuit breakers of an electrical system failed, Jang Mun Ki,
head of safety at the plant, said by phone today. The electrical
system isn’t vital to the reactor’s operation, and there’s no
radiation leak, Jang said, confirming a report by Yonhap News.  The closure came after South Korea’s political opposition
asked the government to decommission all of the country’s old
reactors, including the 587-megawatt Kori No. 1. Lee Jung Hee,
chairwoman of the  Democratic Labor Party , said on April 11 the
nation should review its policy to build more nuclear plants.  Kori No. 1 in Busan, 453 kilometers (282 miles) southeast
of  Seoul , began commercial operations in April 1978. The reactor
may resume operation tomorrow, pending the government’s approval,
Jang said.  The reactor accounted for 3.5 percent of the state-
controlled company’s nuclear power output last year, data on
Korea Hydro’s website show.  South Korea, which depends on nuclear energy for 33 percent
of its electricity, has started safety checks on all its 21
reactors as  Japan  struggles to contain damage at atomic units
caused by a record magnitude-9  earthquake  last month.  The checks will focus on nine reactors that have been
operating for more than 20 years and the government may shut any
reactor that requires a complete operational inspection, the
government said on March 18.  Korea Hydro operates all of the country’s four atomic
plants.  South Korea  plans to construct more reactors to cut
reliance on crude oil and coal. The government may poll citizens
on their opinion on nuclear power, Knowledge Economy Minister
Choi Joong Kyung told lawmakers yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 