-- 
N.J. Pays Clothing Stipend to Workers Who Don’t Wear Uniforms

-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-13T16:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/n-j-pays-clothing-stipend-to-workers-who-don-t-wear-uniforms.html
New Jersey  spent about $3 million
this fiscal year on clothing allowances for state workers who
aren’t required to wear uniforms, a report found.  Forty-eight percent of white-collar employees receiving the
annual payment of as much as $700 don’t wear specialized work
clothing, state Comptroller Matthew Boxer said in a statement
accompanying the report. The practice is “absurd,” he said.  “We recommend that at a minimum the state seek to
eliminate the clothing-allowance benefits for those employees
who are not required to wear uniforms or other special
clothing,” Boxer said in the report. Assemblyman Paul Moriarty,
a Turnersville Democrat, released a statement saying he would
introduce such legislation as soon as possible.  New Jersey’s clothing-allowance policies are “far more
generous” than seven other states Boxer reviewed. Of those,
only  California  provides an allowance greater than $175, he
said.  California reimburses employees as much as $450 a year if
they provide receipts, Boxer said. Pennsylvania pays as much as
$175, while  New York  gives a $58 allowance to workers in a
limited number of jobs, he said.  New Jersey pays white-collar state employees, those in jobs
including administrative and office work, more than $4.8 million
a year in clothing allowances. It provides a flat $700 annual
payment in paychecks, rather than having employees present a
receipt to get the allowance, Boxer said. The report cited an
unidentified human-resources manager at the state transportation
department as saying that the allowance is seen as a bonus.  Collective Bargaining  The clothing-allowance benefit is included in collective-
bargaining agreements that expire June 30. More than 27,000
state employees are entitled to it, and it cost New Jersey about
$22 million this fiscal year. About $8 million went to uniformed
public safety and corrections workers.  Governor  Chris Christie ’s administration began negotiations
last month with the largest state-worker union, the
 Communications Workers of America . It represents about 40,000
state workers.  Christie, a first-term Republican, has slashed spending
after pledging not to raise taxes on residents who pay the
highest real-estate levies in the nation. He faces a budget gap
of as much as $10.5 billion in the fiscal year starting July 1,
more than a third of his current $29.4 billion spending plan,
the Office of Legislative Services projected in July.  Hetty Rosenstein, state director of the CWA, said the
clothing allowances are designed to assist low-income workers
such as employees in nursing homes and developmental centers.
She said efforts to end them are “anti-union and Scott
Walkerish,” referring to the Republican governor of  Wisconsin 
whose curbs on collective bargaining prompted weeks of protests
and a court challenge.  ‘Compensation Plan’  “This has become a part of the compensation plan over a
long period of time,” she said in a telephone interview. “It’s
for people who may be changing diapers and cleaning up messes.”  Rosenstein’s union said March 17 that it had offered
Christie’s administration a deal for workers to contribute 13.5
percent of the cost of their health-insurance premiums, up from
8.5 percent now. Christie rejected the offer and is pushing for
legislation raising the payments to 30 percent by 2014,
Rosenstein said.  The effort by Moriarty to crack down on the allowances is
another attack on unions, Rosenstein said.  “It’s essentially part of the pay for some people,” she
said. “This is just more of the same. Now it’s the clothing
allowances. First it was health care and then it was wages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  