-- 
News Corp.’s Myspace Sued for Giving Away Data on Members Without Consent

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-13T22:02:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/news-corp-s-myspace-sued-for-giving-away-data-on-members-without-consent.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Myspace unit was
accused in a lawsuit of giving data to aggregators that are used
to associate members by name with their Internet browsing
history without their consent.  Myspace shares the data with aggregators despite telling
members they can restrict access to their information, according
to the complaint filed today in federal court in Brooklyn,  New
York . The suit, filed by New York law firms Milberg LLP and
Reese Richman LLP, seeks class-action, or group, status and
unspecified damages.  “Myspace knowingly serves as and profits handsomely from
being a conduit through which details of the most intimate
aspects of its members’ lives, as reflected in their Internet
browsing history and otherwise, are transmitted to data
aggregators, who package the information into profiles and sell
it like any other commodity to advertisers,” according to the
complaint.  News Corp. is in talks to hand over control of Myspace to
Vevo.com, the online music website partly owned by the world’s
biggest record companies, including  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music
Group and  Sony Music Entertainment , three people with knowledge
of the situation said last month.  Myspace’s worldwide traffic shrank 29 percent to 62.6
million visitors in February from 88 million in October 2010,
when News Corp. introduced a redesigned website and a new focus
on entertainment, according to ComScore Inc., an Internet
researcher based in Reston, Virginia.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based News
Corp., declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Virtue v. Myspace Inc., 11-cv-1800, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 