-- 
TNK-BP Billionaires Said to Reject $27 Billion BP Buyout Offer

-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 
2011-04-13T22:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tnk-bp-billionaires-said-to-reject-27-billion-bp-buyout-offer.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s billionaire partners in
TNK-BP rejected a $27 billion buyout offer as the U.K. explorer
struggles to hold together a plan to collaborate with another
Russian oil producer, according to a person with knowledge of
the proposal.  The billionaires went to court to block London-based BP’s
agreement for a share swap and Arctic exploration partnership
with OAO Rosneft because they said TNK-BP has exclusive rights
under its shareholders’ agreement to pursue opportunities in
 Russia  for BP. An arbitration panel had allowed BP to seek an
extension of the swap agreement, which expires today.  BP’s buyout bid was made this week to AAR Consortium, which
represents the billionaires who own half of TNK-BP, and swiftly
rejected because the group didn’t consider the offer to be
serious, said the person, who is close to TNK-BP management. The
person asked not to be identified because the details haven’t
been publicly disclosed by the companies involved.  BP agreed on January 14 to swap a 5 percent stake for 9.5
percent of Rosneft and explore for Arctic offshore resources
under an alliance that Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said may
“have a noticeable impact on the global oil and gas industry.”  BP and Rosneft have been in consultations as the deal nears
the expiration deadline, said Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for
the Russian state-controlled  oil company .  Rosneft and BP may extend by a month the deadline to
complete their share swap, the Vedomosti Russian newspaper
reported today, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter at both companies. An extension would give the companies
more time to negotiate a buyout agreement with the TNK-BP
partners, the newspaper reported.  Daren Beaudo, a spokeswoman for BP based in Houston,
declined to comment. The rejected offer was earlier reported by
the Financial Times and SkyTV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  