-- 
Deepest Japan Slump Since Lehman Fails to Derail Predictions for Rebound

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-14T08:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/nuclear-crisis-escalation-fails-to-dissuade-japan-rebound-view.html
An escalation in  Japan ’s nuclear
crisis has failed to dissuade analysts from forecasting an
economic rebound starting next quarter, an outlook that hinges
on a recovery in business and household confidence.  Gross domestic product may shrink 3 percent in April-to-
June, the most since the aftermath of the 2008 Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapse, according to the median of 18 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey in the past week. The GDP loss will
be more than recouped by year-end, with 1.9 percent and 5.5
percent annual growth rates in the final two quarters, the
survey shows.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s proposed 4 trillion yen ($48
billion) initial reconstruction package may kick-start the
recovery from last month’s record earthquake. Companies from
Shiseido Co. to convenience-store chain FamilyMart Co. are
counting on a shift in sentiment to prompt households to open
their wallets and limit the hit to corporate earnings.  “The risk here is that a prolonged  consumer-spending  slump
trumps the boost from  government spending  even as reconstruction
gets under way,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, who like most analysts sees a
single quarterly GDP contraction. “If consumer spending doesn’t
come back, that’s going to damp the job market and we could see
more contractions in consumer spending in the third quarter
on.”  Severity Matches Chernobyl  Japan’s Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said this week that while the quake’s damage may be “bigger
than we initially expected,” a rebound will likely be in place
by the year-end.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.1 percent to 9,653.92
at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo . The Nikkei slid 1.7 percent on
April 12 after government officials raised the severity level of
the accident at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s nuclear power plant
to match the level of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  Vice Finance Minister Mitsuru Sakurai said today the
government can’t avoid issuing more debt to finance
reconstruction efforts. Makoto Iokibe, the head of a government
advisory panel for rebuilding, said policy makers should
consider implementing a tax to pay for the project.  “The effect of the nuclear crisis has turned out to be
more severe and prolonged than we had anticipated,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo.
“We thought the nuclear problem would calm down in the April-
June period, but it doesn’t seem likely that will be the case.”  Radiation Worries  Radiation worries threaten the country’s tourism industry,
Maruyama said. They could also hit domestic consumer spending as
people hold off from outlays including for eating out due to
food safety concerns, said Nishioka of RBS. Private consumption
makes up about 60 percent of GDP.  The number of foreign visitors to Japan plunged 50 percent
in March from the same month a year earlier amid safety concerns
after the quake, the Japan National Tourism Organization said in
a statement on its website.  Confidence among Japanese merchants fell at the fastest
pace on record last month, the Economy Watchers index released
last week by the government showed. The survey of barbers, taxi
drivers and others who deal with consumers, slid to 27.7 in
March from 48.4 in February, the biggest drop since the survey
began in 2000.  Sales Drop  Retail sales in the world’s third-largest economy may drop
as much as 10 percent this year, FamilyMart Co., a Japanese
convenience-store chain, said last week.  Shiseido Co., the country’s largest cosmetics maker, said
yesterday the quake may have reduced its sales by 3 billion yen.
A Shiseido factory that makes products including shampoo was
damaged by the temblor.  In Japan’s automobile industry, while the top three
carmakers are gradually increasing output after the quake,
Toyota Motor Corp. told U.S. dealers that assembly disruptions
may thin supplies of vehicles into the third quarter.  Japan’s government last week said it may impose legal
limits to electric power consumption ahead of shortages that are
likely to worsen as the summer approaches.  Meantime, Japanese businesses sought 7.5 trillion yen in
loans from the nation’s three largest banks including  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  to cope with the quake, spokesmen of
the banks said.  The  Bank of Japan  last week established an emergency, 1
trillion yen lending facility to help affected businesses. Last
month it doubled to 10 trillion yen a program to inject
liquidity into markets by buying assets such as corporate debt.  Expand Stimulus  Japan’s central bank may be pressured to expand stimulus in
coming months as the government will likely compile a second
extra budget for  disaster relief , Nishioka said.  The focus will be on “whether the BOJ will expand its
regular bond purchases or its purchases of bonds through the
asset-purchasing fund,” she said. The BOJ would prefer those
measures to buying bonds directly from the government, Nishioka
said. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has said the central bank
underwriting debt may hurt trust in the yen.  The BOJ may need to provide further monetary stimulus if
economic damage from the quake is prolonged,  Naoyuki Shinohara ,
deputy managing director at the  International Monetary Fund ,
said in an interview in  Washington  yesterday.  Signaling that the disaster may ease Japan’s deflationary
trend, the BOJ  said  last week that CPI will be “slightly
positive in the near future.”  Consumer prices will rise 0.5 percent in the second quarter,
0.8 percent in the third and 0.3 percent in the fourth,
according to a median of nine estimates in the Bloomberg News
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net  