-- 
NYSE Owners Deserve Right to Schedule Meetings to Vote on Deals, ISS Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-13T11:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/nyse-owners-deserve-right-to-schedule-meetings-to-vote-on-deals-iss-says.html
ISS Proxy Advisory Services urged
shareholders of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the exchange operator that
rejected an unsolicited bid, to back a proposal letting two
investors with 10 percent ownership to call special meetings.  NYSE Euronext, based in  New York , agreed in February to be
purchased by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  for stock valued
at $9.64 billion as of 8:46 p.m. New York time yesterday. NYSE
Euronext’s board turned down  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) ’s $11.3 billion bid on April 10,
and the directors say shareholders shouldn’t give themselves the
ability to call special meetings.  The proposal requires two shareholders to pool their stakes
to reach the 10 percent threshold and may give owners the
opportunity to vote on takeover proposals that executives of New
York-based NYSE Euronext don’t favor, according to ISS, the
shareholder advisory unit of New York-based  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   “The proposal seeks to deliver more power to shareholders
at the expense of the board,” said Ruben Lee, author of
 ‘Running the World’s Markets: The Governance of Financial
Infrastructure,”  a book examining conflicts of interest and
corporate governance at exchanges and clearing houses. “As in
democracy, the question is: do you want a referendum or do you
mandate your politicians to act for you? NYSE needs to sit up
and take note though.”  ‘Very Positive’  Richard Adamonis , a NYSE Euronext spokesman, said he had no
immediate comment. Naomi Kim of  Deutsche Boerse  and Frank De Maria and Robert Madden of Nasdaq OMX didn’t respond to e-mails
sent after normal business hours in New York. Kelly Loeffler of
ICE declined to comment.  Nasdaq OMX of New York and Atlanta-based ICE said in an
April 10 statement that they will meet with shareholders to
explain why their bid is superior to Deutsche Boerse’s, adding
that they already received “very positive” reactions.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. is the biggest NYSE Euronext
shareholder, with a 7.3 percent stake in the exchange owner.
Other holders include  State Street Corp. (STT)  at 3.8 percent and
Vanguard Group Inc. at 3.6 percent.  NYSE Euronext shareholders will vote on the special-meeting
proposal on April 28.  ‘Important Right’  “In terms of day-to-day governance, shareholders may lack
an important right, the ability to remove directors or initiate
a shareholder resolution without having to wait for the next
scheduled meeting, if they are unable to act at a special
meeting of their calling,” ISS said in a document dated April
11. “Shareholders could also be powerless to respond to a
beneficial offer if the bidder cannot call a special meeting.”  Alpha Beta Netherlands Holding NV, the Dutch takeover
vehicle formed to facilitate the combination of Deutsche Boerse
and NYSE Euronext, submitted offer documents to  Germany ’s
financial regulator for review as planned yesterday, the
Frankfurt exchange operator said in an e-mailed statement today.
The review by the regulator, known as BaFin, can take up to 15
working days, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  