-- 
NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Said to Consider Incentives to Win Support for Deal

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-14T20:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/nyse-deutsche-boerse-said-to-consider-incentives-to-win-support-for-deal.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1)  are considering financial incentives to win support for their
merger following an unsolicited bid for NYSE Euronext by  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , four people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  No decisions have been made, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
If action is taken, it is unclear whether a special dividend or
another form of payment would be made before or after the deal’s
closing and which shareholders would get it.  The board of New York-based NYSE Euronext on April 10
rejected the joint bid from Nasdaq OMX and ICE on grounds it
wouldn’t create as much long-term value for shareholders even
though it’s worth 16 percent more than  Deutsche Boerse ’s
agreement. Three people familiar with the matter said April 11
that Deutsche Boerse doesn’t plan to raise its offer, valued at
$37.10 a share as of 4 p.m. in New York today.  “They know they have to communicate to shareholders how
their deal is economically superior relative to Nasdaq-ICE,”
said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in New York. “They
want to put an end to some of the speculation and move
forward.”  Largest Exchange  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse, which plan to create the
world’s largest exchange operator, are looking for ways to
persuade NYSE Euronext investors to vote for their deal after
ISS Proxy Advisory Services recommended owners give themselves
the right to call special meetings, where they could consider
matters such as takeover proposals that executives don’t
support. ISS issued its opinion on April 11. Shareholders will
vote on the matter on April 28 at their annual meeting.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, and Naomi Kim of Deutsche Boerse declined to comment.  NYSE Euronext climbed 1.1 percent to $38.26 yesterday,
reversing an intraday loss of 1 percent, while Nasdaq OMX lost
0.1 percent to $27.76 and ICE gained 0.6 percent to $121.19. The
offer from New York-based Nasdaq OMX and ICE of Atlanta is
valued at $42.88 today.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE said in an April 10 statement that they
would meet with shareholders to explain why their bid is
superior, adding that they already received “very positive”
reactions. NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said April 10 that he planned to start meeting with
owners this week to argue for the Deutsche Boerse agreement.  Cost Cuts  Nasdaq OMX and ICE say they can pay more for NYSE Euronext
in part because of greater cost cuts. They offered about $740
million in expense cuts and “synergies,” accomplished through
eliminating jobs and closing trading systems. Their forecast
topped the 400 million euros ($578 million) in benefits Deutsche
Boerse and NYSE Euronext laid out in their Feb. 15 agreement.  The owner of the  New York  Stock Exchange and NYSE Liffe
futures markets said the projection for savings in its agreement
with Deutsche Boerse may be increased.  “Give us two or three weeks, but I would imagine that
we’ll be articulating that those synergies were in fact
conservative,” Niederauer said in an April 10 interview.  ISS told shareholders of NYSE Euronext that they should
vote in favor of a proposal that gives them the right to call
special meetings. At least two investors with shares amounting
to 10 percent ownership would be able to schedule meetings,
giving holders the opportunity to vote on takeover proposals
that executives of NYSE Euronext don’t favor, according to ISS,
the shareholder advisory unit of New York-based  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   “In terms of day-to-day governance, shareholders may lack
an important right, the ability to remove directors or initiate
a shareholder resolution without having to wait for the next
scheduled meeting, if they are unable to act at a special
meeting of their calling,” ISS said in the document dated April
11. “Shareholders could also be powerless to respond to a
beneficial offer if the bidder cannot call a special meeting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 