-- 
Tobacco Industry Owes Millions for Care, Hospitals Say

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n
-- 
2011-04-13T21:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tobacco-industry-owes-millions-for-patient-care-missouri-hospitals-say.html
Tobacco companies cost Missouri
hospitals millions of dollars to care for patients with smoking-
related illnesses who can’t pay their medical bills, a lawyer
said in closing arguments of a lawsuit.  The city of St. Louis, along with more than 40 area
hospitals, sued  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris unit, R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co., Lorillard Tobacco Co. and other cigarette
makers in 1998, claiming they manipulated the nicotine content
in cigarettes and misrepresented the health effects of smoking.
About 37 hospitals remain in the suit. They’re seeking about
$455 million.  The tobacco companies “sell their defective products here
and they take their money back to  North Carolina ,  Virginia  or
wherever,” Kenneth Brostron, a lawyer for the hospitals, said
today in St. Louis. “They are responsible for what they did and
it’s about time they take responsibility.”  The industry’s actions boosted the amount spent on
“unreimbursed and uncompensated tobacco-related health care,”
the hospitals said in court papers. The  tobacco companies  deny
any responsibility for patient care costs at the hospitals or
any financial losses by the hospitals. The suit, which doesn’t
include patients as plaintiffs, went to trial in January.  The case is the third such health-care cost-recovery claim
to reach trial, according to regulatory filings by Altria. The
industry won the first, in  Ohio , in 1999. The second initially
resulted in a $17.8 million award for a health insurer by a New
York jury in 2001. That was reversed on appeal in 2004.  ‘Legal Cigarettes’  “Mr. Brostron wants to punish companies for making
perfectly legal cigarettes,” Andrew McGaan, lawyer for
Reynolds, told the jury today. “Even after this lawsuit was
filed, some hospitals sold cigarettes in their gift shops.
Should they be penalized?” he asked,  Attorneys for other defendants will give closing arguments
tomorrow.  The hospitals, which provide care to indigent and non-
paying patients, represent the majority of licensed, adult
acute-care hospital beds in  Missouri , according to the
complaint. The hospitals said medical ethics requires them to
serve people in need regardless of their ability to pay.  Tobacco companies should reimburse the hospitals for care
provided to patients who are unable to pay and are suffering
from tobacco-related illness, the plaintiffs said. Hospitals
also should “recover the increased costs incurred to providing
all health-care services” as a result of tobacco use and
exposure to tobacco smoke, according to the complaint.  “They make a defective product,” hospital lawyer Brostron
said today. “They know it’s defective and causes diseases.”  The case is City of St. Louis v. American Tobacco Co., CV
982-09652-01, Circuit Court, City of  St. Louis , Missouri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ; 
Joe Whittington in St. Louis at 
 joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  