-- 
Obama Embraces Debt-Cutting Commission Ideas, Shuns Ryan’s Medicare Plan

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/obama-embraces-debt-panel-ideas-shuns-ryan-s-medicare-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  embraced
proposals by leaders of his debt-cutting commission while
shunning Republicans’ plan to privatize Medicare and opening a
debate over a tax overhaul and spending reductions.  The deficit-reduction proposal Obama presented yesterday is
similar to the mix of spending cuts and tax increases offered
last year by the chairmen of his bipartisan fiscal commission.
It contrasts with a Republican plan, announced earlier this
month by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , that would
cut $6 trillion from programs including Medicaid, Medicare, food
stamps and education while reducing top income-tax rates.  The president’s 2012 budget proposal in February didn’t
endorse the Dec. 1 proposal by the debt-panel chairmen, former
Wyoming Senator  Alan Simpson , a Republican, and Erskine Bowles,
a former chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton .  While Obama’s speech lacked details for overhauling
entitlement programs, it may boost negotiations on how to cut
the nation’s long-term debt, said Jason Peuquet, a policy
analyst for the  Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget , a
Washington-based bipartisan group that examines fiscal issues.  “This is a huge step forward,” Peuquet said.  Stan Collender , managing director of Qorvis Communications
and a former congressional budget aide, called Obama’s proposal
“a political game-changer.”  Obama’s plan aims to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over
12 years, while his debt-panel leaders would cut $3.8 trillion
in nine years. Ryan’s budget would cut $6.2 trillion over the
next decade, though it wouldn’t balance the budget until 2040
because of offsetting tax cuts.  ‘Poisoning Wells’  House Republicans were instantly critical of Obama’s plan.
Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia said Obama’s only
concrete proposal was raising taxes. Ryan, of  Wisconsin , said
that he was “very disappointed” in the president’s proposal
and that “rather than building bridges, he’s poisoning wells.”  Obama’s fiscal commission provided a detailed plan for
shoring up Social Security, including reducing future benefits
and raising the retirement age, something neither the president
nor Ryan broached.  The president said yesterday that both parties should work
together to strengthen the program without “slashing” benefits
for future generations. “It can be done,” Obama said.  “All we got is what he won’t do, not what he wants to
do,” Ryan told reporters after Obama’s speech. Earlier in the
day, he said in an interview that “Social Security is the one
area I think that has the best chance of working with them on.”  Yesterday, three Senate Republicans introduced a bill to
gradually raise the Social Security  retirement age  to 70 in 2032
and peg future benefits to income levels. The three are  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and two freshmen elected with Tea Party
support,  Mike Lee  of  Utah  and Rand Paul of  Kentucky .  Tax Overhaul  The proposals by the president and Ryan may open a debate
over a tax overhaul that would lower rates while reducing or
ending many credits and deductions.  Obama provided no specifics on taxes beyond rescinding cuts
for the wealthiest Americans first enacted under President
 George W. Bush . The debt-panel leaders also would let those tax
cuts expire for people earning more than $250,000. Ryan proposes
reducing the top income-tax rates for individual and corporate
taxes from 35 percent to 25 percent.  Ryan’s focus on privatizing Medicare and shrinking Medicaid
by converting it to a block-grant program controlled by the
states has sparked a backlash from Democrats, who say he is
trying to balance the budget on the backs of the elderly and the
poor.  Private Insurers  Ryan would slow Medicare spending by $40 billion over a
decade and turn the program over to private insurers, starting
with people turning 65 in 2022, by providing them with subsidies
to buy private coverage.  Obama said yesterday that Ryan’s plan “ends Medicare as we
know it” and would result in 50 million Americans losing health
insurance.  The president proposed limiting the growth of Medicare per-
capita spending to 0.5 percent of the gross domestic product and
strengthening a board, created by the health-care law, that is
intended to recommend Medicare spending cuts.  The debt commission proposal would limit the growth in
overall health-care spending to 1 percent of GDP. It identified
specific areas to help achieve its goal, including Medicare
cost-sharing and restrictions on some Medigap supplemental
insurance coverage.  Republicans are attacking Obama for failing to achieve the
same budget savings that his commission’s leaders proposed for
the next 10 years.  ‘Doesn’t Even Come Close’  “It doesn’t even come close to meeting the benchmarks set
by  House Republicans ,” said Representative  Scott Garrett  of  New
Jersey , vice chairman of Ryan’s Budget Committee.  Obama’s call for $400 billion in defense cuts by 2023 is
smaller than the commission’s proposal, which recommended
cutting about twice that much from defense as part of an overall
$1.7 trillion in discretionary savings. Ryan’s plan offers a $78
billion defense reduction.  David Walker , a former U.S. comptroller general, said the
differences between Obama’s and Ryan’s plans make it
“unrealistic to strike a grand bargain by the end of June,”
when Congress must vote to increase the nation’s $14 trillion
debt ceiling.  Still, he said the two sides may be able to agree on a
Social Security overhaul, the outlines of a 2012 budget and a
so-called automatic “trigger” mechanism to control spending
similar to what Obama proposed.  The president’s plan would require an across-the-board
spending reduction and higher taxes if the nation’s debt-to-
gross domestic product hasn’t stabilized by 2014. Walker said
this form of enforcement mechanism could be enacted along with a
vote on the debt ceiling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  