-- 
Obama Proposes Cutting $4 Trillion From Deficit in 12 Years

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-13T20:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/obama-is-said-to-target-4-trillion-deficit-reduction-in-12-years-or-less.html
President  Barack Obama  vowed to cut
$4 trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases, setting the
stage for a fight with congressional Republicans over the
nation’s priorities.  In presenting his long-term plan for closing the federal
budget shortfall, Obama set a target of reducing the annual U.S.
deficit to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2015,
compared with 10.9 percent of GDP projected for this year. He
reiterated his support for overhauling the tax code to lower
rates while closing loopholes and ending some breaks to increase
revenue.  “We have to live within our means, reduce our deficit, and
get back on a path that will allow us to pay down our debt,”
Obama said in a speech today at George  Washington  University in
the capital. “And we have to do it in a way that protects the
recovery.”  Over the next five years, the administration forecasts the
government will pile up a cumulative deficit of $3.8 trillion;
over the decade, the cumulative deficits would rise to $7.2
trillion. With today’s proposal, Obama is going beyond the
fiscal 2012 budget he presented on Feb. 14, which forecast
cutting the deficit by $1.1 trillion over a decade.  As with his budget, Obama called for ending the Bush-era
tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, which are set to expire
in 2012. “I refuse to renew them again,” he said.  Deadline for Plan  Obama said he was directing Vice President  Joe Biden  to
start meeting next month with congressional leaders from both
parties with the aim of producing by the end of June an
agreement on a deficit reduction plan. The timing would coincide
with a debate over raising the nation’s debt limit, which
Republicans have tied to cutting government spending.  The Treasury Department estimated last week that the debt
limit of $14.29 trillion will be reached May 16. Congressional
action is required to raise the cap, though the Treasury said it
can probably stave off default until early July.  To achieve his new goals, the president is urging Congress
to pass a “debt failsafe” that would trigger across-the-board
spending cuts and tax changes if the debt-to-GDP ratio hasn’t
stabilized by 2014, according to an administration fact sheet.
The automatic cuts wouldn’t apply to entitlements, including
Social Security, Medicare, and programs intended for low-income
Americans.  Defense, Agriculture  Obama would target  government spending , from the Pentagon
to the Department of Agriculture. He proposes saving $400
billion in current and future defense spending and called for a
“fundamental review” of U.S. military missions.  Treasuries and the dollar rose, while the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index halted its longest slump since November. Ten-year
Treasury note yields slipped three basis points to 3.46 percent
at 4:07 p.m. in  New York . The Dollar Index, which gauges the
currency against six major counterparts, climbed 0.2 percent and
the  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent to 1,315.41 at 2:56 p.m. in New
York.  For all the concern about the deficit in Washington, in the
bond market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the
government was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago even though
Treasury Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note is below the
average of 7 percent since 1980 and compared with the average of
5.48 percent in the 1998 through 2001 period, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Republican Opposition  Signaling the political fight his plan faces, Republican
congressional leaders said after getting briefed by the
president that they won’t accept tax increases as part of a
deficit-cutting plan.  The president “heard us loud and clear” on the tax issue,
House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  told reporters after the
White House meeting. “If we are going to resolve our
differences and do something meaningful, raising taxes will not
be part of that.”  Most of the reductions proposed by Obama will be phased in
to the second half of the 12-year timeframe, to avoid stifling
the economic recovery, according to the White House.  The president borrowed some ideas from the Simpson-Bowles
debt commission he created last year, drawing on the co-
chairmen’s recommendation for a simpler, fairer  tax code  that
lowers rates and increases revenue. He also adopted the
recommendations on non-security discretionary spending, saving
$770 billion by 2023.  ‘Failsafe’ Trigger  Analysts said Obama’s proposal for a “failsafe” trigger
was a positive move.  Stan Collender , managing director of Qorvis Communications
and a former congressional budget aide, said the president’s
approach attempts to overcome the limits of 1985 Gramm-Rudman-
Hollings Act, which required automatic budget cuts if deficit
targets weren’t reached.  Because those targets were based on budget projections,
White House officials could avoid them by plugging in more-
positive economic assumptions to make deficits seem smaller, he
said.  A debt target is harder to fudge, he said, and that sends a
positive message to the  bond market .  “We had triggers in the past, but no one decided to comply
with them,” Collender said. A debt trigger “is going to be
monitored by people in the markets who are very serious about it
and who aren’t in the political system.”  ‘Teeth’ in Process  Peter Orszag , Obama’s first budget director and now vice
chairman of Citigroup Inc.’s investment-banking division, said
the trigger mechanism “needs to be better defined but offers
the hope of providing some teeth to the process.”  The administration is aiming to provide a counterpoint to
the budget plan released last week by Representative  Paul Ryan ,
which relies on deep cuts in federal spending to trim the
deficit. Obama rejected the Wisconsin Republican’s idea of a
voucher-like system for future Medicare recipients.  While calling for Republicans and Democrats to come
together and saying said both sides share the “worthy goal” of
cutting debt, Obama said the Republican plan “would lead to a
fundamentally different America than the one we’ve known,
certainly in my lifetime.”  He also was critical of the policies pursued under his
predecessor, former President  George W. Bush . Without naming
Bush, Obama said that after the government brought down the
deficit and turned to a budget surplus by the end of the 1990s,
“we lost our way in the decade that followed.”  Unfunded Wars  “We increased spending dramatically for two wars and an
expensive prescription-drug program, but we didn’t pay for any
of this new spending,” he said. “Instead, we made the problem
worse with trillions of dollars in unpaid-for tax cuts -- tax
cuts that went to every millionaire and billionaire in the
country.”  A broad group of Senate Republicans and Democrats has been
pressing Obama to endorse a goal of cutting the deficit by at
least $4 trillion, in line with the plans by the debt panel and
Ryan.  The recommendations from the debt commission’s co-chairmen,
former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Republican from  Wyoming , and
former Clinton administration official Erskine Bowles, a
Democrat, both of whom were at the speech, would cut almost $4
trillion over the period. Both used a combination of spending
cuts and higher revenue.  Ryan’s Plan  Ryan’s  plan  would cut the deficit by $4.4 trillion over 10
years, primarily through reductions in federal spending. He
proposes to reduce top income and corporate tax rates from 35
percent to 25 percent.  Obama lashed out at the Republican proposal.  “There’s nothing serious about a plan that claims to
reduce the deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts
for millionaires and billionaires,” he said. “And I don’t
think there’s anything courageous about asking for sacrifice
from those who can least afford it and don’t have any clout on
 Capitol Hill .”  Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, said at a
news conference following the president’s speech that he was
“very disappointed” in what he heard, and that the president’s
proposals were “hopelessly inadequate to address our country’s
pressing fiscal” challenges.  “What we heard was a partisan broadside from our campaigner
in chief,” Ryan told reporters.  Earlier, Ryan had said his party could work with Democrats
to hammer out a plan to shore up Social Security in time for a
vote on the debt limit.  “We disagree on the area of health-care reform,” he said
in an interview. “But on Social Security, from just listening
to the various Democrats and Republicans around here, we’re not
worlds apart.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 