-- 
Obama $1 Trillion Tax Proposal Slams Into Republican Wall of Opposition

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-14T16:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/obama-embraces-individual-u-s-tax-code-rewrite-to-raise-revenue.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call for
raising taxes by focusing on spending in the tax code was
immediately rejected by top Republicans, signaling that any
effort to increase the government’s take from the economy would
be difficult to move through Congress.  As part of a $4 trillion deficit-reduction plan announced
yesterday, Obama said he wanted Congress to overhaul the tax
code by lowering rates, eliminating tax breaks and generating
more money than the current system does. The plan would allow
tax cuts affecting high-income taxpayers to expire at the end of
2012 and would raise $1 trillion on top of that.  “It’s important that we look at our tax code and find a
way to work together to not only simplify and make the tax
system fairer, but also that we use it as a tool to help us
achieve our deficit targets,” Obama said at the White House
today before meeting with  Erskine Bowles  and  Alan Simpson , who
were co-chairmen of a fiscal commission last year that outlined
a similar tax plan.  Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner  and
Senator  Orrin Hatch , rejected Obama’s argument that tax
increases should be part of a deficit-reduction package.  “I don’t think we’re any closer to actually doing a bill
than we were a day ago or a month ago,” said  Clint Stretch ,
managing principal of  tax policy  at Deloitte Tax LLP in
Washington. “Given the fundamental disagreement on top rates
and the fundamental disagreement on who should bear the tax
burden, it’s going to take a while for the parties to work
together.”  Republican Plan  Obama’s task in raising revenue by curtailing tax breaks is
similar to the one that House Republicans set for themselves
last week. Representative  Paul Ryan ’s budget plan calls for
lowering top tax rates to 25 percent and keeping revenue at a
level consistent with extending all income tax cuts permanently.  The president’s $1 trillion target over 12 years is smaller
than the Republicans’ 10-year, $2.9 trillion goal. In a speech
announcing the plan yesterday at George Washington University in
the capital, Obama did not specify how much of the revenue
generated by cutting tax expenditures he would use to lower
rates.  Both approaches are ambitious enough that they would
require Congress to examine the largest benefits received by
U.S. taxpayers, including the deductions for mortgage interest
and charitable contributions and the exclusion of employer-
provided health care.  That’s where the similarities end, and the two parties
disagree on the amount of revenue to collect and on who should
pay. Obama used his speech to draw distinctions between himself
and congressional Republicans, in particular to his approach to
the tax cuts scheduled to expire at the end of 2012.  ‘Can’t Afford It’  “In December, I agreed to extend the tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans because it was the only way I could prevent
a tax hike on middle-class Americans,” Obama said. “But we
cannot afford $1 trillion worth of tax cuts for every
millionaire and billionaire in our society. We can’t afford it.
And I refuse to renew them again.”  Obama’s emphasis on generating tax revenue from top earners
reflects his 2008 campaign pledge not to raise taxes for
individuals earning less than $200,000 a year or married couples
earning less than $250,000, said Diane Lim Rogers, chief
economist of the Concord Coalition in Arlington,  Virginia , which
advocates deficit reduction.  Obama didn’t specifically mention that pledge in
yesterday’s speech.  “If we can’t talk him into breaking that promise,” Rogers
said, “then the second-best thing we could do is to tackle the
really big tax expenditures and limit them to only people he
deems middle class and below.”  Individual Tax Code  Obama proposed a version of that concept in his 2012
budget. He suggested capping itemized deductions at 28 percent,
which would limit benefits for taxpayers with high incomes. In
yesterday’s speech, he said he wanted to go further.  The speech marked Obama’s first attempt to seek major
changes in the structure of the individual tax code, beyond the
corporate tax proposals he made in the State of the Union
address.  He reiterated his support for lowering the corporate tax
rate and removing business tax breaks. His backing for revenue-
raising tax changes puts him at odds with many congressional
Republicans, including House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of
Virginia and Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , who
contend that deficit reduction should be accomplished through
spending cuts alone.  “Any plan that starts with job-destroying tax hikes is a
non-starter,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in a statement
yesterday.  Deficit Commission  The deficit commission suggested a tax structure that would
feature a top tax rate of 28 percent, down from the 35 percent
current top rate. That plan would also tax  capital gains  and
dividends as ordinary income and convert the mortgage interest
and charitable contribution deductions into limited credits.  Montana Senator  Max Baucus , who voted against the fiscal
commission’s plan in part because he said it would hurt rural
America, said in a statement yesterday that Congress should seek
a balanced approach that looks at spending and revenues.  Taking Steps Together  “We should begin with the assumption there will be at
least some steps we have to take together that would not be the
preference of each of us alone,” said Baucus, chairman the
Senate Finance Committee.  Obama set a late June deadline for reaching a bipartisan
agreement on deficit reduction and said that Vice President
Joseph Biden would lead talks starting in May.  Camp, who has proposed cutting the top individual and
corporate rates to 25 percent, called Obama’s rhetoric
“unnecessary, unhelpful, unproductive” and too partisan.  “I stand ready to continue to work on these issues but I
think much of the approach made it harder for us to do that,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  