-- 
Ryan Budget Plan Defended as U.S. Republicans Return Home to Hear Voters

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-04-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/obama-s-debt-cutting-plan-will-confront-sweet-spot-challenge.html
First-term Representative Bobby Schilling is getting ready for some uncomfortable conversations.  The pizzeria owner-turned-Republican lawmaker supported his
party’s 2012 budget plan that passed in the House last week, a
proposal that cuts more than $6 trillion in federal spending
over 10 years, privatizes Medicare and caps Medicaid.  Now, with Congress adjourned for a two-week recess, he’s
heading home to his Illinois district abutting the  Mississippi
River  armed with charts, talking points and a thick skin.  “Social Security, Medicare, they’re gonna all be somewhat
tough,” said Schilling. “But I’m just somebody who gets up
there and I just let them start yelling.”  The budget fight spotlights the political risk confronting
Republicans as Washington intensifies its focus on the long-term
government deficits that will shape the country’s economic
future and frame next year’s elections.  How Republican leaders balance the expectations of Tea
Party activists, who’ve pushed for cuts in popular programs
including entitlements, with the need to protect vulnerable
members in swing districts will define the party in the 2012
elections.  “This is a defining moment for this generation, that this
Congress has the courage to go forward and reform a very
difficult issue such as Medicare,” said first-term Republican
Representative Lou Barletta of  Pennsylvania . “We’re doing it
even at risk of our own political future.”  Debt Limit Fight  A looming conflict over raising the limit on the national
debt will test the savvy of Republican leaders. They’ve said
they won’t back increasing the debt ceiling unless Obama agrees
to more specific steps to trim the  budget deficit , estimated to
top $1.6 trillion this year.  Obama and other Democrats have cautioned against political
brinkmanship in dealing with the debt limit. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  said yesterday that Republican leaders have
privately assured the Obama administration that Congress will
raise the borrowing limit in time to prevent a default on the
country’s debt.  “If you allow people to start to doubt whether the  United
States of America  will meet its obligations, that would be
catastrophic,” he said on NBC’s “Meet The Press” program.
“The responsible people up there understand this.”  Tea Party Opposition  Still, many Tea Party-backed Republicans have voiced
opposition to upping the limit, making them prone to reject
almost any compromise their leadership negotiates with the White
House.  “Leadership is going to have to do a lot of work to
convince the freshman class it’s a good vote,” said Republican
Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican and one of the
party’s 87 newcomers in the House. “Every time they say it’s a
must-pass bill, that’s the ones you want to look at really
closely.”  Huelskamp and other fiscal conservatives see the 2012
budget plan that the House approved April 13 -- with no
Democratic votes -- as a key step toward living up to the
promises that fueled Tea Party support for Republicans in the
2010 election.  The budget crafted by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, would slash U.S. spending by $6.2
trillion over a decade by cutting Medicare and scores of other
programs including Medicaid,  food stamps ,  farm subsidies  and
Pell college tuition grants. His plan would replace Medicare by
providing those under the age of 55 with subsidies to buy
private health insurance.  Campaign Strategy  Democrats see Ryan’s plan as a cornerstone of their 2012
campaign strategy. During the two-week congressional recess the
party plans to use its specifics to target vulnerable
Republicans, such as Schilling, said Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee Chairman Steve Israel of  New York .  “We’re going to hold every single Republican accountable
for choosing to protect the special interests and turning their
back on America’s senior citizens by terminating their Medicare
benefit,” he said in an April 15 interview on ABC’s “Top
Line” webcast.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said Republican lawmakers should
tackle head-on the Medicare issue during the recess. “It’s
important for our members to go home and talk about the crisis
that we face” in the program’s funding, the Ohio Republican
told reporters on April 15. Focusing on the exemption for those
55 and older upon the Medicare provisions taking effect, Boehner
said, “the changes being proposed would not affect one senior
citizen in America, not one.”  Talking Points  Before the House vote, Republican leaders circulated a
package of charts, talking points and fact sheets supporting the
budget to members, including links to a document countering the
main attacks on the plan.  The document encourages lawmakers to highlight how the
budget “saves Medicare,” and offers “future beneficiaries
access to the same kinds of health-care options now enjoyed by
members of Congress.”  Expanding entitlement programs, such as Medicare, pose the
biggest threat to the government’s long-term fiscal standing,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . While voters say
they want politicians to tame the deficit, surveys show they
don’t want to significantly alter entitlement programs. In a
March 4-7 Bloomberg National Poll, more than three-quarters of
those surveyed opposed any reduction in Medicare benefits.  Republican Moderates  Representative Jo Ann Emerson, a co-leader of a group of
Republican moderates known as the Tuesday Group, said her party
faces a “balancing act” as the fiscal debate evolves.  One challenge will be dealing with outsized expectations of
what Republicans in the House can accomplish, said Emerson, of
 Missouri . “It looks like it should be so much easier just to
make substantial cuts” to some voters, she said.  Equally challenging, she said, will be the task of
defending vulnerable first-term Republicans in districts where
Democrats attacks are most likely to resonate. “The most
important thing is for us to protect the freshmen in these tough
seats,” she said.  For Schilling, whose district Obama carried with 57% of the
vote in 2008, that means translating the party’s budget message
in a way that voters understand.  “That’s where our charts come in,” he said before last
week’s vote on the Ryan budget. “That’s what I’ll be working on
when I get home, finishing my charts off.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington 
at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  