-- 
Tokyo Bay Home Demand to Drop as Quake Turned Land to Mud, Shattered Pipes

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-04-14T07:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tokyo-bay-home-demand-to-sag-after-earthquake-turned-land-to-mud.html
Developers in  Tokyo ’s bayside
neighborhoods, where apartments were built on reclaimed land,
are halting sales after Japan’s earthquake turned some of the
landfill into mud, shattered pipes and severed water supplies.  While most of Tokyo avoided major damage in the March 11
quake because of stringent building codes, in some parts of
Tokyo Bay the magnitude-9 temblor triggered liquefaction, a
phenomenon where soil loses its strength after violent shaking.
The most affected suburb was Urayasu, one of only three
residential areas in greater Tokyo where land prices rose last
year, and the home of the Tokyo Disneyland resort.  Neighborhoods around Tokyo Bay, which has about 24,955
hectares (61,665 acres) of  reclaimed land , are sought after for
their views and their travel time of less than half an hour to
central Tokyo in a city where a survey by national broadcaster
NHK estimated the  average commute  is 49 minutes.  “The problem is, buyers who bought the high-rise
apartments because of the convenience of the bay area’s location
and a view of the ocean are now reminded of danger,” said
Miyoshi Kaido, a manager at Sanyu Appraisal Corp., a Tokyo-based
property appraisal company. “We will see a rising number of
sellers.”  Rolling Blackouts  Some high-rise seafront residents, who can’t use elevators
because of rolling blackouts after nuclear  power plants  were
damaged causing electricity shortages, and bathrooms because of
broken pipes, have told real estate agents they’re willing to
sell for as little as 50 percent of their purchase price, said
Kaido. Half of the households in Urayasu suffered from
disruption of water services as pipes snapped, said Rie Sekine,
a spokeswoman for the local city council.  The earthquake and tsunami that ravaged the country’s
northeast probably will put an end to last year’s recovery in
apartment prices in  Japan ’s capital, said  Masahiro Mochizuki , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Ltd. on April 13. In
the Tokyo Bay area, prices may drop as much as 10 percent in
just three to six months, he said in an interview.  The average price of a three-bedroom apartment in Tokyo
rose to 47.2 million yen ($562,000) in February, according to
the Real Estate Economic Research Institute. Monthly prices have
remained above the past decade’s 42.8 million yen average in 12
of the past 13 months, the data show.  Madonna Ads  The number of apartments offered for sale in Tokyo and
surrounding areas may drop 25 percent to 2,400 units in April
from a year ago as developers withhold sales of some projects,
the Real Estate Economic Research Institute said today. The last
time April had a lower supply was in 1992 when 1,365 units were
sold, said Akio Fukuda, a manager at the institute.  Tokyo Tatemono Co., which has three condominium projects
near Tokyo Bay with a total of 1,501 units, said 10 sales
centers were closed from March 19 during the rolling blackouts.
Half of them were reopened a week later.  Brillia Mare Ariake, a 33-story luxury apartment building
developed by Tokyo Tatemono and Itochu Corp. featured the singer
 Madonna  in its 2007  advertisements . Apartments in the high-rise
cost as much as 1 billion yen.  “There will always be people who are interested in buying
new homes,” said Toru Yamaguchi, a spokesman at Tokyo Tatemono.
“We will set our price at a level that’s attractive to those
people.”  Quicksand  New homes in Urayasu cost about 100 million yen before the
quake, according to a report by Sanyu. Residential land prices
in the suburban coastal city, a 20-minute train ride from
central Tokyo, rose 1.1 percent in 2010.  Liquefaction, which causes soil to act like quicksand, was
found across about 86 percent of Urayasu’s surface land, said
the local council’s Sekine. About 112 kilometers (70 miles) of
road in the 17 square-kilometer (7 square-mile) city were
damaged, she said.  Tokyo Disneyland will reopen tomorrow after closing for
more than a month because of disruptions to the power supply
from the earthquake, the theme park’s operator Oriental Land Co.
said on April 12.  The Topix Real Estate Index fell 0.4 percent 733.26 today
in Tokyo, reversing a 1.3 percent gain yesterday.  Sales of apartments including at the 555-unit Inagekaigan
and the 52-story Shinonome Tower with 600 units that were
scheduled to start in March have been held back until May, said
Yoichiro Ishikawa, a spokesman for the developer  Nomura Real
Estate Holdings Inc. (3231)  The delay is due to concerns about
“buyers’ sentiment” and a later completion date because of a
shortage of building materials, he said.  ‘Very Few’  “There were some contracts made after the quake, but there
were very few,” Ishikawa said.  Some buyers scrapped plans to buy apartments after areas
surrounding the 550-unit  Shin-Urayasu  and 379-unit
 Kemigawahama  condominiums were damaged, Ishikawa said. The
company’s projects weren’t affected, he added.  “The problem is demand in the future,” said Credit
Suisse’s Mochizuki in Tokyo. “Some people may not choose to
live near the harbor in the near term, even as landfill
techniques improved in the past decades.”  Sumitomo Realty & Development Co., Japan’s third-largest
developer, will proceed with its 102.8 billion yen plan for
residential and commercial projects on a waterfront site in
Tokyo Bay while keeping a close watch on the economy, said
Kazuyoshi Tanaka, a Tokyo-based spokesman.  ‘Crying Inside’  Even at half the current price, it would be hard to sell
properties in Urayasu because no one would want to buy in the
area, said Satoshi Kawahara, president of Real Bois Co., a
realtor based in the city.  “I may be smiling but I am really crying inside,”
Kawahara said.  The supply of condominiums in greater Tokyo probably won’t
reach the 50,000 units the  Real Estate Economic Institute 
estimated before the quake because of a possible slowdown in
Japan’s economy, said Fukuda at the Tokyo-based industry
publisher. New condominium sales in the Tokyo area rose by one
fifth to 44,535 units in 2010, according to the institute.  Developers may be reluctant to lower condominium prices
because of the high cost of land and construction, said the Real
Estate Economic Institute’s Fukuda. That may result in an
increase in inventory, he said.  Unsold Apartments  The number of unsold condominiums was 4,725 units in
February. It reached a record high of more than 10,000 units
after the global financial crisis, according to the institute.  In the 1995 Kobe earthquake, liquefaction caused many
buildings to lean, particularly around the port area of the city
311 miles west of Tokyo on the southern side of Japan’s main
Honshu island, said Yasuo Tanaka, a geotechnical engineering
professor at  Kobe University . Tougher regulations in Tokyo since
then helped prevent failures on solid ground in last month’s
temblor, he said.  Reclaimed land in Urayasu, which makes up three-quarters of
the area, was built of mud and sand over 15 years through 1980.
The area may be reinforced by inserting pipes to extract water,
installing steel piles, or pouring in concrete, Tanaka said.  The last major earthquake to strike Tokyo and its environs
directly was in 1923, when more than 140,000 people were killed,
according to the  Cabinet Office . The last major one, with an 8.4
magnitude, was in 1854.  ‘Different Story’  Tokyo’s population of about 13 million is adjacent to three
major fault lines, including the Nankai Trough, which produces a
large quake every 118.8 years on average, according to  the
Headquarters for Earthquake Research Promotion .  The March 11 quake triggered a tsunami with waves as high
as 15 meters (49 feet) that  damaged or destroyed  more than
200,000 buildings and leveled towns in Japan’s northeast.  “If it was just an earthquake, things would probably go
back to normal,” said Mikihisa Hirai, president of  Atlas
Partners Japan Ltd. , which owns more than 2,000 apartments in
Nagoya, Osaka and Tokyo and who predicts a drop in waterfront
property prices. “With the tsunami, it’s a different story.
What’s more of a concern is that with seashore properties, there
is nowhere to escape.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  