-- 
Mongolia May Unveil Winning Bids for Tavan Tolgoi Next Month

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-13T05:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/mongolia-may-unveil-winning-bids-for-tavan-tolgoi-next-month-1-.html
Mongolia  may announce the winning
bids to develop Tavan Tolgoi, one of the world’s biggest
untapped coal deposits, next month, said an official at the
Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy.  “Negotiations are still ongoing,” Erdenepurev Amarkhuu,
director-general of fuel policy at the ministry, told reporters
in Beijing today. Mongolia will choose more than one of the six
groups shortlisted for the project, he said.  Talks are underway on the contract for the central and
western part of the site, Baterdene Ragchaa, a spokesman for
Erdenes MGL LLC, the state-controlled owner of the deposit, said
on March 31. The shortlist includes  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , a
Shenhua Group Corp.-Mitsui & Co. venture,  Vale SA (VALE3) , a Russia-
Japan-South Korea group,  ArcelorMittal (MT) , and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , Erdene
Executive Director Baasangombo Enebish said on March 5.  “Definitely not one,” Amarkhuu said, when asked about the
number of winners. “It’ll be a combination of the companies.”  The government is seeking mining expertise and
infrastructure development, including railway construction,
Amarkhuu said. Mongolia is also targeting “value-added
production” including coal-to-liquid and coal-to-gas projects,
he said.  The western and central part of Tavan Tolgoi holds more
than 1 billion metric tons of coal, 68 percent of which can be
used for steelmaking and the rest as fuel in  power plants ,
Enebish said in March.  Local Staffing  The government hopes 90 percent of the employees at Tavan
Tolgoi will be locals, Amarkhuu said.  “It’s difficult because it heavily depends on qualified
personnel,” he said. “We should think of whether Mongolia has
sufficient qualified personnel.”  Foreign companies can bring in their own staff while
training locals “as fast as possible” and replacing the
workforce with Mongolians after that, Amarkhuu said.  Coal production doubled to 25 million tons to become
Mongolia’s top export last year, encouraging the government to
speed up Tavan Tolgoi’s development.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors: Ryan Woo, John Chacko.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 