-- 
Monte Carlo Should Be Mandatory Event, Six-Time Champion Rafael Nadal Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-13T14:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/monte-carlo-should-be-mandatory-event-six-time-champion-rafael-nadal-says.html
Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal , who is
seeking a record seventh straight title at the  Monte Carlo Rolex
Masters , said the clay-court event should become mandatory on
the men’s  ATP World Tour .  Although Monte Carlo is one of nine so-called Masters 1,000
events on the tour, it’s the only one that isn’t mandatory for
the world’s best. Monte Carlo, one of the oldest events in
tennis, is the clay-court season opening competition for many of
the top-ranked men who will be competing for the  French Open 
title in Paris in five weeks’ time. Nadal is seeking a sixth
title at  Roland Garros .  “Even though the tournament lost the status of mandatory,
it’s something that in the future must change another time and
become mandatory,” Nadal told a small group of reporters at the
 Monte Carlo  Country Club.  “That’s because this tournament is for sure one of the
best Masters 1,000 in the world, if not the best,” said the
Spaniard, who is a member of the ATP Player Council. The
lefthander started his clay-court season today with a 6-2, 6-2
win against  Jarkko Nieminen  of Finland.  Lure Top Players  Under the guidance of then ATP president Etienne de Villiers, the men’s tour in 2007 rebranded its Masters Series of
tournaments in cities including Miami, Rome and  Shanghai  as
“1,000” events. The other cities were Indian Wells,
 California ;  Madrid ; Toronto/ Montreal ; Cincinnati; and Paris. A
plan to downgrade the Monte Carlo event, which was first held in
1897, to a lower status with fewer ranking points and less prize
money was never carried out, partly because of opposition from
top players including Nadal and then world No. 1  Roger Federer .
Instead, Monte Carlo became a non-mandatory 1,000 event.  Losing Masters status, which is one step below the four
Grand Slams, may affect a tournament’s ability to lure top
players.  “It is impossible to downgrade a tournament like Monte
Carlo,” Nadal said. “There is the history of this tournament,
the tradition, the place, the city. Everything is too important
to downgrade a tournament like this.”  Tournament director Zeljko Franulovic said the event should
get mandatory status because of its history.  “Before it became a Masters series, there was an
unfortunate period where the ATP was, rightly or wrongly, trying
to do something else,” Franulovic said. “Everything came out
good, except for us. That we are a Masters 1,000 is very good,
but it would have been perfect if we could have this commitment
behind us.”  ‘It Is  Monaco ’  Most players like the Monaco tournament so much that its
non-mandatory status has not affected its ability to attract the
world’s best that much, Franulovic said.  French Open finalist  Robin Soderling  of  Sweden  and
Australian Open winner  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia are the only
players in the top ten who have pulled out of Monte Carlo this
week, both with an injury.  “At the end of the day, it is Monaco,” third-ranked
Federer told a news conference before the start of the
tournament. The Swiss national, who has yet to win Monte Carlo
even though he’s appeared in three finals, yesterday started his
clay-court season with a 6-2, 6-1 win over  Germany ’s Philipp Kohlschreiber.  “It remains an interesting location for players and fans
and media,” Federer said. “It’s the beginning of the clay-
court season. It would have kept its mystique. But at the same
time, I really felt it deserved a Masters 1,000 status and
that’s why Rafa and myself fought for it, because we thought
tradition was still a very important part of our game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Monte Carlo Country Club through the
London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 