-- 
Moody’s, S&P Caved In to Ratings Pressure From Goldman, UBS Over Mortgages

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-04-13T23:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/moody-s-s-p-caved-to-mortgage-pressure-by-goldman-ubs-levin-report-says.html
Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  adjusted the way they graded securities after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and at least six more banks
pressured them, according to a U.S. Senate report.  The world’s two largest bond-ranking companies, both based
in New York, made exceptions to rules when bankers asked for
better safety ratings on complex mortgage-backed securities, the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations said yesterday.
When Moody’s and S&P changed their assessments of hundreds of
those bonds in July 2007, it helped trigger the financial
crisis, the panel said.  “The  ratings agencies  weakened their standards as each
competed to provide the most favorable rating to win business
and greater market share,” according to the report. “The
result was a race to the bottom.”  The conclusions cap a two-year investigation into the
financial crisis during which senators questioned executives
about the failings of Wall Street banks, regulators and mortgage
companies. In a televised hearing last year, lawmakers compared
Goldman Sachs bankers to bookies and subcommittee Chairman Carl M. Levin grilled them about marketing securities. Levin’s
committee wants regulators to eliminate rules shielding Moody’s
and S&P from being sued over flawed ratings and publish accuracy
rankings for the companies.  ‘Key Enablers’  Levin and Republican Senator Tom A. Coburn of  Oklahoma  held
four public hearings in 2010. The Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission also looked into the role of ratings companies,
calling them “key enablers of the financial meltdown” in its
 January report .  Relying on mathematical models, Moody’s and S&P awarded AAA
ratings to mortgage securities packaged during the five-year
housing boom, deeming them as safe as  government bonds . About 90
percent of AAA securities backed by subprime mortgages from 2006
and 2007 were later downgraded to junk status, Levin’s committee
said.  Such revisions forced banks, pension funds and insurance
companies to sell holdings, contributing to $2 trillion in
losses and asset-writedowns worldwide.  S&P Rejects Responsibility  Lower ratings “reflected the unprecedented deterioration
in  credit quality , but were not a cause of it,” Catherine Mathis, an S&P spokeswoman, said in an e-mail response to
Levin’s findings. “We regret that, like many others, we did not
foresee the speed and extent of the housing downturn, which was
the steepest decline since the Great Depression.”  Michael Adler , a Moody’s spokesman who hadn’t seen the
Levin report, declined to comment.  Moody’s gross revenue from rating the complex products
quadrupled to $260 million in 2006 from $61 million in 2002,
according to the congressional report. For S&P, the number also
quadrupled to $265 million in 2006 from $64 million in 2002.  “Investment bankers who complained about rating
methodologies, criteria, or decisions were often able to obtain
exceptions or other favorable treatment,” according to the
Levin report. The decisions appeared to be “concessions made to
prevent the loss of business.”  Eight Banks Cited  The subcommittee released e-mails showing UBS, Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., Citigroup Inc., Bear Stearns Cos.,
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Nomura
Holdings Inc. all pressured the ratings companies to loosen
standards for assessing certain securities or make exceptions.  UBS told S&P that grading securities the bank was selling
more conservatively might shift business to Moody’s and
competitor Fitch Ratings, according to Levin’s findings.  In another case, a Goldman Sachs banker objected to a
rating decision S&P made on a collateralized-debt obligation
called Abacus 2006-12, according to an e-mail released by the
panel.  S&P director Chris Meyer at first “pushed back” then
“suggested an exception could be made if it were limited to the
CDO at hand,” the committee said.  Lucas van Praag, a spokesman at Goldman Sachs in  New York ,
declined to comment.  UBS, JPMorgan  Moody’s made concessions in 2007 when it rated a deal
called Lancer II for UBS and exceptions for three Bear Stearns
deals in 2006, according to the report. JPMorgan acquired Bear
Stearns in 2008 as the company teetered on the brink of
collapse.  Robert Miller of JPMorgan complained in 2007 that Moody’s
was planning to give a deal a lower rating than S&P. “There’s
going to be a three notch difference when we print the deal if
it goes out as is,” Miller wrote in an e-mail to Moody’s Mark DiRienz. “I’m already having agita about the investor calls I’m
going to get.”  DiRienz replied that an analyst “is looking into some
adjustments to his methodology that should be a benefit to you
folks.”  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment before seeing the report, as did UBS spokeswoman  Kelly Smith .  Flawed Fees  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, criticized the ratings
providers’ business model of collecting fees from the companies
whose deal they rate, comparing the practice to “one of the
parties in court paying the judge’s salary.” Ray McDaniel,
Moody’s chairman and chief executive officer, told the panel
those potential conflicts are well-managed.  “We, like many others, did not anticipate the
unprecedented confluence of forces that drove the unusually poor
performance of subprime mortgages in the past several years,”
McDaniel said in prepared testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 