-- 
Hot Jamiroquai, Police Drummer, Bistro Brunches: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/hot-jamiroquai-cool-bistro-police-drummer-s-spooky-story-london-weekend.html
Jamiroquai is on its first U.K.
tour in five years, bringing its blend of funk, acid, jazz,
disco, soul and preposterous headgear to the  O2  tomorrow.  Singer  Jay Kay , who is known as “the cat in the hat” for
his liking for buffalo caps and feathered fedoras, will be
providing a refresher on a career that includes “Deep
Underground” and “Canned Heat.”  Kay, 41, is taking time away from his collection of more
than 30 cars to promote the band’s album “Rock Dust Light
Star.” The tour is also crossing mainland  Europe  this month.  O2, Peninsula Sq., SE10 0DX. Information: +44-20-8463-2000,
 http://www.theo2.co.uk  and  http://www.jamiroquai.com/shows   Saturday  Ever wondered what London was like in Oscar Wilde’s day?
The  Victoria and Albert  Museum has.  “The Cult of Beauty: The Aesthetic Movement 1860-1900” is
a grab-bag show flaunting everything from teapots, sideboards
and wallpaper to the paintings of James McNeill Whistler.  Wilde is very present. A velvet Knickerbocker suit such as
he might have worn is in the show, together with a dreamy 1882
snap of the author -- taken well before he was convicted of
gross indecency and imprisoned for two agonizing years.  The exhibition ends July 17. Information:
 http://www.vam.ac.uk  or +44-20-7942-2000.  Cassis is conveniently close if you feel like brunch or
Provencal dishes in a buzzy new bistro. It’s good for cocktails,
too. It’s the latest venture from Marlon Abela, who also runs
the Greenhouse and Umu in London and A Voce in  New York .
Information:  http://www.cassisbistro.co.uk/index2.html  or
+44-20-7581-1101.  Saturday Night  Stewart Copeland, the former drummer from Police, is back
-- this time with a one-act opera.  “The Tell-Tale Heart,” based on an Edgar Allan Poe story,
ends its inaugural run at the Royal Opera House’s Linbury Studio
Theatre this weekend. The plot couldn’t be spookier: A murderer
thinks he can hear his victim’s heart beating beneath the
floorboards. Maddened by the pounding, and convinced the cops
can hear it too, he turns himself in.  For Copeland, it’s another milestone in an eclectic career:
He was the composer of the original “Wall Street” soundtrack.  “The Tell-Tale Heart” ends Saturday. Information:
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  Opera Tavern, a new Spanish restaurant near the Royal Opera
House, is proving popular with diners and critics alike. While
you can’t book for the crowded ground-floor tapas bar, you can
for the quieter dining room upstairs. Information:
 http://www.operatavern.co.uk/  or +44-20-7836-3680.  Sunday  Under the  Globe Theatre  is a mini-museum that brings
William Shakespeare back to life.  Elizabethan  London  -- with its teeming taverns and
disreputable pubs -- is recreated using props, old and new.
Expect to watch a sword fight or two, touch some luxury fabrics,
and try Shakespearean karaoke: read out lines of dialogue in a
recording booth, as if you too were an actor in the audio play.  The exhibition is on daily. Information:
 http://www.shakespearesglobe.com  or call +44-20-7902-1500.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 