-- 
Motorola Solutions, Huawei Agree to End Technology Dispute

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-13T20:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/motorola-solutions-huawei-settle-legal-dispute-over-technology-secrets.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. and Huawei
Technologies Co. settled a technology-secrets dispute, allowing
the sale of Motorola’s networks unit to Nokia Siemens Networks
to proceed.  Motorola Solutions and Huawei will drop lawsuits against
each other, with the Chinese company receiving an undisclosed
fee for use of its technology, the two companies said in a joint
statement today. Motorola also agreed to lower the price Nokia
Siemens will pay for the phone-network equipment business to
$975 million, from $1.2 billion, Motorola said in a separate
regulatory filing. Motorola and Nokia Siemens intend to close
the deal on April 29, according to the filing.  “The fact they’re giving us a date and they’re comfortable
with it shows it’s probably a done deal,” said  Matt Thornton ,
an analyst with Avian Securities LLC in  Boston . He has a
“neutral” rating on the stock.  Motorola Solutions had sought an agreement to help close
the sale to Nokia Siemens, announced in July. Huawei,  China ’s
biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, sued Motorola and
Nokia Siemens in January, saying Motorola hadn’t provided
assurances it would prevent disclosures about Huawei technology
to Nokia Siemens.  “After reviewing the facts, we decided to resolve these
matters and return to our traditional relationship of confidence
and trust,”  Greg Brown , chief executive officer of Schaumburg,
Illinois-based Motorola, said in the statement.  Settlement Terms  As part of the settlement, Huawei will allow Nokia Siemens
to receive and use confidential Huawei information to service
networks Motorola has deployed.  The reduction in the sale price is “not that
significant,” said Avian Securities’ Thornton. Nokia Siemens
may have negotiated a lower price if it is covering the costs of
the Huawei fee or as compensation for lost revenue because of
delays to the deal, he said.  Motorola Solutions spokesman Nick Sweers declined to
comment on the reasons for the reduced sale price or how big the
Huawei fee is. The terms of the deal are otherwise unchanged, he
said, adding that the transaction still needs approval from
Chinese regulators.  “This suit was never about Motorola or Nokia Siemens,”
said Bill Plummer, Huawei’s Washington-based vice president of
external affairs, said in an interview today. “This was about
seeking to ensure that our intellectual property rights were
protected.”  Motorola Solutions rose 33 cents to $44.18 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has climbed
19 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  