-- 
Ouattara Clamps Down on Looters to Restore Order After Ivory Coast Turmoil

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-04-13T16:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ouattara-clamps-down-on-looters-to-restore-order-after-ivory-coast-turmoil.html
Ivory Coast ’s new government is
clamping down on looters in an attempt to restore order in the
West African nation devastated by a four-month battle for the
presidency.  The Republican Forces that support President-elect Alassane Ouattara are patrolling the streets of the commercial capital,
Abidjan, following reports of looting by their own soldiers,
thieves and militias loyal to previous leader  Laurent Gbagbo .  “We are currently trying to get some of our rogue elements
under control,” Meite Sindou, spokesman for Prime Minister
 Guillaume Soro , said by phone today. “The looting has to
stop.”  Many shops and homes were plundered during a 10-day battle
for control of Abidjan that ended with Gbagbo’s capture in a
bunker below his home in the Cocody neighborhood of the city on
April 11. Sindou said the government was adding patrols to that
area amid reports that some fighters were robbing the homes of
Gbagbo’s supporters.  Stability in the world’s largest cocoa producer would mean
a return to exports of the chocolate ingredient. Moeller-Maersk
A/S, the world’s largest container shipping line, says one of
its vessels is likely to arrive in Abidjan next week.  Cocoa for May delivery rose $18, or 0.6 percent, to $3,071
per ton as of 11:42 a.m. in  New York  today.  ‘Extreme Duress’  “You have a populace under extreme duress,” said Anne Fruhauf, an  Africa  analyst for Eurasia Group, in an interview in
 South Africa  today. “In this time of uncertainty, it’s the rule
of weapons.”  Looters ransacked shops on the main commercial street of
Rue des Jardins in the Deux Plateaux neighborhood and were seen
carrying the stolen goods, including sofas and a fake Christmas
tree, on their heads and in wheelbarrows.  “They’ve tried to enter into a building because a guy that
supported Gbagbo is living there,” said resident Moussa Traore.
“For them, it’s like a revenge.”  In the Cocody area, three men were shot by a Republican
Forces patrol at a bakery, according to Salif Attai, who
witnessed the incident and said the trio stole a bag he was
carrying. The body of one of the men that was left by the
roadside was wearing a military uniform.  Clinging to Power  Gbagbo defied international opinion to stay in power after
a Nov. 28 presidential election, which the  United Nations , the
 African Union  and the U.S. said he lost to Ouattara. Gbagbo
alleged electoral fraud in parts of the country’s north.  The former president was moved from Ouattara’s headquarters
at the Golf Hotel in Abidjan to an undisclosed location under UN
protection, Ouattara said today in a televised speech.  UN peacekeepers are also patrolling the streets of Abidjan
in an effort to restore order,  Hamadoun Toure , a spokesman for
the UN mission, said yesterday. Some residents were concerned by
the deployment of the Republican Forces on the streets of the
city of 4 million.  “I’m pretty afraid when I see them,” said Renee Kassi, a
resident of Cocody who said she supports neither Gbagbo nor
Ouattara. “They’ve just arrived, we don’t know them yet. I
think I will need time to really trust them.”  Some shops have reopened since the fighting subsided. About
60 people were in line at a supermarket in Cocody and being
allowed in one at a time. At another bakery in the area, about
100 people waited in line.  Amnesty Report  “Armed men wearing military uniforms have been conducting
house-to-house searches in areas of Abidjan that supported
Gbagbo,”  Amnesty International  said yesterday in a statement,
calling for an end to reprisal killings in the city and in
western  Ivory Coast .  “In the western part of the country people suspected of
being pro-Gbagbo are also terrified,” said Veronique Aubert,
deputy director for Africa at London-based Amnesty, according to
the statement. “Many are hiding in the bush after their
villages were burned down and they need to be protected.”  Desire Tagro, Gbagbo’s former interior minister who was
captured with the ex-president, died yesterday in circumstances
that are unclear,  Agence France-Presse  said, citing people it
didn’t identify.  Ivory Coast’s economy is expected to contract 7.5 percent
this year, after growing about 2.6 percent last year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . It expects growth to rebound
to 6 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 