-- 
Paulson-Calpers Group Can Present Competing Lehman Reorganization Plan

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-13T19:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/paulson-calpers-group-can-present-competing-lehman-reorganization-plan.html
Hedge fund Paulson & Co. and a
group of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  bondholders won
permission to present their plan to liquidate the failed
investment bank’s assets on the same schedule as Lehman’s own
$61 billion proposal.  Lehman and the creditor group reached an agreement allowing
the two competing plans to be considered at a June 28 hearing,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said today in  New York .  Lehman initially opposed the Paulson group’s effort to
proceed on the same timeline, saying its own proposal should
have “primacy” over the group’s “parochial” interests. At
the June hearing, Peck will consider giving the two plans
permission to be presented to creditors.  Lehman, which collapsed in 2008 with debt of $613 billion,
is facing mounting opposition to the way it will apportion among
creditors the $61 billion it aims to raise as it liquidates
assets. More than 25 creditors of Lehman units, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Silver Point  Capital LP, have
criticized the defunct firm’s payment plan, as have bondholders
in the Paulson group, which includes the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System .  Some dissenters, including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Silver Point,
said last week that they are “seriously” considering putting
up a third payment plan for Lehman that would compete with the
other two.  ‘Highly Unlikely’  The Goldman group, which holds derivatives claims against
Lehman, said this week that the bankrupt company’s plan, which
takes money from derivatives creditors to give to bondholders,
was “highly unlikely” to win approval, partly because of
“gifts” to bondholders.  To get a hearing alongside Lehman, rival plans must be
filed in court by April 29, according to Paulson-Calpers.  Separately today, Peck ordered Paulson and the other
members of its group to disclose within 10 days information
about their holdings of Lehman’s debt, including the prices they
paid.  Peck told  Harvey Miller , Lehman’s bankruptcy attorney, that
disclosure was often used to force creditors to reveal
confidential or embarrassing information.  “People are entitled to know what are the economic
interests” of the group, Miller said.  Gerard Uzzi, a lawyer for the Paulson-Calpers group, said
disclosure should apply to other creditor groups involved in the
bankruptcy.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  