-- 
PC Shipments Decline 3.2 Percent in First Quarter, IDC Says

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-13T22:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/pc-shipments-unexpectedly-decline-3-2-percent-in-first-quarter-idc-says.html
Global personal-computer shipments
unexpectedly fell 3.2 percent in the first quarter as businesses
and consumers held off on purchasing new machines and shifted
focus to tablet computers, market-research firm IDC said.  The researcher had projected that worldwide shipments would
grow 1.5 percent from the year-earlier period.  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  remained the industry’s top seller, accounting for 18.9
percent of the global market, IDC said in a statement today.
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  was second with 12.8 percent, and  Acer Inc. (2353)  was third
with 11.2 percent.  “Slower-than-expected commercial growth in the first
quarter failed to offset the ongoing challenges in the consumer
market,” said Bob O’Donnell, a program vice president at
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC, in the statement. “While
it’s tempting to blame the decline completely on the growth of
media tablets, we believe other factors, including extended PC
lifetimes and the lack of compelling new PC experiences, played
equally significant roles.”  Higher fuel and commodity prices, as well as disruptions
caused by the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  in March, may also
have curbed sales, IDC said.  Worldwide PC shipments totaled 80.6 million in the first
quarter. In the U.S., shipments dropped 10.7 percent from a year
earlier, to 16.1 million.  Separately,  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said in an e-mailed statement that
worldwide first-quarter PC shipments fell 1.1 percent to 84.3
million units, the first year-over-year drop in six quarters.
Gartner, based in Stamford, Connecticut, had forecast an
increase of 3 percent. U.S. shipments declined 6.1 percent, the
research firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  