-- 
Gates Launches ‘Comprehensive Review’ to Find $400 Billion in Defense Cuts

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/pentagon-will-begin-review-to-determine-400-billion-in-cuts-1-.html
The U.S. Defense Department will
begin a “comprehensive review” to find $400 billion in
spending cuts as part of President Barack Obama’s plan to reduce
the federal deficit.  The Pentagon will evaluate “missions, capabilities and
America’s role in the world” and “identify alternatives for
the president’s consideration,” Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  told reporters yesterday. “This is not just a math
exercise.”  Making reductions of that scale through fiscal 2023 is an
“ambitious goal,” he said.  The review ordered by Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates ,
who in January proposed $78 billion in reductions for the next
five years, will take months and would have its first impact on
the fiscal 2013 budget, Morrell said.  “This process must be about managing risks associated with
future threats and identify missions the country is willing to
have the military forgo,” he said.  Todd Harrison , a defense budget analyst for the Washington-
based Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, which
studies defense expenditures and national security strategy,
said reaching that level of savings will require “more than
just efficiencies.”  “It will require making hard choices about force
structure, pay, benefits and modernization programs,” Harrison
said. “There are no magic bullets.”  Defense Stocks Drop  Defense contractors were among the biggest decliners
yesterday in U.S. markets.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  fell 2.6
percent,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  was down 2.9 percent,  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD)  fell 1.5 percent,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  dropped 2.1
percent and  Boeing Co. (BA)  was down 1.3 percent.  Gates met with Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden  in the
Oval Office yesterday afternoon to discuss the president’s plan.  At the direction of the White House, and amid pressure to
curb trillion-dollar federal deficits, Gates in January proposed
cutting defense spending by $78 billion over five years. The $78
billion in cuts equals about 2.7 percent of a $2.91 trillion
defense plan through 2016.  In a  briefing  last August, Gates told reporters: “My
greatest fear is that in economic tough times that people will
see the  defense budget  as the place to solve the nation’s
deficit problems, to find money for other parts of the
government.”  Holding Below Inflation  A White House fact sheet said the administration wants to
achieve deeper reductions in security spending by holding growth
in “base security spending below inflation.”  The fact sheet didn’t specify whether the Defense
Department would bear all of the $400 billion goal or whether
some cuts would fall on other security agencies, such as the
Department of  Homeland Security .  “Holding defense below inflation is a huge problem,”
House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon,
a California Republican, said in a statement.  The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, “recently told our members that ‘we must not be exempt
in the Defense Department from belt-tightening, but in truth
there is little discretion about the security we provide our
fellow citizens,’” McKeon said. “The president and Admiral
Mullen can’t both be right.”  Two of the biggest areas of weapons spending that might be
reviewed are the $14 billion, on average, that the Navy plans to
spend annually on shipbuilding and Lockheed Martin’s F-35
fighter jet. The U.S. Government Accountability Office in a
report said the F-35 is anticipated to require “unprecedented
demands for funding,” averaging about $11 billion a year.  Military Chiefs  Morrell said Gates told the military service chiefs that
“the announcement is the beginning of the process and not the
conclusion. The outcome is still to be determined.”  Over the next five years, the administration forecasts the
government will pile up a cumulative deficit of $3.8 trillion;
over the decade, the cumulative deficits would rise to $7.2
trillion.  In addition to defense cuts, Obama proposed three other
main components to reduce the debt, according to a White House
statement: holding down domestic spending, curbing health-care
costs and closing tax loopholes. The administration has released
no details.  Morrell said Gates “has been clear that further
significant defense cuts cannot be accomplished without future
cuts in force structure and military capability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  