-- 
Perella’s Bednar Says ‘Inherent Conflict’ in Staple Financing

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-04-13T00:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/perella-s-bednar-says-inherent-conflict-in-staple-financing.html
Andrew Bednar, a founding partner
at investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners LP, said there is
an “inherent conflict” when bankers that are advising sellers
on a takeover also provide financing to the buyer.  “If you’re going to be an adviser, I don’t see how you can
be the financing party,” Bednar said today at a Bloomberg
Tradebook panel on M&A in New York. So-called staple financing
“can be valuable but comes at a cost.”  Bednar said corporate boards have become more diligent in
considering acquisitions and are involving bankers earlier in
the process than they have historically. His firm doesn’t
provide staple financing. Bednar spoke on the panel with Chinh Chu, senior managing director at  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s largest private equity firm, and Marc Lipschultz, a
partner at New York-based private equity firm KKR & Co.  The panelists said the combination of improving equity and
credit markets has led to the recent pick-up in M&A. There have
been 6,863 deals announced globally this year, totaling
$693.8 billion, a 31 percent increase from the $530.5 billion
in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Private equity firms have the appetite and capacity to do
larger deals, said Lipschultz, who oversees energy and
infrastructure investments at KKR. He worked on the company’s
2007 takeover with TPG Capital of Dallas-based TXU Corp., now
Energy Holdings Corp., for about $45 billion in the largest
leveraged buyout on record.  “Size has come up and size will continue to expand,” said
Lipschultz. “We have seen private equity activity pick up
significantly.”  Attractive industries for private equity buyers include
manufacturing and chemicals in some cases, Blackstone’s Chu
said. The timing needs to be right and valuations need to be
reasonable, he said.  In any transaction the starting point of the process is
key, said Perella’s Bednar, who is advising NYSE Euronext on its
merger with Deutsche Boerse AG for about about $9.7 billion.  “When you start out with a flawed process, it’s very hard
to get to the finish line without a lot of pain,” Bednar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci at in  New York  or
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Wollman at 
 ewollman@bloomberg.net  