-- 
Pimco Is ‘Large Overweight’ on China, Predicts Earnings Growth in Region

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-04-13T15:42:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/pimco-is-large-overweight-on-china-sees-profit-growth-after-tightening.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest mutual fund, is buying Chinese
stocks on the prospect for earnings growth as monetary
tightening eases.  The emerging-market equity fund has a “large overweight in
 China ,” where financial and property stocks are attractive and
Pimco has a “favorable view of the yuan,” said Maria Gordon,
who was hired last year to manage the fund. An underweight
rating in Brazil reflects “better value elsewhere,” and some
shares in  India  and  Turkey  are “likely to become cheaper before
they start to rise,” she said.  China’s fourth interest-rate increase in six months,
announced April 5, spurred strategists at four of the world’s
biggest banks to recommend stocks in the fastest-growing major
economy. Credit Suisse Group AG boosted its 12-month forecast
for the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, HSBC Holdings Plc
increased its rating on China to “overweight,” and Macquarie
Group Ltd. said investors should lift holdings. Citigroup Inc.
advised buying options to bet on gains.  “This is the space wherein companies trade at a
significant discount to their net asset values,” Gordon,
formerly a portfolio manager at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “We look for
companies that may have been affected by cyclical adversity,
where the earnings story is likely to be better once the story
is normalized.”  Bullish Forecasts  The recommendations, which follow bullish forecasts last
month from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, signal
confidence that Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government will curb the
fastest inflation since 2008 without derailing growth in an
economy forecast by the  World Bank  to expand 9 percent in 2011.  The price-earnings ratio of the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index, or H-share index, is 22 percent below its five-year
average after profits surged 32 percent last year, beating
analysts’ estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’ve seen 18 months of macro-prudential measures under
way,” said Gordon. “We’ve also seen the reflection of those
worries in the equity market.”  The gauge of 40 Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong ,
known as the H-share index, has dropped 0.1 percent since the
People’s Bank of China began raising  interest rates  in October,
trailing an 8 percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
When China’s borrowing costs increased a similar amount from
October 2004 through March 2007, the index jumped 113 percent.  ‘Upside Potential’  Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. raised its share-price estimates
for Chinese banks in a report yesterday, saying lenders may
extend recent rallies on first-quarter earnings.  The Hong Kong-traded shares of Chinese banks including
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. “still have about
10 percent upside potential from the current valuations in the
near term,” after outperforming the market by 8 percent to 9
percent since mid-February, analysts including Mike Werner and
Wangshu Qiu said in the report.  China’s currency has strengthened 1.1 percent versus the
dollar this year, following a 3.5 percent appreciation in 2010.  Pimco EqS Emerging Markets, the fund managed by Gordon, is
part of a push into equities by  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco, which has been synonymous with bond investing since it
was co-founded by  Bill Gross  four decades ago.  ‘Structural’ Growth  Emerging-market nations have “very significant structural
growth opportunities” and “strong-trend earnings growth” in
comparison with developed-market peers over three to five years,
Gordon said. “Bubble and risk have faded partly because of the
worries about the mid-cycle rebalancing,” she said.  The MSCI emerging-market index has climbed 3 percent this
year, trailing a 4.5 percent gain for advanced-country shares.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index has risen 8.6 percent this
year, after losing 14.3 percent in 2010. India’s Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index has fallen 4 percent, while Brazil’s
Bovespa Index has declined 3.4 percent.  In  Brazil , there’s “clearly a disconnect” between “the
amount of infrastructure and its growth rate it is exhibiting,”
Gordon said. “When the output gap closes you’ll have
inflationary pressures. So we’re experiencing the need for that
mid-cycle rebalancing.”  Gordon said her fund also has holdings in  Kazakhstan , where
there are “stock-specific opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  