-- 
Policy Makers Need More Control of Bank Credit, Larosiere Says

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-04-13T12:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/policy-makers-need-more-control-of-bank-credit-larosiere-says.html
Central bankers and International
Monetary Fund policy makers need more control over bank lending
to stabilize the global financial system, according to Jacques de Larosiere, a former governor of the Bank of  France .  Monetary policy was “walking on one foot” before the
financial crisis because while officials could change  interest
rates , they couldn’t influence the quantity of money being
created through bank lending, de Larosiere said.  “The true source of money creation was through credit
expansion,” de Larosiere said yesterday in a debate at the
Financial Times in London, which was organized by the French
Embassy. “You have to look into ways of moderating credit
expansion when moderation is the order of the day.”  De Larosiere recommended the use of anti-cyclical
provisions, higher  capital ratios  for different types of
lending, reserve obligations and loan-to-value rules to help
avoid credit bubbles. The IMF could coordinate policy
internationally, said de Larosiere, who once headed the
Washington-based organization.  Rachel Lomax , a former deputy governor of the  Bank of
England , said global agreement on such a proposal was unlikely.  “I don’t think there’s a chance in hell of getting there
to be honest,” she said. “The geopolitical requirements are
just simply beyond imagining at the moment. There just isn’t the
trust.”  Lomax said policy makers were grappling with transitioning
to a system where China and other large emerging economies have
fully exchangeable currencies.  “We are really not much more than at the beginning of a
very difficult and dangerous transition from a very ramshackle
international monetary system, which is very much dominated by
the dollar, to a multipolar world which is probably going to be
based on several reserve currencies,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in  London  at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  