-- 
Polish Yields Jump to 21-Month High at Auction on Inflation, Rate Concerns

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T11:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/polish-yields-jump-to-21-month-high-at-auction-on-inflation-rate-concerns.html
Polish borrowing costs rose to the
highest level in 21 months at the sale of two-year bonds today
as concern that accelerating inflation will spur more interest-
rate increases curbed demand.  The  Finance Ministry  sold 4.76 billion zloty ($1.74
billion) of notes due in July 2013, according to an e-mailed
statement. The average yield rose to 5.163 percent, the highest
since the sale of two-year debt on July 1, 2009, according to
the ministry’s  website .  Poland raised interest rates last week for the second time
this year to damp inflation expectations. Consumer-price growth
probably accelerated to 3.9 percent in March, the highest in 23
months, from 3.6 percent in February, according to the median
estimate from 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey before a
report today.  ``Nobody wants to take a risk before inflation,” said
Krzysztof Izdebski, fixed-income  fund manager  at Union
Investment TFI SA in Warsaw. “If it comes above consensus, the
rates could go up further.”  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs in
nine months shows investors expect an increase of 96 basis
points, or 0.96 percentage point, based on the difference
between the contract and the three-month Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate to which it settles. The statistics office will
release inflation data at 2 p.m. in Warsaw.  Rate Outlook  The central bank may need to consider “bigger, more
decisive” increases in its key interest rate if commodity
prices push annual inflation above 4 percent,  Andrzej Kazmierczak , a member of the Monetary Policy Council, said in an
interview published on April 8.  Investors’ demand at today’s sale was 7.39 billion zloty,
the lowest amount for the maturity since the auction in
September, according to Finance Ministry’s page on Bloomberg.
The ministry will not hold a non-competitive additional sale of
debt today, it said in an e-mailed statement.  The government had sought to sell between 3.5 billion zloty
and 5.5 billion zloty of the debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  