-- 
Polish Inflation Hits 2-Year High, Boosts Chance of Rising Interest Rates

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-13T16:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/polish-inflation-hits-2-year-high-boosts-chance-of-rising-interest-rates.html
Poland ’s inflation rate in March
soared to the highest in more than two years, boosting chances
the central bank will raise  interest rates  next month and
pushing the zloty and interest-rate swaps higher.  Consumer prices rose an annual 4.3 percent, compared with a
3.6 percent increase the month before, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw reported today. The result was the most since
September 2008 and above the 3.9 percent median estimate of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices advanced 0.9 percent on
the month.  Policy makers across the globe are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, propelled by soaring food and fuel
prices. An interest-rate increase in May would be “justified,”
PAP newswire cited central banker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka as
saying after the report. The central bank will “need to act,”
her fellow policy maker Jan Winiecki told TVN CNBC television in
a live interview.  “It’s quite a shocking figure,”  Gaelle Blanchard , an
emerging-market strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by phone
from  London . “It seems like things are not under control and
the market has become more convinced that the monetary
tightening will accelerate now.”  Above Target  Poland, the largest economy of the European Union’s members
from the former communist east, has had inflation faster than
the central bank’s target rate of 2.5 percent for half a year.
Policy makers in Warsaw lifted the benchmark seven-day rate on
April 5 to 4 percent, the second increase this year, while the
 European Central Bank  the same week raised borrowing costs for
the first time in almost three years.  The zloty appreciated the most in a week, adding 0.6
percent to 3.9621 per euro at 5:58 p.m. in Warsaw. Investors
should buy the zloty in anticipation that it will advance to 3.8
per euro because the possibility of a rate increase in May is
“very high,” RBC Capital wrote in a note to customers today.  Investors in  derivatives market  are now signaling the
central bank will lift borrowing costs next month, the third
increase this year. One-month forward rate agreements are
trading 31 basis points above the three-month Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate, up from 19 basis points yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Real Shocker’  “The data was a real shocker for the bond curve,” BRE
Bank SA economists led by Ernest Pytlarczyk in Warsaw wrote in a
note to clients. “The situation which the MPC faces now seems
hard. It is not only fighting against inflation expectations but
also with the belief the MPC would be unable to deliver  price
stability  in the mid-term.”  Poland’s two-year bonds fell, raising yields 8 basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.14 percent at 4:47 p.m.,
the highest since March 11. Two-year interest-rate swaps that
investors use to lock in interest costs in the future rose 10
basis points to 5.38 percent, the highest level since
November 2008.  Policy makers raised the main interest rate by a quarter
percentage-point last week after a report showed consumers
predicted inflation will accelerate to 4.6 percent in 12 months,
the biggest one-month jump in the inflation-expectations survey
in a decade.  The central bank may need to consider “bigger, more
decisive” increases in its key interest rate if commodity
prices push annual inflation above 4 percent, Andrzej Kazmierczak of the Monetary Policy Council said in an interview
published April 8. Kazmierczak had voted against all motions for
higher rates in 2010, according to central bank records.  Poland was the only country in the 27-nation European Union
to escape a recession in 2009, as its large domestic market
buoyed demand even as exports fell. The government expects the
economy to expand by 4 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  