-- 
Porsche Said to Gain High Acceptance Rate in Rights Offering

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-13T12:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/porsche-said-to-gain-high-acceptance-rate-in-rights-offering-2-.html
Porsche SE, the sports-car maker
that plans to merge with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , has had a very high
acceptance rate for its 5 billion-euro ($7.3 billion) rights
offering, a person familiar with the matter said.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche is still tabulating the
final results of the sale to existing shareholders that ended at
midnight, the person said, declining to be identified because
the information isn’t public yet. The company hasn’t extended
the offer period, the person said.  Porsche sold shares at 38 euros apiece during a two-week
period that started March 30. One existing share carries the
right to subscribe to 0.75 new shares. Porsche preferred shares
gained as much as 1.80 euros, or 4.2 percent, to 45.14 euros and
were trading at 45.04 euros as of 2:34 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Porsche will use the proceeds to cut debt to 1.5 billion
euros, a prerequisite for the merger with VW. The sports-car
maker and Volkswagen agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in an unsuccessful
attempt to gain control of VW. The company’s debt rose to 6.34
billion euros by Dec. 31 from 6.05 billion euros on July 31
because of tax repayments.  “This is a step forward for Porsche to lay the conditions
for a merger with VW,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-based
analyst with M.M. Warburg who recommends selling Porsche stock.
The money will help pay back a 2.5 billion-euro  bank loan 
expiring at the end of June, he said.  Even Split  A statement on the completion of the stock sale will be
published tomorrow, a Porsche spokesman said today by phone.  The sale is split evenly between preferred and common stock
at about 2.5 billion euros each. The common shares are
controlled by the Porsche and Piech families which may spend
2.25 billion euros on the sale, while Qatar Holding LLC, part of
the country’s sovereign wealth fund which controls 10 percent of
Porsche’s voting stock, may contribute 250 million euros.  Porsche has said all new preferred shares will be
underwritten by a banking syndicate led by Deutsche Bank AG,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley. Deutsche Bank carried
out the sale of common shares while Rothschild served as
Porsche’s financial advisor.  Europe ’s largest carmaker’s merger with Porsche, originally
scheduled for completion in the second half, will probably be
delayed into next year because of German legal obstacles. An
investigation into share-price manipulation allegations will
likely push the deal’s completion into 2012, Porsche said Feb.
24. Volkswagen now owns 49.9 percent of Porsche’s carmaking
operations.  Short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming the carmaker secretly piled up Volkswagen shares and
later caused the investors to lose more than $1 billion. At the
same time, institutional investors in  Germany  are seeking 2.5
billion euros in damages over the matter. Porsche has repeatedly
denied all the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  