-- 
Putin Says Too Soon to Decide on Presidency After Medvedev Hint

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-13T17:26:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/putin-says-too-soon-to-decide-on-presidency-after-medvedev-hint.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said it’s too early to decide who will run in 2012
presidential elections, after his protege, President  Dmitry Medvedev , said he expected a speedy decision.  “Of course this decision must be taken, but there is still
almost a year left before the vote, and all this fuss
surrounding the elections doesn’t help to carry out our work
properly,” Putin said in comments posted on his website today.
Either he or Medvedev could stand, he added.  Medvedev said yesterday he is nearing a decision on whether
he will bid for a second term. “The decision will be taken very
shortly,” he said in an interview with  China Central
Television .  Putin, 58, a former Soviet intelligence officer, handpicked
Medvedev to replace him after stepping down as president in 2008
because of a constitutional limit on more than two consecutive
terms. Putin could return to the Kremlin next year, and stay for
12 years under a new, lengthened six-year presidential mandate.  Medvedev, 45, a trained lawyer from Putin’s hometown of  St.
Petersburg , has vowed to fight corruption, attract foreign
investors and modernize the economy to wean the world’s largest
energy exporter off its dependence on commodities.  The president on April 2 instructed eight senior government
officials to quit their jobs at state-owned companies by July 1,
including Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , who has worked with
Putin for 20 years, as chairman of Russia’s largest oil company
OAO Rosneft. Sechin on April 11 resigned as Rosneft’s chairman
and withdrew his nomination to be re-elected to the board.  ‘Different Views’  Medvedev’s move to assert himself risks creating a conflict
as it targets close allies of the premier, who may want Putin to
reclaim the presidency to safeguard their positions.  “Perhaps we simply have different views on methods and
ways to achieve prosperity” in  Russia , Medvedev said in the
interview yesterday. “My course is modernization of the economy
and political life.  We shouldn’t reject all the good we have
done over the past 20 years and especially over the last 10
years, but we have to look ahead.”  Deputy Prime Minister Alexei Kudrin, chairman of ZAO
Alrosa, Russia’s diamond monopoly, and First Deputy Prime
Minister Viktor Zubkov are among the officials listed in the
directive. Like Sechin, Kudrin and Zubkov worked with Putin in
the first half of the 1990s in the St. Petersburg mayor’s
office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 