-- 
Qatar's Shares Advance on Industries Qatar Earnings, MSCI Upgrade Optimism

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-13T12:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/qatar-s-shares-advance-on-industries-qatar-earnings-msci-upgrade-optimism.html
Qatar shares rose a third time this
week as Industries Qatar’s earnings beat estimates and on
optimism changes in the stock exchange’s settlement system may
secure emerging market status at index provider MSCI Inc.  Industries Qatar, the second-biggest petrochemicals company
in the Middle East, rallied 2.9 percent after quarterly profit
almost doubled.  Qatar Electricity & Water Co. (QEWS) , the third-largest
traded utility in the region by revenue, surged to a more than
two-year high. The  QE Index (DSM)  climbed 0.5 percent to 8,815.44 at
the 1:10 p.m. close in Doha. The gauge jumped 4.2 percent in the
past month. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.6 percent and  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  added 1 percent.  The gains in Qatar “are related to results from Industries
Qatar,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $110 million at
The National Investor in Abu Dhabi. “In both Qatar and the
 United Arab Emirates , gains are being helped by optimism the
markets will be upgraded at MSCI as we are six weeks from the
announcement.”  U.A.E. and Qatari stocks may attract $2 billion to $3
billion of funds if the nations secure an upgrade to emerging
markets status at MSCI, Henin said. MSCI will revalue its
assessment in June, according to its website. The so-called
delivery-versus-payment system, an MSCI requirement for emerging
markets inclusion, was introduced this week in Qatar. It will
start April 28 in the U.A.E.  Beating Estimates  Industries Qatar rose to 147.7 riyals, the highest level
since Feb. 15. First-quarter profit soared to 2.1 billion riyals
($577 million) from 1.2 billion riyals a year ago. The median
estimate of four analysts was for a net income of 1.7 billion
riyals, according to four estimates on Bloomberg. Qatar
Electricity & Water surged 6.9 percent to 152.9 riyals, the
highest since August 2008.  Crude oil for May delivery rose as much as 0.7 percent to
$106.97 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including Qatar and
 Saudi Arabia , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.2 percent,
while Bahrain’s BB All Share Index retreated 0.5 percent. Oman’s
and Kuwait’s measures advanced less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  