-- 
Rajat Gupta Mystery Remains as Rajaratnam's Insider Trial Nears Denouement

-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-04-13T23:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rajat-gupta-mystery-remains-as-rajaratnam-s-insider-trial-nears-denouement.html
Jurors weighing the insider trading
case against Raj Rajaratnam in a Manhattan federal courtroom are
hearing about Rajat Gupta, the former head of McKinsey & Co.,
almost daily.  They’ve listened to a wiretap on which he confided to
Rajaratnam that the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  board, on which he
sat, discussed acquiring Wachovia Corp. or American
International Group Inc. They’ve watched Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  testify that Gupta violated
the company’s ethics code for directors. Prosecutors have called
Gupta, who hasn’t appeared as a witness, an unindicted co-
conspirator, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has
filed an administrative action against him for his alleged role
in the scandal.  Still, nothing explains why Gupta, once one of the world’s
most trusted advisers to companies, would risk his reputation by
sharing confidential information with a hedge fund manager,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 18 issue.  Gupta, 62, led McKinsey, the global consulting firm, from
1994 to 2003. He sat on the boards of some of the largest
multinationals, including Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble Co.
He raised millions of dollars for charity, hung out with the
Prime Minister of India, and attended President  Barack Obama ’s
first state dinner at the White House. He divided his time
between a waterfront home in Westport,  Connecticut , that once
belonged to J.C. Penney, a  Manhattan  apartment, and a Florida
getaway.  Grander Ambitions  Yet Gupta had grander ambitions. After stepping down from
the top job at McKinsey, he pursued a second career as a
dealmaker. The man CEOs turned to for his expertise and sound
judgment made questionable decisions as he invested with
Rajaratnam, the co-founder of the hedge fund Galleon Group LLC.
The SEC has accused him of passing confidential information on
earnings at P&G and Goldman Sachs, and  Warren Buffett ’s
$5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs. Those tips generated
more than $17 million in illicit profits or avoided losses for
Galleon, the SEC said.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , calls those allegations
“totally baseless.”  The son of a man who fought for  India ’s independence, Gupta
was orphaned as a teenager. He worked his way from lower middle
class roots in Kolkata to  Harvard Business School  and joined
McKinsey in 1973. His big leap came in 1994 when McKinsey held
elections for a new leader. Gupta won over two other candidates,
becoming the first non-U.S-born managing director of the firm.
He served for three three-year terms, the maximum under
McKinsey’s rules.  Senior Partner  Gupta remained at McKinsey as a senior partner until 2007.
By then, financial markets were booming, and private equity and
hedge fund managers were  New York ’s new elite. Many of the CEOs
he had counseled were finding positions in this lucrative world.
Gupta figured he could leverage his own contacts and add to his
wealth, said a senior executive at a company where Gupta was a
director until March. He loved gathering Wall Street rumors and
analyzing them in his professorial way, the executive said. He
liked the idea of doing eight or 10 deals a year -- making
introductions among executives and investors, and leaving the
math and paperwork to others, said the executive, who didn’t
want to be named because his conversations with Gupta were
private. That’s also how Rajaratnam saw him.  “Your value-added is not to do cash flows,” Rajaratnam
told Gupta in a July 2008 wiretapped phone conversation
submitted at the trial. “Your value-added is to bring people
together, deals together, at the right time to make the call.”  Wiretapped Conversations  Several wiretapped conversations indicate Gupta coveted a
role at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., one of the largest
private equity firms. He knew  Henry Kravis , KKR’s co-chairman,
from his philanthropic work and through some clients.  “He’s enamored with Kravis, and I think he wants to be in
that circle,” Rajaratnam told  Anil Kumar , a McKinsey consultant
at the time who has pleaded guilty to  insider trading , in an
Aug. 15, 2008, taped call. “That’s a billionaire’s circle . . .
I think here he sees an opportunity to make $100 million over
the next five or 10 years without doing a lot of work.”  Gupta began doing business with a group of men who, like
him, had connections in the U.S. and India: Parag Saxena, Victor Menezes, and Rajaratnam. All three had had trouble with
regulatory authorities. In 2006 he co-founded a fund called New
Silk Route Partners with Saxena and Menezes. Rajaratnam
contributed $50 million to the fund, which eventually raised
$1.3 billion to invest in ventures in India and other emerging
economies.  Civil Claims  Saxena had paid the SEC a $250,000 fine in 1994 to settle
civil claims that he received pre-initial-public-offering stock
at big discounts and subsequently recommended the stocks to his
clients at Chancellor Investment Management after they went
public. In 2006, Menezes, a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  senior vice-
chairman, paid the SEC $2.7 million in a fine and disgorged
profits after he dumped his Citigroup stock ahead of an
announcement of bad news from a subsidiary in  Argentina .  And in 2005, before Rajaratnam’s indictment, Galleon Group
paid $2 million in a fine and disgorged profits to settle claims
that it had made improper trades. Some worried about Gupta.  “I told him once, ‘If you are in a herd of pigs, you’ll
also smell like a pig,’” Bala Balachandran, a business
professor who has known Gupta for three decades, said in an
interview last year. In 2007, Gupta joined Rajaratnam and a
third man to form the GB Voyager Multi-Strategy Fund,
contributing $10 million of his own.  Numerous Hedge Funds  The $40 million fund “invested in numerous Galleon Group
hedge funds, including those that traded on Gupta’s illegal
tips,” according to the SEC’s complaint. Gupta asked Rajaratnam
for a 10 percent stake in the Galleon International Fund in
exchange for attracting investors, according to a May 28, 2008,
wiretapped call between Rajaratnam and Kumar. He never got that,
according to testimony at Rajaratnam’s trial.  Gupta’s deal making career never took off. The New Silk
Route fund hasn’t turned a profit on any of the investments it
has made so far -- or fully invested the $1.3 billion raised
four years ago, according to  Venture Intelligence , a Chennai-
based research firm that tracks private equity in India. The
Voyager Fund was wiped out in the 2008 financial crisis, costing
Gupta his $10 million investment, according to his attorney.  “I think  Rajat Gupta  got caught in that whole New York
milieu where people measure themselves by their net worth, the
size of their bonus, or square footage of their house,” said
Shoba Narayan, an author who was part of that circle through her
husband, a former Morgan Stanley banker. “If he’d lived away
from that incestuous Wall Street set, perhaps none of this would
have happened.”  SEC Judge  Gupta’s civil case is scheduled to be heard by an SEC
administrative judge in July, and the worst punishment he could
receive is a fine and a consent decree that could bar him from
serving on public company boards. Naftalis has filed a suit on
his behalf to get the SEC civil case transferred to a federal
court where it would be heard by a jury.  Even if Gupta is not sanctioned, “he’ll never recover the
pristine reputation he had before,” said Georges Ugeux, a
former New York Stock Exchange official, now CEO of Galileo
Global Advisors, a New York firm that advises investment banks.
“Whether he’s fined or indicted is secondary to the fact that
many people have lost respect for him.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at   jhelyar@bloomberg.net  and;
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at   msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carol Hymowitz   chymowitz1@bloomberg.net  