-- 
RBA’s Stevens Speaks in New York on Global Economy (Full Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 6 7 8 2 9 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 
2011-04-13T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rba-s-stevens-speaks-in-new-york-on-global-economy-full-text-.html
The following is the prepared text
of a speech today in New York by  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
Governor Glenn Stevens. He was delivering the remarks, entitled
“America, Australia, Asia and the World Economy,” to the
American Australian Association.  Thank you for the invitation to speak in New York.  New York City  remains one of the world’s dominant financial
centres, on any metric. Its stock exchange is by far the largest
in the world in terms of market capitalisation. The US corporate
debt market similarly eclipses that of other countries and the
city is home to some of the world’s largest financial
institutions. Likewise, the United States remains the world’s
largest national economy by a substantial margin.  But the world is changing, and quite quickly. The rise of  China 
(and, very likely,  India ) is a transformative event for the
global economy. Unless something pretty major goes wrong, we are
likely to see much more of this trend for quite a long time yet.  As recently as 1990, the United States accounted for a quarter
of the world economy. The European Union was just a little over
a quarter. Japan, east Asia and India combined made up roughly
another quarter; Japan on its own was about a tenth of global
GDP. (Australia was then, and still is, just over 1 per cent of
global GDP.)  In 2010, the US share was about 20 per cent of world GDP, about
the same as the European Union. By then,  Asia  was making up just
under a third of the total. China alone had raised its share of
global GDP from less than 4 per cent in 1990 to over 13 per cent
- quite a change in the space of 20 years. India’s share, which
had been the same as China’s in 1990, had been little changed
until about 2004. It has started to increase more noticeably
since then, though it remains well below China’s at the moment.
But given that the demographics for India are more favourable
than those for China, we could expect that in another 20 years
India’s prominence will have grown a great deal - assuming that
country continues the process of reform that has helped it to
generate impressive growth over recent years.  These figures are all based on the IMF’s Purchasing Power Parity
estimates for countries’ respective GDPs. Some might find them a
bit abstract - if you doubt that, try explaining purchasing
power parity to your mother. But we can appeal to various other
‘real’ indicators to chart the rise of China in particular. The
number of people in paid employment in China was 780 million as
of 2009. The increase since 1990 was about 130 million, which is
nearly the total number of employed workers in the  United States 
(and 11 times the total number currently employed in Australia).  In that year of 1990, China produced just over 50 million tonnes
of steel products. By 2010, China was producing more than that
volume of steel products each month, and accounted for nearly
half of global crude steel production. Virtually all of this
steel is consumed within China, to build new cities and
transport infrastructure. Currently, steel consumption in China
is 9 times higher than that of the United States. Electricity
generation has tripled in China over the past decade, overtaking
the European Union in 2008 to become the world’s second biggest
generator of electricity after the United States. Of course, per
capita usage rates of electricity are still much lower in China
but they will rise with incomes. In 1999, just over 23 000
Chinese postgraduate students were studying abroad. A decade
later, there were 230,000.  All of these metrics tell a similar story: the rise in the
importance of the Chinese economy is extraordinary. Other
countries in the Asian region have also shown solid rates of
growth over this period, but the size and pace of change in the
Chinese economy stands out.  There are few countries that have noticed this more in their
trading patterns than Australia. Our trade patterns have been
strongly oriented towards Asia since the emergence of the
Japanese trade relationship in the 1960s. But this has taken a
further step up in recent years, with the share of merchandise
exports going to the Asian region rising from a little over 50
per cent as recently as 2003 to over 70 per cent in 2010. A
similar trend has occurred in imports. China alone has risen
from 6 per cent of exports a decade ago to 25 per cent today.
The rise in Australia’s terms of trade - about which I will not
give yet another sermon today - is part of this same picture.  But it is of course not only Australia that has seen this shift
in trade patterns. In fact, many countries are seeing a
significant expansion in two-way trade with China and there are
a number for which China is now the most important partner.
Among that group is not only Australia, but also  Japan  and  Korea .
Clearly trade integration has been happening quickly in the
Asia-Pacific region.  These forces are also being felt further afield. The US economy
has seen a much increased trade engagement with China. The share
of US imports coming from China has increased from about 3 per
cent in 1990 to 19 per cent today. That is a very large increase,
though it appears to offset a decline in the shares coming from
Japan and other east Asian countries: imports from Asia as a
whole make up about the same share of US imports today - about a
third - as they did 20 years ago. Probably what is happening
here is that China has displaced other Asian countries to some
extent as a source of finished products, including by becoming
the final point of assembly for many manufactured items
constructed from components sourced all over Asia.  Even more interesting is the fact that the United States sells a
higher share of its exports to China than to any other single
nation apart from  Canada  and  Mexico , its two North American Free
Trade Agreement partners.  All these trends will surely continue, for the process of
integrating China and India into the global economy has a good
way to run yet. The Chinese Government is seeking growth of 7
per cent per annum over the coming five years. That would be a
lower outcome than we have seen in the past five years, but is
still very strong by the standards of the advanced countries.
Growth at that sort of pace, on average, would see China’s
weight in global GDP exceed that of the euro area within five
years and approach that of the United States within a decade.  Of course, the future will not be that deterministic. The
Chinese economy will have cycles; it will not trace out a path
of steady, uninterrupted expansion. China could not expect to be
immune from various other afflictions experienced by all
countries that can occasionally impede economic growth. But by
any reckoning, the emergence of China is a huge historical event.
And then there is India.  So the world of production and consumption is changing.  But it must also follow that the world of finance is changing as
well. As incomes rise so there is an accumulation of physical
capital (which accommodates further increases in labour
productivity and incomes) funded by saving out of current income.
Moreover, the scale, scope and sophistication of financial
activity increases, which typically sees the size of gross
financial claims rise faster than income.  The fact that Asian countries have traditionally seen quite high
rates of private saving accentuates this trend. China’s saving
rate, at about 55 per cent of GDP, is one of the highest
recorded and because China has become a large economy, the
extent of that annual flow of saving is now globally very
significant. In absolute terms, according to the available
national income statistics, China is in fact now the world’s
largest saver. Its gross national saving, at an estimated US$3.2
trillion, exceeded that of both the United States and the euro
area in 2010. Its gross investment is also the world’s largest -
at an estimated US$2.9 trillion in 2010. The gap between these
two figures - around US$300 billion - is of course China’s
current account position. That is the extent to which China, in
net terms, exports capital to the rest of the world.  As you might expect, to deal with this large volume of saving
China has some large banks. As measured by total assets, 12 of
the world’s 100 largest banks are Chinese. This is a higher
number than for any other single country, including the United
States. Between 2005 and the start of this year, the  Shanghai 
and Shenzhen stock exchanges grew by over 800 per cent. As
measured by the market capitalisation of listed domestic
companies, the Shanghai stock exchange is still far smaller than
the  New York  stock exchange, but it is now more than two-thirds
the size of the London and Tokyo stock exchanges. In terms of
turnover, the annual value of share trading on the Shanghai
stock exchange in 2009 surpassed that of each of the London and
Tokyo exchanges.  Asian bond markets, and particularly those in China, have also
grown in size. Five years ago, total domestic debt securities
outstanding in China were less than half of those outstanding in
countries such as France, Germany and  Italy ; today these markets
are roughly all comparable in size.  So it is not just the centre of gravity of economic activity
that is shifting to Asia - the weight of financial assets is
also shifting. Now this is a slower process since the stock of
wealth is a result of a long accretion over time and economies
that rapidly become large in production terms may have a smaller
stock of wealth than countries that have been similarly large
for a long time - such as  Europe  and the United States. So at
this point the advanced industrial countries still account for
the lion’s share of global wealth.  Nonetheless, things are moving quickly. Within the remainder of
the careers of many of us here today, we will very likely see a
pretty substantial change in relative positions. It is
interesting to contemplate how that world might differ from the
one to which we have been accustomed.  Every morning, Australian financial market participants wake up
to the closing moments of the New York trading day. The rest of
the Asian region wakes up shortly thereafter. Despite the rapid
increases in size of the Asian markets, most of the time it is
changes in US or European markets that set the tone for the
Asian trading day.  Every so often, though, an event in Asia prompts global market
responses. Surely this will happen more often in the future. As
the Asian region becomes more integrated economically, with an
ever larger Chinese and Indian economic mass at the core, and as
the accretion of Asian financial wealth assumes increasing
global significance, Asia is likely more often to be a source of
‘shocks’ for the global economy and financial system. I am not
suggesting that  Wall Street  will dance exclusively to Shanghai’s
tune. The US economy and financial system will remain very large
and internationally important for the foreseeable future.  The point is that there will be several potential sources of
music emanating from various centres around the world, to which
markets everywhere will respond to some extent. The United
States will certainly be one, and so will Europe (not always an
enjoyable tune of late). We will all need to attune our ear to
Asia’s rhythms as well.  Sometimes those differing tunes will clash - as they do at
present. At the moment we see a US recovery that is gaining some
traction after a lengthy period of weakness, a subdued
experience in Europe overall with intraregional differences
probably at their most extreme since the euro commenced, while
China and India are seeking to slow their expansions in the face
of clear evidence of rising inflation. US banks are well ahead
of their European counterparts in cleaning up their problems, to
the extent that the government capital injections of two years
ago are being repaid, while markets are still waiting for more
complete information about the state of balance sheets in Europe
and worrying about the feedback to public sector finances.
Asia’s banks, meanwhile, did not have a solvency crisis and have
been able to perform their task of supporting growth. If
anything, their problems are more likely to be those of
exuberance. More attention is being paid to the US fiscal
position - and that will probably increase further. In Asia,
public finances are generally strong except in Japan.  These differences were bound to increase the focus on policy
differences between regions, and exchange rate systems in
particular. It is not surprising that we are returning to
discussion of the ‘global imbalances’, since many of the
underlying factors behind them have not gone away. Renewed
efforts to find a framework for talking about these issues are
now under way.  As others have said, a prerequisite for a solution is a shared
understanding of the problems within an agreed intellectual
framework. But finding that combination is not proving easy. The
dialogue needs to occur on multiple issues, to which countries
bring different perspectives. Many of the countries of Asia come,
for example, with a mindset in which the international monetary
system is a device for stability, one of the foundations for
strategies to grow economies and increase wealth. They see flows
of capital, and fluctuations in exchange rates, as potentially
disruptive to the real sectors of their economies. This is in
many respects a traditional post-war perspective, when there was
a US dollar standard, when the United States as an economic and
financial power was unrivalled and all other economies and
financial systems were truly small. But of course Asia is no
longer small.  Countries like the United States or Australia, on the other hand,
have a different frame of reference. They tend to see the
international monetary system as a device for accommodating
shocks and reflecting differences in economic circumstances.
They see price movements and capital flows, generally, as
helping  resource allocation . European countries share that
perspective as far as flows and exchange rates between the major
regions of the world are concerned, but share Asian perspectives
on the need for stability within their own region. There are
good reasons, in logic and history, for all these perspectives.
We need to understand them, and find an accommodation.  It does not help, in my judgment, that so much of the discussion
takes place through a bi-lateral prism - particularly the US-
China current account prism. Twenty years ago the prism was the
US-Japan balance. The issues are multi-lateral, not bi-lateral.
The US trade deficit was pretty widely spread for many years. It
wasn’t just with China. Over the past decade, the United States
had a trade deficit with 13 of the 18 other countries in the G-
20 (of the five surplus positions, the largest was with
Australia). This bi-lateral focus can be quite troubling, and
not only because it risks over-simplifying problems and
therefore lessening the likelihood of solutions. It can be
troubling for a host of small countries, which worry about the
potential for more widespread effects of solutions that may be
attempted. This is why it is so important that the problems be
considered, and resolved, in a multi-lateral setting. Hence the
importance of the international financial institutions, and of
fora like the G-20, in providing the table around which these
discussions should take place.  That of course means that the legitimacy of those institutions,
in the eyes of all their stakeholders, is key. Good progress has
been made in improving the governance of bodies such as the IMF
and no doubt more will be done in this area over the years ahead.
The G-20, a body with a broader constituency than the G7, has
taken a more prominent role. This is all good, but will need to
be accompanied by ongoing efforts to reach a shared vision of
the role of the institutions and the system they are supposed to
watch over and protect. If we are all still not talking the same
language about the role of the system or the institutions, then
we will not collectively get very far.  So much work needs to be done yet. America - still the world’s
dominant single economy and financial power, albeit not as
dominant as it was - is critical to reaching the necessary
framework. But so too is Asia - a fast-growing, high-saving
region with increasing financial resources, a much increased
part of the global economy and financial system, and with,
therefore, commensurately increased responsibilities. Australia
- a small but outward-looking country with very substantial ties
to both the United States and Asia - has more than a passing
interest in the progress of this very difficult, but very
important, discussion.
 