-- 
Australia's Stevens Says China Share of Global Economy Will Approach U.S.

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-13T22:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rba-s-stevens-sees-china-s-share-of-global-gdp-approaching-u-s-.html
China ’s share of the global economy
will surpass Europe’s in five years and approach the U.S.’s in a
decade, based on the Asian nation’s projected 7 percent annual
growth, Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens said.  “The Chinese economy will have cycles; it will not trace
out a path of steady, uninterrupted expansion,” Stevens said in
a speech in  New York  yesterday. “But by any reckoning, the
emergence of China is a huge historical event.”  China’s share of world economic output last year rose to
more than 13 percent, from less than 4 percent two decades ago,
said Stevens, who didn’t address Australia’s economy or monetary
policy in his prepared remarks. In contrast, the U.S. and
European Union each accounted for about 20 percent in 2010, down
from about 25 percent each in 1990, he said.  Asian economies last year led a global rebound that’s been
restrained by Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and a U.S. job
market where unemployment has stayed above 8.5 percent for two
years. Policy makers in China,  India , Indonesia,  South Korea ,
Thailand and Vietnam all increased  interest rates  this year,
widening the gap with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s near-zero
benchmark rate.  Asia’s Emergence  “As the Asian region becomes more integrated economically,
with an ever larger Chinese and Indian economic mass at the core,
and as the accretion of Asian financial wealth assumes
increasing global significance, Asia is likely more often to be
a source of ‘shocks’ for the global economy and financial
system,” he said.  Stevens cited Asia’s “quite high” savings rates, the rise
of China’s banking industry, the Shanghai stock exchange’s
growth and increasing bond sales as evidence of the region’s
emergence.  “It is not just the centre of gravity of economic activity
that is shifting to  Asia  -- the weight of financial assets is
also shifting,” he said. “I am not suggesting that  Wall Street 
will dance exclusively to Shanghai’s tune. The  U.S. economy  and
financial system will remain very large and internationally
important for the foreseeable future.”  Responding to questions after the speech, Stevens said the
longer there’s cheap money provided by central banks around the
world, the higher the risk it will be used to do something
“silly.”  Cheap Money  “It’s a risky thing to keep the price of money really low
for a long period,” the governor said. “The overnight cost of
money is effectively nothing in a range of major jurisdictions”
and many emerging nations around the world “are quite concerned”
about capital flows.  Stevens said U.S. banks are well ahead of their European
counterparts “in cleaning up their problems,” and “markets
are still waiting for more complete information about the state
of balance sheets in  Europe .” The problems for Asian banks
“are more likely to be those of exuberance,” he said.  Last month Stevens said that since the start of 2008, Asia
excluding  Japan  accounted for about 70 percent of growth in
global demand, compared with 30 percent from 2000 to 2007,
contrasting growth in the Asia-Pacific region with slower gains
in  Canada , the U.S., the U.K. and the euro area.  “These differences were bound to increase the focus on
policy differences between regions, and exchange rate systems in
particular,” he said yesterday. “It is not surprising that we
are returning to discussion of the ‘global imbalances’, since
many of the underlying factors behind them have not gone away.”  Mining Bonanza  Australia is undergoing its biggest mining investment boom
since the 19th century to meet rising demand for iron ore and
coal from China and India. The  Reserve Bank  has boosted its
benchmark interest rate seven times from October 2009 to
November last year to 4.75 percent.  Those increases have helped spur the currency above parity
with its U.S. counterpart. The local dollar reached a record
$1.0584 on April 8.  Stevens, who is attending Group of 20,  International
Monetary Fund  and World Bank meetings during his visit to the
U.S. this week, urged global policy makers to refrain from
exclusive negotiations between nations to resolve imbalances.  “This bilateral focus can be quite troubling, and not only
because it risks over-simplifying problems and therefore
lessening the likelihood of solutions,” he said. “It can be
troubling for a host of small countries, which worry about the
potential for more widespread effects of solutions that may be
attempted. This is why it is so important that the problems be
considered, and resolved, in a multilateral setting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  