-- 
Real Sets Up Champions League Semi With Archrival Barcelona; Inter Is Out

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-13T22:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/real-sets-up-champions-league-semi-with-barcelona-schalke-ousts-inter.html
Real Madrid beat Tottenham 1-0 to
set up a Champions League semifinal with archrival Barcelona,
while defending champ Inter Milan was eliminated by Schalke,
which will face  Manchester United  for a place in the final.  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored the goal last night as nine-time
European champion Real completed a 5-0 victory over two games
against Tottenham to reach its first semifinal in eight years.  “There was always a threat Spurs could create real danger
if they scored early on but we managed to make sure they
didn’t,” Madrid coach  Jose Mourinho  told reporters. “As time
passed, they became less of a threat because we got hold of the
ball and controlled the game more.”  Mourinho is the first coach to guide four teams to the
semifinals of  Europe ’s top club competition. He won the trophy
with Porto in 2004 and Inter last year, and also guided Chelsea
to the semifinals.  Raul Gonzalez  and Benedikt Howedes scored as Schalke
advanced to its first semifinal with a 2-1 win over Inter.
Schalke won the two-game tie 7-3.  At White Hart Lane in north London, Tottenham’s first
appearance in the Champions League ended as it failed to
overcome a 4-0 deficit from the first game in  Spain .  “We had a great run,” Tottenham’s Gareth Bale told ITV.
“They’re the better team after two legs and deserve to go
through.”  An error by Spurs goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes led to the only
goal in the 50th minute. Ronaldo fired a shot from 30 yards (27
meters) that Gomes let go through his hands and into the net.  22nd Semifinal  Madrid  will be making its 22nd appearance in the semifinals
when it faces Barcelona. The two will play twice -- in the
Spanish league in three days and the Copa del Rey final four
nights later -- before the semifinal games on April 27 and May
3. Barcelona won 5-0 in the first meeting between the teams this
season, a Nov. 29 league game.  “We obviously know Barcelona very well and we’ll be going
for it in the semis,” Real’s Xabi Alonso said. “The last
result came a long time ago and we’re at a different stage of
the season fighting for various titles, so let’s see how things
work out.”  Madrid central defender  Ricardo Carvalho  will miss the
first game of the semifinal because of suspension after being
booked by the referee last night.  Schalke brought a big advantage into its home game with
Inter in Gelsenkirchen,  Germany , following a 5-2 win in the
first leg in Milan.  “We laid the foundations in Milan, but we also wanted to
win today,” Schalke’s Christoph Metzelder said.  Rauls’s 71st Goal  The home team went in front just before halftime as Raul
took a pass from Jose Manuel Jurado, went around Inter
goalkeeper Julio Cesar and slotted the ball home for his 71st
Champions League goal.  Inter tied the game four minutes into the second half when
Thiago Motta put the ball in after Lucio’s header off a Wesley Sneijder corner kick was deflected.  Raul then set up the winning goal by flicking a pass into
the path of the onrushing Howedes, who hammered a shot past
Cesar from the edge of the area.  The result ended Inter’s attempt to become the first team
to defend the title since city rival AC Milan in 1990.  “They took their chances while we did not,” Inter coach
Leonardo told reporters. “But there were many little things not
working for us. You never lose because of just one mistake.”  Schalke will host the first game of its semifinal on April
26, with the return leg in Manchester on May 4.  The final is scheduled for May 28 at Wembley Stadium in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 