-- 
Treasuries Advance for Second Day Amid Auction, Obama Proposals on Deficit

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-13T21:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/treasuries-pare-gains-after-auction-of-21-billion-of-u-s-10-year-notes.html
Treasuries rose for a second day as
President  Barack Obama  vowed to cut record budget deficits with
a combination of spending cuts and tax increases, and the U.S.
sold $21 billion of 10-year notes.  Two-year yields touched the lowest in almost three weeks as
a Federal Reserve business survey showed that while the economy
expanded at a moderate pace in February and March, pressures to
increase wages were “weak or subdued.” Bonds dropped earlier
as a report showed retail sales rose in March for a ninth
straight month. Stocks reversed earlier gains.  “Nationally we’re starting to have a meaningful dialogue
that discusses these formerly untouchable things,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New
York , one of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “It’s
good news. It puts a bid in Treasuries.”  Yields on the benchmark 10-year note fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.46 percent at 5:05 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
3.65 percent security maturing in February 2021 rose 9/32, or
$2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/8. Yields earlier erased
an increase as stocks ended an advance. Yesterday the yields
dropped nine basis points, the most since March 16.  Two-year yields declined two basis points to 0.73 percent,
the lowest level since March 25.  Obama vowed to cut $4 trillion in cumulative deficits
within 12 years through a combination spending cuts and tax
increases, setting the stage for a fight with congressional
Republicans over the nation’s priorities.  ‘Yields Should Ease’  In a speech in  Washington , the president set a target of
reducing the annual U.S. deficit to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product by 2015, compared with 10.9 percent of GDP
projected for this year.  It’s “conceivable that if the solution to the problem has
any credibility, Treasury bond yields should ease,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New
York. “That’s not only because of expectations of reduced
federal spending, but also because early on reduced spending
would require a fiscal drag that would limit the upside for U.S.
economic growth.”  Ten-year notes at today’s auction drew a yield of 3.494
percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.13, versus 3.32 at the last offering. Primary dealers, which
are obligated to big at Treasury offerings, took 51.7 percent of
the notes, the most since February 2010.  Foreign Central Banks  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 42.4 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 50.3 percent for the past 10 sales. They
bought 53 percent at the March auction and a record high 71.3
percent at the Feb. 9 auction.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 5.9 percent of
the notes, compared with the 10-auction average of 8.7 percent.  U.S. 10-year notes have lost 0.6 percent this year,
compared with a 0.2 percent drop for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The government yesterday sold $32 billion of three-year
notes at a yield of 1.28 percent, compared with an average
forecast of 1.293 percent in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Treasury will auction $13 billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  The Fed said today economic expansion over the past two
months was led by manufacturing and that labor markets are
showing improvements in most regions.  ‘Weak or Subdued’  “While many districts described the improvements as only
moderate, most districts stated that gains were widespread
across sectors,” the Fed said today in its Beige Book survey.
While higher commodity costs compelled sellers to try to raise
prices, pressures to increase wages were “weak or subdued.”  The report may reinforce views this month from Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s top two lieutenants,  Janet Yellen  and William C. Dudley, that the economy is recovering without enough strength
to warrant withdrawing record monetary stimulus.  “The beige book of late has been very lagging and has just
told the market what they already know,” said  Dan Greenhaus ,
chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, narrowed to 2.61
percentage points. It was 2.67 percentage points on April 11,
the widest in three years.  “I see the risk that we won’t be able to keep inflation
under control,” another policy maker, Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher , wrote in a guest commentary in the German
newspaper Handelsblatt.  Fed Purchase  The Fed bought $5.01 billion in Treasuries maturing from
January 2013 to June 2013 as part of its plan to purchase $600
billion of  U.S. debt  through June to spur economic growth. It
acquired today 11.7 percent of the $42.9 billion in securities
submitted by dealers, compared with an average of 25.3 percent
at the past 10 purchases.  U.S. retail sales rose 0.4 percent after a 1.1 percent
February gain that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department data showed today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was a 0.5 percent rise. Sales excluding
automobiles and gasoline rose 0.6 percent, more than projected.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day little
changed after advancing as much as 0.6 percent. It tumbled
yesterday as much as 1.1 percent, the most since March 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  