-- 
Treasuries Drop Before 10-Year Sale; Bank of America Is Bearish

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T08:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/treasuries-decline-before-21-billion-note-auction-retail-sales-report.html
Treasuries fell after the biggest
gain in almost a month yesterday as the U.S. prepared to sell
$21 billion of 10-year notes today, the second of three auctions
this week.  The 10-year yield rose from a four-day low after falling
nine basis points yesterday, the most since March 16. Treasury
yields are poised to rise and investors should favor stocks over
bonds because of inflation concerns, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said. Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher said he sees a risk of inflation getting out of control.  “The market is trying to put in something of a concession
before the auction after yesterday’s strong gains,” said
 Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets in London. “The overall longer-term bias is still
pretty cautious. There’s lots of issues surrounding the
inflation outlook.”  Ten-year yields rose two basis points to 3.51 percent as of
9:13 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 fell 1/8, or
$1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 29/32.  U.S. retail sales increased for a ninth month in March, a
report today is forecast to show. Retail sales rose 0.5 percent,
after gaining 1 percent in February, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the Commerce Department data.  A separate report today may show companies continued to
build inventories. Fed St. Louis President  James Bullard  is due
to speak.  “An OK retail-sales report would be an indication that we
are seeing the consumer in the U.S. recovering and turning a bit
more willing to spend, and that could weigh on Treasuries,”
said Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.  10-Year Auction  The 10-year securities scheduled for sale today yielded
3.52 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 3.499 percent
the last time the notes were sold on March 9.  Investors bid for 3.32 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus the average of 3.11 for the past 10
offerings. Indirect bidders, such as foreign central banks,
bought 53 percent of the amount sold at the previous auction.  Today’s auction is the second of three this week totaling
$66 billion. The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year notes
yesterday and plans to offer $13 billion of 30-year bonds
tomorrow.  Bank of America  Five-year yields rose three basis points to 2.23 percent
after dropping 11 basis points yesterday, while 30-year yields
rose one basis point to 4.59 percent after falling eight basis
points yesterday. Two-year yields were two basis points higher
at 0.77 percent, trimming yesterday’s eight basis points
decline.  Investors should allocate 65 percent of their assets to
stocks, 30 percent to bonds and the rest to cash,  Michael Hartnett  and Joseph Zidle, strategists for Bank of America in
 New York , wrote in a report yesterday. The company is one of the
20 primary dealers authorized to trade directly with the Fed.  “We maintain our underweight to Treasuries as their yields
are projected to rise due in part to higher inflation
expectations and the general recovery in the  U.S. economy ,” the
analysts wrote.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.64 percentage
points. It widened to 2.67 percentage points on April 11, the
most in three years.  Fed’s Fisher  “I see the risk that we won’t be able to keep inflation
under control,” Fed Dallas chief  Richard Fisher  wrote in a
guest commentary in the German newspaper Handelsblatt. “After
the Fed completed its job, I now see above all the risks of a
too-expansive monetary policy.”  The Fed’s Beige Book survey, due today, will provide an
update on the state of the economy. The book is published two
weeks before each Federal Open Market Committee meeting. Fed
officials noted in minutes of their March 15 meeting that
“while participants expected that household spending would
continue to expand, the pace of expansion was uncertain.”  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.2 percent loss this
year, based on Merrill Lynch data. The MSCI All Country World
Index of stocks returned 4.7 percent in the period.  Inflation concerns are overdone, said Zeal Yin, who invests
in Treasuries in Taipei for Shin Kong Life Insurance Co.,
 Taiwan ’s second-largest life insurer. Yin bought 30-year bonds
last week, he said.  Transitory Inflation  “High  oil prices  will hurt small and middle-sized
companies, the core of the U.S. recovery,” Yin said. Larger
firms are able to hedge against rising commodity prices, he
said. Small businesses represent 99 percent of all U.S.
employers and have created 65 percent of new jobs in the past 17
years, according to the U.S. Small Business Administration.  Yin said he’s siding with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who
said last week the increase in inflation will be transitory if
the rise in commodity prices slows as he is forecasting.  Crude oil has gained 17 percent in 2011. The U.S. consumer
price index advanced for a ninth month in March, according to
the median estimate of economists before data April 15.  Treasuries rose yesterday after  Japan  lifted the severity
rating of the accident at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant to the highest level, matching the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster. Stocks and commodities slumped, boosting demand for
the auction of three-year notes.  The securities drew a yield of 1.28 percent, less than the
average forecast of 1.293 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
9 of the Fed’s 20 primary dealers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 