-- 
Unearthed Rothko, $10 Lichtenstein in Spring Auction Surprises

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-04-13T13:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rediscovered-rothko-10-lichtenstein-star-in-season-of-auction-surprises.html
An undocumented  Mark Rothko 
painting could fetch as much as $22 million at Christie’s in  New
York  next month as collectors from Moscow to Qatar vie for
trophy art.  “Untitled No. 17,” depicting pink and red rectangles on a
tangerine-yellow background, will be offered at Christie’s
postwar and contemporary art auction on May 11.  The 1961 painting, which hasn’t been seen publicly since
1965, is one of several rediscovered art works on the block this
year.  Christie’s  is offering  Roy Lichtenstein ’s, “Drawing for
Kiss V,” which re-emerged after decades of obscurity with an
estimate range of $800,000 to $1.2 million. It was originally
bought with a $10 lottery ticket in 1965.  An unpublished 1967 self-portrait by  Andy Warhol  fetched
10.8 million pounds ($17.4 million) at Christie’s in  London 
earlier this year.  “Untitled No. 17” is one of 10 Rothko paintings
discovered since the publication of the artist’s catalogue
raisonne in 1998.  “It’s one of the very few that got away,” said David
Anfam, London-based art historian and the author of  “Mark
Rothko: The Works on Canvas.”  “It went to a private collection
soon after it was made and those collectors just kept a very low
profile.”  Rothko painted 22 mostly somber canvases in 1961, the year
of his retrospective at the  Museum of Modern Art  in New York.  “This work is coming in between two milestones of his late
development,” Anfam said. “He has finished the Seagram murals,
and he is on the brink of getting into the Harvard murals;
that’s going to be in 1962.”  Ominous Undertone  How can we be sure this is an authentic Rothko?  Anfam was convinced by the delicacy of the paint handling,
the type of stretcher, and signature details such as the faint
olive-green that creeps out from beneath the red, adding an
ominous undertone to the overall effusiveness.  “Everything about it indicates that it’s an A-OK
Rothko,” said Anfam.  In 2007,  David Rockefeller ’s 1950 Rothko work, “White
Center (Yellow, Pink and Lavender on Rose),” fetched
$72.8 million at  Sotheby’s (BID) , setting an auction record for
the artist. The buyers were the Emir of Qatar and his wife,
Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser Al-Missned, the Art Newspaper
said in May 2008.  Avid Collectors  The Rothko market didn’t suffer from a downturn, according
to  Skate’s Art Market Research : The artist ranks 12th among 659
artists by market value, with 52 works sold at auction above
$1.8 million, for a total of $552 million.  “Rothko’s work sells best when the palette is very rich
and vibrant, and when the structure and color meld together,”
said Jonathan Laib, Christie’s postwar and contemporary art
specialist in New York.  “Primary interest can be seen in Europe and America, as
well as in  Russia  and the Middle East.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 