-- 
U.S. Economy: Retail Sales Rise for Ninth Straight Month

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-13T20:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/retail-sales-in-u-s-rise-for-ninth-straight-month-as-job-market-brightens.html
Sales at U.S. retailers rose in
March for a ninth consecutive month, easing concern that the
jump in food and fuel costs would cause consumers to retrench.  Purchases increased 0.4 percent following a 1.1 percent
February gain that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. A report
from the Labor Department showed job openings in February jumped
by the most in six years.  Declining unemployment and a cut in payroll taxes for 2011
are helping sustain sales at chains like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Saks
Inc. (SKS)  At the same time, mounting gasoline and grocery bills are
eroding confidence and straining paychecks, making it likely
 consumer spending , the biggest part of the economy, cooled in
the first quarter from the final three months of 2010.  “The data point to pretty resilient consumer spending,”
said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State
Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “Although there was
concern about the tax that higher gasoline prices are imposing,
consumers basically shrugged off those headwinds. We have a
better labor market, with job growth.”  The  Federal Reserve  said the economy grew at a “moderate”
pace in February and March, with the job market showing
improvement in most regions.  “While many districts described the improvements as only
moderate, most districts stated that gains were widespread
across sectors,” the central bank said in its Beige Book
report.  Stocks Rise  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining
less than 0.1 percent to 1,314.41 at the 4 p.m. close in  New
York . Treasuries climbed, with the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note falling to 3.46 percent from 3.49 percent late
yesterday.  The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.5 percent rise in retail sales. Economists’
estimates ranged from a drop of 0.5 percent to a 2 percent gain.
The Commerce Department also revised up its readings for sales
in January and February.  Job openings rose by 352,000 in February, the biggest gain
since December 2004, the Labor Department said today. At 3.09
million, the number of positions waiting to be filled was the
highest since September 2008.  Another report from the Commerce Department also showed
inventories rose 0.5 percent in February after a revised 1
percent gain in January that was larger than initially
estimated. The amount of goods on hand at retailers compared to
sales dropped to the lowest level on record, indicating
merchants will be placing more orders to rebuild stocks,
contributing to growth and helping keep manufacturing as the
expansion’s frontrunner.  Furniture, Electronics  The retail sales report showed 10 of 13 major categories
showed gains last month, led by the biggest increase in
furniture demand since 2004 and the largest advance in
electronics purchases in a year.  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales rose
0.4 percent after a 1.1 percent increase the prior month that
was almost twice as large as previously estimated.  “While it’s early days, this is a strong vote of
confidence in favor of consumption being able to withstand the
shock of higher gasoline prices,”  Jay Feldman , an economist at
Credit Suisse in New York, said in an e-mail to clients.
“Continued improvement in the labor market is of course key.”  March Employment  The economy created 216,000 jobs in March, the most since
May 2010, while the jobless rate fell for a fourth straight
month to a two-year low of 8.8 percent, Labor Department data
showed April 1.  Cincinnati-based Macy’s, the second-largest U.S.
department-store chain, reported same-store sales rose last
month, while analysts forecast a decline. Luxury retailers Saks,
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and Neiman Marcus Group Inc. also topped
estimates.  Today’s retail sales report also showed the impact of
rising gasoline prices. Filling station receipts climbed 2.6
percent, probably propelled by the higher cost of fuel.
Purchases aren’t adjusted for inflation.  The cost of regular fuel averaged $3.54 a gallon in March,
up from $3.18 the prior month, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest motoring organization. The price jumped to $3.81 a
gallon on April 12, the highest since September 2008.  Auto Sales  Sales fell 1.7 percent at automobile dealers, today’s
report showed. That’s consistent with industrywide light-vehicle
sales, which ran at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 13.1
million in March, down from 13.4 million the prior month,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Nonetheless, auto demand has improved from last year. Sales
at Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F)  climbed 16 percent in
March from the same time in 2010, outpacing Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 9.6 percent gain.  “We continue to see good, solid signs of progress despite
some of the challenges,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of
U.S. sales operations, said on an April 1 conference call. “A
recovering job market is going to be the most important factor
for the  U.S. economy  at this stage, and we do anticipate that
this is going to continue to improve.”  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s biggest retailer, is
among chains saying customers are feeling the pinch from rising
fuel expenses.  “We still see our customer financially strapped,”
Rosalind Brewer, president of the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company’s Wal-Mart East division, said in an investor
presentation on April 12. We see the shopper’s “wallet being
stretched a lot more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  