-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose at Slower Pace as Fuel Costs Increased

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-13T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-climbed-at-slower-pace-in-march.html
Retail sales probably climbed at a
slower pace in March, indicating higher costs for fuel and food
are straining paychecks.  The projected 0.5 percent gain would follow a 1 percent
increase in February, according to the median forecast of 81
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A separate report may
show companies continued to build inventories.  Mounting gasoline and grocery bills are eroding confidence
and pinching wallets, making it likely  consumer spending , the
biggest part of the economy, cooled in the first quarter from
the final three months of 2010. At the same time, declining
unemployment and a cut in payroll taxes for 2011 may help chains
like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Saks Inc. (SKS)  sustain sales.  “Consumers are paying more for food and gasoline, and
that’s sapping demand for other goods,” said Conrad DeQuadros,
a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in  New York . “There are
signs of a fairly substantial slowing in first-quarter real
consumer spending, but we’re not convinced that softness will
continue. While rising prices are a headwind, the improvement in
the labor market is providing an offset.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a gain of
2 percent to a drop of 0.5 percent.  At 10 a.m., another report from the Commerce Department may
show business inventories grew 0.8 percent in February after a
0.9 percent gain the prior month, according to the survey
median.  Fed’s View  The  Federal Reserve ’s Beige Book survey, due at 2 p.m.,
will provide an update on the state of the economy. Fed
officials noted in minutes of their March 15 meeting that
“while participants expected that household spending would
continue to expand, the pace of expansion was uncertain.”  Higher gasoline prices contributed to the projected gain in
retail sales, which include purchases at filling stations and
aren’t adjusted for inflation.  The cost of regular fuel averaged $3.54 a gallon in March,
up from $3.18 the prior month, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest motoring organization. The price jumped to $3.79 a
gallon on April 11, the highest since September 2008.  Industry reports last week showed stores fared better than
forecast. Retailers’ sales at stores open at least a year rose
2.2 percent from March 2010, while the average projection was
for a 0.5 percent drop, according to Retail Metrics Inc.
Analysts projected a decrease because an earlier Easter in 2010
had pulled sales into March that would normally have taken place
in April.  Beating Estimates  Cincinnati-based Macy’s, the second-largest U.S.
department-store chain, reported same-store sales rose, while
analysts forecast a decline. Luxury retailers Saks,  Nordstrom
Inc. (JWN)  and Neiman Marcus Group Inc.  also topped estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
risen 3.8 percent this year through April 12, while the broader
 S&P 500  advanced 4.5 percent.  Retail sales excluding automobiles and service stations
rose 0.5 percent in March after climbing 0.6 percent in
February, economists said in the survey.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 13.1 million in March, down from 13.4
million the prior month, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Nonetheless, auto demand has improved from last year. Sales
at Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F)  climbed 16 percent in
March from the same time in 2010, outpacing Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 9.6 percent gain.  More Jobs  “We continue to see good, solid signs of progress despite
some of the challenges,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of
U.S. sales operations, said on an April 1 conference call. “A
recovering job market is going to be the most important factor
for the  U.S. economy  at this stage, and we do anticipate that
this is going to continue to improve.”  The economy created 216,000 jobs in March, the most since
May 2010, while the jobless rate fell for a fourth straight
month to a two-year low of 8.8 percent, Labor Department data
showed April 1.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s biggest retailer, is
among chains saying customers are feeling the pinch from rising
fuel expenses.  “We still see our customer financially strapped,”
Rosalind Brewer, president of the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company’s Wal-Mart East division, said in an investor
presentation on April 12. We see the shopper’s “wallet being
stretched a lot more.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  