-- 
Rhone Is Said to Be Near $1.3 Billion Acquisition of Evonik's Carbon Unit

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-13T12:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rhone-capital-is-said-to-near-1-3-billion-purchase-of-evonik-carbon-unit.html
Rhone Capital LLC, a New York-based
buyout firm, is poised to buy Evonik Industries AG’s carbon
black operation for about 900 million euros ($1.3 billion),
said three people familiar with the situation.  Rhone Capital competed against  Triton Advisers  in the final
stages of the sale process for carbon black, which makes
pigments and tire-reinforcing materials, said the people, who
declined to be identified because talks are private. Triton has
exited the process, and an agreement with Rhone could be
announced as early as this week, two of the people said.  Carbon black was initially expected to sell for more than
900 million euros, four people said in January. Advent
International Corp. dropped out of the race in late March,
leaving just two private equity firms vying for carbon black, a
commodity business that’s seen margins squeezed by oversupply
and cost-cutting programs at tiremakers.  Aditya Birla Group  of  India  became the world’s largest
maker of carbon black when it agreed to buy Columbian Chemicals
Co. in January for $875 million.  The sale of carbon black, which has annual sales of about 1
billion euros and 1,700 employees, is a precursor to Evonik’s
planned initial share sale, set to take place within 15 months.
Evonik’s owners, state-owned RAG Stiftung and buyout firm CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., will decide on the timing of the share
sale in the fall, RAG said yesterday.  Rhone couldn’t be immediately reached for comment by
telephone. Spokespeople at Evonik declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 