-- 
Trial Begins of India Minister, Companies Over Phone-Permit Sale

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-04-13T09:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/trial-begins-of-india-minister-companies-over-phone-permit-sale.html
India ’s former telecommunications
minister and company executives appeared in court today at the
start of a trial over the 2008 sale of mobile-phone licenses,
with the judge delaying hearings for bail pleas to be settled.  India’s chief auditor in November reported that second-
generation airwaves were sold for an “unbelievably low” $2.7
billion when they may have been worth at least 10 times more.
Minister  Andimuthu Raja  resigned from Singh’s government two
days before the report was submitted.  In a New Delhi court today, Judge O.P. Saini set April 15
for decisions on bail applications by telecoms company officials
who have been charged though not arrested -- Reliance ADA Group
Managing Director Gautam Doshi and Senior Vice Presidents Hari
Nair and Surendra Pipara,  DB Realty Ltd. (DBRL)  Managing Director Vinod Goenka and  Unitech Ltd. (UT)  Managing Director Sanjay Chandra.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  said in its 80,000
pages chargesheet that Raja conspired with government and
private company officials to benefit companies including the
then-Swan Telecom, now known as Etisalat DB Telecom India Pvt.,
and Unitech by violating guidelines in the license sale. The CBI
said their actions caused a loss of 309.8 billion rupees ($6.9
billion) to the exchequer.  Raja’s personal secretary R.K. Chandolia, former
telecommunications secretary Siddhartha Behura, and former DB
Realty Managing Director Shahid Balwa are in detention and also
appeared in court today.  ‘Lame Duck’  Three private companies -- Reliance Telecom Ltd., Unitech
Wireless and Swan Telecom -- have been charged in connection to
the sale of sale of permits.  The Reliance ADA Group said in an April 2 e-mailed
statement that its three employees deny the charges and have a
legal presumption of innocence pending the completion of a trial.
Unitech said the same day in an e-mail that it complied with
applicable rules in obtaining its licenses and that none of its
employees have done anything “inappropriate or illegal.”  Balwa hasn’t done anything “inappropriate or illegal,” DB
Realty said in a statement in March. Raja has denied wrongdoing.  The scandal has weakened the government of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh , stalling parliament and forcing him to deny he
had become a “lame-duck” leader. Singh in February agreed to a
parliamentary probe of the license sales, after opposition
protests paralyzed legislation.  Raja and the other former government officials were charged
under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The company officials
and companies were charged with “lesser offenses” under
statutes relating to conspiracy, cheating and forgery.  Reliance Telecom is a wholly owned unit of  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the main company in Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
ADA Group .  The CBI is likely to file additional charges by April 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
P.S. Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  