-- 
Rio Tinto Says Rain Cuts Quarterly Coal, Iron Ore Output

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-04-13T10:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rio-tinto-first-quarter-iron-ore-production-41-88-million-tons.html
Rio Tinto  Group, the second-largest
mining company by sales, said first-quarter output of iron ore,
coal and uranium fell after severe weather in  Australia 
disrupted mining and hampered port and rail operations.  Iron ore production slid 16 percent to 41.9 million metric
tons, from 50.1 million tons the prior quarter, Rio said in a
statement today. UBS AG had forecast 46.9 million tons. Hard
coking-coal output fell 29 percent to 1.6 million tons.  Heavy rain and cyclones in Western Australia and the
eastern state of Queensland slowed mining and may curb earnings
for Rio and companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest miner. Some railroads and coal mines are still not
operating at full capacity, London-based Rio said today.  “There would be some marking down of full-year estimates
for the company,”  Gavin Wendt , a Sydney-based analyst at
MineLife Pty Ltd., said by phone. “It’s not a great result.
That’s going to be factored into the share price.”  Rio advanced 0.7 percent to 4,432.5 pence by 11:03 a.m. in
 London  trading, reversing an earlier decline of as much as 0.6
percent. The stock dropped 1.5 percent to A$85.71 by the 4:10
p.m. close in Sydney on the Australian stock exchange.  The company, which tripled net income to $14.3 billion last
year, has 29 “buy” ratings, one “hold” and two “sell”
recommendations among analyst ratings for its London-traded
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices to Increase  Rio expects to produce 191 million tons of  iron ore  this
year, it said today, compared with 184 million tons last year.  Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese is studying expanding
iron ore operations, the biggest contributor to earnings, 50
percent by 2015 at a cost of about $14.8 billion.  “Given this relatively robust full year production
guidance, we view the substantial miss in iron ore production as
a largely one-off occurrence and would expect to see improvement
in the short-term,”  Paul Galloway , a Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
analyst in London, wrote today in a note. “The overall impact
on full-year 2011 earnings estimates in the market may be
smaller than might initially be expected.”  Iron ore output in the first quarter was 3 percent lower
than the same period a year earlier. Prices for the steelmaking
material may increase 12 percent this year, on top of 2010’s 84
percent gain, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Coal Sales Down  “Our Australian coal, iron ore, uranium and alumina
operations were affected by the extreme weather in the first
quarter,” Albanese said in the statement. “Most are recovering
and are benefiting from continued strong prices.”  Sales from all of Queensland’s coal mines may be 30 percent
lower, UBS analyst Glyn Lawcock said in a note this week. Force
majeure, a legal clause allowing a company to miss deliveries,
remains in place at the Hail Creek mine in Queensland, Rio said.  Rio’s mined copper production dropped 14 percent to 141,400
tons from a year before on lower grades at Kennecott Utah Copper
and Escondida, the world’s largest copper mine. Alumina output
declined 4 percent, while aluminum rose 1 percent.  Diamond production slid 29 percent because of lower grades
and rain at the Argyle mine in  Western Australia . Uranium output
fell 47 percent after the precipitation halted processing at
subsidiary Energy Resources of Australia Ltd.’s operation in the
country’s Northern Territory, the company said.  Rio this month won control of coal company Riversdale
Mining Ltd. after bidding A$3.9 billion ($4.1 billion) in
December. It owns 52.6 percent, Rio said April 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  