-- 
Rosneft May Replace BP in Arctic Accord, Says Otkritie

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T18:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rosneft-may-drop-bp-arctic-deal-on-swap-expiry-otkritie-says.html
OAO Rosneft may replace  BP Plc (BP/)  as
its first choice to explore the Arctic given the British
producer’s struggle to overcome the objections of its Russian
partners, Otkritie Securities Ltd. said.  Tomorrow is the deadline for BP and Rosneft to complete
their planned $7.8 billion share swap and exploration accord for
the Kara Sea. BP’s billionaire partners in its TNK-BP venture
have won an injunction against the deal going through.  “Rosneft can’t wait for BP to sort out its legal mess,”
said  Luis Saenz , the London-based director of international
sales at the brokerage, citing a meeting with Rosneft officials.  Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc have expressed
an interest in other parts of the Arctic, though Rosneft is not
in talks with either about the Kara Sea at present, said Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for state-owned Rosneft, the country’s
biggest oil producer.  BP’s partners in TNK-BP have halted the deal in a  London 
court, claiming that the venture has exclusive rights to
negotiate on behalf of BP in  Russia . The injunction has been
prolonged indefinitely by an arbitration panel, which gave BP
the right to seek an extension of the swap deadline.  Considering Options  BP is considering its options,  Vladimir Buyanov , a Moscow-
based spokesman, said today. He declined to comment on any
change to the deadline or on the outcome of talks.  Rosneft said it has no plans to extend commitments to BP on
the swap after tomorrow’s deadline, Saenz said. It sees no point
in the share swap without an Arctic exploration venture. The
company is largely “indifferent” to what international major
it works with in the Arctic and has been in touch with other
potential partners, he said.  Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said last week that both
sides could probably find a solution before the deadline.  Sechin stepped down as Rosneft chairman on April 11 after
President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered government officials to leave
the boards of companies in industries that they regulate.  If the swap agreement expires, “we will work under
different terms,” Sechin said April 8. In that case, the
company will “take measures to protect its own interests.”  Rosneft is working under the terms of an agreement with BP
that runs until tomorrow, said Rosneft’s Kazharov.  BP rose 0.6 percent today to 464.20 pence in London,
valuing the proposed shares for the swap at $7.1 billion. The
stake was worth about $7.8 billion when the deal was announced.  Rosneft declined 1 percent to 252.58 rubles by the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow, valuing its stake at about $9 billion.
TNK-BP shares rose 1.2 percent to 92.65 rubles.  Shell CEO  Peter Voser  said in January he’s interested in
projects with Rosneft, and Exxon agreed to help the company
explore the  Black Sea  in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  