-- 
Rosneft Talks With BP as Tomorrow’s Deadline on Swap Looms

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T16:44:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rosneft-consults-with-bp-as-tomorrow-s-deadline-on-swap-looms.html
OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil
producer, is in talks with  BP Plc (BP/)  before an agreement on their
planned share swap expires tomorrow.  “We are in consultations at a working level,” said Rustam Kazharov, a spokesman for the state-controlled oil producer,
said today by phone. Rosneft is “waiting for tomorrow” to make
a statement about the situation, he said.  The company isn’t in talks with BP’s partners in the TNK-BP
oil venture, he said. The TNK-BP billionaires, represented by
the AAR Consortium, have halted the deal in a  London  court,
claiming that BP had violated their shareholders’ agreement.  “Rosneft could move to any other company such as Total,
such as some Americans, may be Shell,” Vladimir Matias,
managing director at Goetzpartners  Russia  GmbH, said today by
phone. “BP is not the only company that is targeting offshore
oil reserves, which are very attractive.”  BP agreed to swap a 5 percent stake for 9.5 percent of
Rosneft and explore for Arctic offshore resources on January 14,
under an alliance that Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said may
“have a noticeable impact on the global oil and gas industry.”  Seek an Extension  BP rose 0.6 percent today to 464.20 pence in London,
valuing the proposed shares for the swap at $7.1 billion. The
stake was worth about $7.8 billion when the deal was announced.  Rosneft declined 1 percent to 252.58 rubles by the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow, valuing its stake at about $9 billion.
TNK-BP shares rose 1.2 percent to 92.65 rubles.  The injunction has been prolonged indefinitely by an
arbitration panel, which gave BP the right to seek an extension
of the swap deadline.  BP is considering its options, said  Vladimir Buyanov , a
Moscow-based spokesman, declining to comment further. Kazharov
declined to comment on any change to the deadline or on the
outcome of talks.  The parties will probably find a solution before April 14,
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said last week. Sechin stepped
down as Rosneft chairman on April 11 after President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered government officials to leave the boards of
companies in industries that they regulate.  If the swap agreement expires, “we will work under
different terms,” Sechin said on April 8. In that case, the
company will “take measures to protect its own interests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  