-- 
Indonesia’s Rupiah Declines as Quake Aftershocks Rattle Japan

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-13T09:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/rupiah-drops-by-most-in-four-weeks-as-aftershocks-rattle-japan.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah declined,
retreating from a seven year high, as aftershocks continued to
rattle  Japan , denting confidence in the global economic recovery
and sapping demand for emerging-market assets.  A 5.8-magnitude temblor struck Japan this morning, national
broadcaster NHK reported, just over a month after the country’s
worst earthquake on record and ensuing tsunami on March 11.
Japan was the largest buyer of Indonesia’s non-oil exports in
February, figures from the statistics department show. Overseas
funds sold $31 million more Indonesian shares than they bought
yesterday, according to exchange data, as Bank Indonesia kept
its  reference rate  unchanged at 6.75 percent.  “Markets are cautious after the aftershock this morning,”
said Joanna Tan, a Singapore-based economist at Forecast
Singapore Pte. “Yesterday’s rate decision did not spur the
market much.  Bank Indonesia ’s comments that it will continue to
use the rupiah’s strength to fight inflation should limit the
rupiah’s losses.”  The Indonesian currency weakened 0.1 percent to 8,661 per
dollar as of 4:13 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupiah touched 8,637 on April 11, the strongest
level since April 28, 2004.  The currency’s appreciation may continue this year,  Bank
Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution told reporters in Jakarta
yesterday. Still, the central bank wants to ensure the currency
won’t strengthen too fast, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said
at the same briefing.  Japan raised the severity level of the accident at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant
yesterday to match the level of the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  Indonesia’s 10-year government bonds rose. The yield on the
8.25 percent note due July 2021 fell 13 basis points to 7.6
percent, according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer
Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  