-- 
Russian Billionaire Usmanov to Keep Arsenal Stake After Kroenke Takeover

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-13T20:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/russian-billionaire-usmanov-to-keep-arsenal-stake-after-kroenke-takeover.html
Russian billionaire  Alisher Usmanov 
won’t sell his stake in Arsenal to fellow investor Stan Kroenke
because the English Premier League soccer club “can’t do
without me.”  Kroenke, who owns teams in the  National Football League  and
the  National Basketball Association , triggered a mandatory
takeover bid for the club after boosting his holding to 63
percent two days ago. Usmanov, who made his $18 billion fortune
through metal investments, is Arsenal’s second-largest
shareholder with 27 percent of the London team.  “I’m not going to sell,” Usmanov said in a telephone
interview from Moscow today. “I love Arsenal, that’s why I’m a
shareholder.”  The Russian has been vying with Kroenke for control of the
13-time English champion for several years. He owns two boxes at
the club’s 60,000-capacity Emirates Stadium and has four seats
in the directors’ box.  Both men’s overtures were initially rejected by the
Gunners’ board and former ownership. Kroenke was invited onto
the board in 2008, while Usmanov hasn’t been. The Russian’s
offer to underwrite new shares to help the team compete for the
game’s best players was rejected in 2009.  “My principle in regards to Arsenal is that it can’t do
without me,” Usmanov said.  Mandatory Offer  Kroenke made his offer of 11,750 pounds ($19,111) a share
to all shareholders after crossing the 30 percent threshold that
makes bids compulsory. He agreed to acquire the 16 percent
stakes of board member Danny Fiszman and Nina Bracewell-Smith,
whose family has been associated with the team since 1938.
Arsenal today said Fiszman, who’d been fighting cancer, died at
age 66.  Bracewell-Smith was forced off the board in 2009 by other
directors, including chairman Peter Hill-Wood. When Kroenke
began to get involved at the club in 2007, Hill-Wood said the
club “don’t need his money and don’t need his sort.” Hill-Wood
 will make 4.7 million pounds from the sale.  Usmanov said the Arsenal board’s decision to recommend
Kroenke’s offer to shareholders came as surprise because it had
always promoted a plural ownership structure.  “The board of Arsenal always held the position that none
of the shareholders should take control over the company,” the
59-year-old Usmanov said. “That is why I never did any offer to
increase my stake more than 50 percent. But probably something
has changed, to my surprise.”  Usmanov’s decision means he retains some control over what
Kroenke can and cannot do with the club’s finances. Though the
new majority investor can pay himself a dividend, he won’t be
allowed to withdraw management fees from Arsenal. Kroenke said
the takeover won’t be debt-financed.  ‘Work Together’  The Arsenal Supporters Trust, which represents small
shareholders, welcomed Usmanov’s decision. It’s been telling
members not to sell stock to Kroenke because the group doesn’t
want the club to be owned by one individual.  In a statement the AST called for “all shareholders to
work together” to make Arsenal successful.  Kroenke, an American billionaire property developer, had
already owned almost 30 percent of Arsenal, and will have to
offer other shareholders the same price as Fiszman and
Bracewell-Smith. Kroenke, who owns the NBA’s Denver Nuggets and
the  St. Louis Rams  of the NFL, will spend 240.6 million pounds
($392 million) on the share purchases.  “We know that Kroenke is a large investor in sports
brands,” Usmanov said today. “We hope that experience will
help Arsenal.”  He also gave his backing to manager  Arsene Wenger , whose
position has been questioned by some supporters because of his
refusal to spend heavily to recruit players they say are
necessarily to snap a six-year run without a trophy.  “I am big fan of Arsene Wenger and as long as he heads the
team, I am sure of Arsenal’s success,” he said.  Usmanov first took a stake in the club in 2007, when he
bought 15 percent for 75 million pounds from former board member
David Dein.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Manchester via the London newsroom at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brad Cook  at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 