-- 
Giggs Defies Age to Lead Manchester United Into Champions League Semifinal

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-13T11:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ryan-giggs-at-37-leads-manchester-united-into-champions-league-semifinals.html
Ryan Giggs , who has won more titles
than anyone else in English soccer, defied his 37 years to set
up all three Manchester United goals in its Champions League
quarterfinal win against Chelsea.  Giggs provided the passes for  Javier Hernandez  and Ji-Sung Park to score last night as United won 2-1 at its Old Trafford
stadium. Giggs also set up  Wayne Rooney  for the only goal in the
first game of the series in London.  “I’ve said it so many times about the man -- he’s
incredible, a unique person and player,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told reporters. “It’s a great contribution. His
experience and composure were vital.”  United, which tops the  Premier League  and plays  Manchester
City  on April 16 in an F.A. Cup semifinal, will meet Schalke or
defending European champion Inter Milan for a place in the
Champions League final at London’s Wembley Stadium on May 28.
Schalke holds a 5-2 lead going into tonight’s match in  Germany .  Giggs has scored 158 goals in a club-record 869 appearances
in the two decades he has played for the Red Devils. He’s won 11
league titles, two European Cups and four F.A. Cups, and his
legend is such among United fans that one of the biggest banners
displayed at Old Trafford reads: “Giggs, tearing you apart
since 1991.”  Ferguson credits the player’s longevity to sacrifice and
intelligence. “To play at 37 years of age there must be
tremendous sacrifice,” the coach said.  Giggs, the oldest outfield player on the pitch, covered
more ground than anyone else in yesterday’s match, according to
UEFA.  “I am enjoying it,” said Giggs, who ran 11,754 meters
(7.2 miles). “I was fortunate to make the two goals tonight and
I am in the position where I put it in the right areas. You’ve
got players like Hernandez who are just born goalscorers and
they are going to be there.”  Opening Goal  Giggs last night broke through the Chelsea defense in the
43rd minute and played a low cross for Hernandez to tap in at
the far post.  After  Didier Drogba  scored in the 77th minute for Chelsea
to make it 1-1 on the night, Giggs played in Park with United’s
next attack and the South Korean made it 3-1 in the series with
a low strike into the net.  While United has been European champion three times,
Chelsea and its billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich  -- who has
plowed more than 750 million pounds ($1.22 billion) into the
club -- have yet to win the continent’s top club prize.  The closest Chelsea has come was a defeat on penalty kicks
to United in the 2008 final in Abramovich’s home town of Moscow.  The 44-year-old Abramovich was in the crowd yesterday to
watch the latest failure, which included the sight of record 50
million-pound signing  Fernando Torres  being hauled off at
halftime by coach  Carlo Ancelotti .  The Spaniard, signed from Liverpool in January, has gone
more than 700 minutes without scoring for his new team.  “I thought having signed Torres for the money they paid
they had to play him,” Ferguson said of Ancelotti’s decision to
leave Drogba out.  Drogba Scores  Torres’s replacement, Drogba, got Chelsea’s only goal of
the tie when he blasted past goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar 10
minutes after Ramires had been ejected for a second yellow card.  Ancelotti denied Torres’s price tag had forced his
inclusion, although the Italian acknowledged he may have chosen
the wrong player to partner  Nicolas Anelka  in attack.  “Maybe I did,” Ancelotti said. “I thought a lot of time
to take this decision to start with Fernando for this type of
game and Didier played very well in the second half.”  The U.K. press has speculated that Ancelotti’s position may
be in doubt. He’s the sixth coach under Abramovich, who bought
Chelsea for 59.3 million pounds in July 2003. Last season, his
first since arriving from AC Milan, Ancelotti guided the team to
the F.A. Cup and Premier League titles.  “It’s not my decision to stay or not stay,” Ancelotti
said. “I’m not concerned. I have to work. I have to try and do
my best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Manchester via the  London  newsroom at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  