-- 
Ryan Says Obama's Plan to Cut Deficit ‘Inadequate,’ Harder for Compromise

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-04-14T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ryan-seeking-agreement-on-social-security-blasts-obama-plan.html
House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  blasted President Barack Obama’s call to reduce the
federal deficit as excessively partisan, saying the ideas
outlined in the president’s speech yesterday would make it
harder to reach a compromise on reducing government red ink.  “What we heard today was not fiscal leadership from our
commander in chief -- what we heard today was a political
broadside from our ‘campaigner in chief,’” Ryan said yesterday
at a news conference after the president’s speech on the deficit.
“We are looking for bipartisan solutions, not partisan
rhetoric.”  Ryan earlier this month proposed a budget that would reduce
the deficit through spending cuts of $6 trillion over 10 years
and would phase out the traditional Medicare program for seniors.
His plan would replace Medicare by providing those under the age
of 55 with subsidies to buy private health insurance. Ryan’s
plan would also reduce the top individual  tax rate  to 25 percent.  Obama criticized those proposals in his speech. “Instead
of guaranteed health care, you will get a voucher,” he said.
“And if that voucher isn’t worth enough to buy the insurance
that’s available on the open marketplace, well, tough luck --
you’re on your own. Put simply, it ends Medicare as we know
it.”  “There’s nothing serious about a plan that claims to
reduce the deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts
for millionaires and billionaires,” Obama said. “And I don’t
think there’s anything courageous about asking for sacrifice
from those who can least afford it and don’t have any clout on
 Capitol Hill .”  ‘Hyperventilating Rhetoric’  Ryan, in an interview last night with  Charlie Rose  on
Bloomberg Television, responded to the president’s speech by
saying he was “amazed” that Obama “would use that kind of
hyperbolic, hyperventilating rhetoric.”  He said he thought Obama “was going to extend an olive
branch so we could get down the path of bipartisan solutions.
And we got anything but that. We got bitter partisanship. We got
dramatic distortions of our budget proposal.”  Obama called in his speech for cutting the deficit by $4
trillion over the next dozen years through a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases. Republicans have rejected tax
increases as a possible solution.  In an interview with Bloomberg News just before Obama gave
his speech, Ryan held out hope that lawmakers may be able to
find agreement on revamping Social Security’s long-term funding
while casting doubt on the chances of a “grand bargain” on the
federal deficit.  ‘Singles and Doubles’  “Everybody keeps asking if we can get some grand bargain,
like it’s a grand slam -- let’s just try to get some singles and
doubles,” he said before Obama’s speech.  “We just have such difference of opinions on health
care,” Ryan said in the interview. “But on Social Security,
from just listening to the various Democrats and Republicans
around here, we’re not worlds apart.”  Although the Social Security program is spending more on
benefits than it receives in revenue, its  trust fund  will not be
exhausted until 2039, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office .  Ryan’s budget doesn’t propose cutting Social Security,
though he said that was only to leave room for compromise. “We
felt that if we put an actual plan in there, it would just be
too tempting” for Democratic leaders “to go after us on,
poison the well, make it harder to come together,” he said in
the interview.  Social Security Symbolism  Ryan said that while Social Security is “not the big
driver of our debt, it would be symbolically huge to build
confidence in the markets to fix one of the entitlements that
are going bankrupt as a down payment on pointing us in the right
direction.”  Asked if he believed that Obama’s speech was in reaction to
his budget plan, Ryan said: “Everybody says it is -- I don’t
know, the president can answer that question.”  He also said, “I do find the timing of him feeling the
need to do a budget speech after we put our budget out probably
more than a coincidence.”  Ryan said that a debt limit vote may be the only vehicle
lawmakers have this year to make significant changes in the
government’s long-term spending, which means that they wouldn’t
have much time to hammer out an agreement. The Treasury
Department predicts that the government will reach the legal cap
on borrowing by May 16. After that, the government will have
some accounting moves and other steps to avoid default into
early July, Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  