-- 
Sanofi-Aventis Said to Seek Buyer for U.S. Dermatology Business

-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-04-13T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/sanofi-aventis-said-to-seek-buyer-in-bidding-for-u-s-dermatology-unit.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) ,  France ’s biggest
drugmaker, is seeking a buyer for its U.S. dermatology business
in a sale that may fetch as much as 300 million euros ($433
million), according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  First-round bids were submitted last week, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
Deutsche Bank AG is handling the sale for Sanofi, they said.  Sanofi is selling an operation that Chief Executive Officer
Chris Viehbacher said in 2009 was too small, in order to focus
on treatments for diabetes, cancer and atrial fibrillation, or
irregular heartbeat. The Paris-based company’s dermatology
products include Sculptra Aesthetic, a wrinkle filler that’s
used to fill in deep smile lines in healthy patients.  “Sanofi-Aventis U.S. is exploring strategic alternatives
for the U.S. dermatology business in keeping with its strategy
to reallocate resources to high-growth areas including diabetes,
oncology, and atrial fibrillation,” Sanofi said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Private-equity firms are the most likely suitors for the
dermatology operation, which may fetch 200 million euros to 300
million euros, the people said. The valuation of the business
has been hurt because competitors introduced generic versions of
one of its products, the BenzaClin topical acne treatment, one
person said. A spokesman for Deutsche Bank declined to comment.  Viehbacher said in 2009 the French drugmaker would review
the dermatology business. “You have to look at our dermatology
franchise as either build it or get out of it,” he said on an
Oct. 30, 2009, conference call with analysts. Sanofi doesn’t
disclose sales for the unit, which was formerly known as Dermik
Laboratories.  Sanofi last week completed the acquisition of Genzyme
Corp., the world’s largest maker of medicines for rare genetic
disorders, for at least $20.1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sasha Damouni in  New York  at 
 Sdamouni2@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  