-- 
Sarkozy Tax Overhaul to Be Revenue Neutral, Budget Chief Says

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-04-13T07:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/sarkozy-tax-overhaul-to-be-revenue-neutral-budget-chief-says.html
The French government’s decision to
cut a wealth levy and scrap a tax ceiling for individuals will
have no effect on the  budget deficit , Budget Minister Francois Baroin said.  “This reform will be fair and efficient,” Baroin, who is
also government spokesman, said today on Europe 1 radio. “It is
neutral for public finance.”  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  last November called for an
overhaul of taxes on assets, seeking to bring the French system
more in line with its neighbours. He was under pressure from
members of his party, who wanted to abolish the wealth tax, and
by public opinion, which backed the levy and opposed a ceiling
Sarkozy passed on total household tax liability. Sarkozy’s
popularity is near record lows as he faces re-election net year.  Baroin yesterday announced the conclusions of that review,
deciding not to abolish the  wealth tax  outright but to eliminate
the first tranche of the tax and to lower its rates. The reform
will go before parliament by June and some parts of it could
take effect this tax year, he said today.  The wealth tax, called ISF in French, was introduced by
Socialist President Francois Mitterrand in 1981. Other European
countries have either abolished the levy or never had one. To
temper its effect, Sarkozy introduced a bill that limits total
tax payments to 50 percent of income.  That so-called tax shield will now be eliminated, because
300,000 households, out of the 562,000 who paid ISF in 2009,
will no longer owe anything.  Property Price Impact  “These were people who were caught up in the wealth tax
simply because of rising real estate prices,” Baroin said.  Asked why he didn’t just abolish the wealth tax, Baroin
said because “we have a budget tension for the next two or
three years.”  The changes in the wealth tax will cut 900 million euros
($1.3 billion) from revenue, with 300 million of that coming
from abolishing the wealth tax for people with a net worth of
between 800,000 euros and 1.3 million euros, and 600 million
euros from dropping the top rate to 0.5 percent from 1.8
percent.  The government will make up for that shortfall by
increasing taxes on inheritances greater than 4 million euros
and by imposing an “exit levy” on tax exiles, modeled on
 Germany , Baroin said.  France ’s budget deficit will be 5.7 percent of gross
domestic product this year, down from 7 percent in 2010, Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  said last week.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  