-- 
Satelites Mexicanos Wins Court Approval to Enter Debt-Financing Agreement

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-13T17:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/satelites-mexicanos-wins-court-approval-to-enter-debt-financing-agreement.html
Satelites Mexicanos SA won court
approval to enter into a debt-financing agreement that will help
fund the satellite company’s reorganization plan and exit from
 bankruptcy protection .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  granted the
company permission to issue $325 million in high-yield notes at
a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware . Sontchi also approved
the company’s request to hold an equity-rights offering aimed at
generating as much as $96.3 million.  Satmex, as the company is known, listed $441.6 million in
assets and $531.6 million in debt as of March 23 in Chapter 11
documents filed April 6. Two affiliates, Alterna’TV Corp. and
Alterna’TV International Corp., also sought court protection.  The Mexico City-based company will seek court approval of
its restructuring plan at a hearing set for May 11. Noteholders
agreed to support the plan before the bankruptcy filing.
Proceeds from the note issue and rights offering will be held in
escrow until the company’s turnaround proposal is implemented,
according to court papers.  Satmex will pay first-priority noteholders, owed about
$238.2 million, and unsecured creditors in full in cash,
according to the plan. Second-priority noteholders, owed about
$201.9 million, will split 7.15 percent of the reorganized
company’s stock and get the right to participate in the offering
for 85.75 percent of the new equity.  Satmex said it operates three satellites, providing fixed-
satellite services covering 90 percent of the population of the
Americas. The company previously filed for bankruptcy in August
2006 in  New York . The company exited that December after winning
court approval to repay creditors owed about $743 million with
new debt and equity.  The case is In re Satelites Mexicanos SA, 11-11035,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 