-- 
Sberbank Says It's in Talks with Austrian Lenders, ‘Interested’ in Europe

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-13T15:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/sberbank-in-talks-with-austrian-lenders-about-takeovers-1-.html
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, said it’s in talks with Austrian banks about a possible
acquisition to expand outside the former  Soviet Union .  Sberbank declined to identify which banks it is targeting
in an e-mailed reply to questions. The Moscow-based lender is in
talks to buy  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s eastern European
unit, Volksbanken International AG, according to four people
with knowledge of the transaction who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private.  Sberbank Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  said in 2010
he was interested in buying eastern  Europe  lenders, and this
year hired  Alessandro Profumo , the former CEO of eastern
Europe’s biggest bank UniCredit SpA, to advise on the expansion.  Volksbanken, seeking to repay 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of state aid, put VBI up for sale last year. It owns 51
percent of the business, while Germany’s DZ Bank and France’s
Groupe BPCE each own 24.5 percent.  Sberbank wants to buy all of VBI except its Romanian unit
to avoid consolidating its European Union business in the
eastern European country,  Mediafax  reported today, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  VBI, which is active in 10 eastern European countries, had
a net loss of 21.8 million euros in 2010, compared with net
income of 33.2 million euros a year earlier. Provisions for bad
loans rose by more than a third, driven by  Romania , its biggest
unit, CEO Friedhelm Boschert said March 3.  Volksbanken was among the Austrian banks hit hardest by the
financial crisis. Its Kommunalkredit AG unit was nationalized to
prevent its collapse in 2008, while the company had a net loss
of 1.1 billion euros in 2009 that more than consumed the state
capital it received.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net  