-- 
Scene Last Night: Redford, James Taylor, Michael Douglas

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-13T21:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/scene-last-night-redford-bronfman-weill-james-taylor-michael-douglas.html
As a presenter at the Paris Review
gala last night, Fran Lebowitz recalled a plane ride with Robert Redford in the 1970s when he was surrounded by stewardesses who
ignored every other passenger.  “I’m very sorry to bother you,” the humorist said to the
actor, “Would you please order me a club soda?”  When it was his turn to present an award, Redford
responded.  “I’m sorry I don’t remember you,” he said, looking just
as sexy as his ‘70s self. “I remember the stewardesses.”  At the Cipriani 42nd Street event, Lebowitz awarded the
Terry Southern Prize for Humor to Elif Batuman. Ann Beattie, in
one amazing pair of strappy sandals, gave the egg-shaped
Plimpton Prize for Fiction to April Ayers Lawson. Redford
presented the Hadada Award to James Salter, a writer of fiction
and screenplays, including several Redford films.  Guests included Julia Stiles, Michael Imperioli, Joshua Steiner, senior adviser at Quadrangle Group LLC, and Yves-Andre
Istel, benefit chairman with his wife, Kathleen Begala.  Advanced Placement  In high school,  Whitney Tilson  took six advanced-placement
courses: calculus, biology, chemistry, physics, Spanish and
English.  Now he’s managing director and co-founder of hedge-fund
firm T2 Partners LLC and four years into helping inner-city
high-school students take AP classes through Reach. The program
offers Saturday study sessions and cash rewards for passing
($300 for a score of 3, $400 for a score of 4, and $500 for a
score of 5).  “One of the reasons I helped found this program is that
nobody thinks the AP test has been dumbed down,” Tilson said
last night at the Harvard Club. “These tests are almost unique
in their credibility.”  Tilson was on the scene to raise money for the program,
along with former New York City Schools Chancellor Joel Klein
and Reach board members Jacques Garibaldi, managing partner at
London Park Investments LLC, and Ji-Mei Ma, managing director of
 Nebula Capital Management .  “A lot of programs focus on keeping kids out of trouble,”
Anderson Livingston, a director in the global credit group at
 American Express Co. (AXP)  and Reach board member, said. “This one
will help kids come to the Harvard Club as alumni.”  Carnegie Hall  Designer Tory Burch,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  president
 Gary Cohn  and Sanford Weill, Carnegie Hall’s board chairman,
were among the few hundred guests who gathered in the atrium of
the Museum of  Modern Art  after a concert at the hall celebrating
its 120th anniversary and featuring James Taylor,  Steve Martin ,
Bette Midler, Barbara Cook, Sting and others.  Michael Douglas  sat beside Clarissa Bronfman, co-chairman
of the gala along with her husband, Edgar Bronfman Jr., chairman
and chief executive of Warner Music Group Corp. She wore a sleek
gown, with smoky eyes and her hair pulled back, and she was
bouncing in her chair.  “I’ve been asking the board for the last six years, can’t
we do a rock or pop show?” said Clarissa Bronfman. “The point
is to show the world that  Carnegie Hall  is not only classical,
which I love, but about other types of music.”  Referring to Sting’s rendition during the concert of
“Penny Lane,” Bronfman said, “Many people have no idea that
the Beatles played there, and that  Albert Einstein  lectured
there.”  As for the lounge-style seating, the family-style Indian
meal and the party soundtrack featuring Madonna, George Michael,
and  Michael Jackson , Bronfman said, “I wanted to break all the
rules.”  The event, also attended by  John Paulson , president of
Paulson & Co., and hedge-fund manager David Ganek, raised $2.8
million.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 