-- 
Schneider ‘Not Currently’ in Tyco Talks After Stock Decline

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   F r a n c o i s   D e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-04-13T20:58:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/schneider-electric-says-it-s-not-currently-in-talks-with-tyco-for-a-deal.html
Schneider Electric SA (SU)  said it’s
“not currently” in takeover talks with  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) 
after preliminary discussions between the companies leaked in
the media and sent Schneider’s shares down 7 percent.  Schneider held preliminary talks with Tyco after
approaching the company earlier this year, said three people
with knowledge of the matter, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Schneider hasn’t ruled
out pursuing Tyco, said another person.  Buying Tyco would mark Schneider’s biggest-ever takeover
and would add ADT, the largest security systems firm, as well as
fire-prevention equipment and valves used in water systems. A
purchase would be the biggest yet by any European industrial
company, and Schneider would seek to sell some assets that don’t
fit with its portfolio and growth plans, analysts said.  “Schneider’s statement leaves the door open, and it’s in
their interest to calm things down as Tyco has risen a lot,”
said Pierre Boucheny, a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets. “The market’s message to Schneider is that there’s a
funding issue and that they have to come up with a clear
divestment plan.”  Tyco fell 32 cents to $52.01 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. It had a market value as of
yesterday of about $24.8 billion. Schneider fell 15 cents to
112.75 euros in Paris.  Schneider slid 7.2 percent this week after Bloomberg News
reported it was weighing a Tyco takeover.  Schneider Statement  Schneider had been studying a takeover with bankers from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has been
advising Tyco, the people said.  “In response to market rumors,  Schneider Electric 
announced today that it is not currently in discussion with Tyco
International regarding a potential strategic transaction
between the two companies,” the Rueil-Malmaison, France-based
company said in a statement. “Schneider Electric stated that it
would make no further comment regarding this matter.”  Anthime Caprioli, a spokesman for Schneider, declined to
comment today. A Tyco spokesman, Paul Fitzhenry, didn’t return
telephone messages. He has previously declined to comment on the
matter.  Schneider’s offer valued Tyco at about $30 billion, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  Raising Cash?  “The fact that Schneider ‘is not in talks with Tyco’ is
not the same as ‘was not in talks with Tyco nor has ever been in
talks with Tyco,” Ben Uglow, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said
in a note to clients. “We suspect that the French company may
well have been in early stage negotiations.”  Schneider might be able to raise about $5 billion selling
Tyco businesses such as the fire-protection unit, Boucheny said.
The acquisition would help reinforce Schneider’s building
automation and security systems, the company’s weakest
businesses, and would let it benefit from emerging market
growth, he said.  Schneider, which beat  General Electric Co. (GE)  to a French
power-transmission business last year, has sought to expand in
factory automation and building controls, where it trails
companies including  Siemens AG (SIE)  of  Germany  and  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)   Tyco split into three publicly traded entities in 2007,
including the former parent company, which Chief Executive
Officer Edward Breen runs from West Windsor,  New Jersey , though
the headquarters has since moved to  Switzerland . Tyco posted
sales of $17 billion for the fiscal year ended in September. The
company reports second-quarter results on April 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net 
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  