-- 
Gazprom, Total, Statoil Delay Shtokman Decision to Year-End

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-13T21:34:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/shtokman-consortium-say-investment-decision-to-come-by-year-end.html
OAO Gazprom,  Total SA (FP)  and  Statoil
ASA (STL)  delayed until the end of the year a final investment
decision on the Shtokman natural-gas project in  Russia ’s Arctic
waters.  The project is still expected to start production in 2016
for delivery to the Russian and European markets and liquefied
natural gas output will follow a year later, Shtokman
Development AG, the Gazprom-led project’s operating company,
said in a statement yesterday.  “The Shtokman project is a priority for all the
shareholders,” Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexei Miller
said in the statement, which included a pledge to decide on
investments for the entire project by the end of 2011. “Today
we confirmed our interest in its rapid realization.”  Russian gas export monopoly Gazprom and the partners had
planned to decide last month on investment in the Barents Sea
field. A decision on liquefying gas for shipment by tanker was
to be made by year-end. The project has been delayed on
technological uncertainty and concerns that markets are
oversupplied.  “The fate of the Shtokman project is difficult,” said
 Valery Nesterov , an oil and gas analyst at investment bank
Troika Dialog in Moscow. “The main issues are the choice of
technological scheme, uncertainty on prospective gas markets,
fiercer competition on the market with emergence of Yamal LNG,
and the necessity of tax benefits.”  The partners also agreed to separate natural gas from
condensate onshore after delivery, instead of at sea onboard a
production vessel.  Gas Delivery  “The delivery of clean gas to the shore is significantly
more safe,” Deputy СEO Valery Golubev told reporters in Moscow
on April 7. “After what happened in the Gulf of Mexico and
 Japan , it’s important to have a concrete understanding of
safety.”  At a February 2010 board meeting, the Shtokman partners
delayed investment decisions and pushed back the planned start
of gas output by three years as global fuel supply outweighed
demand.  The U.S., once the main target for Shtokman’s LNG
deliveries, now has sufficient supply from its own gas-shale
formations and is “a closed market,” Nesterov said.  “As many mega-projects, it is badly calculated, but it is
needed for Gazprom market capitalization and to keep jobs in the
energy, construction, ship-building industry,” Nesterov said.
“The project will be implemented one day, hopefully not in a
too distant future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  