-- 
Sidney Harman, Who Built a Fortune in High-Fidelity Stereos, Is Dead at 92

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-04-13T14:44:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/sidney-harman-who-built-a-fortune-in-high-fidelity-stereos-is-dead-at-92.html
Sidney Harman , whose Harman Kardon
brand became synonymous with high-quality audio equipment and
who became a top philanthropist in the U.S. capital and, late in
life, the owner of  Newsweek  magazine, has died. He was 92.  He died last night in Washington of complications from
acute myeloid leukemia, the website The Daily Beast  reported 
today. Harman was executive chairman of The Newsweek Daily Beast
Co., formed when the website merged with Newsweek. His wife,
Jane Harman, resigned Feb. 28 from Congress to become director
of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in
Washington. A Democrat, she represented coastal communities of
 Los Angeles  in the  House of Representatives .  With Bernard Kardon, a colleague at a company that made
public-address systems, Harman founded Harman Kardon in 1953 to
make high-fidelity machines for people to enjoy music at home.  Their innovation was to combine multiple parts -- the
amplifier, tuner and speakers -- into one visually appealing
machine, the receiver.  “Because the separate components were combined on a single
chassis, the risks of electrical interference and hum would be
significantly reduced,” Harman recalled in his 2003  memoir .  He said college campuses in particular “were the breeding
grounds for a generation who loved the music and felt that the
best way to listen to it was in the dorm with our equipment.
Harman Kardon was the symbol of hip, the mark of the
cognoscenti.”  First Stereo Receiver  After Harman bought out Kardon’s share, the company in 1958
introduced the first stereo receiver. Harman later acquired JBL
and Infinity, among other audio equipment makers, and his firm
became a leader in high-end audio for automobiles. He created
 Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR)  as the parent company.  Harman sold Harman International in 1977 to become under
secretary of Commerce under President  Jimmy Carter . At the end
of Carter’s presidency in 1980 he bought back Harman
International from Beatrice Foods. The Harman Kardon unit was no
longer part of the company, having been sold by Beatrice. It
took until 1985 for Harman to succeed in reacquiring Harman
Kardon, which he guided into the era of digital audio and video.  Harman transferred the title of chief executive to Bernie
Girod in 1992, remaining as chairman. He changed his title to
executive chairman in 2001, then became chairman emeritus.  Almost Acquired  In April 2007, Harman International agreed to be acquired
by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
for about $8 billion. The deal fell through five months later,
with KKR and Goldman Sachs saying Harman International had
experienced a decline in performance. In a settlement, KKR and
Goldman Sachs agreed to buy $400 million of bonds from Harman
International.  Last August, Harman agreed to buy Newsweek from  Washington
Post Co. (WPO)  for $1, winning a three-month bidding process for the
money-losing publication. Donald E. Graham, chief executive
officer of Washington Post, said Harman was chosen because he
“feels as strongly as we do about the importance of quality
journalism.”  In November, Harman and  Barry Diller , owner of The Daily
Beast, agreed to a merger, with Daily Beast founder Tina Brown
serving as editor of both publications. “In an admittedly
challenging time,” Harman said then, “this merger provides the
ideal combination of established journalism authority and
bright, bristling website savvy.”  Capital Philanthropist  A fan of classical and jazz music, Harman became one of
Washington’s most sought-out philanthropists, especially in the
arts and education. He gave $19.5 million on behalf of his
family toward the creation of an expanded home for the city’s
Shakespeare Theater Company. The Harman Center for the Arts
opened in 2007.  Harman was born on Aug. 5, 1918, in  Montreal , where his
father worked for a hearing-aid company. He grew up in  New York
City  after his father moved there for a similar job.  He majored in physics at New York’s  City College ,
graduating in 1939. Working at the David Bogen Co., maker of
public-address sound systems, he quickly became friends with
Kardon, his boss.  According to Harman, the two men struggled to persuade the
company’s owner to let them adapt the equipment for home-audio
uses, finally deciding to start their own business. Harman
bought out Kardon in 1956.  An interest in labor relations inspired Harman in the early
1970s to work with the United Auto Workers union on an
experimental system at a Tennessee factory that made rear-view
mirrors for one of his companies, Harman Automotive Inc.  Bolivar Experiment  The so-called Bolivar Experiment, named for the city where
the factory was located, gave workers the power to make
improvements in procedures and to go home when their production
quotas were filled, a system called “earned idle time.”  In the end, that shortened-workday perk created tensions
among employees and between workers and managers, according to a
1998 article in the  New York  Times. Harman sold the factory in
1976, and subsequent owners let the experiment expire.  It was while working for the Carter administration that
Harman met Jane Lakes, a lawyer working as deputy secretary of
Carter’s cabinet, who would become his wife. She was first
elected to Congress in 1992.  In 1998, Harman bankrolled much of his wife’s $16 million
bid for the Democratic nomination to be California governor. She
lost the nomination to  Gray Davis , who went on to become
governor. In 2000, she ran successfully to regain her House
seat.  Harman had four children with his first wife before they
divorced in 1970. He married Jane, who had two children from a
first marriage of her own, in 1980. They had two children
together.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  