-- 
South Africa Says Suspends Exports of Ostrich Meat After Bird Flu Outbreak

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-04-14T08:58:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/south-africa-says-seeking-ways-to-manage-bird-flu-outbreak-in-western-cape.html
South Africa , which accounts for 80
percent of world ostrich production, suspended exports of
ostrich meat and all live birds following an avian flu outbreak.  The disease outbreak has been narrowed down to one farm
with about 5,000 ostriches in Oudtshoorn, Wouter Kriel, the
spokesman for the Western Cape Provincial  Department of
Agriculture , said in a phone interview today. Oudtshoorn is
about 450 kilometers (279 miles) from Cape Town.  Each month South Africa exports 108 million rand ($15.9
million) of ostrich meat, sought after for its low cholesterol
and fat content, said Anton Kruger, a spokesman for the  South
African Ostrich Business Chamber . About 90 percent of exports go
to  Europe  and 3 percent to East Asia. South Africa in 2005 lost
600 million rand in exports because of an avian flu outbreak,
losing 26,000 birds and 4,000 jobs.  The ban mainly affects ostrich meat, which accounts for 62
percent of the industry’s 2.1 billion rand annual turnover,
Kruger said. The export of feathers is under negotiation, while
leather products and egg shells are unaffected, he said.  No slaughtering is taking place, the agriculture
department’s Kriel said. Measures to contain the virus may
include either vaccination or culling, he said.  The  World Organization of Animal Health  normally requires
that infected birds are culled, Kruger said. The average price
of an ostrich is 2,500 rand, he said.  ‘Backward Tracing’  “It’s difficult to say at this stage how long the
suspension will be in place,” Kruger said. The Department of
Agriculture should be able to use “backward tracing” to locate
the source of the disease and eradicate it, he said.  Ostriches are tested for avian flu every 28 days, following
the initial outbreak of the disease in South Africa in 2005,
Kruger said. No ostriches can be transported anywhere without a
health certificate saying they have been tested within this
period, he said.  About 80 percent of ostrich farms are in the Western Cape
and about 15 percent in the Eastern Cape, Kruger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  