-- 
South African Inflation Is ‘Well-Contained’ Amid Surging Oil, Food Prices

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-04-13T13:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/south-african-inflation-is-well-contained-amid-surging-oil-food-prices.html
South African inflation remains
“well contained” amid a surge in oil and food prices,
according to Johan van den Heever, the central bank’s deputy
chief economist.  “The oil price has gone right through the roof again,”
Van den Heever told lawmakers in  Cape Town  today. “It is not
the end of the world. Other factors have made inflation slow
down quite nicely. We are confident that this negative impact
from the oil price will be dealt with adequately.”  The central bank left its benchmark interest rate at 5.5
percent for a second consecutive meeting on March 24 as rising
oil and food costs threatened to stoke inflation. The bank said
at the time that it expected inflation to average 4.7 percent in
2011, up from a previous estimate of 4.6 percent, and reach 5.7
percent in 2012. Inflation was unchanged at 3.7 percent in
February.  Crude oil has surged 27 percent over the past 12 months. It
traded at $106.50 a barrel at 2:37 p.m. Johannesburg time.  The rand’s 39 percent gain against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009 has helped moderate increases in the price of
fuel and other imports, even as it undermines the
competitiveness of South African exports. The currency has been
buoyed by rising prices of platinum, gold and other metals, and
increased flows of foreign portfolio investment.  Building Reserves  “One should not be surprised if from time to time,
especially if commodity prices favor us and the terms of trade
are very good, the  exchange rate  moves up,” Van den Heever
said. The  Reserve Bank  has “been building up our reserves quite
handsomely” to boost confidence in the rand should it start to
weaken.  The central bank said on March 24 that it expects  Africa ’s
largest economy to expand 3.7 percent in 2011, up from an
earlier forecast of 3.4 percent, and grow 3.9 percent in 2012.  “Growth rates will be quite a bit better going forward,”
Van den Heever said. “We are looking at rates of growth of
something like 3 percent, 4 percent, a bit above that.”  “We now expect the South African Reserve Bank to kick off
its rate hiking cycle in September as leading indicators now
paint a more upbeat picture of the economy, while pipeline
inflationary pressures are intensifying,” Sonja Keller, an
economist at JPMorgan in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments
today. She expects the economy to expand 3.9 percent this year,
up from a previous estimate of 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 