-- 
Southern Sudanese Civilians Bear Brunt of Army's Campaign Against Rebels

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-04-13T12:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/southern-sudanese-civilians-bear-brunt-of-army-s-campaign-against-rebels.html
Southern Sudanese  civilians are
bearing the brunt of a campaign by the regional army against an
ethnic Shilluk militia leader in Upper Nile state, according to
local residents, a  Human Rights Watch  researcher and United
Nations officials.  Clashes in villages around the state capital, Malakal,
intensified last month between fighters loyal to Johnson Oliny
and the army of Southern  Sudan , in one of a series of conflicts
that have overshadowed the oil-rich region’s preparations for
independence in July. Fighting has killed at least 800 people
this year and displaced 93,783 in the region, the UN said today.  Soldiers fired at civilians in the village of Duur as they
tried to flee and then looted and burned their homes on March 6
and 7, said  Jehanne Henry , a Sudan researcher for New York-based
Human Rights Watch, citing eyewitness accounts. A UN report
found that 62 people, including women, were killed, more than 70
were injured, and 7,265 displaced in the incident, Giovanni
Bosco, the head of the  UN Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs  in  Southern Sudan , said in a phone
interview yesterday.  “If there were civilians there, it’s only ones that were
with Oliny,” Southern Sudan’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer,
said by phone from Juba, the regional capital.  In that incident, the army also killed as many as 50 of the
militia’s new recruits, the  Upper Nile  state minister of
information, Peter Lam Both, said in an April 7 interview.  Land Disputes  Some Shilluk leaders say the southern government, which is
dominated by the region’s largest tribe, the Dinka, is using the
army to occupy Shilluk land. The government acknowledges that
Dinka have occupied Shilluk land and says the practice is legal.  “Of course some of the Dinka moved into Shilluk land. This
is a federal government, any citizen can live in any state,”
Both said.  Residents of several small villages were driven from their
homes during the clash in Duur and its aftermath, Henry said.
Less than a week later, on March 12, Oliny’s militia attacked
Malakal, in what Both described as an attempt by the insurgents
to establish a rebel base in the city.  “Based on reports we are hearing from the residents of
Malakal, the authorities appear to have targeted members of the
Shilluk community, particularly youth suspected of being militia
supporters in the aftermath of the attack on the town,” Henry
said in an April 10 interview. She cited families from Duur as
saying that five of the corpses were of young men who were tied
up and shot.  Worsening Insecurity  Worsening insecurity since the region voted in January for
independence from the rest of Sudan is preventing aid agencies
and the government from focusing on development efforts rather
than responding to crises, Lise Grande, the UN deputy resident
and humanitarian coordinator, told reporters today in Juba.  “Basically, in half of all the counties in the south, there
is an emergency operation under way,” she said.  Southern Sudan’s ruling party said last month it has
documents to prove Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s
government supplied weapons to militias in the region. The
authorities in Khartoum deny the accusation.  The Southern Sudan government accuses Oliny’s military of
fighting for Lam Akol, a former foreign minister in Bashir’s
government who now leads the SPLM-DC, a splinter group of the
region’s ruling party, the  Sudan People’s Liberation Movement .
Akol denies the charge.  “The SPLM-DC doesn’t need to agitate to cause this stuff.
It is the practical reality on the ground,” Akol said on April
9 by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. “What kills people
in this world? Is it not issues over land?”  Oil Exporter  Southern Sudan will assume control of about three-quarters
of Sudan’s current oil production of 490,000 barrels a day,
pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.
Sudan had 5 billion barrels of proven oil reserves as of January
2010, according to the  U.S. Energy Information Administration .  Jok Madut Jok, undersecretary at the Ministry of Culture in
Juba and a professor of African studies at the Loyola Marymount
University in  California , said the region’s ability to reduce
ethnic conflicts will depend on the authorities’ willingness to
keep the armed forces, known as the Sudan People’s Liberation
Army, out of local disputes.  “If the SPLA becomes a professional military, then it will
have nothing to do but protect the country from external
threats,” he said by phone yesterday from Rumbek, the capital
of Lakes state. “But if the SPLA continues to be used to
repress people, then people will continue to fight the army.”  Tension in Malakal  Another militia leader in the area, George Athor, a former
deputy chief of staff in the southern army, has said he is in
alliance with Oliny. Five other rebel militias are scattered
around Malakal.  Tensions remain high in Malakal a month after the fighting.
On the road from the airport, a ruling party billboard sign has
been defaced, with the head shot of Southern Sudan’s president,
 Salva Kiir , ripped out. A variety of security forces, including
police, army and prison service officers, patrol the streets.  Peter Makuac Nyak, the moderator of the Presbyterian Church
in Malakal, blames the fighting on politicians who engineer the
conflict to jockey for better positions in the new government.  “In a few days, when the full independence is here, all
these conflicts will subside,” Nyak said in an interview at his
church.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Malakal, Sudan via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 