-- 
Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-04-13T18:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the  beige book .  The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond prepared the latest
report. Information was collected before April 4.  Boston: “Business activity in most sectors continued to
expand during February and March in the First District, although
retail reports are somewhat mixed and real estate markets report
little improvement. Manufacturers cite ongoing revenue gains,
some quite strong, although they also voice increased
uncertainty about the outlook.”  New York: “The Second District’s economy has strengthened
further since the last report. Firms in various industries
report widespread increases in input prices and some increases
in selling prices, while retail prices are generally reported to
be stable. Labor market conditions improved moderately, with
increased hiring reported in a number of industries.”  Philadelphia: “Business activity in the Third District has
improved overall since the last Beige Book. Manufacturers
reported increases in shipments and new orders in March.
Retailers achieved slight year-over-year increases in sales in
March. Motor vehicle dealers also reported year-over-year sales
increases in March.”  Cleveland : “On balance, economic activity in the Fourth
District continued to expand at a modest pace. Manufacturers
reported some improvement in new orders and production.
Information received from retailers and auto dealers was
generally positive. Freight transport volume increased, while
energy producers noted little change in output.”  Richmond: " Fifth District economic activity generally
improved since our last report. Manufacturers’ new orders rose
and port activity picked up, with raw commodities helping to
drive exports. Bank officials reported some increased volume in
commercial loan demand, as business clients restarted projects
that had been put on hold. Revenue growth among non-retail
services firms was more widespread in recent weeks, with notable
increases in demand for freight trucking and tourism-related
services. Residential real estate markets edged up, especially
for homes in the lower price range.”  Atlanta: “Sixth District business contacts described
economic activity as advancing modestly from mid-February
through March. Retailers cited that consumer spending improved
while auto dealers reported strong sales growth. Tourism
activity remained positive as occupancy rates and  air travel 
mostly increased.”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to increase in February and March. However, contacts’
optimism was tempered by elevated uncertainty surrounding recent
global events. Consumer and business spending increased.
Manufacturing production expanded, though construction was again
subdued. Credit conditions continued to improve.”  St. Louis : “Economic activity in the Eighth District has
continued to expand at a modest pace since our previous report.
Manufacturing activity has increased since the previous report.
Activity in the services sector also has increased, but at a
slower pace than in the previous report. Retail and auto sales
have risen in recent weeks.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy expanded
moderately since the last report. Increased activity was noted
in  consumer spending , tourism, commercial construction and real
estate, manufacturing, energy and mining, and agriculture. The
services sector was mixed, and residential construction and real
estate activity decreased. Labor markets continued to show signs
of strengthening, while wage increases remained subdued.”  Kansas City : “The District economy expanded solidly in
late February and March. Consumer spending rebounded in March
after severe weather limited February sales. Factory production
rose sharply, allowing manufacturers to rebuild inventories and
fulfill a surge in new orders. Residential construction remained
weak, and commercial construction rose modestly.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate
pace over the past six weeks. Energy activity remained strong,
refining activity picked up, and demand was strong for most
petrochemical products. Reports from the manufacturing and non-
financial service sectors were mostly positive. Financial
services firms noted a slight improvement in loan demand.
Conditions continued improving in the commercial real estate
leasing market, and apartment demand was strong. The single-
family housing sector remained weak however, and widening
drought conditions were reported in the agricultural sector.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
expanded moderately during the reporting period of late February
into the beginning of April. Price increases for final goods and
services remained modest overall despite gains for selected
commodities, and upward wage pressures were limited as well.
Sales of retail items and demand for business and consumer
services continued to expand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  