-- 
Swan Insurance of Mauritius Seeking 15% Policy Growth This Year, CEO Says

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-04-13T06:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/swan-insurance-of-mauritius-seeking-15-policy-growth-this-year-ceo-says.html
Swan Insurance Co., Mauritius’s
second-largest insurer by market value, plans to boost gross
premiums as much as 15 percent in 2011 by selling more policies
to consumers, Chief Executive Officer Louis Rivalland said.  “The corporate risk market is reaching saturation,”
Rivalland said in an April 7 interview in  Port Louis , the
capital. “In the personal-insurance segment, there’s still
progress in margins, which is why the group has positioned
itself to be more visible on that side. Through a more consumer-
friendly approach, we estimate growth to be between 10 to 15
percent.”  Mauritius’s insurance penetration, calculated using
premiums as a percentage of gross domestic product, was 2.1
percent in 2009, according to data from the Financial Service’s
Commission’s  2010 statistical bulletin . That compares with 8.4
percent in the European Union, according to the Organization of
Economic Co-Operation and Development’s  website . About 29
percent of Mauritius’s population has  life insurance .  Swan is the oldest insurance company on the Indian Ocean
island nation, having started operations in 1854, Rivalland
said. The company provides household and vehicle insurance,
while its Anglo-Mauritius Assurance Society Ltd. unit deals with
life insurance, pensions, actuarial and investment business.
 Mauritius Union Assurance Co. (MUA)  is the nation’s biggest insurer.  Swan’s gross premium income advanced 14 percent to 2.9
billion rupees ($103.9 million) in the year through December
2010, while profit rose 5.2 percent to 203.7 million rupees,
according to a statement published on the Stock Exchange of
Mauritius’s  website  on March 31.  The insurer plans to expand in  Africa  following a venture
in the Seychelles, an Indian Ocean archipelago, where it
operates in partnership with the state-owned pension fund.  “We’re working to reduce dependency on our domestic
market, by scouting for opportunities in mainland Africa,  India 
and  Europe  to some extent,” Rivalland said, without giving
further details as talks are still ongoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  