-- 
Swaziland Police Block Pro-Democracy Protests, Fire Tear Gas for 2nd Day

-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t s h w a y o
-- 
2011-04-13T18:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/swaziland-protesters-to-march-for-second-day-amid-security-force-clampdown.html
Swaziland ’s security forces blocked
protesters traveling to Manzini, the main industrial city, to
stop a second day of pro-democracy demonstrations, said Mduduzi
Gina, secretary general of the Swaziland Federation of Trade
Unions.  “It was difficult for them to meet today in Manzini
because the police turned back buses,” Gina said by phone today
from Manzini, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) east of the
capital, Mbabane.  Police fired tear gas into the offices of the Swaziland
National Teachers’ Association where about 200 officials and
members of various labor unions were meeting, Gina said. Four
leaders of the SFTU were arrested and detained, he said.  Security forces fired rubber bullets and water cannons
yesterday to break up marches to kick off three days of protests
in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s last absolute monarchy. Protesters are
calling for a democratic system after a fiscal crisis led the
state to raise taxes, cut spending and press civil servants to
retire early. Swaziland, a mountainous land-locked country
between  South Africa  and  Mozambique , is Africa’s third-biggest
sugar producer.  A Facebook campaign called a mass uprising starting on
April 12 to commemorate the 38th anniversary of the monarchy
banning political parties. The nation’s 1.2 million people are
ruled by 42-year-old King Mswati III, who appoints the prime
minister. Lawmakers aren’t allowed to belong to a political
party and the country is under emergency rule.  Journalists Detained  Southern African leaders must hold an urgent summit on
Swaziland’s crackdown on protesters, the Johannesburg-based  Open
Society Initiative for Southern Africa  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “The Swazi government has shown its true colors to the
world; it is repressive and authoritarian and only interested in
its own survival,” said Deprose Muchena, acting executive
director of the foundation that forms part of the global
activist group founded by billionaire investor  George Soros .  The Foreign Correspondent’s Association, based in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed statement today some of its
members were “detained, harassed and expelled” for reporting
in Swaziland.  The U.S. is concerned by the response of the government to
the protests, including reports of union and opposition leaders
being held in custody, its embassy in Swaziland said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Amnesty International  condemned the “levels of state
violence in the past 24 hours and the numbers of arbitrary and
secret detentions,” according to a statement e-mailed by the
U.K.-based organization today.  14 Wives  Swaziland wants a $100 million loan from the  African
Development Bank  and asked the  International Monetary Fund  on
April 8 for a six-month “staff-monitored program” after income
from a regional customs union declined during the global
economic crisis. Austerity measures to try to secure loans,
including plans to cut state wages, have angered unions.  Mswati, who has 14 wives, has a personal fortune of $200
million, according to  New York ’s Forbes Magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlathswayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  