-- 
Sweden's Krona Strengthens as Government Raises Economic Growth Forecast

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-04-13T16:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/sweden-s-krona-strengthens-as-government-raises-economic-growth-forecast.html
Sweden ’s krona appreciated versus
the euro and the dollar as the nation’s government raised its
economic growth forecast for the next two years, underpinning
the case for the central bank to increase borrowing costs.  Sweden’s currency strengthened against all but one of its
16 most traded peers, after weakening for two consecutive days
against the shared European currency and its U.S. counterpart.
The economy will grow 3.8 percent in 2012 and 3.6 percent in
2013, the government said in its spring fiscal policy bill. It
forecast a 4.6 percent expansion this year, up from 4.8 percent
predicted last month. It also expects a widening surplus over
the next four years as unemployment falls.  “The budget highlights the relatively strong fundamentals
of Sweden’s economy,” said  Carl Hammer , chief foreign-exchange
strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “The krona’s strengthening
against all currencies as the market is reminded of this case.”  The krona was 0.8 percent stronger versus the euro at
9.0497 as of 4:59 p.m. in London. It depreciated to 9.1246
against the 17-nation common currency yesterday, the weakest
level since Dec. 14. The Swedish currency appreciated as much as
1.3 percent against the dollar before trading 0.8 percent
stronger at 6.2521.  The Stockholm-based Riksbank has increased its key rate
five times since July, raising it to 1.5 percent in February
from a record low of 0.25 percent. The bank is trying to prevent
 Europe ’s fastest-recovering economy from overheating and contain
inflation. Its next meeting is scheduled for April 20.  Today’s strength in the Swedish currency “is a question of
positioning after the budget, but also ahead of the Riksbank
meeting, where they’re expected to tilt toward the hawkish side
again and revise their rate path a tad higher,” Hammer said.  Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves has said he can’t rule out
raising rates at all five remaining policy meetings this year.
The bank will announce its next decision on April 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  