-- 
Swiss Stocks Rise as Holcim Surges in Zurich; Actelion Gains

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-13T15:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/swiss-stocks-increase-holcim-actelion-advance-as-lonza-group-decreases.html
Swiss stocks rose, paring some of
yesterday’s selloff, led by the biggest rally in  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  in
11 months after analysts recommended the shares.  Holcim, the world’s second-biggest cement maker, jumped 4.4
percent in Zurich.  UBS AG (UBSN)  climbed 1.1 percent as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. posted record profit.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  gained 1.6 percent on
a report that the company may consider a sale.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies gained 0.2 percent to 6,364.3 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
increased 0.2 percent to 5,807.59.  The benchmark Swiss gauge tumbled 1.4 percent yesterday,
led by exporters, after Tokyo Electric Power Co. said its
earthquake-hit Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant may
release more radiation than Chernobyl.  Holcim jumped 4.4 percent to 73.95 Swiss francs after
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. named the cement maker its “top
pick” in the European building-materials industry. Exane BNP
Paribas also today raised its recommendation for the sector to
“outperform” and lifted its rating on Holcim to “neutral”
from “underperform.”  “We believe the company is positioned to benefit from the
recovery themes we expect will surprise in 2011-12,” wrote Phil Roseberg, a senior analyst at Bernstein in a report to clients.
“Specifically high-margin growth from operating leverage as
well as exposure to the faster pace of recovery in CEE and
 Mexico .”  UBS, Actelion  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, gained 1.1 percent to
16.89 francs after JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, posted a 67 percent jumped in first-quarter profit,
beating analysts’ estimates. The bank also reported a decline in
provisions for bad mortgages and credit-card loans.  Actelion advanced 1.6 percent to 52 francs. Reuters
reported that the company will consider a sale if a suitor makes
an offer “even close” to what the Swiss biotechnology company
considers its value. The  news agency  cited Chairman Robert Cawthorn.  Actelion’s chairman said it’s a bad time to sell, though he
will recommend any appropriate bid, according to Reuters.
Actelion has yet to receive any offers, Cawthorn said.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  paced declining shares, dropping 6.1 percent
to 72.45 francs. The world’s biggest supplier of chemicals to
drug companies predicted that its first-half performance will be
weaker than last year because of the strong franc and rising
raw-material prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  