-- 
Syrian Activists Report Internet, Phone, Power Blackouts Amid Crackdown

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-04-13T15:19:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/syrian-activists-report-phone-power-blackouts-amid-crackdown-on-protests.html
Syrian activists reported
disruptions to phone, Internet and electricity connections in
areas where protests have broken out, after authorities vowed to
crush what they called a conspiracy against the regime.  Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s  National Organization for
Human Rights , said in a phone interview from Cairo today that he
lost contact with five members of his organization in Banias,
the coastal region where tanks have been deployed to suppress
demonstrations. He said his contacts in Syria have also reported
blackouts in the Daraa area, another center of protests.  “I had my mobile phone cut off,” said Haitham Maleh, 80,
a former judge, human-rights activist and lawyer who was
recently released from prison as part of an amnesty, speaking in
an interview today on a relative’s mobile phone. Electricity in
the village of Baida near Banias was cut, Damascus-based human
rights activist Razan Zaitouneh said on her Facebook page.  Protests have spread through Syria in the past month
following a wave of Arab uprisings that have ousted longtime
rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  this year. President Bashar al- Assad, facing the strongest challenge to his rule since he
inherited power from his father in 2000, said last month he
won’t be rushed into political changes. His security forces have
killed dozens of protesters and detained many more.  ‘Technical Problem’  “If the regime were trying to shut things down it would be
quite easy to pass it off as some kind of regular technical
problem,” said Chris Phillips, an analyst at the  Economist
Intelligence Unit  in  London . “Syria doesn’t have a cast-iron
phone system, so blackouts and the system going down are not
completely unheard of.”  About 5,000 Syrian women, children and elderly men today
blocked the highway between  Banias , which has one of Syria’s two
oil refineries, and Tartous, another coastal city, to protest
the crackdown and demand the release of children and relatives
in detention, Zaitouneh said.  “Tanks have surrounded Banias since yesterday evening and
mass arrests were carried out,” Qurabi said, citing residents
he is in contact with. “Army soldiers are interrogating anyone
who is young who’s coming into the area and checking to see if
their names are on lists of wanted individuals.”  Security forces attacked the villages of Baida and Ajnad
around 10:30 a.m. local time yesterday, Maleh said yesterday.  Opposition ‘Fragmented’  “The situation is getting worse certainly and you are
seeing that by the regularity of the demonstrations in three
different areas -- Daraa, Latakia and now Banias,” Phillips
said. “We expect the regime to ride this out because we don’t
see the opposition as powerful enough to provide an alternative.
It’s fragmented and doesn’t have one clear goal.  Human Rights Watch  said in a report released yesterday at
least 130 people have been killed in the crackdown against
protests. Syrian security forces in at least two towns prevented
injured protesters from being taken to hospitals and medical
personnel and others from reaching them, the New York-based
organization said. It cited interviews with 20 witnesses from
three towns, and urged authorities to stop using force.  The Interior Ministry denied HRW’s findings in a statement
carried by the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  today. It said
armed gangs were responsible for preventing police injured in
the protests from receiving medical treatment. The  Interior
Ministry  has said it “will not allow the deliberate mixing
between peaceful protests and vandalism to sow discord and
destabilize the established national unity.”  Foreign Conspiracy  Assad says that legitimate expressions of popular demands
are being exploited by foreign-led conspirators to undermine a
regime that has opposed Israeli and U.S. policies in the Middle
East, and supported Islamic groups such as Hezbollah in Lebanon
and Hamas in the  Gaza Strip .  “The escalating repression by the Syrian government is
outrageous,” White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said
yesterday. “The Syrian government must respect the universal
rights of the Syrian people, who are rightly demanding the basic
freedoms that they have been denied.”  Syrian state television aired today what it said are
 confessions of a terrorist cell  that was armed and financed by
“third parties.” One of the men was shown saying that Jamal
al-Jarrah, a lawmaker allied with Lebanese Prime Minister  Saad Hariri , had provided funds to the group. Al-Jarrah denied the
allegations in an interview with the Lebanese LBC channel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  