-- 
U.A.E.’s Interbank Interest Rate Begins to Ease as Deposits Rise

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-13T08:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-a-e-s-interbank-interest-rate-begins-to-ease-as-deposits-rise.html
The United Arab Emirates’ three-
month interbank rate eased 2.6 percent this month after
remaining almost unchanged since the beginning of the year as
 bank deposits  in the second-biggest Arab economy rise.  The three-month Emirates Interbank Offered Rate, the
interest rate banks charge each other for loans, fell to 2.075
percent today, down 5.6 basis points since March 31 and the
lowest this year, according to central bank data on Bloomberg.
From Jan. 1 to March 31, the Eibor dropped 0.6 percent or 1
basis point. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent.  “The banks’ loans-to-deposits ratio has come down, the
customer deposit rates are coming down with more liquidity in
the system and that is having the effect of bringing the Eibor
down,” John Eldredge, general manager for treasury and markets
at  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, said
in a phone interview from Dubai. “The Eibor will continue to
drift down over the next couple of months.”  Customer deposits at the U.A.E.’s 51 banks have risen 2.8
percent in the two months through February to 1.1 trillion
dirhams ($294 billion), compared with a 6.8 percent rise in
2010, according to  central bank data . The banks’ loans-to-
deposits ratio eased to 97.2 percent at the end of February from
103.6 percent at the end of 2009, the data show.  U.A.E. banks faced a shortage of deposits since the onset
of the global credit crisis as foreign investors pulled money
out of the country. Even though the central bank added 50
billion dirhams to the banking system in 2008, lenders bid up
 interest rates  after competing with one another for deposits.  Liquidity Improves  “There is a substantial increase in liquidity,” Eldredge
said. “The cost of customer deposits was higher than Eibor in
the past. It’s now coming back below Eibor.”  U.A.E. interbank rates are high compared to  Saudi Arabia ,
both of whose currencies are pegged to the  U.S. dollar . The
three-month Saudi interbank offered rate quoted at 0.75 percent
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Arabia is
the biggest Arab economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  