-- 
U.K. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Increase as Rule Change Expands Workforce

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-13T10:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-k-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-increase-as-rule-change-expands-workforce.html
U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly
rose in March, led by women as a change in benefit rules pushed
people into the labor market.  Jobless benefit claims rose by 700 from February to 1.451
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London .
That compared with the median forecast of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey for a drop of 3,000. Unemployment measured
by International Labour Organization methods slipped to 7.8
percent in the quarter through February from 7.9 percent in the
three months through November.  Payrolls rose to the highest in two years in the quarter,
which may add strength to Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
argument that the economy can withstand a government budget
squeeze that will cut more than 300,000 public-sector jobs.
While the Bank of England is aiding the recovery by keeping its
key interest rate at a record low,  consumer confidence  remains
weak on concern that unemployment may increase.  “The fall in the  unemployment rate  is fairly good news, but 
we have to bear in mind that most of the public-sector job losses 
are still to come,” said  Hetal Mehta , a London-based economist at 
Daiwa Capital Markets Europe. “Combined with the fact that 
average earning growth is low, the Bank of England won’t be in a 
rush to put up interest rates.”  The pound pared its gain against the dollar after the
report. It traded at $1.6274 as of 11:40 a.m. in London, up 0.1
percent from yesterday. Bonds declined, with the yield on the
10-year gilt rising 4 basis points to 3.74 percent.  Single-Parent Benefits  In March, 4,400 men came off jobless benefits and 5,100
women joined the register. The statistics office said a change
in eligibility for single-parent benefits, which
disproportionately affects women, pushed more people into the
labor market to seek work. The U.K. claimant count rate stayed
at 4.5 percent in March.  U.K. policy makers left their benchmark interest rate at
0.5 percent this month. While inflation is double the  Bank of
England ’s target, it eased to 4 percent in March from 4.4
percent in February, data yesterday showed.  Today’s report showed that pay growth slowed in the quarter
through February, supporting the central bank’s argument that
above-target inflation isn’t fueling demands for higher pay.  Weekly pay including bonuses rose 2 percent in the quarter
from a year earlier, compared with a 2.3 percent gain in the
previous three months. The slowdown was led by financial
services and manufacturing. Excluding bonuses, pay growth eased
to 2.2 percent from 2.3 percent.  Pay Squeeze  “With pay growth still well below the rate of inflation,
the continued squeeze on real pay suggests that the recent
weakness of  consumer spending  is unlikely to let up any time
soon,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at  Capital Economics  in
London. This “further reduces the chances” of the Bank of
England raising  interest rates  next month.  Employment rose by 143,000 in the three months through
February to 29.23 million, the highest in two years, the
statistics office said. That left the employment rate at 70.7
percent. Unemployment measured by ILO methods fell by 17,000 to
2.48 million in the quarter from the previous three months.  Britain’s unemployment rate compares with 9.9 percent in
the euro region, 8.8 percent in the U.S. and 4.6 percent in
 Japan , the statistics office said.  “These figures are another step in the right direction,”
Employment Minister Chris Grayling said in a statement.
“However, there are challenges ahead and our priority is to
continue to support the economy, by reducing the deficit and
putting in place measures to encourage growth.”  Consumers remain concerned about the outlook for employment.
A job-security index published by Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
fell 2 points to a 4-month low of minus 27, the bank said on
April 4. BAE Systems Plc,  Europe ’s biggest defense company, said
yesterday that it will cut 230 jobs at its vehicle business and
close a factory in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  