-- 
U.K. Probe Summaries May Damage Banker Reputations, Lawyers Warn

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-04-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-k-probe-summaries-may-damage-banker-reputations-lawyers-warn.html
Allowing Britain’s financial
regulators to publish summaries of their investigations before
the people or firms they target can defend themselves could ruin
reputations and force faster settlements, lawyers said.  Under the U.K. Treasury proposal, when regulators issue a
warning notice to the targets of a probe, they may also
simultaneously make their names public, along with the rules
they suspect may have been broken.  The early publication of a regulator’s probes “will
increase the visibility of the actions it is taking to protect
consumers’ interests,” the government said. Lawyers for banks
and financial firms say the move would force targets that need
to avoid adverse publicity to settle with regulators earlier in
the process, rather than defend themselves.  “Substantial reputational damage might be inflicted before
firms have a proper chance to put their case” forward, said
 Arnondo Chakrabarti , a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in London.
“While this isn’t dissimilar to the way criminal investigations
are handled, the basic principles of fairness still need to
remain.”  The period to comment on the Treasury’s plan to overhaul
finance regulation ends today. The department intends to abolish
the Financial Services Authority and transfer prudential
regulation to the  Bank of England . The rest of the FSA will
become the consumer-focused Financial Conduct Authority.  Both the government’s  Prudential Regulatory Authority  and
the FCA would have the power to publish early enforcement
warnings under the proposed rules, which would take effect
around the end of 2012 when the new regulators are established.  Consider Ramifications  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the FSA, declined to
comment.  While the coalition government expects regulators to
publish early warnings, it said the agencies will have
discretion when to do so and that they should consider the
ramifications, according to the Treasury proposal. When probes
don’t lead to a penalty, regulators will have to publish a
notice of that as well.  “Lawyers are worried about it,” said Dorian Drew, a
regulatory lawyer at Norton Rose LLP in London. “Some clients
are concerned as to its further tipping the balance in favor of
the FSA and raising concerns about fairness.”  There is generally a three- or four-month period between
when a warning notice is issued and when those who violated
rules are fined or banned, or the probe is dropped, Drew said.
The “vast majority” of cases where a warning notice is issued
result in an enforcement action, he said.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  The publication of warning notices “should be contemplated
only in exceptional circumstances,” the  British Bankers’
Association  said in an e-mailed statement. “It would be better
to speed up enforcement actions than to run the risk of harming
the reputations of firms.”  Letting the public know a firm or person is being probed
for a rule breach “will enhance consumer and industry
confidence in the new regulatory system,” the Treasury said.
Many respondents sought “a power enabling the new regulators to
disclose the fact that a warning notice has been issued.  “However, the government recognizes the need for
appropriate safeguards for this new power, given that the
publication of information of this nature could cause
reputational damage.”  Targets of FSA probes are notified before they receive a
warning notice that they’re under investigation, Drew said.  At the time a warning notice is issued, a firm wouldn’t
have had time to “set out its response to the FSA’s case,” he
said. “It may lead firms to be keener to settle at an earlier
stage to avoid the adverse publicity.”  The government is also considering whether to limit the
grounds on which PRA supervisory judgments can be appealed,
rather than allowing all decisions to be questioned, the
Treasury documents said.  “The enforcement team will need to be confident of its
position when making pre-emptive announcements,” Chakrabarti
said. “If the FCA review panel disagree with the enforcement
team too often, that will damage the credibility.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 