-- 
U.K.’s Art Fund to Boost Art Acquisitions Budget by 50%

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-13T15:14:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-k-art-fund-increases-aid-for-museums-purchases-by-50-to-11-3-million.html
The  Art Fund , a membership-based
U.K. charity that raises money for museums and galleries, today
said that it will boost its budget for art buying and showing to
7 million pounds ($11.3 million) by 2014, an increase of more
than 50 percent.  The fund’s director Stephen Deuchar also said that the
 Wolfson Foundation  had pledged 1.5 million pounds over the next
three years toward the same initiative.  Museums and galleries in the U.K. have been hit by cuts in
 government spending . They are finding it particularly difficult
to acquire new works at a time of rising art-market prices.  “You can’t just stop collecting,” Deuchar told reporters
at a news briefing in the picture gallery of the 19th-century
 Foundling Museum . “It would be rather like a theater saying it
wasn’t going to mount any new productions, or a library saying
they weren’t going to buy any more books.”  “Acquisitions are the lifeblood of museums,” he said.  Also addressing reporters was Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , a proponent of private giving to complement state subsidy.  “What you’ve done does demonstrate that philanthropy can
continue even when times are tough,” he told Deuchar.  Deuchar said the extra 2.5 million pounds announced will
come from a new fundraising campaign, from cost savings at the
Art Fund, and from sales of the revamped membership card. The
card costs 35 pounds per year per adult and gives free admission
to more than 200 charging museums as well as half-price
admission to major exhibitions.  Deuchar was previously the director of  Tate Britain .  For more information:  http://www.artfund.org .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 