-- 
U.K. Stocks Rebound From Selloff; Mining Companies, ARM Rally

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-13T12:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-k-stocks-advance-arm-holdings-reckitt-benckiser-tesco-shares-climb.html
U.K. stocks climbed, after
yesterday’s biggest drop for the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  in four weeks,
as mining companies rebounded and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported
record profit in  New York .  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s fourth-largest copper producer,
and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  both climbed more than 1 percent.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Barclays Plc led banks higher.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) 
jumped 4.8 percent as Morgan Stanley reiterated its
recommendation on the shares.  The FTSE 100 gained 1.3 percent to 6,039.47 at 1:57 p.m. in
London. The gauge tumbled 1.5 percent yesterday, led by a
selloff in mining companies, as Alcoa Inc. reported sales that
missed analysts’ estimates. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  rose 1.2
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 1.7 percent.  Xstrata rallied 1.8 percent to 1,492 pence, leading a gauge
of mining shares. Antofagasta, the owner of copper mines in
Chile, increased 1.2 percent to 1,428 pence.  Mining companies slumped yesterday by the most since
January as copper tumbled in London.  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, gained 2.2 percent to 669
pence and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advanced 2.2 percent to 310.8 pence.
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  climbed 2.3 percent to 44.8
pence.  JPMorgan, the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, posted a
67 percent increase in first-quarter profit, beating analysts’
estimates. The bank also reported a decline in provisions for
bad mortgages and credit-card loans.  ARM Shares Rally  ARM jumped 4.8 percent to 587 pence after Morgan Stanley
reiterated its “overweight” recommendation for the company.
Analysts cited an Engadget article that said Microsoft Corp.
unveiled a version of Internet Explorer 10 that ran on a 1GHz
ARM-based processor at a developer conference in Las Vegas
yesterday.  “Whilst Microsoft has only recently announced that it
would port Windows next generation on ARM, we are positively
surprised that software development is well advanced,” Francois Meunier, a London-based analyst, wrote in a report to clients
today.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  rallied 4.2 percent to 3,364
pence after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. upgraded the maker of the
Nurofen painkiller to “outperform” from “market perform.”
Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. also said recent weakness in
the shares presented a “good entry point.”  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s largest supermarket chain, gained 2.4
percent to 407.7 pence as Bernstein reiterated its
“outperform” recommendation. The retailer reports its full-
year earnings on April 19.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  gained 1.6 percent to 463.6 pence after
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research added the company to its
“most preferred” list of oil stocks.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  slid 2 percent to 166.1 pence, pacing
declining shares after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its
recommendation for Europe’s second-biggest tour operator to
“sell” from “buy.”  -- Editors: Will Hadfield, Jason Carey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  