-- 
U.K. Consumer Confidence Rises From Record Low, Nationwide Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-k-consumer-confidence-rises-from-record-low-nationwide-says.html
U.K. consumer confidence rose in
March from a record low as Britons grew more optimistic about
the outlook for the economy and spending,  Nationwide Building
Society  said.  An index of sentiment gained to 44 from a revised 39 in
February, which was the lowest since records began in 2004, the
customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. A
measure of whether now is a good time to make major purchases
climbed 13 points to 66.  U.K. unemployment fell in the quarter through February as
payrolls rose to the highest since 2009, strengthening Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s argument that the economy can withstand
the biggest government budget squeeze since World War II. Still,
with inflation at twice the Bank of England’s target and
outpacing wage growth, households are seeing their spending
power eroded at the fastest rate in more than 60 years.  “With the recovery still proving sluggish, it is unlikely
that we will see a significant improvement in the coming
months,”  Robert Gardner , chief economist at Swindon, England-
based Nationwide, said in the report. “It is far more likely
that confidence will remain subdued for several months yet until
the economy gains greater momentum.”  A gauge of consumers’ future expectations rose 9 points to
60 and an index of their view of the present situation gained 1
point to 21, the report showed. The percentage of the 1,002
people questioned for the survey who said the current economic
situation was “bad” fell to 70 percent in March from 75
percent the previous month.  ‘Welcome Change’  “While this is a welcome change in direction,” the
increase in March “failed to reverse the fall suffered in the
previous month,” Gardner said. “We will need to see a
succession of increases before we can say that confidence has
returned anywhere close to pre-recession levels.”  The  Bank of England  left its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent last week as the economic recovery
takes priority over the threat from rising prices. Policy makers
won respite from pressure to raise the rate after data on April
12 showed inflation slowed to 4 percent in March from 4.4
percent the previous month.  Gardner said the central bank may begin raising its key
rate later this year and the impact on confidence “will depend
crucially on the economic background against which they take
place as well as the size and pace of any increases.”  The Nationwide survey also showed that consumers remain
pessimistic about the housing market, expecting the value of
their home to fall by 0.9 percent over the next six months. That
compares with a predicted decline of 1.1 percent in February.  TNS-RI carried out the survey for Nationwide between Feb.
21 and March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  