-- 
U.S. Senator Durbin Sees Debt Limit Increase Tied to Deficit-Cutting Plan

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-13T18:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-senator-durbin-sees-debt-limit-increase-tied-to-deficit-cutting-plan.html
Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois,
the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat, said a vote by  Congress
to increase the nation’s legal borrowing limit is contingent on
approval of a longer-term budget plan to reduce the debt.  “It’s all wrapped up in the same package,” Durbin said,
noting that Republicans have said they won’t back the increase
without an agreement on steps to cut deficits and bring down the
debt.  Some form of debt-trimming budget blueprint must be
approved before Congress will act to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling, Durbin said at the Bloomberg Breakfast today in
 Washington . “The two are wedded,” said Durbin, his party’s
chief vote-counter in the Senate.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
President  Barack Obama  expressed openness to such an approach
today at the White House -- a break from the administration’s
recent assertions, including as recently as yesterday, that the
two issues are separate.  “We’ve made it clear to the president -- and I think the
president’s pretty serious about this as well -- that we’ve got
to take meaningful steps toward solving our long-term debt
problem if, in fact, we’re going to find the votes to increase
the debt ceiling,” Boehner told reporters after meeting with
Obama and other congressional leaders for a preview of the
president’s speech on reducing the long-term debt.  Obama’s Plan  The president today outlined a plan to bring down the
nation’s debt through cuts in entitlement and other spending and
through tax increases on high earners.  Durbin, a member of a bipartisan group of senators working
to craft its own deficit-slashing proposal, said the plan won’t
be ready before early May -- about two weeks before, the
Treasury Department has told Congress, the government is
projected to reach the debt limit. He said lawmakers should act
well before the early-July deadline when the Treasury says it
will run out of options for avoiding default.  “Even the threat of default on our debt is going to have
an impact on our economy, and I don’t think we have the luxury
of playing this out like” the debate over 2011 spending cuts,
which brought the government to within hours of a shutdown April
8, Durbin said.  While the so-called Gang of Six is working on “a set of
goals and a process” for cutting deficits, Durbin said the
group -- led by Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of  Virginia  and
Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia  -- is stuck on important details.  ‘Very Contentious’  “We still haven’t reached agreement on key elements, and
some of them are very contentious,” Durbin said.  Durbin declined to give specifics on proposals under
discussion by the Gang of Six, though he said the proposal by
the co-chairmen of Obama’s fiscal commission “has become a
template for the conversation.”  The plan offered late last year by co-chairmen Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson  would save $3.8 trillion over a decade
through a mix of entitlement cuts and tax increases. They failed
to get enough votes on the commission to forward the proposal to
Congress for a vote.  Durbin said the Gang of Six is considering changes to
Social Security to ensure its long-term solvency -- something
many Democrats, including Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada ,
have said should be omitted from deficit-cutting discussions.  Social Security Changes  “I think we have a reasonable way to deal with it,”
Durbin said, describing the approach as “different” than the
debt commission’s proposal, “but not different in terms of in
what we want to achieve.” The Bowles-Simpson proposal was to
slow future benefit growth, particularly for higher earners, and
raise the  retirement age  to 68 by 2050.  “We know how volatile this issue is,” Durbin added.  For now, Durbin said, Republicans have the upper hand in
setting the terms of the fiscal debate, based on the closely
divided Senate, where his party has a 53-47 working majority.  Republicans have strong party discipline and an influential
Tea Party strain that makes it more likely, he said, that they
would be able to persuade 13 Democrats to side with them on
budget issues than that his party would be able to win over
seven Republicans to enact its agenda.  “I don’t see a great scenario for the left in terms of
creating or reviving programs” amid record deficits, Durbin
said.  Still, the  Illinois  Democrat said his party will have
“plenty to talk about” when it comes to drawing contrasts with
Republicans such as Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , the
House Budget Committee chairman, who has proposed steep spending
cuts in a blueprint that would privatize Medicare and cap
Medicaid.  “This is going to be the centerpiece of our conversation
with the American people,” Durbin said. What Ryan “will do
ultimately to Medicare is to change it so dramatically and
increase the cost for seniors so dramatically that he threatens
its existence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at  at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  