-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  The District economy expanded solidly in late February and March.
Consumer spending rebounded in March after severe weather
limited February sales. Factory production rose sharply,
allowing manufacturers to rebuild inventories and fulfill a
surge in new orders. Residential construction remained weak, and
commercial construction rose modestly. Strong commodity prices
boosted profits at energy and agricultural enterprises. District
bankers reported weaker loan demand, higher deposits and
improvements in loan quality. Despite tighter labor markets,
especially for skilled workers, District contacts did not expect
to raise wages in order to hire new workers. More manufacturers
and distributors expected to pass through higher raw material
and fuel costs to finished goods prices, and more retailers
expected to raise selling prices in the coming months.  Consumer Spending . Consumer spending picked up following
weather-reduced sales in the last survey period. After firming
in late February and March, retailers expected sales to rise in
the next three months. Store managers noted an uptick in sales
of apparel and decorative items. One jewelry store, however,
noted that high gasoline prices were cutting disposable incomes
and trimming sales. After slowing in the last survey, auto
dealers reported robust sales, particularly for used cars, fuel
efficient vehicles, and SUVs. Dealers were optimistic that sales
would rebound further. Restaurant operators reported stronger
sales despite a continued decline in the average check amount.
Tourism activity edged up, and vacation destinations were hiring
for the summer. Colorado resorts reported the number of skiers
this season exceeded year-ago levels. Some District hoteliers
raised room rates in response to higher occupancy rates.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. District
manufacturing activity expanded rapidly and business activity
for high-tech service and transportation firms improved in late
February and March. Factory managers reported a surge in
production and shipments at both durable and non-durable goods
plants. New orders jumped in March, boosting order backlogs as
firms replenished finished goods inventories. Raw material
inventories rose with some reports of stockpiling to meet
anticipated demand and to protect against further price
increases. Expectations for future factory orders, production,
and shipments remained positive. Some manufacturers were hiring
workers, and others expanded the average work week. After
softening in the last survey period, sales rose at high-tech
service and transportation firms with further improvements
expected. Transportation companies struggled to find qualified
drivers, and some high-tech firms had difficulty filling
specialized positions, such as software developers. With brisk
demand, factories and high-tech service firms ramped up  capital
spending  and planned additional hiring.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity
remained slow with subdued growth prospects, while commercial
real estate activity stabilized with expectations for
improvement. Home building edged down since the last survey
period, and construction supply sales were below expectations.
Even with a seasonal upturn in residential home sales, the
inventory of unsold homes grew substantially as more homes were
placed on the market and real estate agents anticipated further
home price declines. Driven by less demand for refinancing,
mortgage loan activity plummeted, and builders noted the
mortgage loan approval process was taking longer. After falling
in the last survey period, commercial construction activity
picked up modestly and was expected to hold steady over the next
three months. District commercial real estate contacts reported
an uptick in sales with stable prices and rents. Office and
multifamily property leasing was particularly strong. Vacancy
rates remained elevated but were expected to move lower as
absorption rates gradually improved.  Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers reported weaker
loan demand, but also rising deposits and improvements in loan
quality. Overall loan demand decreased as demand for commercial
and industrial, residential real estate, consumer installment,
and commercial real estate loans declined. For the fifth
straight survey, credit standards remained unchanged in all
major loan categories. Deposits increased further in the recent
survey period. Bankers also reported improvements in loan
quality compared to a year ago, and they expected further
improvements over the next six months.  Agriculture. Agricultural growing conditions worsened in late
February and March, but farm income and farmland values
strengthened. Winter wheat crop conditions deteriorated further
as drought conditions in the southern Plains intensified. While
farmers are expected to plant more acres to corn and soybeans
this spring, crop prices continued to rise as robust food and
bio-fuel demand was expected to strain global supplies.
Livestock prices strengthened with rising demand and stronger
exports, preserving profits despite higher feed costs. Producers
continued to pay off loans, shrinking loan demand. Lenders,
however, expected a modest rebound in demand for farm operating
loans before spring planting and indicated ample funds were
available for qualified borrowers. Farmland prices rose further
with strong crop prices and a limited number of farms for sale.  Energy. District energy activity rose since the last survey
period with plans for further expansion in the coming months.
District contacts reported increased drilling activity, with
exploration shifting away from natural gas towards crude oil.
While many energy companies were hiring, some indicated that a
lack of qualified labor and limited availability of equipment
and services could constrain future drilling activity. Natural
gas prices held steady at the close of the winter heating season
but were expected to fall as inventory levels were considered
sufficient. Crude  oil prices  rose sharply in late February and
March, and contacts felt that political and economic instability
in some producer nations would keep prices high for the near
future. Ethanol profits held steady as rising ethanol prices
offset higher costs of corn inputs. The Bureau of Land
Management announced plans to conduct competitive lease sales of
coal land in the Powder River Basin that will provide additional
production for  Wyoming ’s coal industry.  Wages and Prices. Wages generally held steady even with expanded
hiring, and more firms planned to increase selling prices,
especially in industries where input prices have surged. Of the
companies that added staff, most were not offering higher
salaries to attract applicants. With the exception of highly
competitive or specialized positions, wage pressures were
expected to remain contained. Many District manufacturers
reported another jump in raw materials prices, and some
companies had already raised finished goods prices with more
firms planning to do so in the coming months. Several
construction suppliers and transportation companies reported
fuel and delivery surcharges were common, and higher input costs
were often being passed through to customer prices. Some
restaurants increased menu prices in reaction to higher food
costs, and some hotels raised room rates. District retailers
also expected an uptick in selling prices with stronger consumer
demand. 