-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  On balance, economic activity in the Fourth District continued
to expand at a modest pace. Manufacturers reported some
improvement in new orders and production. Information received
from retailers and auto dealers was generally positive. Freight
transport volume increased, while energy producers noted little
change in output. New home construction remains sluggish,
whereas nonresidential building showed some pickup in activity.
The demand for business and consumer credit rose slightly.  Rising payrolls were limited to the manufacturing and retail
sectors. Staffing-firm representatives noted moderate growth in
the number of new job openings, with vacancies concentrated in
health care, professional business services, and energy. Wage
pressures remain contained. Reports of elevated prices for
commodities, steel, fuel, and other raw materials were
widespread. As a result, manufacturers, retailers, and freight
carriers felt mounting pressure to pass through some of their
rising input costs to their customers.  Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicate that new
orders and production were mainly steady or up slightly during
the past six weeks. Declines were attributed to seasonal factors.
Compared to a year ago, production was generally higher, with
some of our contacts experiencing low double-digit increases.
Manufacturers have a favorable outlook, and they expect at least
modest growth during 2011. Steel producers and service centers
reported that shipping volume met or exceeded expectations, with
shipments being driven by energy-related, transportation, and
heavy equipment industries. They anticipate volume remaining at
current levels through at least the first half of this year.
District auto production dipped slightly during February on a
month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago, domestic auto
makers showed a substantial rise in production, while foreign
nameplates posted a modest decline.  A majority of our contacts indicated that capacity utilization
rates continue to trend higher but are somewhat below normal
levels. Inventories are balanced with incoming orders. Many of
the manufacturers we spoke with said that capital outlays will
be higher in the upcoming months relative to year-ago levels.
Some noted that projects delayed in 2010 will be started this
year. Others said that business conditions warranted raising
capital budgets for 2011. Prices for metal and agricultural
commodities, steel, and petroleum-based products remain elevated.
Many of our contacts reported passing rising input costs through
to their customers. A few manufacturers commented that they
expect steel prices to begin falling back during the second half
of this year. The pace of hiring among manufacturers has picked
up since our last report; however, several contacts said that
they are using temporary workers instead of creating new
positions. Wage pressures are generally contained, with some
companies planning to reinstate merit increases.  Real Estate. Although new  home construction  remained overall at
a low level, a few general contractors noted a pick up in
traffic and sales. Purchases were mainly in the move-up
buyer categories. Little change in sales was noted on a year-
over-year basis. Home builders expressed somewhat more of an
optimistic outlook than during the past several months, which
they attributed to seasonal factors and slightly better-than-
expected activity during February. List prices and discounting
of new homes have held steady since our last report, while some
upward pressure on the cost of building materials was reported.
Little movement was seen in land positions or spec inventories.
A few builders said they want to construct more spec houses, but
they are unable to obtain financing. We heard many reports of
subcontractors struggling to stay in business, while general
contractors continue to work with lean crews. No hiring is
expected in the near term.  Activity in nonresidential construction is being driven
primarily by healthcare projects, and to a lesser degree, by
manufacturing and energy. Information on current business
conditions varied widely, though a number of high-end projects
(greater than $100 million) are now entering the construction
phase, after several years of planning. Most of our contacts
expect that activity will slowly improve as the year progresses.
Two builders noted that banks must loosen credit restrictions in
order for projects to move into the construction phase. Another
builder said that some of his manufacturing clients have the
cash, but there is no sense of urgency on their part to begin
construction. We heard widespread reports of increased prices
for building materials, particularly steel and petroleum-based
components. Contractors are absorbing these rising costs in
their margins. Other than seasonal employment, general
contractors held payrolls steady, and they do not expect any new
permanent hiring in the upcoming months.  Consumer Spending . Reports from retailers indicate that sales
for the period from mid-February through mid-March were
generally on or ahead of plan, and were mostly higher relative
to year-ago levels. Sales of warm-weather apparel and
recreational products have picked up. A few of our contacts
reported that the low- to mid-market segments still face
considerable stress. For the second quarter of 2011, retailers
expect transactions to rise on a year-over-year basis, with
several anticipating low to mid-single digit gains. We continued
to hear about increasing prices from vendors, which were
primarily attributed to a rise in the cost of agricultural
commodities. Accordingly, some retailers have raised their
prices, especially for food products. Profit margins were
generally steady or showed a slight improvement.  Capital
spending  is mainly for store remodeling, new store openings, and
e-business expansion, with a corresponding increase in payrolls.
No change in employment is expected at existing stores.  Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales improved between
mid-February and mid-March when compared to the prior 30-day
period, while on a year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases rose
substantially for most of our contacts. Several noted that they
are beginning to see a pickup in sales of more fuel-efficient
cars. Dealers expressed concern about a potential slowdown in
the pace of the recovery. As a result, they are more cautious in
their outlook for vehicle purchases during the spring and summer
months. A majority of our contacts said that new- and used-
vehicle inventories are too lean. Used-vehicle prices are
trending up. Reports about lenders loosening credit requirements
were fairly widespread, with credit prices remaining very
competitive. Dealers are waiting for more details from
automakers before committing to major capital investments in
their facilities. However, several of our contacts said that
they are currently undertaking some minor upgrades. Most auto
dealers are beginning to hire on a selective basis.  Banking. Bankers reported that demand for business loans grew at
a modest pace since our last survey. Although demand was
characterized as broad-based, some bankers commented that
applications were strongest from health-care providers and
energy companies. On the consumer side, a majority of our
contacts indicated that credit demand has picked up slightly,
primarily for vehicle purchases (direct and indirect) and home
equity lines of credit.  Interest rates  for business and consumer
credit were stable, but competitive. Demand in the residential
mortgage market is mainly for refinancings, although
applications have slowed due to rising interest rates. Core
deposits continue to grow, but at a lower rate, with almost all
growth occurring in nonmaturing products. Credit standards were
unchanged. The credit quality of businesses and consumer
applicants was characterized as stable or improving, while
delinquency rates were steady or trending down across most
portfolios. Staffing levels have shown little change during the
past few weeks, and only selective hiring is expected during
2011.  Energy. Reports indicate that oil and gas output from
conventional wells was fairly steady during the past six weeks,
with little change expected in the near term. Spot prices for
natural gas were steady to trending down, while wellhead prices
paid to independent oil producers showed a modest increase. Coal
production was stable to moderately lower since our last report,
with little change anticipated in the near term. Coal prices
held steady. We heard widespread reports of increased costs for
 diesel fuel  and other equipment and materials used in coal
production. Energy payrolls are expected to remain at current
levels.  Transportation. Freight transport executives reported that
shipping volume rose from early February through mid-March,
after a greater-than-expected seasonal decline during January.
Two of our contacts noted that they are seeing a slight pickup
in shipments of residential construction materials. Looking
ahead, carriers expect that markets will continue to recover.
The price for diesel fuel remains elevated, with most of the
increase being passed through to customers via surcharges. We
also heard about rising prices for tires and packaging materials.
One executive said that he plans to increase his shipping prices
as customer contracts come up for renewal. Capital outlays are
expected to rise modestly during 2011 to replace aging equipment.
Little capacity expansion is expected. Hiring has been for
replacement and seasonal work. Slight wage pressures are
emerging due to a tightening of the driver pool. 