-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  Overview. Fifth District economic activity generally improved
since our last report. Manufacturers’ new orders rose and port
activity picked up, with raw commodities helping to drive
exports. Bank officials reported some increased volume in
commercial loan demand, as business clients restarted projects
that had been put on hold. Revenue growth among non-retail
services firms was more widespread in recent weeks, with notable
increases in demand for freight trucking and tourism-related
services. Residential real estate markets edged up, especially
for homes in the lower price range. Commercial leasing improved
somewhat. District labor markets picked up, particularly for
temporary workers in automotive and other manufacturing sectors.
On the other hand, commercial construction remained weak and
retail contacts reported soft sales. Input price growth
continued to pick up in both manufacturing and services sectors
and we heard concerns about the availability of raw materials.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity continued to expand at a
solid pace in March. An auto-parts supplier said that orders at
his plant had increased beyond available capacity and he
indicated that lead times had increased due to the scarcity of
materials. He mentioned that levels of inventories were much
lower than desired, and in some cases were nonexistent, causing
backlogs of orders for both aftermarket and service parts.
Similarly, a packaging manufacturer told us that vendor delay in
selected raw materials had affected his company, and he
described transportation costs as a growing worry. A
manufacturer of dental equipment reported an increase in
business throughout his company; he noted that the gains
included existing and new accounts. In contrast, several
manufacturers who supply products to federal government agencies
attributed the lack of new contracts to the uncertainties
surrounding the budget for fiscal year 2011, but they expected
that business would return to normal once the federal spending
issues are resolved. Several textile contacts reported that
uncertainty in their raw material markets, exacerbated by the
turmoil in the Middle East, had caused prices in petroleum-based
products to escalate. More broadly, raw materials prices
continued to move higher, according to our latest survey.  Port-related activity in the District advanced at a moderate
pace, although several contacts noted that the pace of expansion
was slower than a year ago. Exports of raw commodities remained
robust, with exports outpacing imports at most ports. One
official reported strong export demand for break freight (e.g.,
autos and construction equipment), as well as soy beans, scrap
metal, paper, and refrigerated commodities. Another port contact
stated that the number of freighters waiting to enter to port to
load--mostly coal and grains--was the highest he had seen in
years. High freight capacity kept shipping rates down, according
to one shipper, but fuel costs were becoming a serious concern,
even when those costs could be passed along. Both truck and rail
have benefited from increased intermodal freight coming through
the ports, according most contacts, but the fuel-cost advantage
of rail has given that mode an edge over trucking.  Retail. District retail sales remained anemic in recent weeks. A
store manager at a discount chain department store in central
North Carolina noted, ―Sales petered out after early tax refunds
were spent,‖ while the store manager at another discount chain
store in  Virginia Beach  said sales were ―slow but steady.‖
Suppliers’ prices rose rapidly for cotton and petroleum-based
fabrics. At a Maryland mall, a department store manager told us
that rising cotton prices were ―a big deal,‖ preventing
acquisition of inventory such as clothing, sheets, and towels.
An analyst for a major hardware store chain stated that sales
were ―a little better,‖ with shoppers spending more but not on
major home improvements. Big-ticket sales weakened, according to
surveyed contacts, primarily in wholesale construction materials
and furniture. Vehicle sales were generally sluggish or
unchanged; a dealer in the Tidewater area of Virginia reported
―sales have been stagnant.‖ Another dealer reported that he was
facing restrictions on ordering certain car colors, because
those paints come from  Japan ; he also noted availability
problems with car components originating in Japan. Retail prices
rose at a slightly quicker pace in recent weeks; a large grocer
indicated that his wholesale price increases were being passed
through to consumers.  Services. Revenues grew more rapidly at services-providing
establishments since our last report. CPAs and tax-preparation
services reported strong seasonal demand. Internet service
businesses, as well as travel-related services providers, also
noted higher revenues. A contact at a building maintenance firm
cited a recent uptick in modernization spending, especially
among large hotels, causing increased backlogs at his company.
Healthcare contacts indicated that demand for their services was
generally unchanged in recent weeks, as did business-to-business
services such as management consultants. An exception was
freight trucking; contacts with a nationwide presence stated
that business was strengthening and that they were doing some
hiring. The pace of price increases in the sector edged up,
according to survey responses.  Finance. Banking activity picked up across the District. Most
bank officials whom we contacted noted a marked increase in
interest from business clients, often to restart projects that
had been delayed over the past two years. Several bankers also
reported that their lending had grown from weak levels at the
end of last year. A  Virginia  banker stated that consumer demand,
while still quite soft, had improved, while a Richmond banker in
a relatively affluent neighborhood cited a spike in equity line
usage (often to be used for pre-sale home renovations). Most
commercial bankers reported that small business lending had
strengthened somewhat, with much of the funds going to equipment
upgrades and plant expansions. A bank official in  West Virginia 
reported that auto dealer inventory financing increased, but
overall the bank’s loan pipeline was slack and he was
unenthusiastic about loan demand in general. Reports on mortgage
lending activity were mixed.  Real Estate. Real estate activity edged up since our last report.
Several Realtors indicated that sales were picking up gradually
and that markets were more active than a year ago when tax
credit programs were still in place. Most contacts indicated
that sales in the low-price range fared much better than sales
in the upper ranges. In contrast, an agent in the D.C. area
stated that sales in the $700 thousand to $900 thousand price
range increased over 80 percent, and sales in the one-million-
plus price range were up over 100 percent. While most Realtors
indicated that that they had not seen any change in the
proportion of distressed sales, a contact in Greensboro, North
Carolina noticed an increase in foreclosures and an agent in
Fredericksburg mentioned that short sales were still about 50
percent of that market. Realtors throughout the District noted
an increase in foot traffic, but sale price movements varied.
Real estate agents in the D.C. and Greenville,  South Carolina 
areas stated that prices held steady, while a contact in
Greensboro said prices were soft. In contrast, an agent in
Fredericksburg, Virginia reported that sales prices rose about
10 percent over last year, and an agent in the D.C. area
reported upward price momentum due to lower inventory. He noted
that properties in top condition and priced at market were
selling quickly and that recent sales were generating four to
five offers at full price and above.  Commercial real estate activity improved somewhat since our last
assessment. A Richmond Realtor reported a substantial increase
in office leasing (both new and renewals), and the industrial
sector experienced moderate improvements in absorption, while
leasing of retail space held steady. In South Carolina, a
contact noted that a vacant plant in a distressed industrial
area had been sold to a local import business. Additionally, an
economic developer for the area stated that commercial permit
activity was increasing both in terms of volume and amounts.
However, foreclosed properties were still an issue in  Maryland ,
according to a contact there, while another source remarked that
available financing for projects continued to be a problem in
the Carolinas. Construction activity was little changed over the
last several months, according to a survey of construction
contractors in the District, although the few reports of at
least some gain in activity slightly outnumbered reports of
declines. Most contractors reported cost increases in a wide
variety of commodities, but, compared to a similar survey at the
end of last year, a greater number were able to pass through the
increases.  Labor Markets. Labor markets generally strengthened across most
sectors in the Fifth District, with the exception of
construction and retail. Several employment agencies reported
somewhat stronger demand for temporary help in recent weeks,
particularly in automotive and other manufacturing sectors. The
branch manager of a temp agency in Raleigh and an agent in
Hickory,  North Carolina  reported an increase in demand for
skilled workers for the manufacturing and automotive industries.
In  Charlotte , North Carolina, an employment agent indicated that
hiring was on the rebound and that his firm would soon add
internal recruiters and account managers. Most recruiters
expected rising demand for employees over the next six months.
However, many contacts mentioned that skill levels of applicants
often fell short, despite recent government actions to improve
education and training for displaced workers. According to our
latest survey, wages in the retail sector increased on average,
although gains were somewhat less widespread than in our last
report; the pace of wage increases picked up at services firms.  Tourism. District hotels, including resorts, reported an uptick
in bookings for April, as well as strong advance bookings for
the summer vacation season. The manager of a resort hotel in the
North Carolina Piedmont region expected a good summer season,
and he indicated April bookings were up slightly year-over-year.
Our contact at a resort in western Virginia reported an increase
in dollar volume, year-over-year. He said, ―‛Staycations’ are
here for the long-haul,‖ with many of his advance-booked leisure
guests coming from within a day’s drive. A contact on the North
Carolina Outer Banks reported that rentals were up in most
categories for the summer ahead, and good spring weather had
boosted April cottage rentals. She stated that people seemed to
be feeling a little better about the economy and were focusing
on spending time with family. A Washington, DC contact reported
that early attendance at this year’s Cherry Blossom Festival was
above average and that cooler temperatures meant that blooms
would last longer, giving visitors more opportunity to enjoy the
cherry trees in bloom. 