-- 
U.S. Stocks Gain Amid Optimism Economy Can Weather Budget Cuts

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-13T21:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-alcoa-google-climb-in-europe.html
U.S. stocks rose, halting the
longest Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slump since November, as a
Federal Reserve report fueled optimism the economy can weather
President Barack Obama’s plan to cut spending and raise taxes.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  led gains in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  as the Fed said most of its districts
reported improvements in the economy were widespread across
sectors.  Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD)  soared 12 percent as the
computer networking company’s profit beat analyst estimates.
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  dropped at least 2.5
percent as Obama proposed cutting $400 billion from the
Pentagon’s budget through 2023.  The S&P 500 snapped a four-day slump, rising less than 0.1
percent to 1,314.41 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The Dow average
increased 7.41 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,270.99 today.
Benchmark indexes fell earlier as details of Obama’s plan
emerged, then turned higher after the Fed’s Beige Book said the
economy and labor markets improved.  “The economy is in good shape,” said Kevin Caron, a
market strategist in Florham Park,  New Jersey , at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., which had about $110 billion in client assets.
“The evidence of the last few years has been that whenever the
government leads in spending money, the private sector
follows.”  Government Stimulus  The  S&P 500  has risen 4.5 percent in 2011, extending last
year’s 13 percent gain, amid government stimulus measures and
higher-than-estimated corporate profits. The index has surged 26
percent since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s suggested on Aug.
27 that he would pursue a second round of asset purchases to
stimulate the economy, a tactic known as quantitative easing.  Obama, presenting his second plan in as many months to
reduce the nation’s long-term debt today, vowed to cut $4
trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases.  Equities began reversing losses after the Fed said the
economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of the U.S.
in February and March, led by manufacturing, with labor markets
showing improvements in most regions.  “While many districts described the improvements as only
moderate, most districts stated that gains were widespread
across sectors,” the Fed said today in its Beige Book report.
While higher commodity costs compelled sellers to try to raise
prices, pressures to increase wages were “weak or subdued.”  Retail Sales  Earlier gains in stocks today came as sales at U.S.
retailers in March indicated the improving job market is helping
Americans cope with higher costs for fuel and food. Purchases
increased 0.4 percent following a 1.1 percent February gain that
was larger than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed. The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 0.5 percent rise. Sales excluding
automobiles and gasoline advanced more than projected.  “The tide is still a tide towards normalcy as far as the
economy goes,” said  David Kelly , who helps oversee $405 billion
as chief market strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York.
“Consumers have a lot more energy than people thought. We’re
going to see more positive than negative surprises. Same goes
for a steady improvement in corporate profits.” A gauge of
consumer and apparel companies in the S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent,
the biggest gain within 24 industries.  Apparel Companies Rally  Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. maker of luxury leather
handbags, added 3.6 percent to $53.97. Nike Inc., the world’s
largest sporting goods company, rose 1.6 percent to $79.41.  Riverbed Technology soared 12 percent to $34.74. The
computer networking technology company said that, excluding some
items, it earned at least 19 cents a share in the first quarter.
That topped the average analyst estimate of 18 cents in a
Bloomberg survey.  GameStop Corp. (GME)  rose 6.6 percent to $25.36, the biggest
advance in the S&P 500. The world’s largest video-game retailer
is facing a digital transition similar to one undertaken by
Netflix Inc., according to  Tony Wible , an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC. Wible cited 10 reasons to buy the company,
including increased number of users, digital investments and new
game systems.  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  rallied 8.6 percent to $13.70,
the most in the Russell 1000 Index. The casino company founded
by billionaire  Kirk Kerkorian  will gain control over its Macau
joint venture through steps including an initial public offering
of some shares held by partner  Pansy Ho .  Military Contractors  Military contractors declined as President Obama proposed
to cut $400 billion from current and future defense spending.
Lockheed Martin dropped 2.6 percent to $78.31. Raytheon slipped
2.9 percent to $48.68.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  fell 1.5 percent
to $71.81.  For-profit education stocks dropped as Democrats in
Congress agreed to cut Pell grants for students in summer
school. “Although the maximum Pell Grant amount is unchanged at
$5,550, Congress is about to end year-round Pell Grants,” wrote
Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., in an e-
mail.  Strayer Education Inc. (STRA)  slumped 7.1 percent to $124.38, the
biggest decline in the Russell 1000 Index.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) 
retreated 3 percent to $39.88.  Banks had the biggest decline in the S&P 500 within 24
industries, slumping 1.7 percent as a group, as regulators said
the 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers must pay back homeowners
of botched foreclosures.  Pay Back  The 14 largest U.S. mortgage servicers must pay back
homeowners for losses from foreclosures or loans that were
mishandled in the wake of the housing collapse, according to a
consent decree released today. The agreement between the
servicers and U.S. regulators imposes more substantial penalties
than early reports of the deal indicated. It could also help the
U.S. Justice Department determine the size and scope of any
future fines for the flawed practices, regulators said.  The banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , agreed in the settlement to conduct a review of all loans
that went into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010. They also agreed to
improve their foreclosure, loan modification and refinancing
procedures.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. fell 0.8 percent to $46.25, reversing
an earlier rally triggered by higher-than-forecast earnings, as
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  signaled the lender will not
boost dividends in the next couple of quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  