-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the
past six weeks. Energy activity remained strong, refining
activity picked up, and demand was strong for most petrochemical
products. Reports from the manufacturing and non-financial
service sectors were mostly positive. Financial services firms
noted a slight improvement in loan demand. Conditions continued
improving in the commercial real estate leasing market, and
apartment demand was strong. The single-family housing sector
remained weak however, and widening drought conditions were
reported in the agricultural sector. Many responding firms
across a wide variety of industries noted uncertainty about
events in Japan and the Middle East, and some voiced concerns
about shortages of parts in the near-term. Since the last report,
price pressures increased, and there were more reports of hiring
activity.  Prices Price pressures continued to build since the last report.
Many responding firms said high fuel prices were causing their
input costs to rise, and contacts in the lumber and
transportation services industries increased selling prices in
response. Some manufacturers noted steel prices had risen, and
most construction respondents said metal and petroleum based
products, such as rebar, copper and asphalt had increased in
price. In the service sector, airline fares were up
significantly due to increases in the price of  jet fuel . Legal
contacts noted slight increases in billing rates, and retailers
continued to report upticks in food prices.  The price of crude oil rose from $85 per barrel in mid-February
to over $100 per barrel in late March. Natural  gas prices 
receded early in the reporting period as cold weather subsided,
but strengthened again to over $4 per Mcf at the end of March,
due to geopolitical uncertainties and rising crude  oil prices .
Prices for most petrochemical products increased since the last
report, according to respondents.  Labor Market There were increased reports of hiring activity
compared with the previous reporting period. Staffing firms
continued to note strong demand and were hiring for their own
needs at a stronger pace than in the last report. Some
transportation, food and primary metals manufacturers reported
employment increases. A few contacts in the auto sales, railroad
and airline sectors also noted a rise in hiring activity. Wage
pressures were minimal, although some fabricated metals contacts
were considering increases.  Manufacturing Demand for construction-related products improved
slightly, according to most contacts. Even after accounting for
pent-up demand following bad weather in early February, cement,
glass and primary metals firms and some lumber manufacturers
reported some increase in activity. Apartment construction,
residential repair and remodeling, and custom commercial
projects were said to be driving the uptick. Fabricated metals
producers said orders rose, but at a slightly slower pace. While
overall activity is at low levels, most construction-related
manufacturers’ outlooks were more optimistic than they were six
weeks ago, although there were some concerns regarding recent
world events.  High-tech manufacturing firms said the fallout from the ongoing
natural disaster in  Japan  was the major factor impacting the
industry since the last report. Contacts that ship a significant
share of output to Japanese factories noted their profits will
be negatively impacted, particularly in the first and second
quarters of this year. One respondent estimated that shipments
coming from at least one factory in Japan may not return to
normal until September. Other than events in Japan, most firms
said that conditions were stable.  Paper manufacturers said demand had mostly recovered from the
slump due to bad weather in January and February. Most firms
said demand was stable or improved. Expectations are mostly for
stable to improved demand over the next several months, although
the longer-term outlook is more uncertain. Manufacturers of
transportation equipment said demand was unchanged from the
previous report. Outlooks remain cautiously optimistic, although
some contacts noted concern about rising fuel costs and global
uncertainties. Food manufacturers said orders rose at a moderate
pace, and the outlook for sales was positive.  Eleventh District petrochemical producers said domestic demand
remained strong for plastics such as polyethylene and
polypropylene. Still, higher U.S. prices for some petrochemicals
have made exports less attractive. The major exception is PVC
which is used in construction, as ample supplies and competitive
prices due to low domestic demand have kept exports solid.
Refiners said activity had picked up since the last report, with
stronger demand for gasoline and oil products.  Refinery margins rose despite the increase in crude prices.
Retail Sales Eleventh District retail sales rebounded from
weather-related sluggishness in the previous reporting period
and grew modestly compared to the prior year. Home furnishings
sales benefitted from strong seasonal trends. According to one
large retailer, the  Eleventh District continues to grow at a stronger pace than the
nation, on average. Expectations are for a modest improvement in
2011 over 2010.
Automobile sales continued to improve; however, respondents note
concern over potential supply chain disruptions due to the
ongoing natural disaster and nuclear calamities in Japan. Aside
from these concerns, automobile dealers reported a favorable
outlook for the balance of 2011 due to strong foot traffic
consisting of high-quality customers.  Services Staffing firms said demand held steady at high levels.
Strength remains broad-based, with particularly strong demand
coming from the steel, oil, customer service, IT and
professional industries. All contacts had positive outlooks and
expect continued strength in 2011.  Demand for accounting services increased since the last report,
as is typical for this time of year. One large firm noted that
activity picked up noticeably for transactional business and
mergers and acquisitions services. Continued improvement in
business has reduced the pressure to keep fees low. Legal
contacts noted mostly steady demand, with some strength in
corporate services.  Reports from transportation services contacts were mixed, but
mostly positive. Intermodal transportation firms noted cargo
volumes declined due to weaker demand from international clients.
Railroad shipments increased moderately, with particularly
strong volume growth in ores, motor vehicles, petroleum products
and industrial construction materials. Container trade volumes
flattened over the reporting period. Airlines reported continued
steady traffic, although contacts noted that fare increases
stemming from higher fuel costs could slow bookings. Most
transportation services respondents were optimistic in their
outlooks and expect growth in demand this year.  Construction and Real Estate Eleventh District housing activity
remains weak, and contacts expect more of the same in the coming
months. Outlooks for the second half of the year were slightly
more upbeat. Respondents said the first-time homebuyer market
continues to deteriorate, but some realtors and builders said
higher-end homes sales had increased modestly.  Apartment demand accelerated since the last survey, and contacts
said occupancy rates were improving and rental rates were rising.
While construction activity is picking up, demand continues to
outpace supply suggesting conditions will continue to improve in
the near-term.  Office and industrial leasing activity picked up slightly since
the last report. With construction of office buildings and
warehouses at very low levels, contacts say the modest
acceleration in demand for space is likely to have a positive
impact on vacancy rates this year. Sales of commercial property
remained at low levels, although contacts noted a small uptick
in sales of foreclosures and distressed properties.  Financial Services Financial firms reported a slight improvement
in overall loan demand. National banks reported some pickup in
commercial and industrial (C&I) loan demand with increased
corporate activity, while they continue to see weakness in
commercial real estate (CRE). Regional banks noted that loan
demand remains pretty flat, although there was a small increase
in optimism regarding homebuilding and some CRE lending at the
community-bank level. Most contacts said loan pricing remains
aggressive amidst a highly competitive lending landscape.
Outlooks are gradually improving in light of better outstanding
loan quality and continued slow progress in lending conditions.  Energy Drilling activity remained strong in  Texas  since the last
report, with the state accounting for much of the increase in
the U.S. rig count. The trend toward more oil-directed drilling
continues. Although fewer rigs are directed to natural gas,
those drilling for gas provide high levels of activity for
service companies according to respondents. Contacts noted
growing backlogs for horizontal drilling equipment and for crews
used for both oil and natural gas activity.  Agriculture Drought conditions became more widespread in March,
covering more than 90 percent of the district. Hay production
was down and wheat and oat crop conditions were poor. The lack
of soil moisture is a large concern for spring crops, although
planting was underway and mostly on schedule. Demand for
agricultural products remained strong. Commodity and beef prices
generally moved up, with scattered reports of rising food prices
at the retail level. Input costs such as fuel, fertilizer and
feed have risen, pushing up the cost of crop and livestock
production. 