-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  The Ninth District economy expanded moderately since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, commercial construction and real estate, manufacturing,
energy and mining, and agriculture. The services sector was
mixed, and residential construction and real estate activity
decreased. Labor markets continued to show signs of
strengthening, while wage increases remained subdued. Retail
price increases were modest, but price pressures for inputs
continued.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased. A major Minneapolis-based retailer
reported that same-store sales in February were up almost 2
percent compared with a year earlier. A mall manager in North
Dakota reported that recent sales were up slightly from a year
ago. A representative of a retailers association expects
restaurant growth during 2011 in Sioux Falls, S.D. However,
retailers noted that March sales may finish lower than March
2010 sales due to the late Easter holiday.
A representative of a Montana auto dealers association reported
improving sales; gas prices were not yet a factor in buying
decisions. Recent  North Dakota  vehicle sales were healthy, and
dealers were optimistic about 2011, according to an auto dealers
association. A domestic auto dealer in Minnesota said that March
sales were ―excellent.‖  Late-winter tourism activity was up from a year ago. A chamber
of commerce representative reported that late-winter
snowmobiling and cross country skiing were strong in
northwestern  Wisconsin . A Minnesota ski resort noted that
February and March activity was up about 8 percent from last
year. Several Montana ski areas extended their seasons due to
deep snowpack.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased slightly. March
industrial and office permits increased in value in Sioux Falls,
from a year earlier, but other commercial permits decreased; a
large hotel is under construction in the city’s downtown.
Commercial contractors in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area said
activity increased recently, particularly for industrial and
medical facilities. Residential construction decreased for the
most part. The value of March residential permits in
Minneapolis-St. Paul fell 52 percent from a year earlier; in
 Sioux Falls  they fell 26 percent. However, an unanticipated
increase in multifamily construction was noted, with several
multifamily projects under way in Sioux Falls and Minneapolis.  Commercial real estate markets improved slightly. Office and
industrial vacancy rates fell in Fargo, N.D., according to a
commercial developer there. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, a
commercial real estate firm noted that vacancy for high-quality
 office space  went down, but demand for lower-quality office
space remained weak; retail, hotel and industrial vacancies are
expected to decrease slightly from currently high levels.
Residential real estate was slow. Home sales in late March in
Minneapolis-St. Paul were almost 17 percent below year-earlier
levels; median sales prices fell, and inventories increased
slightly. A real estate broker in Fargo said the market there
was stable. In contrast, the market for rental housing in
Minneapolis-St. Paul picked up. Interest in vacation homes in
northern  Minnesota  has increased, according to a contact there.  Services  Professional business services firms reported mixed demand since
the last report. A web development consulting firm noted
increased demand for online marketing services. A logistics
consulting company noted an increase in demand due to companies
adjusting to the disruptions caused by the disaster in Japan.
However, a contact from a mortgage servicer noted reduced
refinancing activity.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing output was up since the last report. An April
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha,
Neb.) showed increases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota,
South Dakota, and North Dakota. A consulting firm recently
released a survey of 400 Minnesota manufacturing companies,
which indicated that 51 percent expect increased sales in 2011
compared with 2010. A tractor maker is expanding into a
Minnesota facility. A circuit board producer plans to expand in
South Dakota. However, in North Dakota, an electronic components
plant plans to close. Surprisingly, 41 percent of manufacturing
respondents to a late March ad hoc survey by the  Minneapolis Fed 
indicated they were somewhat unfavorably impacted by the
disaster in  Japan . One contact noted that plastic resin
shipments from Japan have been delayed.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the
last report. Late-March oil exploration activity increased from
mid-February. Construction of a $140 million geothermal energy
project was approved at a Montana mine site. Iron ore mines in
northern Minnesota were operating at full capacity, with
expectations that 2011 production will be the highest in more
than 10 years. Montana mines were operating at near capacity.  Agriculture  District agricultural producers continued to enjoy strong
conditions, in spite of wet weather and spring flooding. Prices
for most District agricultural commodities increased since the
last report, including wheat, cattle, hogs, poultry, and dairy
products. District farmers are expected to increase plantings of
wheat and corn in 2011, while plantings of soybeans are expected
to decrease slightly. However, some farmers have delayed
plantings due to the wet conditions.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets continued to show signs of strengthening. In
Minnesota, a data storage company recently noted that it might
hire as many as 300 workers this year, and a power generation
company expects to hire 90 employees. A manager at a  South
Dakota  mall noticed more job openings than usual. According to a
survey by an employment services firm, 13 percent of respondents
in Minneapolis-St. Paul expect to increase staffing levels
during the second quarter, while 6 percent expect to decrease
staff. Minnesota initial claims for  unemployment insurance  were
down 22 percent compared with a year ago. In contrast, a
Minnesota-based medical device company reported plans to cut as
many as 2,000 workers companywide, and a Minnesota-based
computer manufacturer will lay off 600 to 900 workers
companywide.  Wage increases remained subdued. Manufacturing wages in District
states were up slightly in February compared with a year earlier.
Retail price increases were modest, but price pressures for
inputs continued. According to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc
survey, 25 percent of respondents increased prices for their
final goods and services during the past six weeks, while 53
percent noted increased input prices. Minnesota gasoline prices
at the end of March were about the same as in mid-February, but
were 75 cents per gallon higher than a year ago. While a number
of metals prices remained well above year-ago levels, some
prices decreased slightly since the last report. In Minnesota, a
chamber of commerce representative noted that a surprising
number of businesses took advantage of lower commodity prices
last year to negotiate deals that provided at least short-run
protection. 