-- 
U.S. Missiles Strike Pakistan Border Area as Relations Sour Over CIA Role

-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-04-13T13:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-missiles-strike-in-northern-pakistan-as-relations-sour-over-cia-role.html
U.S. missiles struck near a
Pakistani village on the border with  Afghanistan , days after
Pakistan’s army leadership reportedly pressed the Obama
administration to reduce attacks by remotely piloted aircraft.  “Missiles were fired by a U.S. drone at Baghar  China ,” a
hamlet in Pakistan’s South Waziristan district, Tariq Hayat Khan,
the secretary of law and order for Pakistan’s tribal zone, said
by phone from the territory’s headquarters in  Peshawar . A local
resident, Ilyas Khan Wazir, confirmed an attack in a phone
interview, saying he heard explosions.  The strike was the first since Pakistan’s intelligence
chief, army Lieutenant General Ahmed Shuja Pasha, pressed the
U.S. for changes in drone attacks and other Central Intelligence
Agency activities in Pakistan during meetings April 11 in
 Washington , according to unidentified U.S. and Pakistani
officials cited by the New York Times.  Tensions between the CIA and Pakistan’s Inter-Services
Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, have risen since Jan. 27, when
a security contractor for the CIA shot and killed two armed
Pakistanis he said were trying to rob him. Raymond Davis,
released March 16 after the payment of compensation to the dead
men’s families and threats by U.S. legislators to halt American
aid, was one of an unconfirmed number of CIA contractors in the
country.  Pakistan’s ISI has seen an increased CIA network in the
country as a threat, said  Talat Masood , a political and security
analyst in the capital, Islamabad.  CIA Acting ‘Independently’  For the first time in the relationship between the two
intelligence agencies involved in the fight against Islamic
militant groups, the CIA “is trying to penetrate into Pakistan
and influence events independently of ISI,” said Masood, a
retired army lieutenant general who maintains contact with
senior Pakistani officers. “This, for ISI, is a break of
partnership and breach of Pakistan sovereignty and breach of
confidence,” Masood said in a phone interview.  On Monday, Pasha met with CIA director Leon Panetta and
Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
to demand that the CIA give ISI more information about
intelligence operations it has been conducting in  Pakistan  on
its own, the Times said citing unidentified Pakistani and U.S.
officials.  “ISI wants CIA to go back to fundamentals and readjust
their strategy,” Masood said of the Pakistani demands. “I
think that will happen because they both need each other. I see
fewer drone attacks right now,” he said.  U.S. government officials refuse to confirm or discuss the
 six-year-old  program of drone attacks in Pakistan, which have
targeted the Taliban, al-Qaeda and allied militants, while also
killing civilians.  Calls by Pakistani politicians to restrict the attacks
intensified after a March 17 attack that Pakistani officials
said killed between 26 and 35 people in the district of North
Waziristan, which the U.S. says is a haven for Taliban and al-
Qaeda militants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anwar Shakir at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  