-- 
U.S. Targets Computer Network Used in ‘Massive’ Hacker Fraud

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-04-14T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-seeks-to-disable-harmful-international-computer-network.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  said it
disabled a “massive fraud scheme” that infected more than
2 million computers worldwide with malicious software.  The department filed a civil complaint, criminal seizure
warrants and issued a temporary restraining order in coordinated
action with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which issued a software  patch  April
12 to correct a vulnerability in its  Windows operating system .
The vulnerability allowed the software to spread from one
computer to another creating a so-called botnet.  The action was aimed at software called Coreflood, which
collects passwords and financial information that was used by
criminals, the Justice Department said in a statement yesterday.
The group of computers infected with Coreflood, known as the
Coreflood botnet, is suspected by the U.S. of operating for
almost a decade and infecting more than 1.8 million computers in
the U.S. alone.  “The scale of the botnet is huge,” said Don Jackson, the
director of intelligence at  Dell Secureworks , a cyber security
firm that said it first discovered Coreflood. “The scale of the
operation itself, in terms of the core team, is very small and
very close-knit.”  People in  Russia   The company, based in Atlanta, concluded that the botnet is
controlled by as few as three people in Russia, Jackson said.
The hackers specifically targeted corporations, downloading
private e-mails and confidential financial data, he said.  “Botnets and the cyber criminals who deploy them
jeopardize the economic security of the United States and the
dependability of the nation’s information infrastructure,”
Shawn Henry, executive assistant director of the FBI’s Criminal,
Cyber, Response and Services Branch, said in the statement  The U.S. attorney in Connecticut filed a civil complaint
against 13 unidentified defendants known as John Does, alleging
 wire fraud , bank fraud and international interception of
electronic communications, according to the statement.
Authorities also obtained search warrants for computer servers
and a seizure warrant for 29 domain names.  The complaint alleges that some of the  John Does  are the
owners of Coreflood domains, the computer addresses that are
used by the botnet to issue instructions and extract the data.
 Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment on 13 civil defendants’ country of origin.  Bank Transfers  The stolen information was used to make bank transfers in
some cases of hundreds of thousands of dollars, the Justice
Department said. Thieves attempted to transfer more than
$934,000 from an unnamed defense contracting company in
 Tennessee  in one case. They removed $78,421 from the bank
account of an unidentified law firm in  South Carolina  and
$115,771 from an unidentified real estate company in  Michigan ,
according to court papers.  Americans are believed to have lost millions of dollars in
the scheme, according to an FBI official who spoke on condition
of anonymity because the criminal investigation remains open.
Authorities were unable to tally how much money was stolen “due
in part to the large number of infected computers and the
quantity of stolen data,” according to court documents.  Botnet Control  The operation to shut down Coreflood is the first time U.S.
law enforcement has seized control over a botnet and used that
authority to send instructions to computers belonging to
victims, according to court papers.  In this case, authorities seized the command-and-control
apparatus and sent commands to computers to shut down the
malware.  “There has been a real legal barrier to do this because
essentially you are issuing instructions to someone else’s
computer,” said Alex Cox, principal research analyst at
NetWitness Corp., a cyber security firm based in Reston,
Virginia.  “That is very, very significant,” Cox said.  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant in Hartford,
 Connecticut , ruled the U.S. could set up a substitute server to
replace the seized ones. The ruling allowed the server to be
operated, under law enforcement supervision, by the Internet
Systems Consortium, a nonprofit group based in  Redwood City ,
 California .  Security Breach  Authorities will also collect the Internet protocol
addresses of computers infected with the virus. Prosecutors said
they would work with  Internet service providers  to notify
individual customers of the security breach.  “Should the government inadvertently acquire the content
of any communication, it will destroy such communication upon
recognition,” prosecutors said in court papers.  The size of the botnet and the fact that it has escaped for
years a systematic effort to shut it down is unusual, said
Jackson. He said that the software had features that allowed it
to spread quickly through corporate  computer networks  before it
was discovered. Among its victims were U.S. government
contractors, a state police agency and a major hotel chain, from
which the software stole thousands of credit card numbers
belonging to customers.  “There is clearly a strong public/private momentum
happening in the fight against botnets,” Richard Boscovich, a
lawyer in Microsoft’s digital crimes unit, said by e-mail. The
unit was “was happy to provide technical information from the
lessons we learned from the recent Rustock and Waledac botnet
takedowns to assist these agencies,” he said.  The FBI believes it eliminated the threat posed by the
current version of the malware.  “The botnet known as Coreflood is dead,” Jackson said.  The case is U.S. v. John Doe, 3:11-cv-00561, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Hartford)>  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  