-- 
U.S. Economy Expands as Labor Markets Improve, Fed's Regional Survey Finds

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T19:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-economy-expands-as-labor-markets-improve-fed-s-regional-survey-finds.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the
economy expanded at a “moderate” pace across much of the U.S.
in February and March, led by manufacturing, with labor markets
showing improvements in most regions.  “While many districts described the improvements as only
moderate, most districts stated that gains were widespread
across sectors,” the Fed said today in its Beige Book report in
Washington. While higher commodity costs compelled sellers to
try to raise prices, pressures to increase wages were “weak or
subdued.”  The report may reinforce views this month from Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s top two lieutenants,  Janet Yellen  and William C. Dudley, that the economy is recovering without enough strength
to warrant withdrawing record monetary stimulus. The Fed, while
keeping the benchmark interest rate close to zero since 2008, is
aiming to boost growth by completing $600 billion of Treasury
purchases through June.  “Reports focusing on the near-term outlook were most often
upbeat,” the Fed said in its anecdotal survey of the economy
released two weeks before meetings of the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee . “Some districts, however, also noted
that uncertainties remained high,” with seven citing
disruptions to sales and production from  Japan ’s tsunami and
nuclear disaster, the central bank said.  ‘Strengthen Modestly’  The last report, released March 2, said the job market
“continued to strengthen modestly” throughout the country.
Today’s report was compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond and based on information collected before April 4 by
the Fed’s 12 district banks.  U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gaining 0.2 percent to 1,316.39 at 3:11 p.m. in  New York . Yields
on 10-year Treasuries declined to 3.46 percent from 3.49 percent
yesterday.  “Growth remains steady but weak,” said  Diane Swonk , chief
economist at Chicago-based Mesirow Financial Inc., which manages
about $51 billion.  Manufacturing is expanding because of exports and demand
from businesses rather than from household spending, she said.
“Businesses have money, consumers do not.”  The report underscores the rationale for the Fed to
complete its bond-buying and keep interest rates low for an
“extended period,” Swonk said.  Economists forecast the  U.S. economy  will expand at a 2.9
percent annual pace this year, according to the median estimate
of 74 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey conducted from April 1
to April 7. That compares with a 3 percent median projection in
March.  Select Location  General Electric Co. said last week it will select a
location in about three months for a U.S. solar-panel plant that
will employ about 400 people and may be the country’s largest.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier in February, the
most since October. Including all items, prices rose 1.6
percent, compared with a 1.2 percent 12-month increase through
January, the biggest monthly increase since December 2009.  “Wage pressures were described by most Districts as weak
or subdued, but higher commodity costs were widely reported to
be putting increasing pressures on prices,” the Fed said today.  Top Fed officials have indicated they are in no rush to
follow the lead of the  European Central Bank  in raising interest
rates.  ‘Surge’ in Prices  Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman, said April 11 that “the
surge in commodity prices over the past year appears to be
largely attributable to a combination of rising global demand
and disruptions in global supply.”  Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York ,
said April 1 that the recovery is “still tenuous,” while
Bernanke said April 4 that higher commodity prices may have a
“transitory” effect on inflation.  “We’re fully aware that consumers are still relatively
constrained,” Brian J. Dunn, chief executive officer of
Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, said on a March 24 conference
call.  The FOMC, which next meets April 26-27 in  Washington , said
at its last session March 15 that the economy is on a “firmer
footing” and unanimously affirmed plans to buy the Treasuries
through June. Bernanke will hold his first press conference
following the FOMC’s statement on April 27.  Rate Fell  The economy added a greater-than-forecast 216,000 jobs in
March, and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest level in
more than two years, marking a drop of a full percentage point
over four months. A Labor Department report today showed job
openings increased in February by the most since December 2004,
a sign companies are turning more optimistic about hiring.  “Most districts reported that labor market conditions were
generally stronger than in their last reports,” the Fed said
today. “Wage pressures were reported to be mostly contained.”  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in March at close to the
fastest pace in almost seven years, while  service industries 
grew less than forecast, according to recent reports.  All 12 districts reported a pickup in manufacturing since
the last report, with regional industries expanding including
auto and auto parts, commercial aircraft and fabricated metal
products, the Fed said. Non-financial service companies
“generally reported expansion,” with growth in areas including
advertising and seasonal accounting services.  ‘Little Changed’  The housing market was either “little changed from low
levels” or weaker across the country, the Fed said. Commercial
real estate “remained weak across all districts,” while seven
regions reported “slight improvements” since the last survey.  The central bank said last month that housing “continues
to be depressed.” Sales of existing homes decreased 9.6 percent
to a 4.88 million rate in February, while purchases of new homes
fell in February to the lowest level on record. The pace of home
starts in March almost matched a record low from two years ago.  Total U.S. loans and leases have declined to $6.69 trillion
as of March 30 from $6.78 trillion at the end of 2010.
Commercial and industrial loans have increased to $1.24
trillion, the highest in more than a year, from $1.23 trillion,
while consumer loans have dropped to $1.08 trillion, according
to Fed bank data.  “Most districts cited loan demand as either unchanged or
slightly improved since the last report, although many of the
districts citing improvements noted weak demand in some market
segments,” the Fed said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  