-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Business activity in the Third District has improved overall
since the last  Beige Book . Manufacturers reported increases in
shipments and new orders in March. Retailers achieved slight
year-over-year increases in sales in March. Motor vehicle
dealers also reported year-over-year sales increases in March.
Third District banks reported little overall change in loan
volume outstanding since the last Beige Book, although a few
reported increased lending on home equity credit lines and
growth in small business lending. Residential real estate agents
reported some increase in activity since the last Beige Book as
measured by inquiries, showings, and traffic, but little pickup
in sales or construction. Contacts in the commercial real estate
sector said that leasing and construction activity have remained
slow since the last Beige Book. Service-sector firms reported
some increases in activity. Business contacts reported further
price increases for inputs as they did in the previous Beige
Book. Output price increases have also been reported in several
sectors, but by fewer contacts than for factor prices.  The outlook among Third District business contacts is positive
and has strengthened slightly. Manufacturers forecast a broad
rise in shipments and orders during the next six months.
Retailers expect sales to increase modestly on a year-over-year
basis. Bankers expect only slight growth in lending over the
next two quarters. Contacts in residential real estate have
mixed views, although some expect a pickup in sales of existing
homes. Contacts in commercial real estate expect market
conditions to improve slowly during the year. Service-sector
companies expect continued slow growth through the first half of
2011.  Manufacturing  More than half of Third District manufacturers reported
increases in shipments and new orders in March -- a stronger
response than in February. Producers across a broad spectrum of
13 manufacturing sectors reported increased demand. The
strongest reports came out of the fabricated metal products and
industrial machinery and equipment sectors. Declines in orders
were predominant only among producers of apparel and rubber
products. While several manufacturers cited existing customers
as the source of increased orders, other sources included new
product offerings and expanding international opportunities.  Over two-thirds of Third District manufacturers expect business
conditions to improve during the next six months. Among the
firms surveyed in March, over 60 percent expect
increases in new orders and shipments, and less than 5 percent
expect decreases. One supplier of construction industry
materials reported receiving contracts extending further out
into the fourth quarter. Plans to increase  capital spending 
became more widespread with over one-third of area manufacturers
projecting an increase over the next six months.  Retail  Third District retailers generally reported slight year-over-
year increases in sales in March. One merchant said, ―Things are
getting a little better, but there is no move to stronger
growth.‖ Retailers indicated that sales of furniture and home
goods have risen recently, but sales of spring apparel have been
slow to pick up, which retailers attributed to unseasonably cold
weather and the late Easter date this year. Some retailers said
they have experienced shortages of a few goods produced by
Japanese companies, mainly electronic products, but as of late
March there did not appear to be a widespread interruption of
imports of  consumer goods  from the  Far East . Store executives
surveyed for this report expect the current modest rate of sales
growth to continue through the spring.  Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales were
above the year-ago level in March and were continuing to move up.
Some dealers of various brands noted the beginning of supply
interruptions due to halts of vehicle and parts production in
 Japan  resulting from the earthquake and subsequent problems
there. These dealers said the supply problem had not yet become
serious, but they did not know how extensive it might become or
how long it might last. Dealers reported that demand for large
vehicles has not declined yet despite the recent increase in the
price of gasoline. Dealers said they see evidence of ―pent-up
demand‖ and they expect sales to remain strong as long as
economic conditions are improving and the price of gasoline does
not rise much higher.  Finance  Total outstanding loan volume at most of the Third District
banks contacted for this report has shown little change in
recent weeks. Some banks in the region reported recent increases
in lending extended on home equity credit lines, but other forms
of  consumer credit  have been level or moved down. Some banks
reported increases in commercial and industrial loans and some
types of commercial real estate loans. One banker said, ―We’re
making more small business loans, and commercial real estate
lending is picking up except for retail properties.‖ The outlook
among Third District bankers interviewed for this report is that
total loan volume will expand slowly this year, as overall
economic activity advances, with gains mostly in commercial and
industrial and consumer lending, but lending for residential or
commercial construction is not expected to increase.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity has shown some signs of picking
up in most parts of the Third District. Real estate agents
reported a recent increase in inquiries from prospective buyers
of existing homes. A common comment from agents was that
―showings are up. Several agents noted that the inventory of
existing homes for sale is below the level of a year ago. Agents
expect sales to pick up by the usual seasonal amount this spring,
and some said they thought a stronger than usual gain might be
attained. However, agents generally expect sales prices to be
level with or slightly below prices recorded a year ago. Sales
of new homes do not appear to have increased notably in the
region, according to local builders. Some contractors reported a
rise in remodeling and renovation work, but they also noted that
rainy weather has caused delays in this activity in recent weeks.  There has been little change in commercial and industrial
markets in the Third District since the previous Beige Book,
according to area nonresidential developers, builders, and real
estate firms. While rental concessions were widely reported
―even with renewals, one contact stated that ―rents are
bottoming out and building values are starting to improve for
top-quality buildings. The overall market is expected to tighten
slowly over the year. One contact indicated that the market for
industrial space ―may see positive net absorption by the end of
the year, but three quarters of positive absorption will be
needed to put pressure on rental rates.‖ Another contact
identified ―shadow inventory‖ persisting in the office market
and suggested that ―a 7 percent unemployment rate is needed
before the office market sees positive net absorption.‖ With
anticipated recoveries extending from six months to two years or
more for various segments of nonresidential real estate,
construction activity remains weak with little growth expected
through 2011. Some building activity may increase for industrial
space in the latter half of the year.  Services  Service-sector firms generally reported increases in activity
since the previous Beige Book; however, for most of those
contacted in March, the monthly and year-over-year gains have
been modest. Firms providing services to businesses as well as
those providing services to consumers indicated that activity
has been advancing slightly as a result of both increases in
customers and per-customer usage. Most of the service-sector
firms contacted for this report expect growth to continue at
around its recent pace; few expect growth to accelerate in the
near future. One contact expressed the opinion of most in saying,
―The cycle has turned up, but our customers are being very
cautious about increases in spending.  Prices and Wages  Reports from manufacturers since the previous Beige Book
continue to indicate rising factor prices, especially for energy
inputs. Far fewer manufacturers report raising output prices,
while a few indicate resistance to hikes from their customers,
if not expectations of discounts. Retailers generally indicated
that selling prices have been steady, although some reported
that they have raised apparel prices in response to higher
wholesale costs. Auto dealers reported continuing high prices
for used cars and recent increases in prices for new cars.
Although the predominant view among Third District firms is that
overall inflation will move higher, slightly fewer firms
expressed that view compared to reports from the last Beige Book.
Nevertheless, several firms in the region said they have
implemented hedges or signed forward contracts for motor fuels.  Business firms in the region reported mostly steady wages since
the last Beige Book, although some continued to express concern
about rising nonwage employment costs. Employment agencies
reported growth in demand for workers, although they indicated
that firms were continuing to delay additions to permanent or
temporary staff until the need for more workers becomes pressing. 