-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
increase in February and March. However, contacts’ optimism was
tempered by elevated uncertainty surrounding recent global
events. Consumer and business spending increased.  Manufacturing production expanded, though construction was again
subdued. Credit conditions continued to improve. There was some
further pass-through of higher commodity prices to downstream
prices. Expectations were for more corn and fewer soybean acres
to be planted in the District this spring relative to last year.  Consumer spending . Consumer spending increased from the previous
reporting period. Consumers continued to be drawn toward
promotional items, now in part because they are dealing with the
impact of higher food and energy prices on household budgets.
The expiration of manufacturers’ incentives contributed to a
slight decline in auto sales in March. Auto dealers reported
inventories were relatively low given the recent strength of
sales. Contacts noted that potential production disruptions
stemming from the events in  Japan  and the effects of rising gas
prices on demand add a good deal of uncertainty to the outlook
for the auto sector. Some dealers have already seen a shift in
sales from new trucks to more fuel efficient vehicles.  Business spending. Business spending continued to increase in
February and March. Inventories were little changed, overall,
although a few contacts indicated increasing their inventories
of raw materials in anticipation of further price increases in
the coming months. Capital expenditures continued as planned
with several manufacturers noting equipment purchases and other
efficiency improving investments. Merger and acquisitions
activity picked up some. Hiring increased with contacts adding
both temporary and permanent employees. Job postings also
increased, and manufacturers reiterated the difficulty in
finding appropriately skilled workers. A large staffing firm
reported solid growth in billable hours and a substantial
increase in permanent placement and recruiting activity.
Furthermore, a recruiting firm noted that small business’ hiring
plans are beginning to show signs of improving.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity was again
subdued in February and March. Single-family homebuilders
indicated that the spring building season was likely to be
slower than previously anticipated. They also reported a drop in
the contract conversion rate. Buyers appear to be waiting for
 home prices  to stabilize from their recent declines and the
availability of financing remains a concern. In the multifamily
sector, several contacts reported developing strength in the
rental market and a corresponding pick-up in conversions of
condominiums into apartments. Nonresidential construction
slightly improved. Contacts reported greater activity in both
the institutional and industrial sectors, including from the
healthcare and automotive industries. Commercial real estate
conditions were marginally better with commercial rents
flattening out and small improvements in vacancy rates.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production continued to expand in
February and March. Activity in the steel, auto, and heavy
equipment sectors remained strong. Several contacts reported
significant current order backlogs and firming second-quarter
order books. Capacity utilization in these industries has
increased, but ample idle capacity remains available. For
example, a contact in the  steel industry  noted that active
furnaces are operating at high rates of utilization while idled
furnaces are expected to be brought back on-line only slowly
this year given the high costs of reactivation and uncertainty
in the outlook. Lead times continued to lengthen as supply
chains were stretched further for some parts. In addition,
concerns, and a great deal of uncertainty, were expressed about
the potential impact of the Japanese disaster. Contacts expected
that supply chain disruptions would take place, although it was
too early to tell their full extent. Auto suppliers reported
that shortages are most likely to occur first in parts such as
electronics, as well as for parts that were already in short
supply like tires. Some domestic suppliers have already seen
increases in demand for their products as a result. Automakers
reported that dealers’ vehicle inventories were lean enough to
make them consider adding shifts at existing plants; but if
parts shortages arise, production schedules may be pared back
now and made up as necessary later in the year.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions continued to improve in
February and March. Banking contacts indicated that the business
loan pipeline was still not robust, but that there were some
areas of growth in manufacturing,  food processing , and
healthcare. Competition continued to be fierce for high-quality
commercial and industrial loans (both large and small) leading
to more aggressive terms and pricing. In addition, bank and non-
bank investment in commercial real estate assets was also noted
to be increasing. Consumer lending was little changed from the
previous reporting period. Mortgage applications decreased and
those made were primarily for purchase, as refinancing slowed
with a rise in  mortgage rates . Several contacts raised concerns
about the impact that uncertainty surrounding the future of
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and the regulatory environment were
having on mortgage credit availability.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures rose in February and March. Wage
pressures remained moderate, but raw materials prices increased.
The most notable increases were for steel and other industrial
metals, but the prices of plastics, paints, resins and cotton
also rose. Fuel and transportation surcharges were also noted to
be rising. Pass-through to downstream prices was moderate,
however. Retailers indicated that they were trying to limit
raising prices, though pass-through was noted to be increasing,
particularly for food and energy-related items. In contrast,
several manufacturing contacts reported an increase in pricing
power, with less pushback from customers in accepting higher
prices. Commercial builders have been able to pass along minimal
price increases to offset some of their higher raw material
costs, although residential builders have not been able to do so.  Agriculture. Contacts predicted normal timing for the start of
planting this year, and that fields were in good enough shape so
that planting should proceed quickly. Ground moisture across the
District is sufficient for a good start to the crop year,
although some areas do not have adequate subsoil moisture to
weather dry spells. More corn and fewer soybean acres were
expected to be planted this year. Corn, soybean, and wheat
prices were volatile, but on net edged lower during the
reporting period. With stocks lower than a year ago, contacts
saw the potential for upward pressure on corn and soybean prices
in coming months. Moreover, feed mills have been actively
seeking alternatives to blend into livestock rations. Milk
prices continued to rise. Hog and cattle prices moved higher,
with premiums being offered to attract the delivery of more
animals for slaughter. 