-- 
U.S. House Tax Writers Discuss Path to Less Complicated Code

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-13T16:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-house-tax-writers-discuss-path-to-less-complicated-code.html
Less than a week before U.S.
taxpayers face the annual deadline for settling up with the IRS,
the chief tax writers in the  House of Representatives  debated
how the code could be simplified.  “When so many middle-class families have to hire
professional help just to figure out what they owe in taxes,
it’s clear something is wrong,” Representative Wally Herger, a
California Republican who is a senior member of the Ways and
Means Committee, said during a panel hearing today.  President  Barack Obama  is expected to reiterate his call
for a tax code overhaul in a speech about deficit reduction
later today. Leaders of both parties in Congress have said they
support reducing the tax code’s complexity by eliminating
deductions and lowering maximum rates.  The debate will hinge on which deductions and credits
lawmakers target for elimination. Lawmakers and the
administration have avoided specifying which tax breaks should
be tossed.  Annette Nellen, a professor at San Jose State University
testifying on behalf of the  American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants , told the panel that tax benefits aimed at
education could be “consolidated.” More than a dozen
deductions and credits related to educational expenses are
included in the  tax code , according to the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation.  ‘Ground for Concern’  Alan D. Viard, a resident scholar at the  American
Enterprise Institute , said a confusing assortment of  savings
accounts  with tax benefits has emerged in recent decades.  “The biggest ground for concern arises at the individual
taxpayer level,” he said. “It’s very hard for individual
taxpayers to choose between these accounts.”  Neil H. Buchanan, an associate professor at the George
Washington University School of Law, cautioned lawmakers about
the unintended consequences of simplification efforts. For
instance, he urged them not to cut the number of tax brackets.  “Reducing the number of tax brackets is not an important
aspect of simplifying taxes,” he said. “The taxpayer’s
uncertainty is in figuring out what to include, exclude, deduct,
credit and so on, not in dealing with different rates.”  Democrats on the House panel said the effort to simplify
the code is aimed at higher-income individuals and corporations
and wouldn’t help low- and moderate-income taxpayers.  “As I look at the complication of the tax code, it seems
those folks have plenty of people figuring it out for them,”
said Representative Jim McDermott, a Washington Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at   ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  