-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  Summary. Sixth District business contacts described economic
activity as advancing modestly from mid-February through March.
Retailers cited that  consumer spending  improved while auto
dealers reported strong sales growth. Tourism activity remained
positive as occupancy rates and  air travel  mostly increased.
Residential brokers and builders indicated that sales growth of
new and existing homes were mixed, but generally remained weak,
while commercial contractors mentioned improving conditions as
development increased slightly. District manufacturers
experienced increasing levels of new orders and production.
Transportation firms noted modest advances in shipments and
tonnage. Banking contacts reported soft but improving loan
demand. Labor markets continued to recover at a gradual pace.
Cost pressures grew for most District firms, but the ability to
pass through price increases continued to vary by industry.  Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most District merchants reported
that retail activity improved in February and March following a
lackluster January. Retailers reported that they do not plan to
make any changes to the tight inventory management practices
currently in place. The outlook among District retail contacts
remains optimistic; however, rising gasoline prices and its
potential impact on  consumer confidence  and spending was a
concern. Automobile dealers described robust sales growth and a
strong demand outlook. A few noted that an improvement in
consumers’ access to credit contributed to the increase in sales.  Hotel occupancy rates rose on a year-over-year basis in several
of the District’s major markets, while convention bookings were
flat compared with last year. Restaurant contact reports were
mixed and many cited concerns over the rising costs of food
products. Airline carriers indicated an increase in both
business and leisure travel. Overall, the outlook for tourism
remained upbeat.  Real Estate and Construction. Reports from District homebuilders
on new home sales in February and March were mixed. Florida and
Georgia builders stated that sales were below year-ago levels,
while elsewhere in the region sales were similar to year earlier
levels. Homebuilders noted that construction activity remained
below last year’s level and inventories eased further. Several
residential construction contacts remarked that financing
remained very difficult to secure.  District residential brokers indicated that existing home sales
growth softened somewhat in February and March, and were
generally similar to year-ago levels. However, Florida brokers
were more upbeat with the majority noting sales gains on a year-
over-year basis, which were largely driven by sales of
distressed homes. Brokers elsewhere in the region remarked that
sales remained below year-earlier levels and were slightly
weaker than in our last report. District brokers stated that
home inventories eased on a year-over-year basis and that the
number and speed of foreclosures coming into the market had
slowed. Several contacts mentioned greater demand for rental
property. The outlook for sales growth continued to improve,
largely driven by positive reports from Florida brokers.  Nonresidential construction activity remained at low levels
during February and March. However, the majority of contractors
indicated that the pace of commercial development was flat to
slightly up compared with a year earlier, which is an
improvement from our previous report. Backlogs declined on a
year-over-year basis. Contacts noted that material prices were
on the rise while competition for available projects remained
aggressive. Most contractors anticipate activity to remain flat
to slightly below last year’s level.  District commercial brokers reported that markets continued to
stabilize. Vacancy rates remained relatively unchanged from the
end of last year and declining rents were noticed across much of
the District. Commercial brokers anticipate a slow recovery.  Manufacturing and Transportation. District manufacturers noted
strong growth in new orders and production. Respondents also
signaled stable or higher levels of employment. The majority of
manufacturing contacts continued to indicate they will be
increasing production in the short-term.  Transportation contacts noted that shipments and tonnage
continued to experience modest increases since the last report.
Most firms also cited that they have not yet experienced major
disruptions in the supply chain from the  Japan  disaster, but
several are anticipating some temporary interruptions - most
notably in the auto and IT sectors.  Banking and Finance. District bankers reported that demand for
most types of loans remained low and lending standards remained
tight in February and March. Many cited that credit was
available but finding qualified borrowers continued to be
difficult. Some community bankers noted encouraging reports of
loan demand surfacing in the last few months, especially among
small business owners.  Employment and Prices. Labor markets continued to recover
gradually across the region. Business contacts indicated that
their hiring plans for the year are to leave employment levels
unchanged or to increase them slightly. Many firms noted that
they have no problem finding workers with the necessary skills.
However, there were isolated but increasing reports of
difficulty finding qualified candidates to fill specialized,
higher skilled positions.  Firms’ expectations for unit cost increases over the next year
continued to rise, with material costs and employee salaries and
benefits cited as sources of potential cost pressures. Reports
of price pass-through were mixed across the District and varied
based on industry and the presence of competitive pressures. For
example, many retailers noted that strong competition was
limiting their ability to raise prices. Homebuilders said that
they have been unable to pass through material cost increases
because of persistent downward pressure on  home prices . However,
many manufacturers were more successful in increasing prices to
their customers.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Regional crude oil
inventories continued to rise in February and March as the
industry builds stocks in anticipation of the summer driving
season. Though the number of rigs operating in the  Gulf of
Mexico  is still only about half the pre-oil spill level, deep-
water drilling permits were issued in late February for the
first time since the Gulf oil spill last April. Industry
contacts noted that the recent international events, including
Japan’s nuclear crisis and the unrest in the Middle East, have
added additional uncertainty to their outlooks for investment
and hiring.  While rainfall totals in some areas have improved since the
previous report, much of the District experienced varying levels
of drought. Contacts noted that prices of fuel and feed
continued to put pressure on margins, but prices for many of the
District’s agriculture products remained strong, particularly
cotton, soybeans, and beef. Reports indicated that continued
strong global demand has contributed to elevated prices for some
farm acreage in the District. 