-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve April Beige Book Summary (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-april-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary
text of the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that
economic activity generally continued to improve since the last
report. While many Districts described the improvements as only
moderate, most Districts stated that gains were widespread
across sectors, and  Kansas City  described its economic gains as
solid. Manufacturing continued to lead, with virtually every
District citing examples of steady improvement, often with
reports of increased hiring. Retailers in the Boston District
reported mixed sales results and retail sales remained weak in
the Richmond District, but all other Districts experienced at
least slight gains in consumer spending and the  New York 
District cited robust sales. Business services, including
freight-related activities, improved in most Districts. Loan
demand was either unchanged or up slightly in most Districts,
with New York, St. Louis, and Kansas City citing weaker lending.
Residential and commercial real estate performance varied across
Districts. Seven of the Districts described commercial real
estate as slightly improved, while five noted that their markets
were flat. While most Districts noted little change in their
residential real estate markets, half of the Districts cited at
least pockets of weakening.  Reports focusing on the near-term outlook were most often upbeat.
Some Districts, however, also noted that uncertainties remained
high.  Boston , Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta,  Chicago ,
 Minneapolis , and Dallas all noted actual or expected disruptions
to sales and production as a result of the tragedy in  Japan .
Most Districts reported signs of improvement in at least some of
their labor markets and Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas
City cited examples of concern among their contacts about being
able to obtain certain types of skilled workers. Some businesses
in the Philadelphia and  Cleveland  Districts still preferred to
hire temporary over permanent workers.  Wage pressures were described by most Districts as weak or
subdued, but higher commodity costs were widely reported to be
putting increasing pressures on prices. Energy prices were cited
most often, but raw materials in general were an increasing
concern of businesses. The ability to pass through cost
increases varied across Districts, with manufacturers
generally finding less resistance to price increases than either
retail or construction (where weak demand was a limiting factor).  Consumer Spending  and Tourism  Consumer spending picked up modestly across most Districts since
the last report. Consumers were shopping for necessities and
looking for lower-priced options or promotional items in the
Boston, Chicago, and  San Francisco  Districts. New York reported
strong retail sales in February and March, but noted weaker
sales at two major retail chains in New York. Retailers in the
Cleveland District reported higher sales relative to a year ago,
although a few contacts cited considerable stress in the low- to
mid-market segments. Richmond reported weak sales, including for
big-ticket items, and Boston received mixed sales reports. Big-
ticket sales, particularly for home furnishings, picked up in
the Boston, Philadelphia, and  Dallas  Districts, but remained
subdued in the San Francisco District.
Automobile sales rose in most Districts. Dallas noted higher
foot traffic at auto dealers and Cleveland, Atlanta, and San
Francisco indicated that improved availability of credit helped
to boost car sales. In the Richmond District, however, vehicle
sales were generally unchanged or sluggish, while dealers in the
Chicago District reported a slight decline. Contacts in several
Districts expressed concern about potential supply chain
disruptions due to production problems in Japan.  Tourism strengthened in the New York, Richmond, Atlanta,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, although
Japanese tourism in  Hawaii  dropped. Tourist activity picked up
in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts, as visitors
enjoyed late-winter sports, and early attendance at the Cherry
Blossom Festival in  Washington , D.C. was above average. New York
noted that hotel occupancy and attendance at Broadway theaters
rose above year-ago levels.  Nonfinancial Services
Non-financial service firms generally reported expansion,
although Minneapolis and Atlanta heard mixed reports. Demand for
business-to-business services increased in the Boston,
Philadelphia, Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts.
Boston and Minneapolis cited stronger demand for advertising and
marketing services. In addition, respondents in several
Districts reported higher demand for seasonal accounting
services. Contacts at firms providing travel-related services in
the Atlanta and Richmond Districts also reported an uptick in
demand.  Kansas City District restaurateurs said sales were up, but the
average check amount had declined; in contrast, restaurant
contacts in the Atlanta District gave mixed reports and some in
the  St. Louis  District planned to decrease operations.
Reports from transportation services firms were mostly positive.
Contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts
reported an increase in freight transportation volume, notably
for vehicles and construction materials. Dallas received mixed
reports, however, citing weaker international demand for
intermodal transportation; container volume flattened, while
railroads reported moderate increases. Carriers in the Atlanta
District reported increased  air travel  for business and leisure,
while airlines in the Dallas District indicated traffic was
steady. New York and Richmond cited a strengthening in freight
trucking, and port activity rose in the Richmond and San
Francisco Districts. Shippers in the Atlanta District
anticipated temporary disruptions resulting from the disaster in
Japan.  Manufacturing  All twelve Districts reported that manufacturing activity
increased since their previous reports. Ten of the twelve
Districts cited a further pickup in production, while Cleveland
and Dallas observed steady to slightly improving activity.
Dallas said overall demand in manufacturing rose slightly from
low levels, noting gains in food, plastics, and construction-
related products. Richmond and Chicago reported substantial
increases in auto and auto parts manufacturing. Cleveland
indicated that auto production overall dipped slightly, but that
domestic automakers showed a substantial rise in production.
Moreover, St. Louis mentioned that automobile parts and
electrical equipment manufacturers reported plans to open new
plants in their District. Boston and  Kansas  City reported that
growth of high-tech goods was strong, but several contacts in
the Dallas District said that high-tech shipments to Japanese
factories declined. Boston and Richmond District respondents
attributed a lack of new contracts from federal government
agencies to the uncertainties surrounding the budget for fiscal
year 2011. San Francisco reported that makers of commercial
aircraft and related parts had modest growth in new orders,
which they attributed in part to increased demand for aircraft
with greater  fuel efficiency . Philadelphia said that
manufacturers of fabricated metal products and industrial
machinery cited higher demand. Similarly, steel producers and
metal service centers in the Cleveland District reported that
shipping volume met or exceeded expectations, with shipments
driven by energy-related, transportation, and heavy equipment.  Comments on the outlook were generally positive. Boston
mentioned that manufacturers generally remained cautiously
optimistic but voiced greater uncertainty about the outlook for
the rest of the year, based on the disruption at Japanese
facilities, the geopolitical climate worldwide, and ambiguity
about U.S. government spending plans. Likewise, Chicago
commented that contacts’ optimism was tempered by elevated
uncertainties surrounding recent global events. New York and
Kansas City stated that contacts remained optimistic about the
near-term outlook, and Philadelphia indicated that more than
two-thirds of their manufacturers expected business conditions
to improve in the next six months.  Real Estate and Construction  Real estate markets for single family homes for the most part
either were little changed from low levels or continued to
weaken across all Districts. Residential construction was
described by Chicago as subdued and the spring building season
is likely to be slower than previously anticipated. Market
activity was still declining in the St. Louis and Minneapolis
Districts, while activity in the New York, Cleveland, Kansas
City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts remained weak. Atlanta
characterized the market as mixed, with Florida brokers
providing most of the signs of improvement. Both Philadelphia
and Atlanta noted that brokers expected the market to improve,
and builders in the Cleveland District were more optimistic than
in the past several months. A few Districts found pockets of
improvement. For example, Philadelphia reported that agents were
seeing a pickup in inquiries, showings, and traffic, although
there was little increase in sales or construction. Boston noted
higher activity in just the last few weeks, due in part to
improved weather, and Richmond said that the market for lower-
priced homes improved. The multifamily markets strengthened in
several Districts, including Chicago, Dallas, Minneapolis, and
San Francisco, both in terms of leasing and construction
activity.  Commercial real estate activity remained weak across all
Districts, although seven reported slight improvements since
their last report. Market activity was still slow in the St.
Louis and Philadelphia Districts and remained at low levels in
the Boston, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts. Markets in the
San Francisco District were characterized as subdued, but
leasing activity increased among technology firms. Most other
Districts noted improvements, albeit slight, in activity. For
example, Chicago and Kansas City cited moderate gains in
construction, with Chicago highlighting gains in healthcare and
automotive industries.  Improvements in the Cleveland District were also driven by
healthcare projects and, to a lesser extent, by manufacturing
and energy. Office and industrial leasing improved in the
Richmond District, although retail was little changed.  Banking and Financial Services  Most Districts cited loan demand as either unchanged or slightly
improved since the last report, although many of the Districts
citing improvements noted weak demand in some market segments.
Banks in the Chicago District noted that their pipeline was
still not robust, although manufacturing,  food processing , and
healthcare experienced some growth. Cleveland reported that
business lending was strongest in healthcare and in energy.
Consumer loan demand showed some improvement in the Richmond and
San Francisco Districts, but was little changed in the Chicago
District. Overall loan demand was weak or little changed in the
Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts, although Philadelphia
noted some improvement in commercial and industrial loans and in
some types of commercial real estate loans. However, New York
described household demand (for both consumer loans and
mortgages) as weakening in its District, and St. Louis noted
declines across most segments of its market, including real
estate, commercial and industrial, and personal loans.  Several Districts reported that credit standards were unchanged
or slightly tighter and that competition for quality loans was
intense. For example, Cleveland described credit standards as
unchanged, while New York noted no change for consumer loans but
tightening for other categories in its District. San Francisco
noted that credit standards remained somewhat restrictive.
Cleveland characterized loan quality as stable or slightly
improved and delinquency rates as stable or trending down.
However, New York mentioned an uptick in delinquency rates for
commercial and industrial loans. Competition for quality loans
was described as intense in the Chicago, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts, putting downward pressures on rates and
fees.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Most Districts reported that labor market conditions were
generally stronger than in their last reports. New York,
Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas all
noted increased employment activity, while Boston and Atlanta
reported modest or gradual improvement. However, Philadelphia,
Cleveland and San Francisco mentioned limited or delayed hiring,
while labor market conditions were mixed in the St. Louis
District. Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, and Dallas
cited noticeable improvements in the manufacturing
sector, and Boston and Kansas observed increased labor demand in
the technology sector. New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago,
and Minneapolis received upbeat reports from staffing agencies.
New York said that a major employment agency experienced a
marked pickup in hiring activity in March, describing it as ―the
best month in years.‖ A staffing contact in the Cleveland
District noted moderate growth in the number of new job openings,
with vacancies concentrated in health care, energy and
professional business services. A large staffing firm in the
Chicago District reported solid growth in billable hours and a
substantial increase in permanent placement and recruiting
activity, while contacts in the Philadelphia District were
inclined to delay additions to permanent or temporary staff.
Employers in the Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City
Districts said that they were experiencing difficulty in
recruiting highly specialized workers. Despite signs of
improvement in most labor markets, St. Louis and Minneapolis
reported examples of layoffs in the manufacturing sector of
their regions.  Input prices rose in most Districts, particularly for cotton and
other agricultural commodities, petroleum-based products, and
industrial metals. In addition, shippers added fuel surcharges
in several Districts. Boston, Cleveland and Atlanta cited
increasing cost pressures, and some manufacturers in Boston were
raising their selling price to pass costs along to customers.
The ability to pass through increases, however, varied in both
the Chicago and Atlanta Districts, with manufacturers generally
being more successful than retail or construction firms.
Contacts in the San Francisco District reported a limited
ability to pass through higher input prices on anything other
than food and gasoline. Kansas Cited stated that more
manufacturers and retailers expected to raise prices in coming
months.  Wage pressures were reported to be mostly contained, especially
in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts. Kansas City noted wages generally held
steady, even with expanded hiring, and wage pressures were
expected to be contained except for highly competitive or
specialized positions. Wage pressures were described as modest
in the Chicago District. However, Richmond reported slightly
faster wage increases. Boston reported that nearly all of the
manufacturing firms that they contacted planned to implement
merit increases, and one contact planned a greater merit pool
next year to compensate for previous low raises. Philadelphia
noted some concern about rising nonwage employment costs, but
wages for business firms in the District were mostly steady.  Agriculture and Natural Resources
Assessments of agricultural activity were mixed. Varying degrees
of drought conditions persisted in the Atlanta, Kansas City and
Dallas Districts, with Chicago indicating that some areas in
their District did not have adequate subsoil moisture to endure
dry spells. In the Kansas City District, agricultural growing
conditions generally worsened in late February and March. In
particular, winter wheat crop conditions deteriorated further as
the drought in the southern Plains intensified. Dallas reported
that drought conditions became more widespread in March,
covering more than 90 percent of the District. However, Dallas
noted that planting was underway despite concern about the lack
of soil moisture for spring crops. Chicago also indicated that
planting should proceed quickly in most of the District, as
fields were in good condition with ground moisture sufficient
for an excellent start to the crop year. Moreover, the
Minneapolis District continued to enjoy good conditions in spite
of wet weather and spring flooding. Most Districts reported that
prices of fuel and feed continued to put downward pressure on
margins, but prices for most agricultural commodities remained
strong. Atlanta said that strong global demand contributed to
elevated prices for some farm acreage, while Kansas City
attributed higher farmland values to strong crop prices and a
limited number of farms for sale.  Activity in the  energy industry  generally strengthened since the
last report. Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas reported
increased drilling activity as demand firmed. In the Atlanta
District, deep-water drilling permits were issued in late
February for the first time since the Gulf oil spill last April,
although the number of rigs operating in the  Gulf of Mexico  was
still only about half the number prior to the spill. In the St.
Louis and Kansas City Districts, coal production remained above
year-ago levels, but was stable to moderately lower in the
Cleveland District. Kansas City reported increased drilling
activity, with exploration shifting away from natural gas toward
crude oil, while Cleveland indicated that oil and gas output
held steady. In the San Francisco District, extraction activity
for natural gas expanded, while Minneapolis reported that late-
March oil exploration activity increased since mid-February.
Minneapolis also noted that iron ore mines in northern  Minnesota 
were operating at full capacity, with expectations that 2011
production will be the highest in more than 10 years. 