-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Economic activity in the Eighth District has continued to expand
at a modest pace since our previous report. Manufacturing
activity has increased since the previous report. Activity in
the services sector also has increased, but at a slower pace
than in the previous report. Retail and auto sales have risen in
recent weeks. Residential real estate activity has continued to
decline, while commercial construction activity has remained
slow. Lending at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks
declined in the three-month period from mid-December to mid-
March.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity has increased since our previous report.
Several manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand
operations in the near future, while a smaller number of
contacts reported plans to close plants or reduce operations.
Firms in the silicone products, rubber products, and military
vehicle manufacturing industries reported plans to expand
existing operations and hire new workers. Additionally, firms in
the electrical equipment and automobile parts manufacturing
industries reported plans to open new plants in the District. In
contrast, firms in the food, surgical instrument, packaging, and
weapons manufacturing industries announced plans to decrease
operations and lay off employees.  Activity in the District’s services sector has increased
slightly since our previous report. Contacts in the casino,
electronic parts wholesale, transportation equipment wholesale,
and health care industries announced plans to expand operations
and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in the education,
restaurant, and fire protection services industries reported
plans to decrease operations in the District and lay off
employees. General retail contacts reported that sales have
improved and costumer traffic has increased in recent weeks.
Auto dealers report that sales of both new and used vehicles
have increased, but the supply of quality used vehicles
continues to be tight.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District. Compared with the same period in 2010, February 2011
year-to-date home sales were down 6 percent in Louisville, 8
percent in St. Louis and  Memphis , and 14 percent in  Little Rock .
Residential construction declined throughout the District as
well. February 2011 year-to-date single-family housing permits
decreased in the majority of the District metro areas compared
with the same period in 2010. Permits decreased 25 percent in
Little Rock, 40 percent in St. Louis, 2 percent in Memphis, and
20 percent in Louisville.  Commercial and industrial construction activity continues to be
slow throughout most of the District. Commercial construction
contacts in  Missouri  and western  Illinois  reported an increase
in institutional projects but noted a scarcity of construction
activity in the St. Louis area. Contacts in Louisville reported
that there has been little change in commercial and industrial
construction activity but there is some increase in industrial
space leasing. A contact in  Arkansas  noted that commercial
construction has remained steady while contacts in south central
 Kentucky  noted some increased activity in commercial real estate
as well as construction. A contact in St. Louis reported an
increase in commercial construction inquiries but noted that it
remains difficult for developers to finance projects.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks decreased 3.2 percent in the three-month period
from mid-December to mid-March. Real estate lending, which
accounts for 74.9 percent of total loans, decreased 1.3 percent.
Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.4 percent of
total loans, decreased 8.7 percent. Loans to individuals,
accounting for 5.0 percent of loans, decreased 2.6 percent. All
other loans decreased 16.7 percent and accounted for 4.7 percent
of total loans. Over this period, total deposits decreased 1.7
percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources
Commercial red meat production in the Eighth District rose by
0.2 percent in February 2011, compared with February 2010, while
year-to-date production at the end of February 2011 was 2
percent higher compared with the same period in 2010. Year-to-
date estimates for the number of chickens slaughtered and for
total live weight at the end of February 2011 were 2.3 percent
and 3.7 percent higher, respectively, compared with 2010 figures.
The District’s year-to-date coal production at the end of
February 2011 was 8.5 percent higher than in the same period in
2010. 