-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  Business activity in most sectors continued to expand during
February and March in the First District, although retail
reports are somewhat mixed and real estate markets report little
improvement. Manufacturers cite ongoing revenue gains, some
quite strong, although they also voice increased uncertainty
about the outlook. Most consulting and advertising firms report
strong year-over-year growth in the first quarter. Retailers and
manufacturers continue to fill vacant positions but say they are
doing only modest net hiring; consulting and advertising
contacts intend to add to headcounts but are uncertain about
skilled labor supply. Retailers and manufacturers cite commodity
cost pressures and some are raising their selling prices to pass
cost increases along to their customers.  Retail  First District retailers report mixed sales results for the
period from January through early March, with comparable same-
store sales ranging from modest decreases to mid-single-digit
increases. Several respondents note the negative impact that
inclement weather had on sales. Sales of apparel, accessories,
groceries, and home furnishings are strong, as the consumer
continues to seek value. Inventory levels are mixed, but
retailers say they are working to manage them carefully.
Contacts note price increases for commodities, including cotton,
dairy, grains, meat, produce, and nuts; several express concern
about likely future cost increases. Shipping costs are said to
be increasing, attributable to rising oil prices. Selling prices
are mixed, with some contacts holding prices steady and others
passing cost increases along to customers. Headcount is
increasing in line with new store openings and select hiring
opportunities.  Capital spending  is mixed. Outlooks range from
cautious to cautiously optimistic.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Business is good overall at most responding manufacturers. One
firm in the chemical business reports that sales are
skyrocketing and its plants are running at full capacity.
Technology-related manufacturers also report that sales growth
continued to be strong in 2011Q1. Revenue growth varied across
different business segments at more diversified manufacturers,
with some sectors such as health care-related products and
transportation seeing rapid sales growth and others experiencing
more moderate increases. By comparison, the climate has softened
a bit for a medical-device producer as well as an electronic-
systems manufacturer because of uncertainty about the federal
budget; both firms have a portion of their sales tied to
customers that rely on government contracts and/or grants and
that seem unwilling to spend until the budget uncertainty is
resolved. In addition, a manufacturer heavily tied to
residential construction reports a further deterioration in its
business as housing markets remain sluggish.  Commodity prices continue to be a concern for a number of
contacted manufacturing firms; they especially mention price
increases for oil, precious metals, corn, and wheat. Some firms
have already raised their selling prices in response to these
input price increases and others plan to do so as the need
arises. Companies who recently raised their prices comment that
the increases were accepted easily by their customers. A food
products manufacturer notes that there have been few objections
because their customers are facing price increases from numerous
suppliers. At some firms, these recent price increases do not
fully compensate for their inability to raise prices in prior
years. As a result, profits are flat at one firm despite its
robust sales growth, and some other firms are looking for ways
to cut costs further. A number of companies also note rising
transportation costs for their goods due to rising diesel fuel
prices. In addition, firms that use electronic components in
their production are somewhat concerned about supply-chain
disruptions in  Japan . Inputs from Japan are expected to be in
short supply soon (if they are not already) and the extent to
which Japanese disruptions will impact firms’ costs and/or
production is uncertain. Respondent firms’ sales exposure in
Japan, however, is relatively limited and the revenue impact of
the disaster is expected to be fairly small.  A number of technology-related manufacturers plan to hire
additional workers in the coming months, in addition to the
workers some of them have already hired this year. Much of this
hiring will be domestic, but not necessarily in New England.
Non-technology manufacturers note limited if any hiring plans.
At least one firm plans to reduce its workforce slightly through
restructuring in an effort to cut costs further, given continued
uncertainty in the economic environment. Nearly all firms,
however, mention plans to implement merit-based salary increases
of 1.5 percent to 3 percent. In addition, one firm says it is
planning for a greater merit pool next year to compensate for a
few years of low salary increases.  Overall, manufacturing firms continue to be cautiously
optimistic. They anticipate growth will continue at a steady
pace, but relative to the last round they voiced somewhat
greater uncertainty about the outlook for the rest of 2011. This
change is due to the natural disaster in Japan, the current
geopolitical climate worldwide, and ambiguity about U.S.
government spending going forward.  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District mostly
report significant growth in revenue during the first quarter of
2011. Consulting contacts in particular experienced large
increases in demand, with year-over-year revenue increases
ranging from 12 percent to 40 percent. They believe that clients
are setting aside larger portions of their budgets for
consulting or advertising services as the impact of the
recession wanes. One exception is an advertising company whose
revenue was down 25 percent from a very strong first quarter of
2010. Contacts have slightly increased the prices they charge
for their services or they plan to do so over the course of the
year.  Most respondents plan to augment employment by the end of the
year to meet increased demand. The magnitude of the planned
staff-size increases ranges from 3 percent to 12 percent. A
number of contacts say they are experiencing recruiting
difficulty because they are looking for highly specialized
workers. One consulting firm also notes that the long work hours
that consulting companies demand may no longer be acceptable to
many qualified candidates. Wages are steady or up slightly, with
one consulting firm reporting it has removed bonus cuts.  Our contacts are hopeful regarding their performance in the
second quarter and the rest of 2011. They see the pipeline as
very robust and expect significant year-over-year revenue growth
of 10 percent to 20 percent, except for one advertising company
that foresees flat demand. Some contacts note that unsuccessful
recruiting efforts are a risk for these projections.  Commercial Real Estate  New England’s commercial real estate market was roughly flat in
recent weeks. In Boston, office leasing activity is stable, but
not sufficient to generate significant positive absorption.
Asking rents for  office space  are either flat or up marginally
in greater Boston. However, contacts note that some existing
tenants are successfully bargaining for rent reductions,
bringing their rents down to current market rates from higher
levels agreed upon at the market’s peak. In Rhode Island,
political uncertainty over budget deficits is said to have
stalled business plans, resulting in light leasing activity, but
pending deals for downtown Providence continue to engender
optimism regarding office absorption in the coming months. In
 Portland , the commercial market was mostly quiet, with the
exception of two significant deals for call-center space. A
Portland contact perceives continued downward pressure on office
rents despite modest positive absorption. Outlooks across the
region call for slow but positive office absorption for the
remainder of 2011, conditional on ongoing employment growth in
line with recent trends.  The multifamily sector remains strong in southern  New England ,
with new construction under way in several areas of greater
Boston and in the planning stages in two Rhode Island locations.
Lenders continue to bid aggressively for apartment projects in
greater Boston, as rental rate increases persist. While some
Boston contacts worry about potential overbuilding in this
sector, at least one is confident that a glut is unlikely in
light of permitting hurdles and a scarcity of vacant land in
desirable locations. Respondents mention no significant new
construction activity aside from the multifamily sector.  Residential Real Estate  States throughout the region experienced year-over-year declines
in single-family home sales in February with the exception of
 New Hampshire  where sales increased modestly. The median price
of homes also slipped slightly in the region except for  Rhode
Island  where the median price rose. Meanwhile, sales and median
prices of condominiums were lower than a year ago except in the
Greater Boston area where the median condo price edged up.
Contacts cite inclement weather as a factor contributing to
February sales declines; sellers as well as buyers were
discouraged by the weather, with home listings decreasing as
well. Contacts also note that sales in the first half of 2010
were boosted by the homebuyer tax credit, making year-over-year
comparisons difficult to interpret.
Contacts report a recent increase in activity attributable to
more favorable weather as well as the typical seasonal rise at
the onset of spring. Some respondents say the distressed share
of property sales has declined, but others lacked sufficient
figures to assess the distressed property share accurately.
Although inventory levels declined in much of the region during
February, the number of homes on the market remains relatively
high across New England, particularly in New Hampshire.
Notwithstanding their reports of recent increases in activity,
contacts emphasize that activity levels in the region’s housing
markets remain far from what they would characterize as ―normal
and they anticipate a lengthy recovery. 