-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-04-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Second District-- New York.  The Second District’s economy has strengthened further since the
last report. Firms in various industries report widespread
increases in input prices and some increases in selling prices,
while retail prices are generally reported to be stable. Labor
market conditions improved moderately, with increased hiring
reported in a number of industries. Retail sales were robust in
February and March, with particular strength in auto sales.
 Consumer confidence  has been mixed but generally steady since
the last report. Tourism activity rebounded somewhat in March,
after weakening modestly in February. Commercial real estate
markets have been mixed. Housing markets have been generally
stable, with relative strength at the lower end of the market.
Finally, bankers report some weakening in household loan demand,
and a moderate increase in delinquencies on commercial and
industrial loans.  Consumer Spending  Retailers generally report strong results for February and March.
One major retail chain notes that sales were ahead of plan in
February and March, while another describes sales as on plan.
Two major malls in western New York State also characterize
sales as steady and strong, continuing to be buoyed by a flow of
Canadian shoppers. A number of retail contacts note that, due to
the later Easter this year, sales were modestly lower in March
than a year earlier, but this effect is expected to be reversed
in April. Unseasonably cool weather was not considered a major
factor. Two major retail chains note that  New York  City under-
performed the rest of the region in terms of sales growth last
month. Inventories are generally reported to be at desired
levels, and prices are reported to be stable, though one large
retailer notes that it is testing out price increases on certain
lines of merchandise.
Auto dealers in upstate New York--metropolitan Rochester and
Buffalo--characterize sales of new vehicles as exceptionally
strong since the last report. Sales of used cars were also
relatively robust, and dealers report that business at service
departments remains brisk. Retail credit conditions continued to
improve.  Confidence surveys have given mixed results since the last
report. Siena College’s survey of New York State residents shows
consumer confidence among NY State residents leveling off in
March, after falling in February. The Conference Board reports
that residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) became
considerably less confident about the near-term outlook, in
March, but that their assessment of current conditions improved
for the 4th straight month.
Tourism activity in New York City picked up again in March,
after slowing somewhat in February. Occupancy rates at  Manhattan 
hotels moved up noticeably in March, and the number of occupied
rooms was up modestly from a year earlier. Hotel revenues, which
had slipped below comparable 2010 levels in February, rebounded
in March. Attendance and revenues at Broadway theaters also
slipped in February but rebounded above year-earlier levels in
March.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing markets across the District have been generally stable
since the last report, with the lower end of the market
generally performing a bit better than the higher end, and re-
sales performing better than new home sales. An authority on  New
Jersey ’s housing industry reports that market conditions remain
weak: despite some uptick in resale transactions, the spring
season, thus far, has been unusually slow. Brokers report that
there have been more all-cash deals but also more distress sales.
Sales and construction of new homes remain at exceptionally weak
levels. A Buffalo-area real estate contact reports that selling
prices have increased modestly from a year ago, but that sales
activity has been mixed--brisk at the lower end of the market,
with some sellers receiving multiple offers, but sluggish at the
middle and upper ends of the market.  Activity in  New York City ’s co-op and condo market was generally
stable in the first quarter, though the high end of the market
has slowed a bit. While total activity was relatively flat
versus a year ago, co-op sales rose sharply, while condo sales
fell sharply. New condo units represent a smaller proportion of
total apartment sales than they have in recent years. Overall,
listing inventory is down roughly 5 percent from a year ago.
Prices are steady in Manhattan, but continue to drift down in
the other boroughs. Manhattan’s apartment rental market has
picked up somewhat since the last report. Overall, rents were
reported to be little changed in March, but rents on smaller
(studio) apartments continued to climb and were up more than 10
percent from a year ago. Vacancy rates declined, after edging up
in January and February, and the inventory of available units is
described as tight.  Office markets have been mixed but generally steady across the
District in the first quarter of 2011. The office vacancy rate
rose moderately in Manhattan and  Long Island  (where it reached a
multi-year high), but was little changed in Northern NJ. However,
asking rents in all these areas moved up, and landlords
reportedly scaled back on concessions. In the Buffalo, Rochester
and Syracuse areas, vacancy rates edged down, while asking rents
were steady to up moderately. In Westchester and Fairfield
counties and metropolitan  Albany , however, office markets showed
further signs of softening, as vacancy rates rose and asking
rents continued to decline modestly.  Other Business Activity  Reports from business contacts suggest some broad-based
improvement in the labor market. A major New York City
employment agency reports a marked pickup in hiring activity in
March and describes it as the best month in a number of years.
The pickup has been most notable in financial and legal services
but also in other areas, such as public relations and real
estate. On the supply side, this contact notes that there are
fewer candidates looking, and that more employed people are
making moves. More generally, firms in both manufacturing and
other sectors report a further pickup in both hiring activity
and general business conditions in early March, and contacts
remain optimistic about the near term outlook. A trucking-
industry contact reports that shipping activity has picked up
steadily in recent months, but that firms face rising costs from
both rising energy prices and more stringent federal regulations.
More broadly, firms in various industries report increasingly
widespread increases in input prices, and some increase in
selling prices.  Financial Developments  Bankers report decreased demand for consumer loans and
residential mortgages, increased demand for commercial mortgages
and no change in demand for commercial and industrial loans. The
decrease was most prevalent for residential mortgages. Bankers
indicate steady demand for refinancing. Respondents report no
change in credit standards for consumer loans and a tightening
of credit standards for the other loan categories. No banker
reported an easing of credit standards in any category. Bankers
report a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds
for residential mortgages but no change in spreads in the other
loan categories. Respondents also note a decrease in the average
deposit rate. Bankers report an uptick in delinquency rates for
commercial and industrial loans but no change in delinquency
rates for the other loan categories. 