-- 
Mubarak Detained With Sons in Egyptian Corruption Probe, State TV Reports

-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-04-13T15:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/mubarak-detained-with-sons-in-egyptian-corruption-probe-state-tv-reports.html
Egypt ’s public prosecutor ordered
the detention of former President  Hosni Mubarak  for 15 days as
part of a corruption probe, state-run Nile News television
reported.  Mubarak’s sons, Gamal and Alaa, have also been detained for
the same period, Nile TV said, citing the prosecutor’s office.
The three men were summoned for questioning about alleged
embezzlement of public funds, and attacks on protesters during
the uprising against his regime, the prosecutor said April 10.  The former president was hospitalized yesterday after
having a heart attack while being questioned, Nile said. He is
being treated in Sharm el-Sheikh, according to Ashraf Mounir, a
spokesman for the hospital in the Red Sea resort, where Mubarak
and his family have been living since he ceded authority to the
military on Feb. 11 after three decades in power.  Mubarak’s health is “unstable,” the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported, citing a person who wasn’t identified by
name at  Sharm el-Sheikh  International Hospital.  Allegations of corruption against Mubarak, his family and
other members of his regime were among the grievances voiced by
the demonstrators who forced him from power. They also demanded
higher  living standards  and an end to government repression.
Official figures show 365 people were killed as Mubarak
supporters and police clashed with protesters.  Tahrir Square  Tens of thousands gathered on April 8 in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square, the main rallying point for the anti-Mubarak protests,
to demand that the former leader and some of his allies be
brought to trial quickly.  The prosecutor ordered the assets of Mubarak and his family
to be frozen and banned them from traveling, the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported on Feb. 28.  Mubarak said he would also allow the prosecutor to
investigate whether he, his wife, Suzanne, or his sons have
owned any real estate or property since he took power in 1981.  The economy is still reeling from the effects of the
uprising, in which  Human Rights Watch  said more than 300 people
died. Growth may slow this fiscal year to between 2.5 and 3
percent from 5.1 percent in the previous year, Finance Minister
Samir Radwan said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 