-- 
Tullow Restarts Drilling in Uganda, Finds More Oil in Ghana

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-04-13T15:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tullow-restarts-drilling-in-uganda-finds-more-oil-in-ghana.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
focusing on Africa and Latin America, discovered more light oil
off  Ghana  and restarted drilling in Uganda after selling stakes
to partners.  Tullow agreed to sell in March interests in three Ugandan
exploration blocks to  Total SA (FP)  and China National Offshore Oil
Corp. for $2.9 billion, allowing the partners to develop the
Lake Albert Basin. In Ghana, Tullow and a different group of
partners encountered gas condensate in the Tweneboa-4 appraisal
well, the London-based company said today in a statement.  “The exploration and appraisal program has been
reactivated and two wells are expected to commence drilling in
Exploration Area 1 within the next two weeks” in  Uganda , Tullow
said. “Tweneboa-4 is an important milestone as it is the final
well to be drilled in the Tweneboa appraisal program,” Angus McCoss, Tullow exploration director, said in the statement.  Tullow and partners in Uganda plan to deploy five drilling
rigs in the second half of the year to explore the fields, which
may pump as much as 300,000 barrels a day, according to Total’s
forecast. The companies are advancing the project after Tullow
agreed to make tax payments to Uganda after about a year of
disputes and delays.  Oil production may start later this year or in early 2012,
Andy Oliver, head of operations in Uganda, estimated March 30.
Tullow will need to settle the final tax bill with the Ugandan
government, the company said.  Last year, Tullow paid about $1.5 billion to  Heritage Oil
Plc (HOIL)  for its interests in Block 1 and 3A in the Lake Albert
basin, which holds 1 billion barrels of oil reserves. Uganda
withheld final approval of the deal until the tax issue was
resolved.  In Ghana, Tullow is working with Kosmos Energy Ltd.,
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , and Ghana National Petroleum Corp. to
explore offshore fields. The partners started pumping crude from
the Jubilee field last year, making the West African nation the
newest supplier of oil to world markets.  Tullow was unchanged at 1,413 pence in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  