-- 
Tullow Pays $313 Million Tax to Uganda on Heritage Asset Buy

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-04-13T10:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tullow-pays-tax-on-heritage-ugandan-asset-buy-new-vision-says.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
focusing on  Africa  and Latin America, paid $313 million in
disputed tax to Uganda linked to the purchase of  Heritage Oil
Plc (HOIL) ’s interests in two oil blocks in the Lake Albert basin.  Tullow also paid a $14.5 million stamp duty after its March
agreement to sell shares in three Ugandan exploration blocks to
 Total SA (FP)  and China National Offshore Oil Corp. for $2.9 billion,
London-based explorer said today in an e-mail.  Tullow paid the tax acting as an agent for Heritage
appointed by the Ugandan government. The payment would be split
equally with Cnooc and Total, Ian Springett, Tullow’s chief
financial officer, said March 30.  Tullow paid about $1.5 billion to Heritage Oil for its
interests in Block 1 and 3A in the Lake Albert basin last year.
 Uganda  withheld the final approval of the deal until the capital
gains tax issue was resolved  In July, Heritage deposited $121.5 million with the Uganda
Revenue Authority and further $283.4 million in an escrow
account in London as part of the settlement to allow Tullow to
complete the acquisition of the Jersey, U.K.-based company’s
assets in the African country.  The $313 million payment by Tullow, acting as an agent for
Heritage, was due to represent the $283.4 million, which was
further increased by about $30 million at request of the Ugandan
government, Springett explained last month.  Tullow has pledged to pay an additional $141.8 million to
Uganda when its field interest sale to Total and Cnooc is
completed. That represents about 30 percent of $472.7 million
claimed by the government in capital gains tax on the sale of
shares in three blocks to the new partners, according to
Tullow’s March 30 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  