-- 
Unilever, P&G Fined $457 Million by EU for Detergent Cartel

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-13T13:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/unilever-p-g-fined-457-million-by-eu-after-washing-powder-cartel-probe.html
Unilever and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
agreed to pay 315.2 million euros ($457 million) in fines to end
a European Union probe into price fixing of laundry detergent.  P&G, the maker of Ariel washing powder, was fined 211.2
million euros and Unilever will pay 104 million euros for
agreeing with Henkel KGaA, the German maker of Persil, to fix
prices of the detergent in eight countries over a three-year
period, the European Commission said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Henkel wasn’t fined because it was the first company to
supply evidence to regulators. Antitrust agencies across  Europe 
have been investigating cosmetics and detergent manufacturers
for agreements to fix or increase prices. The commission said it
reduced fines on the other two companies because they cooperated
in the probe and agreed to settle.  “Henkel, Procter & Gamble and Unilever engaged in their
anti-competitive practices at their own initiative and at their
own risk,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said.
Almunia said the companies agreed not to cut prices when they
shrank the size of packaging for laundry detergent and then
later agreed to increase prices.  Unilever spokesman Trevor Gorin said the amount it has to
pay was “within the provision made by Unilever in its 2010
results.” Procter & Gamble spokeswoman Marina Barker said it
had “previously taken an appropriate financial reserve” to
cover the fine and strengthened its global compliance program.  ‘Concrete Evidence’  Henkel in 2008 acknowledged “concrete evidence of
misconduct by employees in several Western European countries,”
Dirk-Stephan Koedijk, the company’s chief compliance officer,
said in a statement.  Henkel said it “immediately informed the authorities,”
and took steps “to uncover and avoid future misconduct.”  The three companies started coordinating prices in 2002,
the commission said, when they put into practice an industrywide
initiative to improve environmental performance by reducing the
weight of washing powder and its packaging.  The price-fixing deal covered  Belgium ,  France ,  Germany ,
 Greece ,  Italy , Portugal,  Spain  and the Netherlands, the
commission said.  The settlement is the third between companies and the
European Commission, following deals last year that ended EU
probes into producers of D-RAM memory chips and animal feed
phosphates.  Almunia said last week that settlements were a “win-win
situation” because they cut companies’ fines, reduced
enforcement costs and freed up regulators’ resources.  Last year, Italy  fined  Unilever, P&G and 13 other companies
for coordinating price increases for cosmetics. It didn’t fine
Henkel because it was the first to inform regulators of the
cartel. German units of Unilever, Henkel and Sara Lee were fined
about 37 million euros by the country’s cartel office in
February 2008 for fixing toothpaste and detergent prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 