-- 
Canucks Favored to Win Stanley Cup as Rangers Given 35-1 Chance

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-13T04:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/vancouver-canucks-favored-to-win-stanley-cup-ny-rangers-given-35-1-chance.html
The  Vancouver Canucks  enter
the National Hockey League playoffs as favorites to win
their first Stanley Cup title, while the New York Rangers
are the longshot, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  The Canucks, who finished the regular season with a
league-best 117 points, have 3-1 odds to win the Stanley
Cup, according to  Las Vegas Sports Consultants , which
advises Nevada sports books on gambling lines.  The Rangers, who qualified for the playoffs on the
season’s next-to-last day, have the longest odds of the 16
teams in the postseason at 35-1, meaning a $100 bet would
return $3,500 plus the original investment if they win the
title.  The playoffs open tonight with five games, including
the Canucks hosting the  Chicago Blackhawks  and the Rangers
on the road against the  Washington  Capitals. Andrew
Patterson, an oddsmaker at Sports Consultants, said the
playoffs may be the most unpredictable in recent memory.  “These 16 teams are closely tied together, and the
way the matchups work out, this is going to be a very
competitive and wide-open playoffs,” Patterson said in a
telephone interview.  Vancouver has been to the Stanley Cup finals twice,
losing to the  New York Islanders  in 1982 and the Rangers in
1994. The last two favorites heading into the playoffs --
the  San Jose Sharks  in 2009 and the Capitals last year --
lost their best-of-seven-game opening-round series.  The Canucks will attempt to break that streak behind
30-year-old forward Daniel Sedin, who scored a league-high
104 points this season. The defending-champion Blackhawks,
who eliminated  Vancouver  in the conference semifinals the
past two seasons, were the favorite to retain the Stanley
Cup at the beginning of the season. They didn’t gain the
West’s final playoff spot until the Dallas Stars lost on
the last day of the season.  Chicago  has 18-1 odds to repeat
as champion.  Tough Draw  “Vancouver got a terrible break by drawing Chicago,”
Patterson said. “The Canucks are No. 1 in my power ratings
and they will definitely be favored to advance, but they
would be a heavier favorite if they were playing the
 Nashville Predators  or  Los Angeles Kings .”  The Predators are seeded fifth in the West and the
Kings seventh.  The Capitals, the top seed in the East, have the
second-best odds to win the  Stanley Cup  at 4-1, followed by
the Sharks at 6-1, the  Philadelphia Flyers  at 7-1, and
 Detroit   Red Wings  and Boston Bruins at 8-1 each.  The Rangers (44-33-5) last made the postseason in
2009, losing in the first round to Washington in seven
games after blowing a 3-1 series lead. They will be without
their second-leading scorer, Ryan Callahan, who broke his
right ankle on April 4.  Lundqvist Key  New York goaltender Henrik Lundqvist will be critical
to the Rangers’ chances of upsetting the Capitals,
according to Pierre McGuire, a hockey analyst for NBC
Sports and  Canada ’s TSN. Lundqvist, 29, was among the NHL’s
top 10 in wins, shutouts, saves, save percentage and goals-
against average this year.  “The No. 1 thing going for the  New York Rangers  is
that they have a goaltender in Henrik Lundqvist that had
more shutouts than anybody this NHL season,” McGuire said
on a conference call with reporters. “It’s going to be a
fantastically long series with a lot of emotion.”  Three other series start today. The  Pittsburgh
Penguins  host the Tampa Bay Lightning, the Predators visit
the Anaheim Ducks, and the Red Wings, who have played in
two of the past three finals, take on the  Phoenix Coyotes 
in Detroit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  