-- 
Weber Says Higher ECB Rate ‘Warranted’ If Forecasts Are Met

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-04-13T22:53:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/weber-says-higher-ecb-rate-warranted-if-economy-forecast-met.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Axel Weber said further  monetary policy 
tightening will be “warranted” in 2011 if the bank’s economic
forecasts are met.  “If things come in line with our projections a further
normalization of policy this year is warranted,” Weber told
reporters today in St. Louis.  The ECB last week raised its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter point from a record low 1 percent after inflation
accelerated in March by 2.6 percent, its fastest rate in more
than two years. It last month projected growth of about 1.7
percent this year and inflation of 2.3 percent.  “Headline inflation is above our comfort level” of just
below 2 percent, Weber said. That’s an argument to tighten rates
“if this trend continues” although ultimately the decision to
do so will be “quite data-driven,” he said.  Weber described the ECB’s policy stance as “still very
accommodative” even with the economy in better shape than when
the central bank was cutting its benchmark. “We are withdrawing
some of this additional stimulus,” he said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will raise its key rate to 1.75
percent by the end of this year, according to the median of 23
forecasts in a Bloomberg Survey of economists. Last week’s
increase was the first since July 2008.  ‘Unlimited’ Liquidity  Weber resigns this month as president of the Bundesbank and
used his speech in  St. Louis  today to warn that “unlimited
provision of central bank liquidity to banks without a
sustainable business model cannot be a long-run solution.”  “Monetary policy should not act as a substitute for tasks
of other policy areas,” he said. “In particular, monetary
policy should not and cannot persistently replace the repair of
banks’ balance sheets.”  Asked if  Greece  will have to restructure its debt, Weber
said he “would at this point rule out discussing a
restructuring of sovereign debt rather than bank debt.”  Weber also called for further budget consolidation and
structural reforms after  Portugal  last week became the euro
area’s third member after Greece and Ireland to succumb to the
euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis and seek a European Union
bailout. During the financial crisis, European governments also
spent billions to stabilize the banking industry, resulting in
ballooning budget deficits.  “Painful adjustment processes, including structural reform
and budget consolidation, are essential to restore the ability
of the countries concerned to live up to the demands of the
single monetary policy,” Weber said. “Without stability-
oriented prudent fiscal policy, monetary policy will find it
increasingly difficult to ensure  price stability  at low interest
rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in St. Louis at  cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  