-- 
Wells Fargo Tests Microchips for Globetrotting Card Clients

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-04-13T15:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/wells-fargo-to-test-microchips-for-globetrotting-card-clients.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the U.S. bank
with the most branches, is testing microchip-embedded credit
cards with frequent travelers to address complaints of customers
who have trouble using their cards abroad.  The pilot program announced today marks the first
effort by a major U.S. bank to deploy  Visa Inc. (V)  credit cards
with so-called EMV-chip technology, which has become a standard
in  Europe  and much of the rest of the world, according to San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo.  “It’s not an infrequent message from our customers of the
acceptance challenges they have when they go overseas,” Eric
Schindewolf, vice president of product development for Wells
Fargo’s consumer credit-card unit, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “We want to remain top-of-wallet, wherever our
customers are.”  The lender is preparing to notify 15,000 customers it
identified as frequent travelers, including college students and
clients of its private bank, that they’ve been invited to
participate in the pilot. The cardholders will receive the EMV
cards in the middle of the year.  The U.S. is among the last developed nations whose payment
system relies primarily on cards with magnetic stripes and
hasn’t yet adopted EMV. Standards for the technology are managed
by EMVCo, which was formed in 1999 by Europay International,
 Mastercard Inc. (MA) , based in Purchase, New York, and San Francisco-
based Visa.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest U.S. credit-card
issuer by purchases, is also an EMVCo member.  ‘Widespread Consensus’  “There’s a widespread consensus around the world that it’s
a more secure” payment technology, said Gwenn Bézard, an
analyst at Aite Group, a Boston-based research firm.  The EMV chip creates a “dynamic cryptogram” that prevents
the use of fraudulent or cloned credit-cards, Schindewolf said.
Wells Fargo’s EMV cards still will carry magnetic stripes for
use in the U.S., which leaves the embedded data more exposed to
a type of fraud known as skimming.  Almost 10 million U.S. consumers experienced credit-card
acceptance problems abroad in 2008, costing about $4 billion in
lost transactions for merchants and $447 million in revenue for
card issuers, according to a 2009 study by Aite.  A common problem facing U.S. consumers is that some
merchants abroad are unfamiliar with magnetic-stripe cards and
may refuse to accept them, Schindewolf said. Some self-serve
kiosks outside the U.S. aren’t equipped to accept payments with
magnetic-stripe cards, he said.  Expanding Program  The Wells Fargo program represents a “half-step” in
catching up with payment technology ubiquitous in the rest of
the developed world, said Brian Dodge, spokesman for the
Arlington, Virginia-based Retail Industry Leaders Association, a
trade group for the retail industry.  “The system used in the  United States  is similar to that
used in  North Korea ,” Dodge said. “Any system that reduces
fraud is a win for consumers and a win for retailers.”  The United Nations Federal Credit Union was the first U.S.
lender to roll out EMV when it sent 5,000 cards to its most
affluent members in October. The  Long Island City ,  New York- 
based firm plans to expand the program to 75,000 members within
the next year, said Merrill Halpern, assistant vice president of
card services.  Canada is converting to EMV technology. All cards and
automated teller machines must be compatible with the technology
by Dec. 31, 2012, according to Catherine Johnston, president and
chief executive officer of  ACT Canada , which represents banks
and payment networks.  U.S. consumers will see more banks testing the market for
EMV-ready cards over the next year, Bézard said. “You’re going
to see more small steps like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in  New York  
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 