-- 
WestLB Risks EU Aid-Repayment Demand If Deadline Missed

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-13T16:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/westlb-risks-aid-repayment-demand-from-eu-if-deadline-missed.html
WestLB AG faces a European Union
order to repay billions of euros of German  government aid  unless
regulators get a detailed restructuring plan for the lender by
April 15, the EU’s antitrust chief said.  Joaquin Almunia said he would be forced to draw up
proposals to ban the aid if he didn’t receive a plan this week
from the German federal government that created “a viable
institution” and “sold or wound down” other parts of the
existing bank.  “Unfortunately the other alternative is to start working
on the other possibility -- that is a negative decision,”
Almunia told reporters in Brussels today.  WestLB needed financial aid from its owners, which include
the German state of North-Rhine Westphalia, as well as the
country’s Soffin bank-rescue fund after running up losses during
the global financial crisis. EU regulators must approve large
government payments to bail out banks and required other lenders
to sell off assets to compensate for the advantage that they
received.  Germany  will meet the deadline to give the EU a plan for
the future of the bank, the country’s finance ministry said
today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Service Provider  WestLB’s shareholders and German authorities are discussing
creating a so-called Verbundbank model where WestLB would be a
service provider to regional savings banks, Almunia said. This
option “should not be based on additional state aid,” he said.  WestLB spokesman Armin Kloss declined to comment today.  WestLB’s owners and the German government submitted rival
proposals in February when the bank had to offer extra
restructuring measures to seek EU approval for at least 3.4
billion euros of government help.  The commission in 2009 already ordered WestLB to sell
itself by the end of 2011 and its real-estate unit WestImmo by
the end of 2010. WestLB missed the WestImmo sale deadline. The
bank last week received two non-binding offers from potential
purchasers, it said. It didn’t name the bidders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 