-- 
Where Chernobyl Outlook Is Shakier Than Ground: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-04-13T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/where-chernobyl-outlook-is-shakier-than-ground-william-pesek.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
isn’t known for its forecasting prowess in  Asia . Even by those
standards, its latest guesstimate for Japan is a standout.  By the IMF’s math, a magnitude 9.0 earthquake, a 75-foot
(23-meters) tsunami and nuclear reactors leaking radiation will
barely nick growth. It now sees Japan advancing 1.4 percent this
year, down from its earlier 1.6 percent prediction. That raises
a very technical econometric question: Huh?  In the days after the March 11 quake, it was plausible to
argue that rebuilding efforts would support growth. That was
before blackouts shuttered Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp.
plants, foreign executives rushed to the airports and tourism
dried up.  It was before we knew radiation might spew out of Fukushima
for years to come. News that the severity rating of the accident
was raised to 7, the highest level on the International Nuclear
and Radiological Event Scale and matching the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster, will damp already weak consumer and business spending.  Welcome to  Japan ’s New Normal, and it all but ensures that
the IMF is way too optimistic. Here are three reasons:  No. 1. The doubt factor. Keynesian economics and Japanese
history leads forecasters to expect a growth jolt. Lots of
roads, bridges, ports, rail lines and buildings must be rebuilt
in the northeastern Tohoku region, which accounts for roughly 8
percent of gross domestic product. What this overlooks is the
traumatic nature of Japan’s latest experience.  Downwind of Fukushima  The economy is largely about Tokyo, and that’s just 135
miles (220 kilometers) from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant. Doubt is already aborting recoveries in
industries that have been struggling for years. Real estate
trusts, for example, are shelving property sales and suspending
fundraising plans as the crisis saps investor appetite for
assets. Cargo ships and airplanes are being turned away for the
faintest traces of radiation.  Manufacturers stung by supply shortages over the last month
won’t soon forget it. This may drive executives -- including
Japanese ones -- to diversify operations away from Japan. That
means any business investment over the next couple of years may
benefit growth abroad at Japan’s expense.  Finally, the inclination of Japanese households to over-
save may soar amid worries about another temblor, tsunami and
the steady drip, drip, drip of bad news on radiation levels.
Fear of what’s to come is fostering a spirit of thrift and self-
restraint. When luxury shops and posh eateries aren’t closed to
save energy, they’re empty. Shopping, a favorite Japanese
pastime, is now seen by many as gauche.  Tepid Growth  No. 2. Tepid world growth. Japan’s recent success in
weakening the yen won’t be the boon to exports many believe.
U.S. growth is limping along,  Europe ’s debt crisis is closing in
on  Spain  and key emerging-market economies are beginning to
slow. That includes  China , Japan’s biggest export market.  One reason Japan recovered so quickly from the Kobe
earthquake in 1995 was booming global demand. It occurred as the
advent of the Internet sparked a communications and information
revolution, while the American consumer helped Japan avoid the
worst of the 1997-1998 Asian crisis that the IMF handled so
poorly. Today, the tech bubble is long past and U.S. shoppers
are trying to pay down post housing-bust debt.  It doesn’t help that Japan’s policy toolbox is empty.
Short-term  interest rates  are already at zero and public debt is
double the size of the $5 trillion economy. Worries that credit
rating companies will downgrade Japan have lawmakers leaning on
the central bank to make 1930s-style purchases of  government
bonds  to fund quake-rebuilding efforts.  Pump Priming  Fiscal and monetary pump priming will be of limited utility
without external growth engines. Even China will become a less
reliable one now that policy makers in Beijing are stepping up
their inflation fight. Slower Chinese growth will entail waning
demand for Japanese goods.  No. 3. Uninspiring leadership. Before the ground shook on
March 11, speculation was rife that Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
would step down amid fund-raising scandals and dwindling public
support. After a promising start last June, Kan did little to
end deflation, raise competitiveness, address surging debt or
prepare for an aging population.  These challenges are now more complicated. The estimated
$300 billion price tag for rebuilding Tohoku leaves less money
to address structural impediments to long-term growth. Those
estimates probably understate the cost because they don’t
account for the disruptions to daily life and scuttled business
ventures.  Since nuclear experts can’t agree on the worst-case
scenario for Japan, predicting the economic impact is like
anticipating just when the ground will shake again, as it does
every five hours or so.  Lack of Faith  Fukushima is now in the history books next to Chernobyl. As
Japan’s 127 million people and corporate executives hold their
collective breaths, does anyone really expect a return to
business as usual anytime soon?  Economic revival is largely a game of confidence. In  Tokyo ,
there’s little faith in the leadership as the worst postwar
crisis unfolds seemingly without end. This political paralysis
is part of the mix as we begin to calculate the fallout from
Japan’s New Normal.  Just something the IMF may want to consider the next time
it decides Japan can avoid a recession.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  