-- 
Whitehaven Coal Says It Received Formal Takeover Proposals

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-13T06:17:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/whitehaven-coal-says-it-received-formal-takeover-proposals-1-.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , the
Australian coal miner that put itself up for sale in October as
demand for the commodity boosted mergers and acquisitions, said
a number of parties have submitted formal proposals.  “Whitehaven is now in discussions with a number of these
parties to determine which proposal, if any, will be recommended
by the board,” the Sydney-based company said in a filing.  Whitehaven, which has a market value of A$3.5 billion ($3.7
billion), on Oct. 29 said it allowed interested parties to study
its books and submit proposals for a takeover. Purchasing
Whitehaven would give the buyer four mines and projects in New
South  Wales ’ Gunnedah basin that produce pulverized coal for
steelmaking as well as energy coal.  Demand for coal from steel and power producers has spurred
global mining companies to add coal assets, triggering more than
$10 billion of takeovers during the first quarter, the strongest
start to the year in at least five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Whitehaven rose 0.7 percent to close at A$7.15 in Sydney
trading. It has gained 6.4 percent since the start of the year.  The company also owns 11 percent of Newcastle Coal
Infrastructure Group, a port developer that commissioned 30
million metric tons of export shipping capacity last March. A
further 23 million tons are due to become available in mid-2012.  Best Start  There have been a total $28 billion of mining mergers and
acquisitions during the first quarter, the best start to the
year since 2008. In the most expensive deal in the coal
industry’s history, Alpha Natural Resources Inc. agreed Jan. 29
to buy Massey Energy Co. for $7.1 billion in cash and stock.  Coal producers in  Australia , the biggest exporter, are
being targeted as prices gain, prompting companies to spend more
on acquisitions to secure reserves as consumption in  China  and
the developing world drives up prices.  Record rains in Australia are likely to push contracts for
both thermal and coking coal to record highs, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc analysts, led by Head of Commodity Strategy
 Nick Moore , said in a March 16 report. “We forecast robust
demand for imported thermal coal from China,  South Korea  and
 Japan  to drive global growth,” Moore said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  