-- 
WS Atkins Sees Months of Studies for U.K. Nuclear After Quake

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-04-13T12:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/ws-atkins-sees-months-of-studies-for-u-k-nuclear-after-quake.html
WS Atkins Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
engineering-design company, said that Britain’s nuclear program
could be set back by months as more studies will be needed after
 Japan  suffered the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  “There’s going to be less-immediate new build, but I think
the U.K. has been sensibly committed to a nuclear program,”
Chief Executive Officer Keith Clarke said in an interview today.
“It will proceed in a measured and sensible fashion.”  Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant is leaking radiation after
a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11. While more
studies of design standards will probably be needed before new
building in the U.K., a delay of months should be taken in
context of a plan that may span nearly two decades, Clarke said.  Electricite de France SA wants to complete the first of
four new reactors at Hinkley Point in southwest  England  by 2018.
Atkins works on decommissioning and maintaining Britain’s
current nuclear plants. For new construction, Atkins would work
with government and utilities to plan locations, study the
likely environmental effects and design parts.  “I think we’re talking of delays of months rather than
years,” Clarke said. “A little bit of extra study now is not
entirely unexpected.”  EDF, based in Paris, acquired the U.K.’s nuclear plants in
2008 before selling a 20 percent stake to  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the
country’s largest energy supplier.  Safety Standards  Britain’s new generation of proposed reactors will be safer
than those at the Dai-Ichi plant as they will be capable of
being shut down without the need for extra power.  “New nuclear reactors have different safety standards,
have different technology which isn’t dependent on cooling once
you turn it off,” said Clarke. “You can turn it off and walk
away. This was not the case with old reactors.”  Atkins earnings for the fiscal year ending March 31 will
beat analysts’ estimates as business in the Middle East has
“benefited from increasing activity in the second half of the
year,” it said in a statement today.  Atkins rose as much as 8.6 percent in  London  trading, the
biggest intraday jump since November 2009. The stock traded 7.6
percent higher at 741 pence as of 12:41 p.m., valuing the Epsom,
England-based company at 742 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said on April 6 there are
likely to be “modest delays” in the construction of new
nuclear plants in the U.K. as the country assesses what happened
at the Dai-Ichi plant. Huhne said on March 14 that he asked Mike Weightman, the U.K.’s chief nuclear inspector, to report on the
implications of Japan’s nuclear crisis.  “This is not a seminal point in reappraising” whether
nuclear energy should continue, Clarke said today. “It’s a
point of learning to make sure it remains viable in an
appropriate and safe fashion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  