-- 
TMX Group Sale to LSE Is Said Backed by Ontario Committee With Conditions

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-13T20:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/tmx-group-sale-to-lse-is-said-backed-by-ontario-committee-with-conditions.html
An Ontario government committee
reviewing  TMX Group Inc. (X) ’s sale to the  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE)  will recommend supporting the C$3.2 billion ($3.3
billion) transaction with conditions, according to two people
familiar with the report.  The committee report, expected to be submitted April 19 in
Ontario’s legislature, identifies areas of concern including
“imperative” issues that need addressing, according to the two
people, who declined to be identified because the report isn’t
public. Those issues include regulatory control and governance,
they said, without elaborating.  Ontario’s government doesn’t have a direct say in the
takeover of the Toronto Stock Exchange owner, though the non-
binding report may be considered in reviews by the Ontario
Securities Commission and the federal government. The takeover
requires approval from five Canadian provincial regulators
including  Quebec ’s  Autorite des Marches Financiers .  “It helps if the Ontario government is willing to support
this transaction, but the two key components in this whole game
are the two regulators, the OSC and the AMF,” said Shubha Khan,
an analyst with National Bank Financial in Toronto, who covers
TMX Group. “It’s helpful, but certainly not sufficient.”  TMX fell 16 cents to C$39.68 at the 4 p.m. close of trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  The nine-member committee held four days of hearings last
month on the proposed sale of TMX to LSE Group, which included
presentations by executives from both companies, as well as
industry groups and the Ontario Securities Commission.  Minority Report  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan questioned the
takeover of what he called a “strategic asset” for  Canada 
after LSE announced its offer Feb. 9. The London Stock Exchange
owner agreed to buy TMX in an all-stock transaction that would
give LSE shareholders 55 percent of the combined company. The
deal has also been opposed by some of the country’s biggest
banks, including Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Exchange investor  Thomas Caldwell , the chief executive
officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd., said a favorable committee
report bodes well for getting support of Ontario politicians.  ‘Net Benefit’  The takeover also needs to pass a “net benefit” test by
the federal government under the Investment Canada Act, and
approval from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Two-
thirds of TMX shareholders must also support the deal to
succeed.  Ontario’s committee member Gilles Bisson of the opposition
 New Democratic Party , who expressed concerns about the sale
during the hearings, said he’s submitting a “minority report”
attached to the main report.  “There’s a minority report authored by me, opposing the
view,” Bisson said in an interview, without saying what his
report will recommend. “They’re taking one approach, I’m taking
another.”  Committee Chairman Gerry Phillips declined to comment on
the report until it’s been presented in the provincial
legislature.  The sale of TMX Group has a 40 percent chance of being
approved after  Australia  set the precedent of rejecting a
foreign bid by Singapore Exchange Ltd. for its bourse, Khan
wrote in a report last week.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  