-- 
Yale Senior Dies in Campus Laboratory Machine-Shop Accident

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-13T22:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/yale-senior-dies-in-campus-laboratory-machine-shop-accident-3-.html
A Yale University student died last
night after her hair caught in a lathe while she worked on a
project in a laboratory machine shop on campus.  Michele Dufault, a senior, was killed “in what appears to
have been a terrible accident,” university Vice President Linda Koch Lorimer said in a statement posted on the New Haven,
Connecticut-based college’s website. Her body was found by other
students who had been working in the building, Yale President
 Richard Levin  said in a separate statement today.  Yale closed Sterling  Chemistry  Laboratory, where the
incident took place, for the day, and canceled classes and labs
there, according to Lorimer’s  statement . Levin, Lorimer and Yale
College Dean Mary Miller met with Dufault’s family today,
according to Levin.  “Michele was an exceptional science student who was
pursuing a B.S. in astronomy and physics,” Levin said. “She
also had keen interest in oceanography and was intending to
undertake work in that field after graduation.”  Safety Policies  While Yale has programs to train students in using power
equipment, the university will assess safety policies and
practices in its laboratories, machine shops and other
facilities where undergraduates are permitted, Levin said.
During the review, students’ access to these areas will be
limited and monitored, he said.  Support and counseling services are available, the
university said.  “Michele was an exceptional young woman, an outstanding
student and young scientist, a dear friend and a vibrant member
of this community,” Lorimer said. “We will find ways in the
next day to gather to celebrate her life and grieve this loss.”  New Haven  Police aren’t investigating the death, said
Officer Joe Avery, a department spokesman.  Access to the machine shop is limited to those who have
completed a shop course, according to the chemistry department’s
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 