-- 
Yen Falls as Global Stocks, U.S. Retail Sales Advance; Carry Trade Gains

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-04-13T16:08:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/yen-declines-as-gain-in-stocks-u-s-retail-sales-supports-demand-for-risk.html
The yen dropped against most of its
major counterparts as global stocks advanced and a government
report showed U.S. retail sales rose for a ninth month,
encouraging investors to seek higher yields.  The New Zealand dollar and other currencies tied to global
growth prospects rallied against the greenback, yen and Swiss
franc, which slid on a subdued outlook for interest-rate
increases. The euro matched its 15-month high against the dollar
as the currency region’s industrial output rose for a fifth
month in February, stoking bets the  European Central Bank  will
boost borrowing costs further.  “It’s back into the growth currencies today,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group in
Greenwich,  Connecticut . “The dollar is snared whichever way you
look. On days when you have risk aversion, investors prefer the
Swiss franc or the yen. When risk appetite picks up, there are
far more central banks likely to increase rates before the
Fed.”  The yen slid 0.1 percent to 121.10 versus the euro at 12:05
p.m. in New York, from 120.99 yesterday, when it touched 120.16,
the strongest level since April 5.  Japan ’s currency was little
changed at 83.60 against the dollar, compared with 83.58, after
earlier declining 0.8 percent.  Japan’s currency pared its drop versus the dollar as U.S.
stocks erased their gains. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was
little changed after rising 0.6 percent. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
advanced 0.4 percent after tumbling 1.1 percent yesterday.  A yen-funded carry trade weighted equally to the Australian
and New Zealand dollars returned 0.9 percent today, according to
Bloomberg data.  Carry Trade ‘Momentum’  “Carry trades picked up momentum again, with the dollar,
Swiss franc and yen giving back some of their early week gains
versus the high yielders,” analysts led by Daniel Katzive at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York wrote in a research note to
clients today. “The recovery in carry positions has mirrored a
bounce in equities.”  Under the carry trade, investors borrow where  interest
rates  are low to buy higher-yielding assets elsewhere. Japan’s
zero to 0.1 percent target lending rate makes the yen popular
for funding such transactions. The benchmark borrowing costs are
4.75 percent in  Australia  and 2.50 percent in  New Zealand .  New Zealand’s dollar rose against all of its major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, rising 1.1 percent to 66.17
yen and advancing 0.6 percent to 70.66 Swiss centimes after an
index of house prices increased for a second consecutive month.
The Australian dollar appreciated 0.8 percent to 87.95 yen as
consumer confidence rose.  G-7 Intervention  Japan’s currency has remained weaker than 80 versus the
 U.S. dollar  since March 18, when Group of Seven nations acted to
curb gains in the yen and support Japan’s export-driven economy.
The currency had rallied to a post-World War II record on
speculation insurance companies would repatriate funds to help
pay for earthquake damage.  “The injection of liquidity by the  Bank of Japan  amid G-7
support has been sufficient to stabilize sentiment,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.
“This has been really positive for yen-funded carry trades.”  The euro traded at $1.4467, compared with $1.4477, after
reaching $1.4520, equaling yesterday’s peak, which was the
highest level since January 2010.  European policy makers will raise their benchmark by 109
basis points, or 1.09 percentage points, over the next 12
months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps. A similar gauge for the U.S. predicts the  Federal Reserve 
will increase rates by 46 basis points over the same period.  ECB Rate  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet and colleagues boosted
the main refinancing rate on April 7 to 1.25 percent from a
record low 1 percent.  “When you look at what’s happening with the euro, it is
driven on aggressively priced-in ECB tightening,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
New York, in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “We believe much
of that story has played out, and there will be a reversal.”  Bennenbroek, who according to Bloomberg data was the best
currency forecaster in the six months ended March 31, expects
the euro to drop to $1.32 in 12 months.  IntercontinentalExchange’s Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, was little changed at 74.866 following an intraday
gain of 0.2 percent after three straight days of declines.  U.S. retail sales advanced 0.4 percent in March after a
revised gain of 1.1 percent in the previous month, the Commerce
Department reported.  China ’s yuan snapped two days of losses as the Economic
Information Daily reported that banks’ reserve ratios may be
increased by 50 basis points on April 15 or April 22.  The yuan, whose daily trading range is restricted by the
government, strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.5333 per dollar after
appreciating to 6.5320, the strongest level since the country
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  