-- 
Treasuries, Stocks, Dollar Gain on $4 Trillion Plan to Reduce U.S. Deficit

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-13T20:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-13/yen-snaps-four-day-advance-before-china-economic-data-asian-stocks-fall.html
Treasuries gained, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index halted its longest slump since
November and the dollar turned higher against the euro, as
President  Barack Obama  sought $4 trillion in deficit cuts within
12 years. Greek 10-year bond yields climbed to a record.  Ten-year Treasury note yields slipped three basis points to
3.46 percent at 4:07 p.m. in New York. The Dollar Index, which
gauges the currency against six major counterparts, climbed 0.2
percent and the S&P 500 rose less than 0.1 percent to snap a
four-day drop. Greek 10-year yields touched an all-time high of
12.96 percent and costs to protect the nation’s debt using
credit-default swaps closed at a record as the Zeit newspaper
said investors may lose 50 to 70 percent in a restructuring.  U.S. Treasuries headed higher as Obama outlined plans to
cut  government spending  and increase taxes, setting the stage
for a fight with congressional Republicans over the nation’s
priorities. The gain in bonds also came as the U.S. sold $21
billion of 10-year notes. Stocks retreated as details of the
plan emerged, before heading higher as the  Federal Reserve ’s
Beige Book survey bolstered optimism that the economy can
weather the proposal.  “Obama’s budget-cut story gave the Treasury market a bid
going into the auction, with talk that was very aggressive,”
said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at
Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 20 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “The market remains a bit dubious of the politics,
but the feeling is that there is a sign that politicians sense
public frustration and have learned a lesson from  Europe .”  Treasury Auction  Two-year Treasury yields fell to the lowest level in almost
three weeks, dropping two basis points to 0.73 percent. Ten-year
notes at today’s auction drew a yield of 3.494. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.13, versus 3.32 at the last
offering. Primary dealers, which are obligated to big at
Treasury offerings, took 51.7 percent of the notes, the most
since February 2010.  The dollar reversed losses versus the euro, climbing 0.3
percent to $1.4441 versus the shared currency after slumping as
much as 0.3 percent earlier.  Technology stocks led gains among 10 groups in the  S&P 500 ,
rising 0.7 percent as a group. Riverbed Technology Inc. rallied
12 percent to lead computer networking companies higher after
profit topped analysts’ estimates. JDS Uniphase Corp., the
biggest U.S. network-analysis company, climbed 1.6 percent. EMC
Corp., the world’s biggest maker of storage computers, advanced
3.3 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the shares may
climbed after the company reports earnings next week.  ‘Moderate’ Expansion  The Fed said the economy expanded at a “moderate” pace
across much of the U.S. in February and March, led by
manufacturing, with labor markets showing improvements in most
regions.  “While many districts described the improvements as only
moderate, most districts stated that gains were widespread
across sectors,” the Fed said today in its Beige Book report.
While higher commodity costs compelled sellers to try to raise
prices, pressures to increase wages were “weak or subdued.”  Early gains in stocks came after U.S. retail sales advanced
for a ninth month in March, according to the Commerce
Department, increasing 0.4 percent following a 1.1 percent
February gain that was larger than previously estimated.  ‘More Energy’  “Consumers have a lot more energy than people thought,”
said  David Kelly , who helps oversee $405 billion as chief market
strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York. “The tide is still a
tide towards normalcy as far as the economy goes. We’re going to
see more positive than negative surprises. Same goes for a
steady improvement in corporate profits.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  led the U.S. market’s early advance
after reporting profit grew 67 percent to a second straight
record as provisions for bad mortgages and credit-card loans
tumbled. The stock rose as much as 1.6 percent before erasing
gains and dropping 0.8 percent as Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told investors not to expect dividend increases in the
next couple of quarters.  Financial shares in the S&P 500 fell 0.8 percent as a
group, the most among 10 industries, as regulators said the 14
largest U.S. mortgage servicers must pay back homeowners for
losses from botched foreclosures.  European Stocks   European stocks gained, rebounding from their biggest drop
in four weeks, as the region’s factory output rose. Alcatel-
Lucent SA jumped 7.5 percent as Morgan Stanley recommended the
shares. ARM Holdings Plc, the designer of chips that help power
Apple Inc.’s iPhone, rallied 6.8 percent. Building-material
shares advanced across Europe after Exane BNP Paribas raised the
companies to “outperform.”  The euro slumped versus 14 of 16 major peers amid concern
 Greece  may need to restructure debt. The head of the Standard &
Poor’s European debt-evaluation team,  Moritz Kraemer , said the
risk of a Greek restructuring was almost one in three, Zeit
reported.  “We can generate jobs and investments and we are not
changing track,” Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
said at a conference in  Athens  today. Reforms will “lead to
growth that will avoid the need for restructuring,” he said.  The yen depreciated 0.2 percent against the dollar,
snapping a four-day gain. The yuan appreciated to as much as
6.5317 per dollar, the highest level since  China  unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Kiwi Appreciates  The kiwi, as  New Zealand ’s currency is known, strengthened
0.7 percent versus its U.S. counterpart and jumped 0.9 percent
against the yen.  House prices  increased 0.5 percent in March, an
index published by the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand Inc.
showed.  Sweden’s krona climbed 1 percent versus the euro, snapping
a two-day drop. The government raised its forecast for growth in
2012 and 2013 and predicted a widening surplus over the next
four years as unemployment falls.  Arabica coffee futures climbed 2.5 percent to $2.8370 a
pound and hogs increased 2.3 percent to $1.01675 a pound to lead
gains in commodities. Cocoa rose 0.5 percent, gaining for a
third day on speculation exports from the  Ivory Coast  will be
delayed because of sporadic gunfire in Abidjan even the capture
of the country’s former president.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rallied 0.7 percent after
falling the most in a month yesterday.  India ’s Sensex index
jumped 2.3 percent, snapping a five-day drop, while  South
Korea ’s Kospi rebounded 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 