-- Maersk Wants Hong Kong to Ban Dirty Fuel to Fight Smog
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g ,   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-01-06T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/maersk-wants-hong-kong-to-ban-dirty-fuel-to-fight-smog.html
Maersk Line (MAERSKB) , the world’s biggest
container-shipping company, threatened to stop using cleaner
fuel at Hong Kong port from next year if the government doesn’t
mandate higher quality oil for carriers berthing in the city.  Without rules, shipping lines that burn polluting fuel
benefit from cheaper costs compared with Maersk, which uses a
cleaner fuel that is also expensive, said  Tim Smith , its North
Asia head. The company and 17 other operators have voluntarily
used low-sulfur oil for the past two years to help curb Hong
Kong’s pollution, the worst among global financial centers.  Government incentives for switching to cleaner fuels for
shipping lines calling on the world’s  third-busiest  container
port, a key contributor to the island’s pollution, don’t cover
additional costs and the payments are often delayed because of
processes, Smith said. Reverting to dirtier oil will be a blow
to Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying’s plans to clean up
the city even as residents choke on smog that causes more than 
3,000 deaths a year.  “The longer the regulations wait, the longer we will
continue to see these premature deaths,” said Veronica Booth, a
senior project manager at Hong Kong-based  Civic Exchange , a
group that has lobbied for more than a decade for cleaning up
the city’s air. “Certain shipping lines are reluctant to spend
money on these sorts of initiatives, particularly when there’s
no end in sight to a voluntary scheme.”  Sulfur Content  Maersk Line, the carrier of Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-
Maersk A/S, steams its ships that visit Hong Kong with fuel that
contains 0.5 percent sulfur or less, Smith said in an interview
Jan. 2. Hong Kong permits ships calling on its ports to use fuel
that contains up to 3.5 percent sulfur.  In comparison, vessels calling at  North Sea  and Baltic
ports must use fuel containing no more than 1 percent sulfur.
Maersk will continue to use the cleaner fuel until the end of
the year while it awaits legislation, Smith said.  “Some carriers turn up here, they don’t switch to low-
sulfur fuel, and they get a cost advantage,” Smith said. “We
don’t think that’s right. What we want is the government to
regulate.”  In September, the  Hong Kong  government introduced a three-
year incentive to promote the use of cleaner fuel. According to
the plan, ocean-going vessels that switch to fuel containing no
more than 0.5 percent sulfur get a 50 percent cut in port fees.  The use of cleaner fuel costs Maersk as much as $2 million
a year, Smith said. The discount in port charges covers only as
much as 40 percent of the cost of burning the costlier oil, he
said. Maersk made 850 calls to Hong Kong port annually, the
company said in 2010 when it began to switch fuels.  Voluntary Use  Some major shipping lines have committed to voluntarily
using cleaner fuel this year, Roberto Giannetta, secretary of
the Hong Kong Liner Shipping Association, said in an e-mail
without naming companies. Carriers will also push the government
for a legislation that makes it mandatory for all ships to use
the same standard of fuel, Giannetta said.  Orient Overseas International Ltd. (316) , the biggest container
line based in the city, will support the initiative and work
with the government toward creating an emission policy, Stanley Shen, its spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Hong Kong government, along with mainland authorities,
is exploring options that will make it mandatory for ocean-going
ships to switch to cleaner fuel while at berth in the Pearl
River Delta waters, YF Chau, a spokesman for the city’s
environmental protection department, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. He didn’t give a timeframe for the plan.  About 200,000 vessels called at Hong Kong port in 2011, of
which about 30,000 are ocean-going vessels, marine department
statistics show. Sulfur dioxide emissions from ships would drop
by 80 percent if all shipping lines calling at the port switch
to the cleanest fuel available, according to  Civic Exchange.   Air Quality  Hong Kong has never met its air quality targets since they
were adopted in 1987, according to a November government audit
report. In 2011, there were 175 days of very high pollution,
more than twice the figure in 2007, the report said.  Singapore, home to the world’s second-busiest container
port, is also working to reduce ship emissions. In April 2011,
the island-nation announced a program that called for the use of
fuel-efficient ships. The Maritime Authority of Singapore would
spend about S$100 million ($81 million) over the next five years
for the program, it said then.  Maersk and  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL)  were among the 12
companies to initially pledge their commitment to promote clean
and green shipping in  Singapore . That number rose to 40 in
October.  Legislation will “ensure a level playing field, that’s
what we want,” Maersk’s Smith said. “We wanted to take some
action pro-actively as we want to be seen as part of the
solution, not part of the problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  