-- Hagel Would Face Tough Questions Over Israel, Republicans Say
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-01-06T16:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/hagel-would-face-tough-questions-over-israel-republicans-say.html
Former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel
would face questions over his approach to Israel and Iran if
President Barack Obama nominates him for defense secretary,
three Republican senators said today.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said on NBC that
Hagel would face “a lot of tough questions” in confirmation
hearings.  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and member
of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Texas Republican
Senator Ted Cruz both said they were predisposed to oppose
Hagel. Presidential cabinet choices are subject to Senate
confirmation.  “This is an in-your-face nomination by the president,”
Graham said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” today. “Quite
frankly Chuck Hagel is out of the mainstream of thinking on most
issues regarding foreign policy.”  Hagel, 66, a decorated Vietnam War veteran, has been
discussed as the leading candidate for the job for more than a
month and his possible nomination has drawn opposition from an
ad hoc coalition of Republican advocates of muscular defense
policies, supporters of Israel and gay-rights activists.  He opposed the troop surge during the  Iraq war  under
Republican President  George W. Bush , questioned unilateral
economic sanctions against Iran and  called  the  defense budget 
“bloated.” Hagel also come under fire for citing the influence
of the “Jewish lobby” on behalf of Israel.  Difficult to Support  ‘If Hagel is nominated it is very difficult to imagine a
circumstance in which I could support his record,’’ Cruz said on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “He has consistently advocated
weakness with respect to our enemies.”  The announcement of Obama’s decision to nominate Hagel to
replace Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  may come as soon as
tomorrow, said a person familiar with the decision, who asked
not to be named to discuss personnel choices.  The criticism of Hagel has drawn a counter-attack from a
bipartisan group of former U.S. national security advisers --
James L. Jones, Brent Scowcroft,  Zbigniew Brzezinski  and Frank Carlucci. “Hagel is a man of unshakable integrity and wisdom
who has served his country in the most distinguished manner in
peace and war,” they wrote in a letter published in the
Washington Post on Dec. 25.  Hagel would be the second member of Obama’s national
security and foreign policy team to be named for the
administration’s second term. In December, the president said he
will nominate Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry  to replace
 Hillary Clinton  as secretary of state.  Graham said that he would support Kerry, even though he
disagrees with him on some issues. On Hagel, he added: “The
hearings will matter, but I am very inclined to not support
him” because of his statements about Israel and Iran.  McConnell didn’t indicate if he would support Hagel’s
nomination. “I’m going to wait and see how the hearings go and
see whether Chuck’s views square with the job he would be
nominated to do,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  