-- Tamweel Drops Most in 7 Weeks on DIB Takeover Offer: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-06T11:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/tamweel-drops-most-in-7-weeks-on-dib-takeover-offer-dubai-mover.html
Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL)  fell the most in seven
weeks after  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) ’s offer to take over the
mortgage provider via a share swap was seen by Al Ramz
Securities LLC as providing “limited upside” for the stock.  Shares of Tamweel fell 4.2 percent, the most since Nov. 19,
to 1.14 dirhams at the close in Dubai. About 25 million shares
were traded, five times the three-month daily average. Dubai
Islamic, the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest lender complying with
Shariah banking laws, slipped 1 percent to 2.04 dirhams. Tamweel
was the biggest decliner on a percentage basis on the benchmark
DFM General Index, which gained 0.7 percent.  Tamweel shareholders will be offered 10 Dubai Islamic
shares for every 18 held, the bank said Jan. 3. The fair value
of Dubai Islamic and Tamweel shares was set at 2.25 dirhams and
1.25 dirhams, respectively. Tamweel shares, which resumed
trading in May 2011 after being suspended in 2008, will be
delisted from the stock market after completion of the takeover.  “The valuations of Dubai Islamic and Tamweel from the
appointed adviser imply a limited upside,” said Talal Touqan,
head of research at Al Ramz in  Abu Dhabi . “The deal makes
Tamweel 100 percent dependent on Dubai Islamic’s price till the
transaction takes place, as a no-arbitrage situation dictates a
lower price for Tamweel unless Dubai Islamic rises back to
higher levels.”  Tamweel, which has a market value of 1.14 billion dirhams
($310 million), may post a 40 percent drop in  2012 profit ,
according to an EFG-Hermes Holding SAE estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. Dubai Islamic may post  full-year net income  that’s
little changed, according to the median estimate of three
analysts on Bloomberg.  The takeover offer followed the U.A.E. central bank’s
decision to cap mortgages for foreigners and nationals at 50
percent and 70 percent of the property values, respectively.
Dubai’s real estate market is showing some signs of recovery
after prices plunged about 65 percent over four years after the
global credit crisis, bringing the emirate to the brink of
default in 2009.  “Such inorganic growth might help give Dubai Islamic an
advantage of expanding its loan portfolio, without going through
the hassle of the newly set cap limits,” Touqan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  