-- Australia Provides Aid, Sends Crews to Wildfire-Hit Tasmania
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-01-06T04:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/australia-gives-aid-sends-firefighters-to-wildfire-hit-tasmania.html
Australia is providing financial aid
and sending extra firefighters to the island state of Tasmania
after wildfires forced thousands of residents to flee from their
homes amid a record heatwave.  The government plans grants of as much as A$8,875 ($9,301)
to help people in fire-stricken communities cover living
expenses and find new homes, according to a statement from the
office of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard . The funds will be
available in the coming days, Gillard said.  The fires in Tasmania, about 240 kilometers (150 miles) off
the southeast coast of the Australian mainland, destroyed more
than 100 properties and may have caused some deaths, state
police said today. Residents in Tasmania sought refuge on boats,
beaches and other sites including the former convict settlement
of Port Arthur, now a tourist destination.  Crews also battled fires in Victoria and South Australia
states as parts of Australia recorded temperatures higher than
40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit), the most wide-
ranging heatwave since 2001, according to the weather bureau.
Temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius will continue in  South
Australia  and Victoria next week, weather forecasters said.  “This is a tragic time for those who have suffered loss in
the devastating Tasmanian bushfires,” Gillard said in her
statement yesterday. Fire crews from Victoria and New South
Wales have been sent to help in Tasmania.  Australia’s hot, dry climate makes bushfires a major risk
in the southern hemisphere’s summer. The worst fires in the
nation’s history, the so-called Black Saturday blazes, killed
173 people as they swept through Victoria in February 2009.  Buildings Destroyed  At least 100 homes and buildings have been destroyed in
Tasmania, which has a population of about 500,000 people out of
Australia’s more than 22 million. More than 1,000 residents have
been sent by boat from the Tasman Peninsula to the state
capital, Hobart, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reports.  While Tasmania Police hasn’t confirmed any deaths, it has
“grave concerns” about a small number of people reported
missing, Scott Tilyard, acting police commissioner, said today
in a news conference broadcast on the ABC.  “I am fearful someone may have died,” he said.  About 600 people took shelter at  Port Arthur , about 90
kilometers southeast of Hobart, while as many as 2,000 were sent
to the nearby town of Nubeena, according to information
yesterday from the  Tasmanian police .  Fires destroyed about 30 percent of the buildings in the
Tasmanian coastal village of Dunalley east of Hobart, including
a police station and a school, and 40 percent of the structures
in the community of Connellys Marsh, police said. More than 20
homes were destroyed in the Murdunna area north of Port Arthur.  Damage Costs  The Insurance Council of Australia  called the southeast
Tasmanian wildfires a catastrophe for the island state. The
industry group said in a statement yesterday on its website that
it’s too early to estimate the cost of the damage.  Temperatures have cooled, helping crews fight the fires,
and the Tasmanian Fire Service has lifted emergency warnings for
the state, its website shows. The temperature in Hobart, which
hit a record 41.8 degrees on Jan. 4, reached a high of 26
degrees today, the weather bureau said.  Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II, who serves as  Australia ’s
head of state, sent a letter supporting efforts by firefighters,
volunteers and emergency workers and expressing “deep concern”
in the wake of the destruction, Tasmanian Governor Peter
Underwood’s office said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  