-- Stocks Slip Before Earnings as Dollar Weakens, Yen Gains
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2013-01-07T21:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/australian-stocks-japan-equity-futures-rise-on-u-s-jobs-report.html
Stocks slipped before the start of
earnings season, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down
from a five-year high, and the  Dollar Index  fell for the first
time in four days. European banks rose as regulators eased
liquidity rules while Italian bonds slid.  The  S&P 500  dropped 0.3 percent to 1,461.89 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  and the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , which last week reached
its highest level since February 2011, closed 0.4 percent lower.
BNP Paribas SA and Barclays Plc paced bank gains in Europe. The
yen advanced against 14 of 16 major peers, adding 0.4 percent
versus the U.S. currency, while the Dollar Index retreated 0.3
percent from the highest level since November. Treasuries were
little changed while commodities rose.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  will unofficially start the U.S. earnings
reporting season after the market closes tomorrow, with analysts
predicting 2.9 percent growth in quarterly profit for S&P 500
companies. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
Governing Council will meet Jan. 10 to focus on nursing the euro
region back to economic health.  “We’ve come a long way in a very short time,” Tom Wirth,
who helps manage $1.6 billion as senior investment officer for
Chemung Canal Trust Co., in Elmira, New York, said in a phone
interview. “I’m expecting better-than-anticipated earnings. Yet
we need to see some consolidation first.”  Market Leaders  Gauges of utilities, energy and consumer-staples companies
lost at least 0.7 percent to lead declines in eight of the  10
main industry groups  in the S&P 500 today. Illumina Inc. tumbled
7.1 percent after Roche Holding AG Chairman Franz Humer told a
Swiss newspaper that a deal to buy the U.S. genetics company is
off the table. Applied Materials Inc., the world’s largest
producer of chipmaking equipment, retreated 7.1 percent after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its rating on the shares.  Boeing Co. tumbled 2 percent after a 787 Dreamliner
operated by Japan Airlines Co. caught fire on the ground this
morning at Boston’s Logan International Airport.  Bank of America Corp., the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, was little changed after agreeing to pay  Fannie Mae  $3.6
billion to resolve home-loan repurchase claims. The lender will
also pay $6.75 billion to repurchase residential mortgages sold
to Fannie Mae. The deal will “substantially resolve outstanding
claims for compensatory fees” between the two companies,
according to the statement.  Bank Settlement  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  slipped 0.3 percent. Ten of the largest
U.S. mortgage servicers will pay a combined $8.5 billion under
an agreement that will end case-by-case reviews of foreclosure-
abuse claims stemming from a 2011 deal with regulators.
Companies including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America and
Citigroup Inc. must provide $5.2 billion in mortgage assistance
and $3.3 billion in direct payments to wronged borrowers, the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal
Reserve said in a statement today.  Fourth-quarter earnings at banks and diversified financial
companies in the S&P 500 are forecast by analysts to have grown
28 percent and 71 percent, respectively, as the Federal
Reserve’s bond-buying programs pushed  mortgage rates  to record
lows and fueled demand for loans and refinancing. Earnings at
insurance companies fared the worst among 24 groups, decreasing
48 percent amid claims from Superstorm Sandy, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks surged last week, sending the S&P 500 up 4.6 percent
for its biggest gain in 13 months, after President  Barack Obama 
and U.S. lawmakers reached a compromise that averted the package
of spending cuts and tax increases known as the fiscal cliff.  ‘Hard Decisions’  The S&P 500 is poised to retreat further from a five-year
high as earnings disappoint investors, according to  Jonathan
Golub  at UBS AG. The 2.9 percent growth in profits forecast by
analysts would be the second-slowest quarterly growth since
2009, the data show.  “All we’ve done is to put off the very hard decisions
around the fiscal cliff,” Golub, chief U.S. market strategist
at UBS, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “What we’re going to see in the earnings season is
that we may not be falling apart, but this underlying trend of
earnings growth really is going to be weak and disappointing.”  The cost of U.S. stock options fell for a fifth day after
retreating the most ever last week amid the budget resolution
and better-than-estimated jobs growth. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, known as the VIX, plunged 39 percent
to 13.83 last week, the biggest drop since the gauge was created
in 1990. The VIX slipped 0.3 percent today to 13.79, the lowest
since August.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said on Jan. 5 that
communication of policy aims plays a “big role” in supporting
the economy now that the central bank’s benchmark interest rate
is close to zero. Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles
Plosser  said the same day that the central bank should take the
steps necessary to ensure inflation stays near its goal of 2
percent.  European Markets  Almost two shares fell for each that gained in the Stoxx
600 today as energy and utility companies contributed the most
to the decline in the index. A  gauge of banks  advanced 1.8
percent, trading at a 17-month high, as BNP Paribas climbed 1.9
percent and Barclays increased 3.8 percent.  Central bankers meeting yesterday in Basel, Switzerland,
allowed lenders to use a wider range of assets to meet the so-
called liquidity coverage ratio amid warnings the proposal would
strangle lending and stifle the economic recovery.  The cost of insuring against default on bank debt fell,
with the Markit iTraxx Financial index of credit-default swaps
dropping four basis points to 121.  Yen Gains  Japan’s currency strengthened 0.4 percent to 87.79 yen per
dollar after touching 88.41 on Jan. 4, the weakest level since
July 2010. The yen’s relative strength index versus the dollar
slid to 15.5 on Jan. 4, the least since December 2001 and below
the 30 level that traders view as a signal that an asset’s price
has fallen too fast. The yen added 0.1 percent against the euro.
Europe’s 17-nation currency increased 0.3 percent to $1.3114.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose eight basis points to 4.35
percent and the rate on similar-maturity Spanish debt climbed
six basis points to 5.11 percent. Spain plans to sell bonds on
Jan. 10 and Italy will auction securities the following day.  Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party reached an
agreement with the  Northern League  to run together in Italy’s
February elections, the former prime minister said today on RTL
radio. The Northern League, which served in all three of
Berlusconi’s governments, opposed his candidacy for premier.  Benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury yields were little changed
at 1.90 percent.  Yield Forecasts  Economists cut their forecasts for Treasury yields in 2013
to the least since Bloomberg began compiling the predictions as
jobs data tempered speculation the  Federal Reserve  will stop
buying bonds this year. Ten-year yields will be 2.14 percent by
Dec. 31, according to a survey of banks and securities companies
as of Jan. 4, with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  “With the economy starting to pick up a bit of momentum
this year, and with worries about maybe a downgrade later in the
next few months, it could point Treasury yields higher,” Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS AG, told Bloomberg Television. “We
have the 10-year finishing the year at about 2.4 percent by year
end. So we do think that rates are going higher.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent after
capping a seventh straight week of gains, the longest stretch
since October 2010. Brazil’s Bovespa sank 0.9 percent and
India’s Sensex lost 0.5 percent. China’s  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced
0.5 percent, entering a  bull market  after rallying more than 20
percent from 2012’s low.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities added 0.3 percent as
coffee, cocoa, soybeans and gas oil rallied at least 1 percent,
while lead, natural gas, nickel and zinc dropped at least 0.6
percent for the biggest declines. Oil rose 10 cents to $93.19 a
barrel after gaining 2.5 percent last week. Copper declined for
a third day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  