-- Banks Said to Ask For 30-Day Delay as U.A.E Seeks Mortgage Caps
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-06T18:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/banks-said-to-ask-for-30-day-delay-as-u-a-e-seeks-mortgage-caps.html
Banks in the United Arab Emirates
plan to ask the central bank to delay by 30 days implementing
new caps on mortgage lending that were announced at the end of
last year, according to two bankers familiar with the plan.  They also plan to speak with the central bank on new loan-
to-value lending limits required for both citizens and
foreigners, the bankers said, asking not to be identified
because the discussions are private. Chief executive officers of
U.A.E. banks that are part of the Emirates Banks Association met
in Dubai late today to discuss the rules, they said. A spokesman
for the association could not immediately be reached.  The central bank issued rules on Dec. 30 that restricted
mortgages for expatriates to 50 percent of the value of the
property for a first home and to 40 percent for the second.
Banks may lend up to 70 percent of value to U.A.E citizens for
the first dwelling and up to 60 percent for a second.
Previously, there were no loan-to-value limits and some banks
lent as much as 90 percent of the value of properties.  The restrictions follow a recovery in  home prices  in parts
of Dubai and new government plans for projects including a
district boasting the world’s biggest shopping mall and five
theme parks. The plans evoked the debt-fuelled drive to turn
Dubai into a regional tourism and financial hub before property
prices crashed more than 65 percent during the global recession,
bringing the emirate to the brink of default.  The U.A.E., the second-biggest Arab economy, comprises
seven sheikhdoms including  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai. Foreigners make
up about 80 percent of the population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net 
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  