-- Banks Said to Ask for 30-Day Delay on U.A.E. Mortgage Caps
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-07T13:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/banks-said-to-ask-for-30-day-delay-on-u-a-e-mortgage-loan-caps.html
Banks in the United Arab Emirates
plan to ask the central bank to delay by 30 days implementing
new caps on mortgage lending that were announced at the end of
last year, according to three bankers familiar with the plan.  They also plan to speak with the central bank on raising
the new loan-to-value lending limits required for both citizens
and foreigners, they said, asking not to be identified because
the discussions are private. Chief executive officers of U.A.E.
banks that are part of the Emirates Banks Association met in
Dubai late yesterday to discuss the rules, they said. A
spokesman for the association could not immediately be reached.  The central bank issued new rules on Dec. 30 that
restricted mortgages for expatriates to 50 percent of the value
of the property for a first home and to 40 percent for the
second. Financial institutions may lend up to 70 percent of
value to U.A.E citizens for the first dwelling and up to 60
percent for a second. Previously, there were no loan-to-value
limits and some lent as much as 90 percent of the value.  The restrictions follow a recovery in  home prices  in parts
of Dubai and new government plans for projects including a
district boasting the world’s biggest shopping mall and five
theme parks. The plans evoked the debt-fuelled drive to turn
Dubai into a regional tourism and financial hub before property
prices crashed more than 65 percent during the global recession,
bringing the emirate to the brink of default in 2009.  “Caps on mortgage loan-to-value ratios shows that
government authorities are concerned about market stability and
want to avoid any rapid increase in real estate prices,” Craig
Plumb, regional head of research at Chicago-based broker  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , said today in an e-mailed report.  Proposed Caps  Most bankers at yesterday’s meeting favored loan-to-value
caps ranging from 70 percent to 85 percent, with a higher limit
for citizens and lower for foreigners, according to two of the
bankers. Some favored no loan-to-value limits for the first
property for both citizens and foreigners, they said.  The U.A.E. economy, the Arab world’s second-biggest after
 Saudi Arabia , probably expanded by 4 percent in 2012, while
growth is expected to slow to 3.1 percent this year, according
to the median forecast of 14 economists compiled by Bloomberg.
The U.A.E. comprises seven sheikdoms including  Abu Dhabi  and
Dubai, and foreigners make up over 80 percent of its population.  Total real estate mortgage loans at the U.A.E.’s 51 banks
were 162.61 billion dirhams ($44.3 billion) at the end of
August, about 1.1 billion dirhams higher than at the end of
2011, according to data on the central bank website. In 2008,
the last boom year before the credit crisis, mortgages jumped by
69 billion dirhams, according to central bank data.  Property Boom  Since 2008, “there is far more emphasis on financed rather
than cash purchases” of residential properties, Plumb at Jones
Lang LaSalle said in a phone interview today. “Based on
projects in which JLL is involved, purchases requiring mortgages
comprise the majority of all potential buyers.”  Dubai first allowed foreigners to own property in 2002,
which sparked a real estate boom attracting investors from
 India ,  Iran ,  Pakistan  and  Russia  eager to profit from rising
prices. During the financial crisis, hundreds lost their jobs
and fled the city, defaulting on payments. After the crash,
lenders and developers focused on investors who plan to live in
the homes they purchase rather than speculative buyers.  The economic recovery over the past year helped push
property prices higher in some areas of Dubai. The average sale
price of a mid-range villa soared almost 30 percent in the year
to November, while mid-range apartment prices advanced 16
percent, according to data compiled by Cluttons LLC in Dubai.  Regulations  Last month’s regulations follow new rules announced in
April that required banks to not lend more than 100 percent of
their capital to local governments and the same to state-related
entities in a bid to reduce concentration risk. The central bank
postponed the implementation of the rules pending a review.  The U.A.E. follows other countries that have taken steps to
cool property markets. In October, Singapore capped the loan-to-
value ratio at 60 percent for the first home and 40 percent for
a second.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority also last year set a
maximum loan-to-value limit of 30 percent for homes with a value
of more than HK$10 million ($1.3 million) for investors using
their assets and not income to borrow. In June 2011, it set the
minimum down payment for some mortgages to 40 percent for homes
costing more than HK$7 million to help ease price rises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  