-- Barclays Among Banks Asked by to Cap Zimbabwe Rates
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-01-07T13:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/barclays-among-banks-asked-by-to-cap-zimbabwe-rates.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  are among banks being asked to curb lending rates in
Zimbabwe as the government pressures the financial services
industry to aid economic recovery.  A draft agreement between 23 banks and the  Reserve Bank  of
Zimbabwe, a copy of which has been obtained by Bloomberg,
stipulates that lending rates cannot be more than 10 percentage
points above the companies’ cost of financing, which currently
ranges between 1 percent and 7 percent while banks charge
lending rates of as much as 25 percent.  There is a need to ensure “that bank charges and  interest
rates  promote financial inclusion, stability and economic
growth,” the central bank and the banks say in the agreement,
which is yet to be ratified. the Bankers Association of Zimbabwe
met with Tendai Biti, the finance minister, to discuss the
agreement on Jan. 4.  The pressure to lower interest rates comes after Biti said
in November that the country could amend its banking laws after
central bank attempts to restart the country’s capital markets
by selling Treasury bills for the first time since 2008 were
shunned by financial institutions. A decade-long recession ended
in 2009 when neighboring countries forced President  Robert
Mugabe  and Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  to end a political
dispute by forming a coalition government.  In that year Biti abolished the use of the Zimbabwe dollar
in a bid to curb inflation that had accelerated to 500 billion
percent, according to estimates by the International Monetary
Funds. The country now predominantly uses the  U.S. dollar .  Deposit Rates  Under the terms of the agreement banks will also be
compelled to pay an interest rate of at least 4 percent on term
deposits of over $1,000 and to design accounts with lower
charges to cater for poorer customers. Zimbabwe’s annual
inflation rate was 3 percent in November.  “The matter is still under discussion and we hope it will
be finalized soon,” said George Guvamatanga, the president of
the bankers association. Calls to the Harare-based central bank
went unanswered while Biti was said to be unavailable.  Stanbic Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd., a unit of Johannesburg-based
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , is included in the agreement as are
units of  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ,  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  and  Old
Mutual Plc. (OML)   Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd. (BARC)  is the biggest bank
by market value on the Zimbabwe stock exchange. Its stock
declined 35 percent since the beginning of last year to 28 cents
as of the close today.  Four banks hold about 80 percent of deposits in Zimbabwe,
Biti said in his Nov. 15 budget speech, without naming them.  Other African countries have sought to reduce lending rates
by banks in recent months. On Dec. 21 Zambia capped lending
rates at 18.25 percent for banks including a unit of London-
based Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  