-- BASF’s Pronova Deal Faces Opposition From Shareholders
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-07T14:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/basf-s-pronova-deal-faces-opposition-from-shareholders.html
BASF SE (BAS) ’s takeover of  Pronova
BioPharma ASA (PRON)  is at risk of being blocked by minority
shareholders unhappy with the $671 million price tag placed on
the Norwegian drug-ingredient maker.  Investors controlling as much as 20 percent of the Lysaker-
based company are disgruntled, according to Alexandra Morris, a
 fund manager  at Odin Forvaltning AS who said she’s discussed the
takeover with others. Odin has a 4.7 percent stake and BASF is
seeking 90 percent to gain full control.  “We don’t understand why BASF aren’t willing to pay more
than that,”  Rolf Solgard , chief portfolio manager at Nykredit
Asset Management, which has a 1 percent stake, said in an
interview. “The premium they’re paying is much lower than what
you see in other takeover cases.”  Pronova would give BASF access to the market for pharma-
grade Omega 3, a top-purity fatty acid used in blockbuster heart
drugs such as GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Lovaza and Abbott
Laboratories’ Omacor. The world’s biggest chemical maker in
November agreed to buy the business for 12.50 kroner a share,
though a fair price for it would be closer to 20 kroner than to
10 kroner, Solgard said.  Shares of Pronova rose as much as 1.2 percent to 12.65
kroner in Oslo trading today, highlighting that some investors
are betting BASF will raise its 3.76 billion-krone offer. BASF
dropped as much as 0.8 percent in Frankfurt trading.  Room to Maneuver   “This was an extremely low offer and they should be able
to pay a lot more and still have an accretive deal,” said
Odin’s Morris, who declined to name the investors who are also
opposed.  BASF already extended its proposal by a month to Jan. 18
after getting about 67 percent support. Jennifer Moore-Braun, a
spokeswoman for the Ludwigshafen, Germany-based chemical
company, declined to comment.  “There is no chance that they will succeed with this bid
unless they raise their offer,” Kristofer Liljeberg, an analyst
at Carnegie Investment Bank AB in  Stockholm , said today by
telephone. “I would be very surprised if they just walked away
without negotiating with minority owners.”  Under Norwegian law, 90 percent is the threshold BASF needs
to squeeze out the remaining shareholders and get full
ownership. Liljeberg, who has a buy rating on the stock and a
target price of 16 kroner, said he thinks the deal would go
through if BASF paid about 15 kroner.  Understanding CEO  Pronova Chief Executive Officer Morten Jurs said the price
is fair considering the uncertainty of future profits because of
rising competition and as governments cut subsidies for health
supplements.  “If we succeed with all our initiatives going forward, I
think the price is very cheap,” Jurs, who owns 530,000 shares
of his own, said in an interview. “But if we see that we
succeed with some of our initiatives but also see that some of
challenges will be realized, I think the price is more balanced.
I have noticed that many of our shareholders think the price is
low and that is fair as well.”  It will be up to BASF to determine how to push the
acceptance rate to 90 percent, Jurs said. The German company may
decide to raise the price or close the deal with less than the
90 percent, Jurs said.  BASF said in November that the purchase price gives Pronova
an enterprise value of 4.85 billion kroner, which is 5.7 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
over the previous 12 months. Royal DSM NV paid about 9 times
Ebitda for both Ocean Nutrition Canada in May and food-additive
maker Fortitech in November.  Cash Purchase  BASF plans to finance the deal, supported by Pronova’s
board, with cash on hand. Herkules Private Equity, Kistefos AS
and Kistefos Investment AS, investors which own about 60 percent
of Pronova’s stock total, have said they will accept the offer,
BASF has said, adding the commitments are “irrevocable.”  CEO Kurt Bock is boosting the company’s share in nutrition
and health, a market estimated to grow to 81 billion euros ($106
billion) by 2015 that is sought after by rivals such as DSM and
 Croda International Plc. (CRDA)  Pronova has a production site in
 Denmark .  “The synergies for the acquirer would be huge,” Nykredit
Asset Management’s  Solgard  said. “It makes sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  