-- Big-Bank Regulator Targets the Little Guy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-01-06T23:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/big-bank-regulator-targets-the-little-guy.html
Dock David Treece is not your typical
25-year-old.  “Dock2,” as he is known -- to distinguish him from his
father, also named Dock -- graduated from the  University of
Miami  four years ago with a bachelor’s degree in business
administration, focusing on finance.  Instead of taking a job at a big Wall Street investment
bank, he returned home to Toledo,  Ohio , and joined, as a
partner, his father’s tiny investment-advisory firm, Treece
Investment Advisory Corp., and the family broker-dealer, Treece
Financial Services Corp. The two companies have five employees:
Dock2 Treece, his father, his younger brother and two
administrators.  What Treece has learned in the past few years about the
 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority , and how difficult it
makes life for small firms like his family’s, should make your
skin crawl. It is a story that perfectly illustrates how
bureaucratic, imperial and hubristic  Wall Street ’s self-
appointed, self-regulatory agency has become since it was formed
five years ago.  I have written about Finra several  times , particularly
about how anyone who works on Wall Street or does business there
signs away any legal redress relating to a financial squabble
other than through the Finra-administered arbitration system.  Abdicating Rights  It is one of the largest abdications of legal rights in the
country, affecting millions of Americans every day. And Finra
has no government authority -- its existence depends on the
banks it's supposed to oversee.  So, what’s it like for a tiny financial-services firm that
comes under Finra’s regulatory umbrella? If Treece is to be
believed, it is one administrative nightmare after another that
put small firms out of business by bogging them down with
costly, ill-informed and pointless compliance exercises.  There are about 4,500  registered  broker-dealers in the
country, some 4,000 of which have 150 brokers or fewer. “FINRA
constantly comes out with new rules and regulations for firms
and brokers, with absolutely no concern for the impact [they]
will have on firms - particularly smaller firms,” Treece wrote
recently to his House representative, Robert E. Latta. “Most of
these new regulations make very little rational sense. While
FINRA’s self-described mission is to ‘protect the investing
public,’ most rules are aimed not at protecting investors from
harm, but from creating new technical violations to impose fines
and penalties on firms.”  Treece explained to me that his family’s broker-dealer
sells its customers mutual funds but has no customer accounts
and no customer money.  “It’s a very simple operation,” he said. “We represent
literally no risk to the public, and we’re on a two-year exam
cycle.” (Finra examines broker-dealers on a regular basis,
generally once every two years, depending on the size of the
firm.)  The firm’s last Finra exam started three years ago. The way
it usually works is the examiners come to the Toledo office for
a week or two, look things over and then go back to their
district office in  Chicago  and write a compliance letter.  “It doesn’t matter what firm you work for, where you are,
what kind of business the firm does,” Treece told me. “They will
find something wrong, because that’s the job of an examiner, to
find things that are wrong.” He continued, “Typically, it takes
a revision and a procedures manual to clarify something, and
that’s it; everybody goes about their day.”  The Treeces’ 2010 Finra exam, however, went on for eight
months, as the regulators kept asking for more and more
documents to try to discover a minor technical point about what
kind of mutual funds the firm sold to its customers.  4,000 Pages  Treece said Finra kept telling him to sell a kind of mutual
fund that he knew he wasn’t supposed to sell, but the examiners
seemed to not understand the rules. To fulfill one Finra request
required 4,000 pages of documents to be copied and sent off.  “It had taken my staff two weeks to get together,
literally, just standing in front of a copy machine for 12 hours
a day, pull a file out, take the documents out that they wanted,
copy them, put them in a box, put the originals back in the
file, and put the file back,” Treece said. “I mean, talk about
useless.”  He said he spent more than $30,000 in legal fees -- chicken
feed on Wall Street but a big deal at a tiny firm -- trying to
convince the examiners of something they should have known about
all along. But Finra wouldn’t back down.  Eventually, Treece pushed for a meeting in Chicago with
higher-ups. (A Finra board member attended the meeting and
another one joined by phone.) “Why are you harassing us?” he
wanted to know. Treece was convinced that Finra was trying to
put his firm out of business -- and the statistics back him up.  Since 2007, there are 12.5 percent fewer brokerage firms, 5
percent fewer branch offices and 6 percent fewer registered
representatives in the financial services industry.  Acccording to Treece’s data, there has been a 26 percent
increase in the number of disciplinary actions taken against
member firms, a 31 percent increase in the number of firms
expelled from the industry and a 65 percent increase in the
number of individuals expelled. After three hours, the Finra
brass apologized to Treece.  Then and there, Treece decided to run for one of the
elected seats on the Finra board, in order to represent small
brokerage firms. “This is the industry I plan to be in for a
while, and I want to make sure that there’s an industry for me
to make a living in five years from now,” he said. “And the
way it’s going, Finra seems absolutely intent on a mass-scale
consolidation.”  Seeking Transparency  His biggest concerns are making the regulatory body more
transparent and more accountable. For instance, there are no
minutes published for Finra board meetings, so nobody can figure
out what was discussed.  “I can understand confidentiality issues within individual
firms,” he said. “But if this board is setting policy for the
entire industry, and we’re the ones dealing with the
consequences, we should know what’s being discussed, who’s
favoring certain issues, who’s against them, what kind of
reasoning there is behind it.”  He wants more accountability for the examiners: “Finra
examiners seem to walk around with this sense of impunity, like
they’re a federal agent, and they’re not. I don’t know how else
to put it to them. I mean, they’re not an IRS agent. They’re not
an agent of the FBI. They’re an employee of a quasi-governmental
agency that’s funded by the industry.”  Dock2 Treece sounds just like the kind of young, dedicated
individual who should be on the Finra board if it is at all
serious about reforming an industry that became utterly out of
control during the past few decades. But, not surprisingly for a
first-time reformer, he lost his bid for a board seat last
August at Finra’s annual meeting. He vows to fight on and run
again until the group implements meaningful reforms.  “You can only make money on what’s between your ears,” he
said. “And Finra increasing the burden -- financial, regulatory
or otherwise -- on firms has only served as a catalyst to drive
firms out of the brokerage business.”  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
a Finra arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 