-- Breaking Up Banks Is Easy When They Aren’t Failing
-- B y   R e d   J a h n c k e
-- 2013-01-06T23:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/breaking-up-banks-is-easy-when-they-aren-t-failing.html
If we decide to break up the big
banks, can we actually do it?  The first and most obvious proof that we can lies in the
2010 bank-regulation law, the  Dodd-Frank Act , which requires
America’s too-big-to-fail banks to submit plans -- so-called
living wills -- outlining how they can be dismantled if they get
into trouble. So these banks have already provided breakup
blueprints.  All that is required is to remove the conditionality and
change the timing: Break them up now, not when and if. And what
could be easier than doing so according to their own
instructions, and so, once and for all, eliminate the systemic
risk posed by the biggest and riskiest banks?  Second, it has been done before. After the passage of the
 Glass-Steagall Act  of 1933, big banks were divided into separate
commercial-banking and investment-banking institutions.  Nevertheless, there is a vague notion hanging over the
public debate that suggests the U.S.’s big banks are too complex
to pull apart.  So, let’s get more technical and look at the balance sheets
of the three biggest U.S. lenders:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , each of which holds roughly $2
trillion in assets, and together account for about half of bank-
industry assets. Their loan portfolios make up 30 percent to 40
percent of their total assets. Four categories account for most
of their loans -- credit cards, home mortgages, commercial
mortgages and businesses.  Stand Alone  First, a general rule of thumb: These big banks house many
businesses that can stand alone. Take credit-card lending, which
a company such as  American Express Co. (AXP)  conducts as its main line
of business. There is no reason banks couldn’t sell or spin off
all of their credit-card operations.  Of course, selling assets rather than an entire business is
another way to reduce the size of a bank. For instance, last May
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the U.K.’s largest bank, closed the sale of
its $30 billion U.S.  credit-card  loan portfolio to Capital One
Financial Corp., a large  U.S. bank  (though not a megabank). HSBC
booked a $2.4 billion after-tax profit on the sale, both
reducing assets and increasing capital and contributing to the
improved strength of HSBC.  Another simple rule: Assets originated, or produced, by a
bank need not be retained and owned by the bank. Most Americans
know this as the unfortunate result of the financial crisis that
was caused largely by big banks selling home mortgages in
esoteric securitized forms -- those infamous subprime
collateralized-debt obligations. For decades before, banks sold
mortgages in less-risky formats, and they still can. The
megabanks could sell mortgages, both in big one-time sales to
downsize and, thereafter, continuously, originating more for
sale than to hold, in order to limit growth.  In commercial-real-estate and business lending, big banks
typically syndicate newly originated large loans, retaining
ownership of only a portion of the loan and parceling out shares
of it to other, typically smaller, banks.  So, as part of a breakup plan, our megabanks could easily
sell loans of all kinds without changing their consumer and
corporate marketing-and-lending strategies or their overall
business models in any fundamental way.  Now, what constitutes the rest of these megabanks’ assets?
From 40 percent to 60 percent of their assets reside in their
 capital-markets  divisions, whose activities fall into three
broad categories.  First, all banks must maintain liquidity, so they hold cash
and various highly liquid securities.  Second, all banks hold investment securities, including
large amounts of  U.S. Treasuries  and mortgage-backed securities.
These, too, can be sold with ease to reduce size.  Trading Accounts  Third, the three megabanks maintain huge trading
operations; at any given time, each holds $200 billion to $450
billion, or 10 to 20 percent of their total assets, in trading
accounts made up of marketable debt and equity securities and
derivatives. Most of the securities can be sold easily.  Other assets could be divested in order to separate lower-
risk trading that is typical of most commercial banks from
riskier types of trading that the Dodd-Frank Act’s unfinished
 Volcker rule  attempts to limit.  Such a separation would focus heavily on derivatives, which
aren’t debt or equity securities, but rather contracts whose
value is derived from securities, currencies, loans or
commodities. Most derivatives are straightforward, predominantly
swaps of a fixed-interest-rate obligation for a variable rate
(or vice versa). But many derivatives are esoteric, unique and
not easily sold.  The three largest megabanks, along with  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , control more than 90 percent of the U.S. derivatives
market. Their breakup would have the additional benefit of
diversifying a dangerously overconcentrated market. This would
take time, as other market participants got up to speed and
existing derivatives positions were unwound.  Of course, if the asset side of the balance sheet is
reduced, then the liability side must contract, as well.  All three megabanks raise funds equal to about 20 percent
of assets through short-term borrowing in the capital markets.
This easily could be reduced because the need for these funds
declines as assets are sold or divested.  To reduce liabilities further, the megabanks would need to
decrease their deposits, which equal about 50 percent of assets.  Well, how? Shedding deposits isn’t too hard. Deposits are
sold all the time in very simple and straightforward
transactions when a bank sells one or more branch offices to
another bank. The deposit liabilities are sold by coupling them
with a package of assets, such as loans or securities,
acceptable to the purchasing bank.  Branches are usually sold at a profit. For example, last
May, HSBC closed the sale of 195 branches with $15 billion in
deposits in northern  New York  state to a small bank, First
Niagara Financial Group Inc. HSBC booked a $1 billion profit on
the sale. Again, HSBC enjoyed a double-barrel enhancement of its
financial strength.  So, balance-sheet analysis demonstrates that shrinking
megabanks would be easy, except in the one circumstance where a
breakup is mandated under current regulatory policy -- when a
financial crisis is looming or upon us. Living wills are
unlikely to work when markets are freezing up, buyers are
disappearing, asset values are in doubt and panic is in the air.  If we are ever going to break up the megabanks, the time is
now, in today’s relatively stable environment. Doing so wouldn’t
be difficult or painful. Breaking up is easy to do.  (Red Jahncke is president of Townsend Group International
LLC, a business consulting firm in Greenwich,  Connecticut . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Red Jahncke at  RTJahncke@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  