-- Bulls Add to Wagers for First Time Since November: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-01-07T19:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/bulls-boost-wagers-as-prices-rally-for-fourth-week-commodities.html
Speculators increased their bullish
commodity wagers for the first time since November as signs of
accelerating growth in  China  and the U.S. drove prices higher
for a fourth consecutive week.  Hedge funds  and other money managers raised their net-long
positions across 18 U.S.  futures and options  by 2.4 percent to
691,832 contracts in the week ended Dec. 31, the first gain
since Nov. 27, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. Cotton holdings climbed to the highest since September
2011, and those for sugar reached a nine-week high. Gold wagers
rose for the first time in three weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials
rebounded 4.2 percent since reaching a three-month low on Nov.
5. China’s manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at the fastest
pace in 19 months in December, a private survey showed Dec. 31.
The U.S. added more jobs than forecast last month, capping a
third year of rising payrolls, the government said Jan. 4.  “In 2012, we had a lot of liquidating by hedge funds, but
there’s an incentive to reverse that because of growth in
 emerging markets  and especially China,” said Rob Haworth, a
senior investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management in
 Seattle , which oversees about $111 billion of assets. “It’s
going to be a good year for commodities.”  Commodities Rally  The S&P GSCI climbed 0.4 percent last week, extending four
consecutive annual gains. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities rose 3.1 percent, and the dollar advanced 1 percent
against a basket of six major trading partners. Treasuries lost
0.9 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The final reading of a Chinese  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
was 51.5 in December, figures from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed. That compares with 50.5 in November, and the
median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
reading of 50.9. A level above 50 indicates expansion. China
will accelerate for at least the next six months, the median of
estimates from 33 economists compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. payrolls rose by 155,000 workers last month, topping
analysts’ projection of 152,000, the Labor Department said. For
all of 2012, the economy created 1.84 million jobs, matching the
gain in 2011 in the best back-to-back growth since 2005-2006.
 Service industries , which make up almost 90 percent of the
economy, expanded at the fastest pace in 10 months, an index
from the  Institute for Supply Management  showed Jan. 4.  Bank Stimulus  The “acute phase” of the global economic slowdown may be
ending, boosting prospects for commodities, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts led by New York-based Ric Deverell wrote in a report
Jan. 3.  An end to central-bank stimulus would probably mean lower
commodity prices, said  Stanley Crouch , who helps oversee $2
billion of assets as chief investment officer at New York-based
Aegis Capital Corp.  Several Federal Reserve officials said it would “probably
be appropriate to slow or stop” the central bank’s $85 billion
monthly bond-buying program sometime this year, according to
minutes of December policy meeting released Jan. 3.  A budget accord that meant the U.S. avoided more than $600
billion in tax rises and spending cuts won’t cut deficits enough
to avoid a sovereign-rating downgrade, Moody’s Investors Service
said Jan. 2. Republican leaders in the  House of Representatives 
are vowing to exact deep spending cuts from President  Barack
Obama  and the Democrats in exchange for raising the  debt ceiling 
as the Treasury bumps up against its borrowing limit.  Spending Cuts  “Fed stimulus has been tremendously important for
commodities prices, and people are selling with the perception
that it’s coming to an end,” said  Donald Selkin , the New York-
based chief market strategist at National Securities Corp.,
which manages about $3 billion of assets. “Spending cuts and
the debt-ceiling debate are another factor that’s weighing on
the outlook.”  Money managers added $839 million to commodity funds in the
week ended Jan. 2, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of research
for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks
money flows. Inflows to gold and precious-metals funds totaled
$612 million, he said.  Even as the U.S. gained jobs in December, the  unemployment
rate  held at 7.8 percent. The Fed said last month it will
maintain stimulus efforts until the labor market improves
“substantially.” The payrolls report signals that the central
bank “will still be engaged,” Mohamed El-Erian, the chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
a Bloomberg Television interview Jan. 4.  Borrowing Costs  The S&P GSCI surged 85 percent in the previous four years
as the Fed held borrowing costs at a record low and increased
its balance sheet through three rounds of asset purchases. The
 European Central Bank , China and  Japan  have pledged to do more
to bolster growth.  Crude-oil holdings climbed 11 percent to 149,893 contracts,
the highest since Oct. 16, the CFTC said. In the week ended Dec.
28, U.S.  stockpiles  dropped 11.1 million barrels to 359.9
million, the lowest since Sept. 7, Energy Department data show.
The inventories were  forecast  to decline by 1 million barrels in
a Bloomberg survey.  Investors increased bullish gold wagers by 3.8 percent to
105,761 contracts, the biggest gain in five weeks. Futures have
retreated for six weeks, the longest losing streak since 2004.
Gold probably will keep dropping, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
said in a report Jan. 4, ending their recommendation to buy the
metal. They may advise buying again once prices reach $1,550 an
ounce, or 6 percent below the close of $1,648.90 on Jan. 4. Gold
futures for February delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,646.30 on
the Comex today.  Bullish Cotton  Bullish wagers on raw sugar jumped 34 percent to 25,496
contracts, the highest level since Oct. 30. A  measure  of net-
longs for 11 U.S. farm goods slid 2.8 percent to 390,996
contracts, the CFTC data show. Bullish cotton bets climbed 12
percent to 28,821 contracts.  “Given the expectation for easy money and currency
devaluation and the recovery in economic growth worldwide, the
outlook is good for commodity prices,” said  Michael Cuggino ,
who manages about $17 billion of assets at San Francisco-based
Pacific Heights Asset Management. “Liquidity is still
increasing and the devaluation of currencies is increasing, and
that’s bullish for commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  