-- Cameron Says Tough Year for U.K. Needs Low Interest Rates
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-06T14:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/cameron-says-tough-year-for-u-k-needs-low-interest-rates.html
Prime Minister David Cameron
predicted a difficult year for the U.K. economy that will
require maintaining the current mix of low interest rates and
budget-deficit reduction.  “It’s a tough economic environment that we’re in,”
Cameron said on  BBC  Television’s “Andrew Marr Show.” “Right
now, Britain needs low interest rates.”  Cameron indicated in a  Sunday Telegraph  interview that he
would like to stay in office another seven years, even as an
opinion poll suggested his Conservative Party will lose power in
2015. To keep borrowing costs down, the coalition government
must sustain a “credible strategy” for controlling the budget
deficit, he said today. “That’s the absolute key.”  Convincing global investors that they should keep buying
U.K. bonds is ultimately more important than whether ratings
companies downgrade gilts, he said. Standard & Poor’s last month
lowered its outlook on Britain’s top credit rating to negative,
citing weak economic growth and a worsening debt profile.  “The real test is what are the interest rates the rest of
the world is demanding in order to own your debt,” Cameron
said. “And our interest rates are extremely low, the lowest
they’ve been really for centuries.”  Bank of  England  policy makers next week will keep the
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent and the quantitative-
easing target at 375 billion pounds ($603 billion), according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Credit Improvement  U.K. credit conditions eased in the fourth quarter and
spreads on mortgage rates declined because of the so-called
Funding for Lending Scheme that began in August, according to a
Bank of England report last week. Still, services unexpectedly
slumped in December, raising the risk of an economic
contraction, and economists at Citigroup Inc. forecast more QE
in 2013.  The yield on 10-year U.K. government bonds rose the most in
four years last week, rising above 2 percent for the first time
since May 10, as the U.S. budget deal curbed demand for the
safest assets.  Official rates will depend on the Bank of England, which is
independent, said Cameron. The prime minister praised the
performance of outgoing Governor Mervyn King and said that Mark Carney, who will take over in July, is the “world’s leading
candidate as a central bank governor,” he said.  ‘Right Track’  The economy is on the “right track,” with declining
unemployment, and there are strong signs it is rebalancing
toward growth drivers such as manufacturing, the prime minister
said.  An opinion poll published in the Daily Mail today showed
the opposition Labour Party with 38 percent support, the
Conservatives at 29 percent and Liberal Democrats at 11 percent.
The pollster  Survation , which questioned 1,002 people on Jan. 3
and Jan. 4, said 16 percent expressed support for the U.K.
Independence Party.  Such a result in the 2015 election would disrupt Cameron’s
plans to stay in the job until 2020.  “I want to fight the next election, win the next election
and serve,” he said in an interview with the Telegraph.  The government this week will publish a document setting
out the mid-term aims of the Conservatives’ coalition with Nick Clegg’s Liberal Democrats. “Far from running out of ideas,
we’ve got a packed agenda,” Cameron said.  The two parties have clashed over issues such as welfare
reform and changes to the House of Lords.  Europe Role  The prime minister also delivers a speech this month on his
vision for the U.K.’s role in  Europe  as he comes under pressure
from lawmakers in his party who want to pull out of the European
Union. He told the BBC that advisers were studying areas in
which the U.K. may seek to revise agreements with fellow
European governments, declining to provide details.  “We want to be members of the European Union, particularly
the single market, but there are changes we’d like to make,” he
said.  Cameron also said the U.K. military is prepared to defend
the Falkland Islands if necessary, after Argentine President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  demanded they be handed over. The
U.K. and  Argentina  went to war in 1982 over the South American
islands.  “I get regular reports on this entire issue because I want
to know that our defenses are strong,” he said. ‘Our resolve is
extremely strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  