-- China Stock Rally May End Without Reform, Alliance CEO Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-07T08:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/china-stock-rally-may-end-without-reform-shanghai-alliance-says.html
China’s new leaders need to push
ahead with reform of state-owned companies to extend the biggest
monthly gain for  Chinese stocks  in two years, according to the
Shanghai government’s investment arm.  The new generation of Communist Party leaders headed by Xi Jinping needs to break the monopoly of government enterprises by
introducing more competition and to ease financing for smaller
companies to keep economic growth at about 7 percent to 8
percent over the next 10 years, Pang Yang, chief executive
officer with the financial-service advisory unit of Shanghai
Alliance Investment Ltd., said in an interview at a Bloomberg
hedge-fund forum in Shanghai on Jan. 5.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rebounded 17 percent
from an almost four-year low on Dec. 3 after policy makers said
they would increase investment in urban development and pledged
to deepen economic reform including improving state-owned
companies. The benchmark measure posted its largest monthly gain
since July 2009 last month and closed 0.4 percent higher at
2,285.36 today, while the CSI 300 Index entered a bull market
today after rallying 20 percent since Dec. 3.  “For the short term, the stock market may have some
problems as these reforms take a long time to materialize,”
Pang said. “But for the long term, I am optimistic as it looks
like the new leaders are quite determined to reform.”  Shanghai  Alliance is a wholly owned unit of the Shanghai
government’s State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission. It takes stakes in companies in industries ranging
from alternative energy, information technology to financial
services.  Unprofitable SOEs  The eight largest companies by market value in the Shanghai
index are state-controlled, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
More than 25 percent of government-run enterprises are
unprofitable and productivity growth has trailed non-state firms
by about 66 percent the past three decades, the World Bank said
in a February report. State businesses may become a long-term
drag on economic growth, the Washington-based lender said.  The nation’s gross domestic product probably expanded 7.8
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, from a three-
year low of 7.4 percent in the previous three months, according
to the median estimate of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
last month. The GDP data are scheduled to be released Jan. 18.  The government is also seeking to shore up smaller
companies on concern slowing economic growth may led to
bankruptcies and job losses.  China  approved local government financing vehicles in five
cities to sell a combined 15 billion yuan ($2.4 billion) of
bonds in a pilot program to raise funds for small businesses,
two people familiar with the matter said late last month.  Deepen Reforms  The government will “fully deepen reforms” in the economy
and “firmly promote opening-up” next year, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported on Dec. 17 after the end of an annual
conference that sets the tone for government economic policies
the following year. China will also seek a higher “quality” of
growth in 2013, the report said.  Vice Premier Li Keqiang, who is poised to become the
nation’s next premier in March, has promoted urbanization as a
driver for economic growth. The move is expected to spur 40
trillion  yuan  of investment by 2020, the Southern Metropolis
Daily reported on Dec. 25, citing a draft plan by the nation’s
top planning agency.  The Shanghai Composite climbed 3.2 percent in 2012, its
first annual advance since 2009. The index trades at 9.9 times
estimated earnings, the highest level in a year, according to
weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “China needs to find one or two drivers to sustain its
growth,” said Pang. “Reforms of big state-owned enterprises
such as breaking big ones apart and introducing competition can
unleash a lot of value.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  