-- Chinatown Bus Crackdown Makes Winners of Megabus, BoltBus
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-01-06T16:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/chinatown-bus-crackdown-makes-winners-of-megabus-boltbus.html
Discount companies like Megabus and
BoltBus have benefited from a U.S. crackdown on so-called
Chinatown lines, increasing departures 31 percent last year in
the fastest growing mode of U.S. passenger transportation,
according to a new study.  “It’s gone from a niche product to a national force,”
said Joseph Schwieterman, director of DePaul University’s
 Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan Development  in  Chicago  who
led the study on the bus industry. “The only way this growth
happens is when new demographics give it a try. These aren’t
just buses filled with college kids anymore.”  The growth happened even with a rise in fatal bus crashes
and a Transportation Department sweep in May of  New York ’s
Chinatown bus companies, in the largest bus-safety enforcement
action in U.S. history.  Total scheduled bus departures increased 7.5 percent, the
most in four years, according to the DePaul study, which
excluded Chinatown lines that don’t publish regular schedules.  Technology is driving the growth of discount carriers like
Megabus, owned by Perth, Scotland-based  StageCoach Group Plc (SGC) ,
which added routes in Texas and California, Schwieterman said.
Companies can use smart-phone alerts to inform customers of
last-minute changes in pickup and drop-off locations. By using
Internet-only reservations, they’re able to guarantee paying
travelers a seat.  Express, Yo  BoltBus, co-owned by  FirstGroup Plc (FGP) ’s Greyhound Lines Inc.
and Peter Pan Bus Lines, expanded beyond the East Coast for the
first time, with buses running between  Portland , Oregon, and
 Vancouver , British Columbia.  Greyhound, Peter Pan and Trailways Transportation System
Inc. have reversed years of declining ridership by trying new
business models, sometimes copying the Chinatown carriers who
had been taking market share, the study said.  Greyhound has added niche services such as Express buses,
which offer luxuries like leather seats and Wi-Fi, and Yo!,
which operates between Chinatowns in New York and Philadelphia.  It’s selling tickets for Yo through Chinese-language agents
in a Chinatown office. It started Crucero Direct in July to
target Latino travelers between San Diego and  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  