-- Comcast NBC Delays Biggest TV Shows to Avoid Repeats
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-06T20:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/comcast-nbc-delays-biggest-tv-shows-to-avoid-repeats.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC is delaying the
return of three of its most popular shows until March so that it
can air only new episodes for the remainder of the season.  “Revolution” and “The Voice” return March 25 and
“Grimm” restarts on March 8, allowing the series to avoid
repeats, NBC Entertainment Chairman  Robert Greenblatt  said today
at a TV critics conference in  Pasadena ,  California .  NBC is the only broadcast television network to increase
its audience in the first half of the season that began in
September. Those viewership gains, provided by “Sunday Night
Football,” “The Voice” and “Revolution,” will be a
challenge to continue through the second half of the TV season
that kicks off this week and NBC’s strategy is to provide
producers more time to better develop the programs, Greenblatt
said.  “The audience will find those shows,” Greenblatt said.
“You can run them in a row without repeats. It’s a better long-
term play for us.”  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, fell less than 0.1
percent to $38.07 on Jan. 4 in  New York  trading. The  stock 
climbed 58 percent in 2012, out-pacing the 13 percent rise in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  This is the second time Greenblatt, a former entertainment
chief at  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Showtime, departed from traditional network
TV scheduling since joining NBC in November 2010. Networks
traditionally announce schedules in May to advertisers, air new
episodes in September and bring back their biggest shows in
January.  Olympics Audience  Greenblatt aired new shows in August, sometimes commercial-
free, to expose the programs to large audiences tuning in for
NBC’s Olympics coverage. The strategy worked, Greenblatt said,
citing the success of “Revolution,” a dystopian drama from
“Lost” creator  J.J. Abrams , and the Matthew Perry comedy “Go
On.” The network ordered full seasons of those shows and “The
New Normal,” a comedy about a gay couple that becomes friends
with the surrogate mother of their child and her grandmother.  “I was enormously relieved,” Abrams said at the
conference today. “It’s really the best way for the audience to
enjoy the show.”  NBC’s prime-time lineup is averaging the most viewers ages
18 to 49, a group advertisers target, according to Nielsen data.
The network is drawing 3.9 million viewers in that demographic,
a 20 percent gain from a year ago, according to Nielsen.  In total viewers, only CBS Corp.’s network is averaging a
bigger audience. NBC is drawing 8.8 million this TV season, 17
percent more than a year ago, according to Nielsen data.  The second season of the Broadway musical drama “Smash”
starts Feb. 5, according to the network’s  website . This month
NBC will air the new comedy “1600 Penn” and the dramas
“Deception” and “Do No Harm.” The returning comedies “Go
On” and “The New Normal” start Jan. 9.  Jay Leno  will continue drawing the biggest late night
audience after ABC moves Jimmy Kimmel to the same time slot on
Jan. 8, Greenblatt said.  “We’re not that concerned,” Greenblatt said. “Jay has a
legacy of being No. 1.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  