-- Depardieu Dines With Putin After Getting a Russian Passport
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-06T15:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/depardieu-dines-with-putin-after-getting-his-russian-passport.html
Gerard Depardieu , the French actor
who was granted Russian citizenship, met President  Vladimir Putin  in the Black Sea resort of Sochi after receiving his new
passport, according to a  statement  on the Kremlin’s website.  Two photographs on the site show the actor, who played
Grigory Rasputin in a 2011 film about the peasant monk famous
for his mystical influence over Russia’s last Tsar Nicholas II
and his wife Alexandra, dining with Putin yesterday and
embracing him. Depardieu and Putin discussed the actor’s work in
the Franco-Russian production, according to the statement.  Depardieu’s new passport is “good news for Russian
cinema,” French Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac said today on
Europe 1 radio. Still, “I find it a bit ludicrous that for tax
reasons, this man decided to exile himself so far to the east.”  Depardieu, who bought a home in  Belgium  and applied for
citizenship there before Putin offered a Russian passport, said
he did so to flee taxes imposed on the wealthy by French
President  Francois Hollande .  The actor wrote in an open letter to French Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault published in the French weekly Journal du
Dimanche last month that his  tax rate  had hit 85 percent and he
is leaving “because you consider that success, creativity,
talent, anything different, are grounds for sanction.”  Depardieu “began by being in love with Belgium,” Benoit
Hamon,  France ’s social economy deputy minister, said in an
interview, according to Le Parisien today. “There he is today
in love with Russia. It’s sad.”  Russian Ties  Depardieu says he’s developed close links with Russia,
which has a flat 13 percent personal income tax rate. He
currently appears as the face of Bank Sovietsky in an ad
campaign on its  website  and was among Western celebrities
invited last year to the birthday of Chechen leader  Ramzan Kadyrov .  Vladimir Volkov, the head of the Russian Republic of
Mordovia, said Depardieu can fill the vacant seat of Minister
for Culture, RIA Novosti reported today. “If Mr Depardieu
desires it, he may be offered the post,” the  news agency  cited
Volkov as saying after the French actor travelled to Mordovia’s
capital of Saransk, about 600 kilometers east of Moscow.  Depardieu was offered the chance to settle in the city and
choose an apartment or house to live in a region known during
Stalin’s reign for its network of prison camps.  He may soon be joined in Russia by fellow French actor
 Brigitte Bardot , who once served as a model for  Marianne , the
symbol of the French republican. The former screen siren, now an
animal rights activist, wrote to Hollande last week to protest
the plan to put down two elephants living in a Lyon zoo after
they were diagnosed with tuberculosis and threatened to leave
for  Russia .  “I’ve decided to ask for Russian citizenship to flee this
country that is nothing more than an animal graveyard,” she
said in the Jan. 4  statement  on her foundation’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  