-- Draghi Seeks Extended Calm in 2013 on Fading Euro Economy
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-01-07T09:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/draghi-seeks-extended-calm-in-2013-on-fading-euro-economy.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi will turn his attention to nursing the euro region back
to economic health this week as the urgency to deploy emergency
crisis measures recedes after three years.  Draghi’s Governing Council, which holds its first session
this year on Jan. 10, will seek to extend the calm it’s
instilled on markets with last year’s pledge to do anything in
its power to end the crisis, economists said. While policy
makers will probably keep interest rates unchanged for now, the
threat of unlimited bond purchases has bought time to focus more
on ending the region’s looming recession.  “Draghi’s threat is working,” Tobias Blattner, an
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets in London, said in an
interview. “Foreign investors are gradually coming back and
Spain can live with the current yield levels,” he said,
referring to a 10-month low in Spanish borrowing costs.  Draghi and European policy makers are returning to work
with the turmoil that has ravaged the region’s bond markets at
bay. Even so, they face potential pitfalls arising from mounting
debt in Spain, next month’s parliamentary election in  Italy  and
continuing austerity in  Greece .  European finance ministers are also assembling a rescue
package for Cyprus, the crisis’s fifth bailout.  Spanish Yields  The yield on  Spain’s 10 year  bond fell to almost 5 percent
last week after closing 2012 at 5.27 percent, around the price
at the beginning of last year and down from a July 24 high of
7.62 percent. The euro fell 1.1 percent against the U.S. dollar
last week -- and slid 0.2 percent to $1.3039 at 10:20 a.m. in
 Frankfurt .  In a signal that investors are betting the worst of the
crisis is over, euro nations are planning the biggest week of
bond issuance in four months. Germany, the Netherlands, Italy,
Spain,  Austria  and  Belgium  all plan to sell debt, the most since
the week beginning Sept. 3.  Even as politicians and economists brace for recession,
only three out of 45 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
expect a rate cut when the 23 Governing Council members convene
in Frankfurt. The central bank will keep the key rate unchanged
at a record low of 0.75 percent until at least the first quarter
of 2014, a separate survey showed.  Majority in Favor  Still, a majority of ECB policy makers were open to cutting
the benchmark rate at the bank’s meeting in December after
revising down economic and inflation projections that forecast a
0.3 percent contraction this year. Rates were kept on hold
because of the negative signals a cut may send, three officials
with knowledge of deliberations said Dec. 7.  “There are so many reasons against a rate cut,” Christian Schulz, a former ECB economist now working for Berenberg Bank in
London, said. “First of all, it wouldn’t really achieve
anything; secondly, policy makers are still unsure about the
impact on the deposit rate; thirdly, it looks like we are
reaching the bottom in terms of the economy and the Bundesbank
would never agree to it.”  ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch told  Germany ’s
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in a Dec. 17 interview that
unconventional measures are for now the ECB’s main policy tools
“because they are more effective given the distorted
transmission channel of conventional monetary policy.”  Stabilization Signs  For now, the task of the currency union will be to wrest
the 17 member states out of an economic slump. European services
and factory output contracted more than initially estimated in
December, adding to signs the recession will extend into this
year.  At the same time, there are some indications of
stabilization in the global economy and in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy. U.S. manufacturing picked up in December after
dropping to a three-year low and  China ’s services industry grew
at the fastest pace in four months.  Data last week showed German unemployment rising less than
economists had forecast in December and business confidence
increasing for a second month after demand from outside  Europe 
boosted factory orders and exports.  “I remain confident that 2012 will go down in history as
the year when it all turned,” Erik Nielsen, London-based chief
global economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a note to clients.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if the 2013 recovery turns out
somewhat stronger than expected.”  Cyprus Talks  Finance ministers will seek not to rattle markets as they
struggle with the possibility of writing off debt for Cyprus.
While euro ministers have pledged not to repeat a Greek debt
write-off, the International Monetary Fund is pushing for more
sustainable financing.  Cyprus has been negotiating with the European authorities
and the IMF over rescue financing since June.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to join some European leaders for a meeting of the
European People’s Party at the end of the week in the Cypriot
port city of Limassol. Merkel also plans to meet with Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras tomorrow in Berlin.  Cypriot banks lost more than 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion)
in Greece’s debt restructuring.  Luxembourg Premier Jean-Claude Juncker, head of the group
of euro finance ministers, signaled last month that leaders
would stand by their pledge, even as ECB Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen said that post-bailout debt levels for Cyprus
might not be sustainable. Ministers will “almost conclusively”
deal with Cyprus at this month’s meeting, Juncker said.  “It will be tough to explain to the northern European
taxpayer that we have to act on Cyprus, still, it needs to
happen,” Juncker said on Dec. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  