-- Lessons from U.S. Bailouts, Through the Rearview Mirror
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-06T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/lessons-from-u-s-bailouts-through-the-rearview-mirror.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner 
is calling it a day. So is Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program, the $418 billion effort to rescue banks, automakers and
other companies during the financial crisis.  In announcing its intention to complete the  sale  of the
remaining shares it owned in  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and 218 smaller  banks , Treasury is
essentially ending a controversial bailout that kept the
financial system from collapse at a cost far less than many
imagined in the darkest days of 2008.  Most banks are  healthy  again, backed by billions more in
 capital . The U.S. auto industry is thriving. Even AIG has  shed 
the assets that almost sank the global financial system. The
ultimate price tag is expected to be between  $24 billion  and  $60
billion , or less than 1 percent of gross domestic product and
far less than  previous  financial catastrophes.  Yet for all its success, TARP was by no means perfect. It
was too generous to the companies it aided. It  exacerbated  the
problem of moral hazard. And it did too little to help average
Americans weather the housing meltdown at the root of the
financial crisis.  Financial Stabilizer  TARP’s main purpose was to stabilize the financial system
by injecting capital into more than 700 banks and other
companies whose collapse had the potential to wreak havoc on the
 U.S. economy . The 19 largest banks were forced to undergo  stress
tests  and add to capital levels so they could absorb losses
through a steep recession. In return, the U.S. received
preferred shares, debt and warrants in the institutions. Most of
these have been redeemed or repaid. Treasury has recovered about
$375 billion of the $418 billion it disbursed.  It’s worth pointing out, though, that Treasury’s returns
could have been greater. The department dictated almost
identical terms for all institutions in its main capital
program, regardless of health or taxpayer risk. The rationale
was that labeling a bank as weak could trigger a run, yet the
financial markets clearly knew which companies were on stronger
footing.  The result was that healthy institutions, including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , paid Treasury a 5
percent annual dividend on their preferred shares, the same rate
as weaker institutions. Five percent was probably too low:
Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  squeezed a 10 percent coupon
out of Goldman Sachs when he agreed to invest $5 billion during
the crisis, a move that netted the Berkshire Hathaway chairman a
$3.7 billion profit,  according  to  Bloomberg News . Treasury’s $10
billion Goldman investment generated about $1.1 billion.  Then there’s the question of moral hazard. By ensuring that
creditors, along with depositors, were paid in full, the U.S.
fueled the market’s expectation of future government
interventions.  The Dodd-Frank financial law tried to counteract this
impression by banning taxpayer-funded bailouts and creating a
system to wind down failing firms. Wall Street doesn’t believe
it: Too-big-to-fail banks can still borrow more cheaply than
smaller banks, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
data. Economists at the  New York  Federal Reserve also  found  that
banks made dodgier loans as a result of getting government
support.  Finally, TARP fell short on housing. The government’s two
main programs have helped fewer than 3 million troubled
homeowners, far below the 9 million goal outlined by the  Barack
Obama  administration. Although the housing market is finally
recovering, it has little to do with TARP assistance.  Valuable Lessons  Yes, TARP should be cut some slack. It was an emergency
rescue plan cobbled together at a time of panic. But its
weaknesses offer valuable lessons for lawmakers and regulators,
who are grappling with what, if anything, to do about moral
hazard and too-big-to-fail banks.  A few approaches come to mind: asking the largest banks to
hold more capital, restricting the amount of proprietary trading
they can do and capping the size of their non-deposit
liabilities, such as overnight  repurchase agreements . Future
rescues should also provide more help to distressed homeowners,
with more emphasis on reducing mortgage principal and less on
lowering monthly payments. Only then will the public’s antipathy
toward bailouts -- and the  perception  that they benefited  Wall
Street  over Main Street -- fade.  It would be a shame to say goodbye to TARP without learning
from it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 