-- Gas at $8 May Lure Reliance to Start New India Fields
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-07T10:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/gas-at-8-may-lure-reliance-to-start-new-india-fields.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , sitting on
untapped natural gas reserves off  India ’s east coast, will be
able to generate profit from new fields if the government agrees
to double prices, a person familiar with the matter said.  At $8 per million British thermal units Reliance will earn
a profit margin of about 15 percent from fuel trapped more than
a mile deep in the newer pockets of KG-D6, said the person, who
asked not to be identified, citing rules. While Reliance sells
gas from the basin at a government-set price of $4.20, at least
$7 is required to break even on the new wells, the person said.  Output from India’s biggest natural gas block slid more
than 60 percent since 2010 as the reserves proved more difficult
to recover than estimated, eroding supplies to power and
fertilizer producers, and prompting high-cost imports. A panel
led by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the prime minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, last month recommended prices be
linked to global rates, which brokerage Emkay Global Financial
Services Ltd. estimates may push local prices to $8.  “A higher price will make smaller discoveries more
economical to start and go a long way toward lifting India’s
production,”  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva
said in an interview in  New Delhi , where the company is based.
“It’ll also bring in an environment of investment.”  Reliance spokesman Tushar Pania didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comments on the impact of higher gas prices on the
company’s earnings.  Adjacent Reserves  State-run ONGC, which found reserves adjacent to Reliance’s
fields in the  Bay of Bengal  six years ago, has said deepwater
drilling is unviable at current prices. Gujarat State Petroleum
Corp., an explorer controlled by the Gujarat state government,
is also developing a field in the area.  Shares of billionaire Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance
gained 4.4 percent and ONGC climbed 12 percent since Dec. 24,
the week when Rangarajan submitted his report to the prime
minister. The key  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  gained 2.3 percent in the
period. Reliance declined 0.6 percent to 856.60 rupees in Mumbai
trading today and ONGC added 1.1 percent to 288 rupees.  “We’re going through the Rangarajan report,” Oil Minister
Veerappa Moily said at a conference in New Delhi on Jan. 4.
“We’re trying to see if it can be implemented.”  While the three fields Reliance now operates in KG-D6
produce about 23 million cubic meters (812 million cubic feet) a
day, the company’s discoveries around this area can add as much
as 30 million cubic meters daily, the person said. ONGC in
December 2006 said it discovered 2 trillion cubic feet of gas
reserves in a block next to Reliance’s.  ‘Immediate Beneficiary’  “Reliance will be the biggest immediate beneficiary if gas
prices are increased,” analysts led by Jagdish Meghnani at
Mumbai-based Emkay wrote in a Jan. 3 report. “ONGC is expected
to benefit gradually in the long run.”  The panel recommended India set gas prices at a 12-month
average of the U.S.  Henry Hub , the U.K. National Balancing Point
and  Japan ’s liquefied natural gas price minus freight and
insurance costs, Rangarajan said on Jan. 2 in New Delhi. The
government could also take an average of the price of India’s
LNG imports, excluding transportation costs, he said.  “Prices will rise, but that’s necessary because we’re
already spending a lot to import gas,” he said. “This method
is the best way to go.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is seeking to boost energy
exploration and production and cut an import bill that’s widened
the current account deficit to a record. The government needs to
allow explorers higher selling prices to attract overseas
companies to invest and encourage Indian explorers to produce
from discovered reserves, said  R.S. Sharma , chairman of the
Federation of India Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s
Hydrocarbon Committee and former chairman of ONGC.  ‘Clarity, Visibility’  “The doubling of prices will make all of Reliance’s and
ONGC’s deepwater discoveries viable,” Sharma said in an
interview. “Higher prices will bring clarity and visibility and
explorers will be clamoring to drill.”  Reliance’s selling price of KG-D6 gas comes up for revision
in April next year. The company last month began drilling its
first well in the KG-D6 block in more than a year.  About two-thirds of the gas available in India is used by
plants that produce electricity and fertilizers, prices of which
are controlled by the government. Higher gas prices will
increase costs for these factories and result in a higher
subsidy bill for the government even as it attempts to cut the
 fiscal deficit , which Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
has pledged to narrow to 5.3 percent of gross domestic product
this fiscal year from 5.8 percent in 2011-2012.  “While power generation cost would increase necessitating
an increase in power tariffs, increase in feedstock cost for
fertilizer sector would lead to increase in government’s outlay
on fertilizer subsidy,” according to the Emkay report.  Slower Expansion  In May 2010, India’s cabinet agreed to more than double the
price to the equivalent of $4.20 per million Btu for gas
produced from fields that were awarded before 1999 to state
explorers ONGC and Oil India. This price, based on the
government’s Administered Pricing Mechanism, is unrelated to
Reliance’s selling price.  Slower Indian expansion and threats from trade and budget
deficits have increased the economic risks the nation faces, the
 Reserve Bank  of India said in its biannual Financial Stability
Report last month. The current-account deficit widened to a
record $22.31 billion in the quarter ended Sept. 30.  “All the data show that India needs to reduce its fiscal
deficit and cut import spending and that can be done by
producing more oil and gas here,” Sharma said. “We need to
really step on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  