-- Missoni Fashion House Seen Overcoming Heir Disappearance
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-01-07T16:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/missoni-executive-s-plane-search-intensifies-in-venezuela.html
Missoni SpA’s strong management and
niche positioning should help the Italian fashion company carry
on should the worst be confirmed about scion Vittorio Missoni,
whose plane disappeared last week, analysts said.  Search efforts restarted this morning off the coast of
 Venezuela  and there is no decision as to when they will be
called off, local authorities said today. The plane, which went
missing Jan. 4, was carrying Missoni, 58, the executive
responsible for marketing at the eponymous maker of zig-zag
patterned knitwear, as well as his partner and four others.  “As tragic and unfortunate as this is, Missoni will find a
way to appoint a new head, while operations should go on largely
on a business-as-usual manner” should Vittorio not be found
alive, said  Luca Solca , the head of luxury-goods research at
Exane BNP Paribas. “Missoni’s brand image is huge, but its size
is small, which should make it feasible to manage a
transition.”  Founded in the 1950s by Vittorio’s parents Ottavio and
Rosita, Missoni is run by Vittorio, his brother Luca and their
sister Angela. Alberto Piantoni was appointed chief executive
officer in 2011.  Missoni’s 2011 collaboration with  Target Corp. (TGT)  won
headlines when the website of the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer failed to function because of higher-than-expected
demand for the brand’s maxi dresses and home furnishings at a
fraction of their typical cost.  Elder Statesman  The fashion house, whose designs have been worn by pop
stars Madonna and  Jennifer Lopez , has also formed partnerships
with companies including stroller maker Bugaboo and Valentino
Fashion Group, licensee of the lower-priced M Missoni line that
was introduced in 1998 to broaden the brand’s customer base.  Vittorio, having led Missoni’s retail expansion and
diversification into hotels, is an elder statesman of the
family, said  Armando Branchini , founder of Milan-based luxury
consultant Intercorporate. Yet, the company has brought in top
managers like Piantoni and the third generation of Missonis is
already working in the business, said Branchini.  “Even in the worst-case scenario, the company will go
on,” said Branchini. “There is no doubt about this.”  Fashion houses have been rocked with tragedy in recent
decades, including the 1997 murder of Gianni Versace, the
founder and designer for the firm of the same name. Versace’s
siblings took over the company after his death, with his sister
Donatella heading up the designs.  Family Hopeful  Alexander McQueen , designer of a line with the same name
that is owned by PPR SA, took his own life in 2010. His label,
worn by the Duchess of Cambridge at her wedding to  Prince
William , is now designed by Sarah Burton. Burton was an
assistant to McQueen for more than a decade before his death.  For Missoni, “I don’t think this tragedy will affect the
business because the company is very solid,” said Alberto Checchinato, a luxury-goods analyst at Fidentiis Equities. “The
symbol of the company is Ottavio and he is still alive, so I
expect that the patriarch Ottavio will keep the family
cohesive” should there be a need to name a successor.  Missoni’s plane left the archipelago of Los Roques for the
Caracas airport at 11:29 a.m. local time on Jan. 4. The craft
was last reported 10 nautical miles (18 kilometers) from Los
Roques, he said. The government isn’t investigating the
possibility of a kidnapping, said Jorge Galindo, a spokesman for
the Venezuelan  Interior Ministry .  “We are full of hope and faith in the work that the
authorities have done so far,” Angela Missoni said today in a
statement, adding that her brother Luca and CEO Piantoni have
traveled to Venezuela. “We won’t give up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  