-- Japan Alerts Jets After China Plane Nears Isles, Yomiuri Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-06T07:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/japan-alerts-jets-after-china-plane-nears-isles-yomiuri-says.html
Japan  mobilized its fighter jets
after confirming a Chinese state-owned airplane had flown toward
disputed islands, the Yomiuri newspaper reported on its website
last night, citing Japan’s Ministry of Defense.  The Chinese propeller plane approached the uninhabited
islands known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, and
left without entering Japan’s airspace, Yomiuri said. The
ministry did not answer phone calls seeking comment today.
China’s Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to a fax
seeking comment on the report.  Yesterday’s incident was the second time in a month Japan
dispatched fighter jets in response to Chinese airplanes
approaching the islands which are claimed by both countries.  Japan dispatched eight F-15 fighter jets to the area on
Dec. 13 after its Coast Guard spotted a Chinese marine
surveillance plane near the isles, with its foreign ministry
describing the flight as a “further dangerous act” that
“escalates the situation.”  China  protested a day later that
Japanese military planes entered its airspace near the islands.  The dispute over control of the islands in the East China
Sea has strained relations between Asia’s two biggest economies
and stoked concerns of an arms buildup in the region. Japan’s
new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, vowed in his New Year message to
“defend our land, airspace and territorial waters.”  The latest crisis in the longstanding dispute was triggered
by the Japanese government’s purchase in September of three of
the disputed islands from their private Japanese owner.  China last month filed a report with the United Nations
detailing grounds for its sovereignty claims over the islands in
an area rich in oil, natural gas and fish.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  