-- Juventus Loses in Serie A; Barcelona Wins 4-0 to Extend Lead
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2013-01-06T23:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/juventus-loses-in-serie-a-barcelona-wins-4-0-to-extend-lead.html
Juventus’ lead in Serie A was cut to
five points after the defending champion slipped to a 2-1 home
defeat against Sampdoria. Barcelona beat Espanyol 4-0 to move 11
points clear atop Spanish soccer’s La Liga.  Sebastian Giovinco gave Juventus a halftime lead yesterday
with a penalty, before Sampdoria rallied in the second half with
two goals from Emanuel Icardi. Second-place Lazio beat Cagliari
2-1 two days ago.  Inter Milan  and Fiorentina failed to take advantage of
Juventus’ slip as both were also beaten in the first round of
games after the mid-season break. Inter slumped to a 3-0 loss at
Udinese and Fiorentina was defeated 2-0 by visiting Pescara.  Edinson Cavani scored a hat trick as Napoli beat Roma 4-1
last night to move into third place above Inter and Fiorentina
with 37 points through 19 games. Juventus tops the standings
with 44 points ahead of Lazio.  Among other games yesterday, AC Milan beat Siena 2-1 and
Genoa boosted its fight against relegation with a 2-0 victory
against Bologna.  Barcelona stretched its lead atop La Liga by scoring four
first-half goals against Catalan rival Espanyol as second-place
 Atletico Madrid  drew 1-1 at Mallorca.  Xavi Hernandez  opened the scoring for Barca at the Camp Nou
yesterday before  Pedro Rodriguez  got two goals.  Lionel Messi ,
who’s the bookmakers’ favorite to win his fourth straight FIFA
world player of the year award today, added the fourth from the
penalty spot.  Barca coach Tito Vilanova was able to return to the dugout
after cancer surgery. His team has dropped only two points this
season and remains unbeaten through 18 games with 52 points.  Real’s Recovery  Defending champion Real  Madrid , which is 16 points off the
lead in third place, recovered from goalkeeper Antonio Adan’s
sixth-minute red card to defeat Real Sociedad 4-3.  Cristiano Ronaldo , who along with Barca’s Messi and  Andres Iniesta  is on the three-player shortlist for FIFA’s Ballon d’Or
award, got two goals for Madrid.  Karim Benzema and Sami Khedira also scored, while Xabier
Prieto got all the goals for Sociedad, who had Daniel Estrada
sent off in the 79th minute for a second yellow card.  Domingos Paciencia started his tenure as Deportivo La
Coruna coach with a 1-0 win against fourth-place Malaga two days
ago that lifts his team off the bottom of the standings. Osasuna
slips to 20th spot following a 1-0 loss at Sevilla.  The French, German and Dutch leagues are yet to return
after their mid-season breaks.  Lyon, one of three clubs tied on points atop  France ’s Ligue
1, was upset by third division club Epinal in the French Cup’s
round of 64 yesterday. After a 3-3 tie, the defending cup
champion lost 4-2 on penalties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 