-- NHL, Players’ Union Prepare for Season After Reaching Settlement
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/nhl-reaches-agreement-with-union-on-labor-deal-to-end-lockout.html
The National Hockey League is back in
business after a four-month labor dispute.  The NHL and its players’ union yesterday agreed on the
framework of a new collective bargaining agreement that ends the
lockout that began Sept. 16 and forced the cancellation of 625
games. No details of the agreement were disclosed.  The NHL, which had $3.3 billion in revenue last season,
gave up about $1 billion to get the new 10-year deal that
reduced the players’ share of the earnings from 57 percent to 50
percent, the New York Times reported without saying where it got
the information.  “You’re just excited to get to play hockey again and to
get to do what you really enjoy and have a passion for,” Shane Doan of the Phoenix Coyotes told reporters. “The sense was this
was the best deal for us that was available.”  NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman appeared with union Executive
Director Donald Fehr yesterday morning in New York to make the
announcement after the deal was struck at 4:40 a.m. following a
16-hour bargaining session.  Bettman had said previously that an agreement had to be
reached by Jan. 11, so the NHL could hold a one-week training
camp and start a 48-game season Jan. 19. A schedule for the
season has yet to be released.  “Hopefully in a few days fans will get to watching people
skating, not the two of us,” Fehr said.  Latest Lockout  It was the second time in the past seven seasons that
owners shut down the league following the expiration of a
collective bargaining agreement. The previous lockout resulted
in the loss of the entire 2004-05 season. It was the first year
since 1919 that the Stanley Cup wasn’t awarded. In the 1994-95
season, an NHL lockout ended Jan. 11 and a 48-game schedule
began on Jan. 20. Teams normally play 82 regular-season games.  The latest disagreement centered on how players and owners
would split revenue that grew to a league-record $3.3 billion
last season, up 50 percent from $2.2 billion in 2003-04. Under
the previous agreement, players received 57 percent, or $1.9
billion, of league revenue.  “There wasn’t one player that wanted anything remotely
like this to happen,” Doan said. “But at the same time you
realize that it’s a business and as much as you don’t want it to
be, it is and you have to deal with it.”  Scot Beckenbaugh, deputy director of the Federal Mediation
and Conciliation Service, conducted the negotiations and had
been working with the league and union since Jan. 2. Yesterday’s
agreement was reached after the league offered a 300-page
proposal two weeks ago and the union made a counteroffer a week
later.  ‘Good News’  “The good news extends beyond the parties directly
involved,” George H. Cohen, director of the federal mediation
agency said in a statement. “Fans throughout North America will
have the opportunity to return to a favorite pastime and
thousands of working men and women and small businesses will no
longer be deprived of their livelihoods.”  Under the league’s offer, the limit of individual free-
agent contracts was raised to six years from five years or seven
years if a team re-signs its own player, the Associated Press
reported, citing a person familiar with the document that it
didn’t identify. It also offered to raise the salary variance
from one year to another to 10 percent from 5 percent.  The proposal would run through the 2021-22 season, with
both sides having the right to opt out after eight years, AP
said.  Playing Overseas  During the lockout, many of the league’s top players,
including  Alex Ovechkin  of the Washington Capitals, Pavel Datsyuk of the Detroit Red Wings and Ilya Kovalchuk of the New
Jersey Devils spent time playing in  Russia ’s Kontinental Hockey
League.  Before the start of the 2011-12 season, the average NHL
player salary was $2.4 million, up from about $1.5 million at
the start of the 2005-06 season.  In comparison, the average National Basketball Association
player salary was $5.15 million, the highest among North
America’s four major sports leagues, for 2011-12. The average
salary for a National Football League player was $1.9 million,
the lowest of the four leagues, with Major League Baseball’s
$3.3 million average salary ranking second behind the NBA.  The lockout contributed to a 14 percent slump in  Canada ’s
sport, performing art and heritage institution category in
October to the lowest level since the last NHL disruption in
2005. The sector’s output of C$4.91 billion ($4.97 billion) was
the lowest since May 2005 and down from C$5.72 billion a year
earlier. Seven of the NHL’s 30 teams are in Canada.  Peter Swinburn, the chief executive officer of  Molson Coors
Brewing Co. (TAP) , the NHL’s official beer sponsor, told the Canadian
Press in November that it may seek compensation from the league
for games lost. The brewer said Nov. 15 its sales in Canada
dropped by as much as 9 percent in the first four weeks of the
fourth quarter compared with the same period a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  