-- No End to Coldest China Winter in 28 Years, Forecaster Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-06T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/no-end-to-coldest-china-winter-in-28-years-weather-agency-says.html
Southern  China  will be hit by a new
cold front this week, extending the country’s chilliest winter
in 28 years, the country’s weather agency said.  Temperatures in Southern provinces including Guangdong will
dip to as low as minus 5 degrees Celsius (23 degrees Fahrenheit)
on Jan. 11 and 12, the  China Meteorological Administration  said
in a statement yesterday. Provinces including Guizhou and Hunan
may experience snowstorms, it said.  The cold weather will prove challenging as the Chinese
Lunar New Year holiday approaches, with icy rain and snow
disrupting transportation, power supplies and electricity
networks, the agency said.  Snow, ice and fog have caused havoc on the nation’s roads
and at train stations and airports, according to reports from
the Xinhua News Agency and  China Daily .  Two people died and 770,000 people have been affected by
record-low temperatures and snow in  Inner Mongolia  in northern
China, Xinhua said yesterday, citing the local government. More
than 260,000 people are in need of emergency aid and about
180,000 head of livestock have died, according to the report.  More than 10,000 people were stranded at Chengdu airport in
southwest Sichuan province yesterday after heavy fog caused
authorities to close the airport and ground more than 100
flights, Xinhua said in a separate report.  Fog also reduced visibility to as little as 300 meters (328
yards) at the Kunming Changshui International Airport in
southwest Yunnan province, leading to “massive flight delays”
since Jan. 3, according to the China Daily newspaper.  Heavy Losses  Four people died and 64 others were injured in three
separate road accidents in eastern China yesterday, Xinhua said,
citing information from local authorities. Slippery road
conditions from persistent rain and snow over the past few days
may have caused the accidents, traffic police were cited as
saying.  Freezing weather created a layer of thick sea ice on
Laizhou Bay in eastern Shandong province, leaving about 1,000
vessels stranded, according to a separate Xinhua report. Aquatic
producers in the region may face heavy losses as they can’t
penetrate the ice to provide ventilation for sea cucumbers and
other fish in their farms, the agency said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  