-- Nomura Shares May Drop as RSI Reaches Record: Technical Analysis
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-01-06T21:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/nomura-shares-may-drop-as-rsi-reaches-record-technical-analysis.html
Shares of  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
 Japan ’s biggest brokerage, may retreat after a 13-day rally that
drove an indicator of overheating to a record, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Nomura’s 14-day  relative strength index  increased to 93.6
at the close of trading on Jan. 4, the highest level since
October 1974, when Bloomberg started tracking the data. The RSI
measures the speed of share-price movements, with a reading
above 70 indicating to some analysts that shares are overbought.  “A short-term pullback is likely,” Ayush Nagaraj, a Hong
Kong-based sales trader at Sanford C. Bernstein, said on Jan. 4.
“On the positive side, weekly volumes over the last two weeks
have been high, indicating the uptrend could continue for the
mid- to long-term.”  Optimism a market rebound will boost brokerage earnings
helped Nomura shares more than  double  in 2012, gaining 54
percent in a 13-day winning streak through the end of last week
that was the longest rally in at least 38 years. The benchmark
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 23 percent last year, the most
since 2005. Shares have rallied on expectation Japan’s  Liberal
Democratic Party , which returned to power last month, will
revive growth through more fiscal and monetary stimulus.  An  average  of 101 million Nomura shares changed hands each
day in the two weeks through Dec. 28, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The daily average in 2012 was 39 million shares,
the data shows.  “When the market is in an uptrend, volume tends to
increase as well,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer
at Myojo Asset Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund
advisory firm. “People think the brokerages should benefit.”  Technical analysts look at price charts to forecast
resistance and support levels that might restrict further price
increases or limit declines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  