-- Obama Returns From Hawaiian Holiday to Second-Term Challenges
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/obama-returns-from-hawaiian-holiday-to-second-term-challenges.html
President  Barack Obama  returns to
Washington today from his annual family vacation in Hawaii for a
week that includes a meeting with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ,
deliberations about new cabinet members and preparations for his
second-term inauguration.  Obama is scheduled to return to the White House before noon
Washington time. Before his departure last night from Honolulu,
the president was gearing up for a political fight next month
with Republicans over raising the U.S.  debt limit . In his weekly
radio address, taped in Hawaii and aired yesterday, the
president reiterated a warning that he won’t negotiate with
Republicans over borrowing authority.  The president will probably name former Republican Senator
Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, 66, as his choice to be the nation’s
next defense secretary as early as tomorrow, according to a
person familiar with the cabinet-selection process.  The president is to meet with Karzai on Jan. 11. As the
U.S. war in Afghanistan winds down, Karzai is visiting
Washington to discuss concerns including the size of U.S. troop
levels in his country after 2014 and the future U.S. financial
commitment to his country.  Obama has yet to name a new head of the Central
Intelligence Agency.  John Brennan , the president’s
counterterrorism chief, is said to be among the leading
candidates.  Other future decisions include a replacement for Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , and may include a new chief of
staff if Jack Lew is named as Geithner’s replacement. In
December, Obama announced his choice of Massachusetts Senator
 John Kerry  to replace  Hillary Clinton  as secretary of state.  Two-Part Vacation  Obama was to have spent two weeks in Hawaii, where he was
born and raised, to recharge following his re-election campaign
and work on the Jan. 21 address he is to deliver for his second-
term inauguration.  His plan was interrupted by the congressional standoff over
how to prevent automatic tax hikes and spending cuts from going
into effect beginning Jan. 1 that forced him to cut short his
trip on Dec. 26.  Obama returned to Hawaii Jan. 2 and signed the law raising
income-tax rates on couples to 39.6 percent for annual income
above $450,000 while extending tax cuts for lower incomes and
delaying automatic spending cuts until March 1.  Market Rally  Markets rallied in response to the agreement, even as Obama
and congressional Republicans are poised for a new fight over
the U.S. government’s debt ceiling.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index rose 4.6 percent to
1,466.47, the highest level since December 2009. All 10 industry
groups in the  S&P 500  advanced in the holiday-shortened week.
 Bank of America Corp . and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  climbed at least 6.6
percent, pacing gains among financial and industrial companies.
An index of consumer stocks jumped to a record as  Ross Stores
Inc. (ROST)  and TJX Cos. announced same-store sales that topped
estimates.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co. rallied more
than 5.4 percent as auto sales beat forecasts.  The U.S. reached its $16.4 trillion legal debt limit on
Dec. 31, and the Treasury Department began using extraordinary
measures to finance the government. It will exhaust that avenue
as early as mid-February, the  Congressional Budget Office  says.  “One thing I will not compromise over is whether or not
Congress should pay the tab for a bill they’ve already racked
up,” Obama said in his address. “The last time Congress
threatened this course of action, our entire economy suffered
for it.”  Brink of Default  After partisan gridlock last brought the government to the
brink of default in August 2011, the stock market fell and
Standard & Poor’s cut the nation’s credit rating to AA+ from
AAA. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, withdrew
from negotiations on July 22, 2011, and the  S&P 500 Index  fell
more than 16 percent in the next 11 trading days.  Bond investors were unrattled. Yields on 10-year U.S.
Treasury notes declined from 2.96 percent on July 22 to 2.56
percent on Aug. 5, 2011, the day of the S&P downgrade. Yields
continued to drop, reaching 1.72 percent on Sept. 22 of that
year.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  offered
assurances that, even with the disagreements between
congressional Republicans and the White House, lawmakers would
raise the $16.4 trillion debt limit in time to avoid missing
payments on U.S. obligations.  “Absolutely, we’re going to not default,” Camp said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend. “That’s just not even part of the issue.”  Camp, in the Republicans’ weekly address yesterday, said
the U.S. government “spends too much and wastes too much,” and
“the spending problem is getting worse, not better.” Camp also
advocated changes to the  tax code .  “We have to start to work on real solutions to return
accountability to our tax code by eliminating special-interest
loopholes,” Camp said in the address. “I believe in a simple
principle: when it comes to the tax code, everyone should play
by the same rules.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  