-- Obama Will Nominate Hagel for Defense, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-01-06T21:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/obama-will-nominate-hagel-for-defense-u-s-official-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will nominate
former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel to be secretary of
defense, according to an administration official.  The nomination will be announced as soon as tomorrow, the
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss
personnel matters. Hagel couldn’t be reached for comment.  Hagel will probably face “a lot of tough questions” in
confirmation hearings, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today. Presidential cabinet
choices are subject to Senate confirmation.  Hagel, 66, a decorated Vietnam War veteran, has been
discussed as the leading candidate for the job for more than a
month and his possible nomination has drawn opposition from an
ad hoc coalition of Republican advocates of muscular defense
policies, supporters of  Israel  and gay-rights activists.  He opposed the troop surge during the Iraq war under
Republican President George W. Bush, questioned unilateral
economic sanctions against  Iran  and called the defense budget
“bloated.” Hagel also come under fire for citing the influence
of the “Jewish lobby” on behalf of Israel.  Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican and member of
the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Texas Republican
Senator Ted Cruz both said they were predisposed to oppose
Hagel.  “This is an in-your-face nomination by the president,”
Graham said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” today. “Quite
frankly Chuck Hagel is out of the mainstream of thinking on most
issues regarding foreign policy.”  Weakness Advocate  “If Hagel is nominated it is very difficult to imagine a
circumstance in which I could support his record,” Cruz said on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “He has consistently advocated
weakness with respect to our enemies.”  The criticism of Hagel has drawn a counter-attack from a
bipartisan group of former U.S. national security advisers --
James L. Jones, Brent Scowcroft, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Frank
Carlucci. “Hagel is a man of unshakable integrity and wisdom
who has served his country in the most distinguished manner in
peace and war,” they wrote in a letter published in the
Washington Post on Dec. 25.  Hagel would be the second member of Obama’s national
security and foreign policy team to be named for the
administration’s second term. In December, the president said he
will nominate Massachusetts Senator John Kerry to replace
Hillary Clinton as secretary of state.  Graham said that he would support Kerry, even though he
disagrees with him on some issues. On Hagel, he added: “The
hearings will matter, but I am very inclined to not support
him” because of his statements about Israel and Iran.  McConnell didn’t indicate if he would support Hagel’s
nomination. “I’m going to wait and see how the hearings go and
see whether Chuck’s views square with the job he would be
nominated to do,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  