-- Oil Futures Fall; Morgan Stanley Sees Supply Recovery
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-07T13:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/oil-fluctuates-after-biggest-weekly-gain-in-almost-four-months.html
Oil dropped for a third day in London
amid speculation that talks between  Sudan  and  South Sudan  may
lead to the resumption of crude exports.  Brent futures declined as much as 0.5 percent, while the
U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate slipped 0.7 percent.
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and South Sudan’s Salva Kiir
will meet in the Ethiopian capital  Addis Ababa  on Jan. 13,
having agreed last week to set up a demilitarized zone along
their border “without further delay.” Morgan Stanley said that
Brent will come under pressure as demand eases after winter in
the Northern Hemisphere and supplies in  Angola ,  Nigeria  and
South Sudan are restored.  “The improved supply-demand balance should put marginal
downward pressure on Brent prices over the next few months,”
 Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at Morgan Stanley
in  New York , said in a report. “We assume production will
return from South Sudan through 2013.”  Brent for February settlement slipped 43 cents to $110.88 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at 1:34
p.m. local time. The European benchmark was at a premium of
$18.23 to WTI, in line with the closing level on Jan. 4, the
narrowest in more than three months.  Crude for February delivery declined as much as 64 cents to
$92.45 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract advanced to $93.09 on Jan. 4, the highest
settlement since Jan. 2.  South Sudan  South Sudan, which gained independence from Sudan in July
2011, halted its 350,000 barrel-a-day crude production last
January after accusing authorities in Khartoum, the Sudanese
capital, of stealing $815 million of its oil. Sudan said it took
the crude to recoup unpaid transportation and processing fees.
That dispute and others, including differences over border
security, brought the neighbors to the brink of war in April.  Prices in New York capped a fourth weekly gain on Jan. 4
after a Labor Department report showed employers in the U.S.
added 155,000 workers in December, exceeding the 152,000 median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Last week’s rally took WTI futures to technical resistance
along the 50-week moving average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This indicator is around $93.70 a barrel today. Sell
orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on WTI to the highest level
in 11 weeks before lawmakers passed a bill to undo automatic tax
increases that threatened the  U.S. economy . The  House of
Representatives  approved a Senate bill at 11 p.m. on Jan. 1,
protecting 99 percent of households from higher income taxes.  Money Managers  Money managers boosted net-long positions by 11 percent in
the seven days ended Jan. 1 to the most since Oct. 16, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders
report showed on Jan. 4.  In London, hedge funds and other money managers raised
bullish bets on  Brent crude  to their highest level in nine
months, according to data from ICE Futures  Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 139,111 lots in
the week ended Dec. 31, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report.  Daily exports of North Sea Brent, Forties, Oseberg and
Ekofisk crudes, which make up the Dated Brent benchmark, will
increase by 16 percent in February from this month, loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News show. Exports will be
942,857 barrels a day versus 812,903 barrels in January,
according to the plans.  Dated Brent is used to price more than half of the world’s
oil supplies. Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude
shipments compiled by field operators to allow buyers and
sellers to plan their supply and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  