-- Top Forecaster Sees Aussie Below $1 on RBA Cut: Australia Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-07T01:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/top-forecaster-sees-aussie-below-1-on-rba-cut-australia-credit.html
Australia ’s dollar will fall below $1
this year as a slowing economy and less Federal Reserve bond
buying narrow the nation’s yield advantage, according to the
currency’s most-accurate forecaster.  The so-called Aussie will weaken to 99 U.S. cents by Dec.
31, from $1.0484 as of 12:24 p.m. in Sydney, according to Bank
of  New Zealand , which had the lowest margin of error at 2.69
percent in the past six quarters as tracked by Bloomberg
Rankings. The lender is a unit of Melbourne-based National
Australia Bank Ltd.  Ten-year yields are near a seven-week low relative to U.S.
Treasuries with swap-market traders betting the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will cut its 3 percent overnight cash-rate target to a
record by March to help the economy as resources investment
slows. Minutes from the Fed’s December meeting showed officials
see a probable 2013 end to $85 billion a month of bond purchases
that have weakened the greenback.  “Aussie weakness is more a function of the U.S. dollar
finding its feet, more so than it being subject to specific
weakness of its own,” said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global
co-head of currency strategy at NAB. Still, economic “weakness
has become more broad-based in Australia,” he added.  Forecasters Divided  The Aussie’s top five forecasters are divided on the
currency’s path for this year, as demand stemming from the South
Pacific nation’s rank as one of only seven with stable AAA
credit ratings remains a key source of support.  Along with NAB, fourth-rated Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce sees the Aussie at 99 cents by year end, while second-
ranked Monex Europe Ltd. predicts it will be at $1.  Wells Fargo
& Co ., the No. 3 forecaster, estimates the Australian dollar
will rise to $1.07 by Dec. 31, while No. 5 TD Securities Inc.
sees it at $1.02. The median estimate from 44 analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg News  is for $1.04.  The Australian dollar rose 1.8 percent in 2012 to $1.0394,
beating strategists’ forecast it would decline to $1.01. That
advance followed a 45 percent jump over the previous three
years.  It touched 95.82 U.S. cents on June 1, the lowest since
Oct. 5, 2011 and one of just 28 days in 2012 it was below
parity. The currency first traded above $1 on Oct. 15, 2010.  Currency traders estimate a 33 percent chance the Aussie
will be below $1 at year-end, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The difference in the number of wagers on an advance in the
local dollar compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net
longs  -- was 79,522 in the period through Jan. 1, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.
That’s down from a record 103,376 in the week ended Dec. 17.  Resources Peak  “Recent data confirm that the peak in resource investment
is approaching,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement
on Dec. 4, when he lowered borrowing costs for the sixth time in
14 months.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, shelved
three major projects in August estimated by Deutsche Bank AG to
cost a combined $68 billion to build.  The Melbourne-based resources company said in October it
will cut jobs at its Nickel West operations in  Western
Australia . Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining
company, said in November it plans to cut $5 billion in
operating and support costs by the end of 2014.  At the same time, Australia’s non-mining economy has been
showing signs of a slowdown. Economic reports last month
indicated the weakest growth in three quarters, a smaller-than-
expected increase in home-loan approvals and the biggest
 consumer confidence  slump in nine months.  “The rest of the Australian economy won’t be able to
offset the slowdown in the mining sector,” said Eimear Daly, a
London-based currency-market analyst at Monex Europe.
“Australia’s growth will continue to slow.”  Slowing Growth  Analysts predict the South Pacific nation’s gross domestic
product will grow 2.7 percent this year, the weakest pace in two
years, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Group of 10
currency economies will probably expand 1.2 percent, while
global GDP will rise 2.4 percent, separate polls show.  The Australian dollar has withstood expectations for a
slump to trade more than 38 percent above its average since
being freely floated in 1983. Its strength “keeps the pressure
on the RBA to act,” said NAB’s Attrill.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 78 percent chance the RBA will cut the cash rate to 2.75
percent or lower by June. Attrill sees the benchmark bottoming
this year at a range of 2.25 percent to 2.75 percent.  Meanwhile, investors are betting on reduced stimulus from
the U.S. central bank, as board members signaled the conclusion
of its asset purchases some time this year. That comes as
reports in the past month showed a recovery in the U.S. labor
market, manufacturing and housing.  China Pickup  Recent data also indicated signs of a pickup in  China ,
Australia’s largest trading partner. Government figures last
week showed  factory output  expanded for a third-straight period
in December and matched the fastest pace in seven months.  “Stronger Chinese growth and stable-to-stronger financial
markets will help globally,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at Wells Fargo in  New York . “But subdued
local Australian fundamentals will limit the extent of the
currency’s advance.”  The combination of Australia’s top rating and its benchmark
borrowing cost, which is the highest among major developed
economies, will be the “main driver” of the Aussie dollar’s
resilience,  Annette Beacher , Singapore-based head of Asia-
Pacific research at TD Securities, wrote in an e-mail Jan. 4.  AAA Rating  The nation is one of only seven with a stable AAA score
from all three main credit-rating companies, driving global
demand for the Aussie. The  International Monetary Fund  plans to
classify it in a category that includes the  U.S. dollar  and
Japanese yen. As many as 26 central banks including those in
 Brazil ,  Russia  and  Germany  hold the currency, according to data
compiled by the RBA and Bloomberg.  The appetite for Australia’s assets spurred a decline in
yields that sent the  10-year rate  to a record low of 2.698
percent in June. While the nation’s benchmark yield remains the
highest among its top-rated peers, the premium it offers over
the average for 10 other AAA countries fell to 177 basis points
today from the 2012 high of 226 basis points.  The spread to Treasuries was 155 basis points. It touched
145 on Jan. 3, the narrowest gap since Nov. 15.  There may be “continued broad-based demand to add to
Australian dollar holdings over the medium to long term,”
 Jeremy Stretch , CIBC’s London-based head of foreign-exchange
strategy, wrote in a Jan. 3 e-mail. “Slower growth may limit
immediate demand, while the diminishing yield advantage will
also act to constrain inflows in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  