-- Toyota Plans No New Plant Construction Until 2016, Nikkei Says
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-01-06T08:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/toyota-plans-no-new-plant-building-for-three-years-nikkei-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  plans no new
factory construction for three years as it focuses capital
investments on existing plants, Nikkei reported today, without
saying where it got the information.  Toyota wasn’t the source of the information in the report,
Masami Doi, a spokesman for the Toyota City, Japan-based
carmaker, said by phone today, declining to comment further. New
construction would not begin until after April 2016, except for
facilities already announced for Indonesia and Thailand set to
begin operations this year, according to the report.  Asia’s biggest carmaker intends to focus on getting more
out of the money it spends on  growth , Keisuke Kirimoto, a
spokesman for the automaker said today by phone. Toyota is also
sharing facilities with some competitors, including contracting
to produce as many as 50,000 cars a year at  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s
planned Salamanca,  Mexico , plant.  “I cannot discuss our business plans, but we consider it
important to boost investment efficiency to secure medium-to-
long-term growth,” Kirimoto said.  The new investment policy will be announced this spring in
 Japan  as part of the company’s global management plan, according
to the Nikkei report.  Toyota said Nov. 10 it would more than double vehicle
production capacity and build a new engine factory in Indonesia
to meet rising demand in the Southeast Asian country.  Brazil Expansion  In August, the carmaker announced plans to build an engine
factory in  Brazil  to cater to increasing demand in the world’s
fourth-biggest auto market. The Nikkei report didn’t say whether
that plant would be affected by the new investment policy and
Toyota declined to comment. The 1 billion reais ($492 million)
Sao Paulo facility should begin production by the second half of
2015, Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda  told reporters on Aug.
8.  The carmaker announced plans last year to boost vehicle and
engine output at existing plants in the U.S. and  Canada  and to
increase purchases of North American parts and materials.  Chief Executive Officer Akio Toyoda has also pledged the
company founded by his grandfather would keep 3 million units of
plant capacity in Japan, a higher portion of its global
production than  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and Honda Motor Co.  The decision reflects Toyota’s efforts to re-establish its
quality reputation, said  Kevin Tynan , an automotive analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  Quality Control  “Toyota isn’t chasing short-term profitability,” he said.
“They’ve made a conscious decision not to move quickly to set
up factories in low-cost production countries like Mexico. It’s
more important to them to keep tight control of quality over the
long term.”  The carmaker, operating about 50 factories outside Japan
and 30 in the country, will install more efficient equipment at
its factories to increase output, according to the Nikkei
report.  Traffic at dealerships in China is recovering to levels
seen before an anti-Japanese boycott and violent demonstrations
erupted last year over islands both countries claim in the  South
China Sea , Reuters reported today, citing a company executive it
didn’t identify. Toyota sold almost 90,000 cars in the country
in December, compared with 108,000 a year earlier, and will
announce sales for the month Jan. 7, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  