-- PGA Tour Opener Has Play Canceled Again, Targets Tuesday Finish
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/pga-tour-s-season-opening-event-canceled-for-third-straight-day.html
The U.S.  PGA Tour ’s season-opening
Tournament of Champions in Hawaii is scheduled to start today
and finish tomorrow after play was canceled the past three days
because of windy conditions in Maui.  The 30-golfer field of 2012 PGA Tour winners returns to the
Kapalua Resort’s Plantation Course today for 36 holes, followed
by a planned 18 holes tomorrow, weather permitting.  The PGA Tour’s last 54-hole event was the 2011 Barclays
Tournament at Plainfield Country Club in Edison, New Jersey,
which was shortened to three rounds because of a hurricane.  Severely windy conditions have nullified any scores for
three straight days in Kapalua, where gusts yesterday reached 48
miles per hour (77 kilometers an hour). After a four-hour delay
to yesterday’s opening tee times, golfers got on the course for
just over an hour before officials canceled play.  “We tried again, the PGA tour staff did a great job
getting the course ready, but Mother Nature proved to strong
once again,”  Hunter Mahan  of the U.S. said on Twitter.  First-round scores were wiped out Jan. 4 because of gusts,
while play never began the following day. Before the two
instances this tournament, the last time the PGA Tour declared
play “null and void” and restarted a round was during the 2005
 Players Championship .  Zach Johnson , the 2007 Masters champion, said yesterday
that he’s “never seen consistent wind like this,” adding that
he feels disappointed for players, fans and organizers.  The PGA Tour’s second event, the $5.7 million Sony Open, is
scheduled to start Jan. 10 in Honolulu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  