-- Trade Gap in U.S. Probably Shrank on Cheaper Imported Oil
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-06T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-shrank-on-cheaper-imported-oil.html
The trade  deficit  in the U.S.
probably narrowed in November as fuel imports dropped and
exports rebounded, economists said before a report this week.  The gap shrank to $41.2 billion from October’s $42.2
billion, according to the median forecast of 51 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Jan. 11 figures from the Commerce
Department. Another report the same day may show  import prices 
were little changed in December.  Sustained job gains and the drop in  oil prices  that is
helping to reduce the import bill are boosting the buying power
of U.S. households, giving the world’s largest economy a lift.
In addition, stabilization in global growth, led by a pickup in
 China , will probably keep propelling sales overseas for American
companies such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)   “The export side of it just sort of swamps the import side
this month,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC
Capital Markets LLC in  New York . “Exports have been a sector of
significant strength in the U.S.”  “That’s a story that could remain in place in 2013” given
the recent rebound in global manufacturing, Porcelli added.  Manufacturing in China unexpectedly expanded in December at
the fastest pace in 19 months, boosting optimism that a recovery
in the world’s second-biggest economy is gaining traction, a
Dec. 31 report showed. The country’s economy may have rebounded
after a seven-quarter slowdown as the government increased
spending on infrastructure and accelerated investment-project
approvals.  Exports Climb  American manufacturers are selling more overseas as a
result. The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management
said its factory  export gauge  rose in December to a seven-month
high. Commerce Department data show exports slumped in October
by the most in almost four years.  Ford is among manufacturers anticipating a pickup in global
demand to compliment higher U.S. sales that have seen a boost as
consumers replace lost or wrecked vehicles after Sandy. Ford,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC posted December
vehicle sales gains that exceeded analysts’ estimates, industry
reports showed last week. Auto  purchases  ran at a 15.3 million
annual rate after 15.5 million in November, the best two months
since early 2008.  “We expect global sales to grow this year supported by an
ongoing recovery in the U.S. as well as improving sales in
China,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist at Ford Motor
Co., said on a Jan. 3 conference call. “Gains in these markets
are offset somewhat by the weakness in the European markets.”  Employment Gains  An improving job market is probably one reason U.S. auto
sales are improving. Payrolls rose by 155,000 workers last month
following a 161,000 advance in November, Labor Department
figures showed last week. The  unemployment rate  held at 7.8
percent, matching the lowest since December 2008.  The November trade data may have also been influenced by
port disruptions. Superstorm Sandy made landfall Oct. 29,
causing billions of dollars in damage along the East Coast and
delaying freight traffic in the region. In addition, clerical
workers at the ports of  Los Angeles  and  Long Beach , the largest
U.S. port complex, went on strike Nov. 27 for eight days,
affecting about $1 billion of trade a day.  Lower fuel prices probably held back the value of imports.
The cost of imported petroleum dropped 3.6 percent in November,
according to figures from the Labor Department. The cost of all
goods bought overseas fell 0.9 percent in the month.  A Jan. 11 report from the Labor Department will show the
import-price index rose 0.1 percent in December, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  Other reports this week may show wholesale inventories rose
in November, and the  federal budget  deficit shrank last month,
according to economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  