-- Seahawks, Ravens Reach Second Round of NFL Playoffs With Wins
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/ravens-defeat-colts-24-9-to-set-up-playoff-meeting-with-broncos.html
The  Seattle Seahawks  rounded out the
field for the second round of the National Football League
playoffs by erasing a 14-point deficit and winning on the road
in the postseason for the first time since 1983.  The Seahawks rallied for a 24-14 victory over the
Washington Redskins yesterday, when they scored 24 straight
points after Redskins rookie quarterback Robert Griffin III
aggravated a knee injury.  The Seahawks were the only visiting team to win during the
wild-card round, as the  Baltimore Ravens  defeated the
Indianapolis Colts 24-9 yesterday after home victories the
previous day by the Houston Texans and  Green Bay Packers .  Seattle  (12-5) advances to play the  Atlanta Falcons  (13-3),
the top seed in the  National Football Conference , on Jan. 13 and
are listed as 2-point underdogs, according to the Las Vegas
Hotel’s Super Book.  The  San Francisco 49ers  (11-4-1) host the Packers (12-5)
the day before for a spot in the NFC Championship Game, with the
49ers favored by three points.  The home teams are bigger second-round favorites in the
American Football Conference.  The Ravens (11-6) are 9-point underdogs for their Jan. 12
matchup against  Peyton Manning  and the  Denver Broncos  (13-3),
who ended the regular season with an 11-game winning streak to
earn the AFC’s top seed and a opening-week playoff bye.  The Texans (13-4) are also 9-point underdogs as they visit
the  New England Patriots  (12-4) on Jan. 13.  Favorites Win  The teams favored by oddsmakers won all four games during
the wild-card round, as Seattle was the only road favorite.  The conference champions advance to the  Super Bowl , which
is scheduled for Feb. 3 at the Superdome in New Orleans.  Griffin, who had the highest rookie quarterback rating in
NFL history this season, threw touchdown passes to Evan Royster
and Logan Paulsen yesterday as the Redskins took a 14-0 lead.  On the second score, Griffin aggravated a knee injury
sustained Dec. 9 and the Redskins offense was outgained 371-74
in total yardage the rest of the way. Griffin, who sat out a
Dec. 16 game in  Cleveland  before returning, left the game with
6:19 left in the fourth quarter when his knee buckled as he
unsuccessfully tried to grab a low shotgun snap.  The fumble led to a field goal and a 10-point lead for the
Seahawks, who had lost eight straight road playoff games.  “We weathered the storm, the crowd, the situation, the
setting,” Seahawks coach  Pete Carroll  said. “Guys stayed
focused and started putting the game in order.”  Rookie Quarterbacks  Lynch finished with 132 rushing yards on 20 carries for
Seattle, while rookie quarterback Russell Wilson completed 15-
of-26 passes for 187 yards, including a 4-yard touchdown throw
to  Michael Robinson  with 4:45 left in the second quarter.  The game was the second in NFL history to feature a pair of
rookie starting quarterbacks, though after the first quarter
Griffin didn’t resemble the player who helped Washington finish
the season with a seven-game winning streak and capture its
first division title since 1999. He completed 6-of-9 passes for
68 yards in the first quarter and then was 4-of-11 for 16 yards
over his final 2 1/2 quarters.  Griffin remained down on the field for several minutes
after his injury before walking off slowly and acknowledging
cheers from the home crowd. Redskins coach  Mike Shanahan  said
after the game that he wouldn’t have let Griffin play if there
was risk of further injury to his sprained knee ligament.  Griffin’s Injury  “My job is to be out there if I can play,” Griffin said
at a news conference. “The only time I couldn’t play is when I
went down and I took myself out of the game. I don’t think me
being out there hurt the team in any way.”  The Seahawks have now won their past three playoff meetings
against the Redskins.  The Ravens never trailed at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore,
in extending  Ray Lewis ’s playing career for at least one more
game. The All-Pro linebacker and his defensive teammates limited
the Colts to three field goals while forcing rookie quarterback
 Andrew Luck  into a pair of turnovers.  Lewis, a two-time NFL Defensive Player of the Year, was on
the field with the offense for the final play as the Ravens
knelt down to run out the final seconds. He then did a dance at
midfield, celebrated with his teammates and took a lap around
the field that he said was inspired by the way Cal Ripken Jr.
similarly acknowledged fans following his final Major League
Baseball game in Baltimore in 2001.  Emotional Lewis  “It got emotional,” said Lewis, a 13-time Pro Bowl
nominee and former Super Bowl Most Valuable Player. “There’s no
greater reward than for me to take my last victory lap. We have
a vision. We’re not trying to end here. This is just my last
game ever playing in Ravens Stadium.”  Vonta Leach put Baltimore ahead for good with a 2-yard
touchdown run with 50 seconds left in the first half, while  Joe Flacco  threw two second-half scoring passes.  Flacco completed 12-of-23 passes for 282 yards for the
Ravens, while  Ray Rice  and rookie Bernard Pierce combined to
rush for 173 yards on 28 carries.  The Colts finished with 25 first downs and 419 yards of
offense -- to Baltimore’s 441 -- yet were held to three field
goals by  Adam Vinatieri , the all-time leading scorer in playoff
history. Luck completed 28-of-54 passes for 288 yards in his
playoff debut, with one interception and a lost fumble.  “We moved the ball, we did some great things, but we
weren’t able to get the chunk plays and capitalize on some
situations,” Colts coach Chuck Pagano said. “They made the
plays when they had to and we didn’t.”  While Pagano was on the Colts’ sideline for the second
straight week after missing 12 games this season following his
diagnosis for a treatable form of leukemia, the team was without
offensive coordinator Bruce Arians. Pagano said after the game
that Arians is in “good shape” after being hospitalized
earlier in the day because of dizzy spells.  The Ravens’ victory avenges losses to the Colts (11-6) in
their previous two playoff meetings -- in the second round after
the 2009 season and at the same stage three years earlier. 