-- Rockets Suspend White for Refusing Development League Assignment
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-01-06T17:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/rockets-suspend-white-for-refusing-development-league-assignment.html
The  Houston Rockets  suspended rookie
Royce White a week after he declined to play for the Rio Grande
Valley Vipers in the National Basketball Association’s
Development League.  “The Houston Rockets have suspended Royce White effective
immediately for refusing to provide services as required by his
uniform player contract,” Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey
said in an e-mailed statement today. “We will continue to work
with Royce to hopefully come to a resolution.”  Royce told Sirius XM radio’s “Off the Dribble” show that
he’s at loggerheads with the Rockets over their approach to
treating an anxiety disorder that includes a fear of flying. He
said in a statement after the Rockets assigned him to the  Vipers 
that he would accept the move or play for Houston if the Rockets
adhered to protocols from doctors treating him.  “I have chosen to not play, because the doctors and I
believe it to be unsafe for unqualified Rockets front office
personnel to make medical decisions, as they are not mental
health professionals,” White said in his statement. “I do wish
to play, but I only intend to do so with the collaboration and
recommendation of trained professionals.”  White won’t receive any pay while suspended from a contract
that’s worth $3 million in his first two NBA seasons,  ESPN said .
The 21-year-old forward, who has yet to play for Houston after
being picked 16th in last year’s draft out of  Iowa State
University , was previously fined by the Rockets.  “Threats, fines, suspension won’t deter me,” White wrote
on his Twitter account after being suspended today. “I won’t
accept illogical health decisions. I will keep asking for safety
and health.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 