-- Romania Will Probably Keep Rates Steady at First Meeting in 2013
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-01-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/romania-will-probably-keep-rates-steady-at-first-meeting-in-2013.html
The Romanian central bank will
probably keep its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged today at its
first meeting of the year to weigh inflationary pressures
against an economic slowdown.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will hold the monetary-
policy rate at a record-low 5.25 percent, according to all 13
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . A decision will be announced
after 11 a.m. in Bucharest.  The bank halted its easing cycle in May after two
government changes and a power struggle between President Traian Basescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta plunged the leu to a
record low and a prolonged drought pushed food prices up.
Ponta’s ruling coalition won a two-thirds majority in Parliament
in Dec. 9 elections and he was reinstated as premier at the end
of last month.  “The upside pressures to inflation are noteworthy, while
domestic demand remains weak and gives guidance for a prudent
monetary-policy stance,” Bucharest-based analysts at NBG
Securities Romania SA, including Irina Cretu, wrote in a note.  Monetary authorities in much of central  Europe  have been
easing policy to alleviate the impact of the sovereign-debt
crisis in the euro area, the region’s main trading partner.
Hungary cut its main rate to 5.75 percent Dec. 18, the fifth
reduction in as many months, while  Poland ’s central bank
Governor Marek Belka on Dec. 11 called for more  interest-rate 
cuts from 4.25 percent.  Slowing Inflation  While Romanian inflation, which slowed to 4.56 percent in
November, will probably stay above the central bank’s target
band of between 2 percent and 4 percent as policy makers
estimated the rate at 5.1 percent last month. The National
Statistics Institute will release December inflation data on
Jan. 11.  The central bank should scrap a “wait-and-see” approach
to monetary policy and start focusing, together with the
government, on spurring the economy, board member Nicolae Danila
said, according to an interview published in Ziarul Financiar on
Jan. 4, adding that he was speaking on the issue as an economics
professor.  The leu, which gained 1.5 percent in December, dropped 0.2
percent to 4.4249 per euro late on Jan. 4. Yields on  Romania ’s
2016 euro-denominated bonds rose 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 3.07 percent, snapping a six-day decline
after dropping to a record low on Jan. 3 of 2.93 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spurring Growth  Policy makers could also accept an inflation rate higher
than the bank’s target to help spur growth, Danila said,
according to the Bucharest-based newspaper.  Gross domestic product  contracted a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months,
compared with a 0.1 percent increase in the April-June period.  Romanian central bankers lowered rates 1 percentage point
from September 2011 to March last year before pausing the cycle
in May. The country, which has a two-year, 5 billion-euro ($6.5
billion) precautionary loan agreement with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union, is considering a new deal
once the current one expires at the end of March.  -- With assistance from Barbara Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors:
Alan Crosby, Andrew Langley  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  