-- Senate Minority Leader McConnell Says Spending Must Be Cut
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-01-06T14:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/senate-minority-leader-mcconnell-says-spending-must-be-cut-1-.html
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said now is the time for the  U.S. Congress  to cut
 government spending .  Speaking in an interview on ABC’s “This Week” program,
the Kentucky senator said Congress has finished dealing with
taxes.  “The tax issue is finished, over, completed,” McConnell
said on ABC. “Now the question is what are we going to do about
the biggest problem confronting our country and our future and
that’s our spending addiction.”  Markets rallied last week following passage of a law
raising income-tax rates on couples to 39.6 percent for annual
income above $450,000 while extending tax cuts for lower incomes
and delaying automatic spending cuts until March 1.  Less than a week after a compromise that averted the
package of spending cuts and tax increases known as the fiscal
cliff, President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans are
staking out positions for future negotiations over the budget
and the debt ceiling.  The U.S. reached its $16.4 trillion legal debt limit on
Dec. 31, and the Treasury Department began using extraordinary
measures to finance the government. It will exhaust that avenue
as early as mid-February, the  Congressional Budget Office  says.  McConnell said Republicans should use this opportunity to
engage Obama and Congressional Democrats in a discussion on
cutting spending.  “Until we address the entitlement programs and make the
eligibility for entitlements meet the demographics of our
country, we can’t ever solve this problem,” McConnell said.  Yesterday, Obama said that any reductions in spending
should come alongside higher levies on rich Americans and
companies by changes to the  tax code .  “Spending cuts must be balanced with more reforms to our
tax code,” Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet address.
“The wealthiest individuals and the biggest corporations
shouldn’t be able to take advantage of loopholes and deductions
that aren’t available to most Americans.”  The message echoed a call that Obama made to campaign
supporters on Jan. 2 favoring a “balanced approach” to deficit
reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  