-- Shell to Tow Grounded Alaska Drill Rig 30 Miles in Recovery Plan
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-01-06T08:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/shell-to-tow-grounded-alaska-drill-rig-30-miles-in-recovery-plan.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  plans to tow
the drilling rig that ran aground in  Alaska  about 30 miles to a
safe harbor after naval architects determined the vessel is safe
to move.  The Kulluk, which ran aground after breaking from a tow
boat during a storm on Dec. 31, will be moved to Kiliuda Bay,
where more tests can be conducted, according to a Jan. 5
statement on the  website  of the Unified Command in Anchorage.
The timing depends on weather, tides and readiness.  The vessel remains upright with its fuel tanks intact,
according to the statement. It is grounded near Sitkalidak
Island, on the north edge of Ocean Bay, about 60 miles (97
kilometers) southwest of Kodiak, Alaska.  “Salvage teams are currently aboard the vessel and
preparing for the recovery operations,” the Unified Command
said. “Safety remains the number one priority and will drive
all facets of the operation.”  The accident is the latest setback in Shell’s efforts to
tap Arctic oil. Environmental groups said Jan. 3 they would ask
President  Barack Obama  to suspend all current and pending Arctic
drilling permits until operators prove they can work safely in
the region’s harsh conditions.  The Unified Command system includes the U.S. Coast Guard,
Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, Kodiak Island
Borough and Shell. As much as 143,000 gallons of diesel and
about 12,000 gallons of other refined oil products are currently
stored on board the Kulluk, according to the website.  The U.S. Army sent two Chinook helicopters to the area on
Jan. 5 to help transport equipment for the recovery, according
to the  Sunday Telegraph .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  