-- Sudan, South Sudan Agree to Set Up Demilitarized Border Zone
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-01-06T08:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/sudan-south-sudan-agree-to-set-up-demilitarized-border-zone.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and
 South Sudan ’s Salva Kiir agreed to set up a demilitarized zone
along their border “without further delay” as the African
states seek to resume oil flows vital to their economies.  They also agreed to consider establishing a commission to
hold a referendum on the status of the disputed Abyei area at a
planned meeting on Jan. 13 in  Addis Ababa , according to a
statement posted on the  African Union’s website  after the
presidents met yesterday in the Ethiopian capital. The African
Union High-Level Implementation Panel for  Sudan  and South Sudan
will determine the dates for agreements to take effect.  South Sudan, which gained independence from Sudan in July
2011, shut down its 350,000 barrel-a-day crude production last
January after accusing authorities in Khartoum, the Sudanese
capital, of stealing $815 million of its oil. Sudan said it took
the crude to recoup unpaid transportation and processing fees.
That dispute and others, including differences over border
security, brought the neighbors to the brink of war in April.  The two countries face a stalemate over the disputed region
of Abyei. The area is contested by the Ngok Dinka people, who
are settled there and consider themselves southerners, and
Misseriya nomads, who herd their cattle into the area in the dry
season and are supported by Khartoum.  Sharing Oversight  The presidents at their meeting next week will consider
setting up an Abyei administration, council and police service,
according to the statement. The African Union’s Peace and
 Security Council  gave the two countries six weeks from Oct. 24
to consent to its mediator’s proposal for a deal on Abyei.  Sudan has had limited success boosting non-oil businesses
after South Sudan seceded and took with it three-quarters of the
north’s oil revenue. Sudan’s economy shrank 11.2 percent in 2012
after contracting 4.5 percent the previous year, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates. South Sudan’s economy may
have contracted 55 percent in 2012, the fund estimates.  The north’s inflation rate for food rose to 46.5 percent in
November from 45.3 percent in October, while inflation in South
Sudan almost doubled to 41 percent in November from 21.5 percent
the previous month.  Oil Flows  Both states have deployed troops within 10 kilometers (six
miles) of their border, and each accuses the other of backing
rebels in its territory. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Norwegian Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide and U.K.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  last week urged the two sides to
“seize the opportunity” and “immediately withdraw” armed
forces from the border zone.  Sudan’s government has refused to allow South Sudan to
resume oil shipments through its territory, despite agreeing in
September to do so. It accuses authorities in Juba, South
Sudan’s capital, of continuing to support rebels in Southern
Kordofan and Blue Nile states. The oil is pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  