-- Liverpool Wins in Cup on Suarez Handball; Arsenal, Swansea Tie
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2013-01-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/swansea-arsenal-tie-2-2-in-soccer-s-f-a-cup-will-need-replay.html
Liverpool beat Mansfield 2-1 to reach
the fourth round of English soccer’s F.A. Cup yesterday after
 Luis Suarez  handled the ball in scoring.  Danny Graham  got a late
goal to earn Swansea a 2-2 tie against Arsenal.  Daniel Sturridge  also scored on his debut for seven-time
champion Liverpool as it won at its fifth-tier opponent to set
up a match against Oldham.  “I’ve just seen it again and there’s no doubt it was
handball but the referee and the officials ruled it wasn’t
deliberate,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  told reporters.
“It was unfortunate for Mansfield and lucky for us that we got
the goal. It was a really professional performance.”  At Swansea’s Liberty Stadium, the Gunners appeared set to
advance after strikes from Lukas Podolski and  Kieran Gibbs ,
before Graham fired the ball into the net from close range.
Michu had put the home team ahead on 58 minutes.  The teams will now need to replay at Arsenal’s Emirates
Stadium. The winner faces a trip to Brighton in the fourth
round.  “The last thing I want is to lose a game,” Swansea
manager Michael Laudrup told reporters. “A replay isn’t exactly
what I was looking forward to, especially with the games we have
coming up.”  Swansea had the best of a goalless first half. Graham
tested goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny with a 25-yard shot after 13
minutes that required a diving save, and 10 minutes before the
interval Kyle Bartley headed against the bar from a Jonathan de
Guzman free kick.  Santi Cazorla fired Arsenal’s best attempt over the bar
moments before Bartley’s header.  Vorm Saves  Arsenal, winner of the F.A. Cup 10 times, started stronger
in the second half and Swansea goalkeeper Michel Vorm was forced
into two early saves. After 51 minutes he stopped a low shot
from Olivier Giroud with his feet, then two minutes later denied
the French striker’s volleyed effort.  The hosts made two substitutions soon after, including the
introduction of top-scorer Michu. The Spaniard was on the field
for less than two minutes before scoring his 15th goal of the
season.  Michu lifted the ball over Per Mertesacker, controlled it
and shot low into the bottom corner. He’s now scored three times
in two games against the Gunners after a double in the league at
the Emirates last month.  Arsenal pushed forward, with Theo Walcott flashing a low
shot across the goal on 75 minutes. Second-half substitute
Podolski then put the visitors level six minutes later when he
turned and fired past Vorm.  Two minutes later the Gunners were ahead, full-back Gibbs
volleying into the net for his first goal in 10 months.  Graham Strikes  Swansea responded from a corner kick that was flicked on in
the penalty area and Graham was on hand to score. There was
still a chance for Arsenal to regain its lead in injury time,
but Vorm blocked a header from Laurent Koscielny.  “We should have won the game,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told reporters. He said he didn’t want a replay, but “if
that’s the choice between going out or staying in the hat, I
take the replay.”  Liverpool was ahead after only seven minutes at Field Mill,
Sturridge hitting a low shot into the far corner after
collecting a pass from Jonjo Shelvey.  Seven minutes later the former Manchester City and Chelsea
striker should have doubled the advantage with only goalkeeper
Alan Marriott to beat, but his effort was saved.  Mansfield’s Matt Green then had an effort saved by
Liverpool goalkeeper  Brad Jones  as the home team fought back.
Sturridge was denied again by Marriott before halftime.  Suarez Handles  After a period of Mansfield pressure in the second half,
Suarez finished off a move for Liverpool to give his team a two-
goal lead. Television pictures showed that the Uruguayan used
his hand to control the ball.  Green replied on 79 minutes with a powerful strike and
almost earned a replay with a 25-yard effort in injury time that
Jones turned wide.  “I’d like to give the benefit of the doubt and say it was
a reaction,” Mansfield manager  Paul Cox  said of Suarez’s goal.
“He’s a goalscorer and I think goalscorers put the ball in the
net anyway. If it had gone in the other end and one of our
players had done it I think we’d have accepted it.”  Among winners in matches two days ago, defending champion
Chelsea beat Southampton 5-1, and Brighton upset Newcastle 2-0.
 Manchester United  tied 2-2 at West Ham on an injury-time goal
from  Robin van Persie .  Luton and Macclesfield, which play in the fifth tier, upset
Championship teams to move into the fourth round.  Today, Cheltenham Town from the fourth-tier League Two
hosts Everton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 