-- Syria’s Assad Offers Reforms as Government Fights ‘Terrorists’
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-01-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-06/syria-s-assad-offers-initiatives-as-nation-battles-terrorists-.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
addressed his nation for the first time since June, offering a
plan to end fighting there that was quickly rejected by
opposition groups and Western governments.  In a televised address from the Opera House in Damascus,
Assad criticized rebels fighting his reign as “terrorists,”
and said Islamists were trying to take control of the country at
the behest of foreign powers.  “We face foreign aggression in a new kind of way, and this
kind of war is more serious and destructive than conventional
wars,”  he said  yesterday. “This war uses Syrians to attack
Syrians and to destroy  Syria . Are we to negotiate with puppets
of the West?”  Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s biggest economy, and  Egypt ,
its most populous, this month called for a “peaceful handover”
of power in Syria, their first joint call for Assad to step
down. The U.S. and European Union have also called for him to
leave.  While Assad said he would accept a conditional cease-fire,
a new constitution and expanded government, the aim of the
address was to demonstrate to the country that he is still in
control and bolster his supporters, said Ayham Kamel, a Middle
East analyst at the Eurasia Group in  London .  “For the past few months we’ve been hearing that the
regime is about to collapse,” Kamel said in an interview. “But
by coming out in this manner, he is saying that he is in
control. It’s a show of power for his base.”  60,000 Dead  At least 60,000 people have been killed in the fighting,
the  United Nations  said last week in its first detailed analysis
of deaths in the conflict.  Both the U.S. and U.K. governments, who have pressed Assad
to leave, denounced his speech. The speech is “beyond
hypocritical,”  William Hague , the British Foreign Secretary,
said in a message on Twitter. “Deaths, violence and oppression
engulfing Syria are his own making,”  It “is yet another attempt by the regime to cling to power
and does nothing to advance the Syrian people’s goal of a
political transition,”  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department
spokeswoman, said in a statement. His plan “would only allow
the regime to further perpetuate its bloody oppression of the
Syrian people.”  Nuland said that Assad was undercutting the efforts of UN
envoy Lakhdar Brahimi. Assad met with Brahimi last month to
discuss the fighting there, which has intensified after nearly
two years of clashes.  Opposition View  George Sabra, vice president of the Syrian National
Coalition, a group of opposition entities, told Reuters the
peace plan Assad put forth did “not even deserve to be called
an initiative.”  “We should see it rather as a declaration that he will
continue his war against the Syrian people,” he said.  The speech showed “a lot of desperation to rectify the
situation on the ground,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis in Dubai. “You have sides that won’t put their weapons
down until they achieve what they want,” he said.  Israel is planning to build a new fence along the  Golan
Heights  because the Syrian army has moved back and made way for
so-called global Jihad forces, according to Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu .  “The Syrian regime is very unstable,” Netanyahu said
yesterday. Chemical weapons are a concern to Israel, which is
coordinating intelligence and readiness with the U.S. and
others, he said.  The Syrian president inherited power in 2000 from his
father, Hafez al-Assad, a Soviet ally who ruled for three
decades and received weapons and financial support for the Arab
standoff against  Israel .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  