-- 
‘Twilight’ Collects $42 Million to Remain No. 1 at Theaters

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-11-28T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/-twilight-saga-collects-42-million-to-maintain-weekend-box-office-lead.html
“The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn
Part 1,” the fourth film in the teen vampire series, held the
top spot in U.S. and Canadian cinemas over the Thanksgiving
holiday weekend, collecting $42 million in ticket sales.  “The Muppets,”  Walt Disney Co.’s (DIS)  film featuring the
children’s characters created by Jim Henson, opened in second
place with ticket sales of $29.5 million,  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Sony Corp.’s 
three-dimensional animated feature “Arthur Christmas,” another
children’s film, opened fourth with sales of $12.7 million.  Three family films, including Martin Scorsese’s 3-D tale
“Hugo” from  Viacom Inc.’s (VIA)  Paramount Pictures, vied for the
weekend market for children’s fare, letting Summit Entertainment
LLC’s “Twilight” cruise to a second win. The film about
vampire Edward Cullen and his not-undead girlfriend Bella Swan
has taken in $221.3 million in  North America  since its Nov. 18
release, according to Hollywood.com.  “We have seen ‘Twilight’ do well amid family audience
cannibalization,” said Phil Contrino, editor of Boxoffice.com,
in a telephone interview from New York. “The release of three
family movies together'' forced the titles to compete with
each other in the same market, curbing sales, he said.  Five-day sales for the Thanksgiving weekend came to $220.4
million, according to Hollywood.com. That compares with the
record $273 million set in 2009, when “The Twilight Saga: New
Moon” led the box office.  ‘The Muppets’  The “Twilight” series, based on the books by  Stephenie Meyer , is scheduled to end a year from now with “Breaking Dawn
Part 2.” The first three movies in the series have had
 worldwide sales  of $1.8 billion, according to Box Office Mojo.  In “Breaking Dawn Part I,” Bella, played by  Kristen
Stewart , marries Edward, portrayed by  Robert Pattinson . She
becomes pregnant and is targeted for death by werewolves.  Taylor Lautner  returns to co-star as  Jacob Black , whose unrequited love
for Bella is tested by his commitment to his werewolf clan.  In “The Muppets,” three fans learn that an oil man wants
to drill under the characters’ old theater. They seek out the
former stars Kermit the frog, Miss Piggy and Gonzo, now leading
separate lives. Steve Whitmire, Eric Jacobson and Dave Goelz
provide the three main Muppet voices, respectively. The film
also features  Jason Segel , Amy Adams and  Chris Cooper .  Finishing third was “Happy Feet Two,” an animated
comedy from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. studio, with $13.4
million. The film features the tap-dancing penguin Mumble, who
is vexed by his son Erik’s lack of rhythm. It features the
voices of Elijah Wood,  Robin Williams ,  Brad Pitt  and  Matt Damon .  ‘Hugo’  “Arthur Christmas,” which was fourth, explains to curious
kids how Santa Claus manages to get all those presents delivered
every year in a single day. The film exposes Santa’s high-tech
operation hidden beneath the  North Pole , while telling the story
of a family in a state of comic dysfunction, according to a Sony
summary of the picture.  The picture features the voices of  James McAvoy  as Arthur
and Hugh Laurie as Steve.  Laura Linney , Bill Nighy, Eva Longoria
and Michael Palin also have roles.  “Hugo,” which opened in fifth place, is Oscar winner
Scorsese’s first 3-D family film. It tells the story of a boy,
played by Asa Butterfield, who lives a secret life in the walls
and clock tower of a Paris train station. Based on the book by
Brian Selznick, it is also a tribute to silent film pioneer
Georges Melies, played by  Ben Kingsley , who runs a toy kiosk at
the station.  Receipts Decline  With the highest per-theater average ($8,888) among the new
films, “Hugo” has “the chance of breaking out and
distinguishing itself in the weeks to come,” said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box office division of
Hollywood.com.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 8.39 percent to
$156.7 million from the-year earlier period, Hollywood.com
said. Domestic box-office receipts this year have declined 3.66
percent to $9.36 billion. Attendance is down 4.51 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Nov.
25 and Nov. 26 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  