-- 
Newspaper Backing Could Aid Gingrich in New Hampshire Primary

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-11-28T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/manchester-union-leader-endorses-gingrich-for-president-in-romney-rebuff.html
Newt Gingrich  got a potential boost
to his Republican presidential primary campaign in New Hampshire
by winning the endorsement of the Union Leader newspaper, six
weeks before the Jan. 10 primary.  “We are in critical need of the innovative, forward-
looking strategy and positive leadership that Gingrich has shown
he is capable of providing,” New Hampshire’s largest newspaper
 said  in its endorsement.  “He did so with the Contract with America,” the
endorsement said. “He did it in bringing in the first
Republican House in 40 years and by forging balanced budgets and
even a surplus despite the political challenge of dealing with a
Democratic president. A lot of candidates say they’re going to
improve  Washington . Newt Gingrich has actually done that, and in
this race he offers the best shot of doing it again.”  Gingrich, 68, the former U.S. House speaker from  Georgia ,
has been gaining in state and national polls in recent weeks,
even as he has yet to build much of a campaign apparatus.  Four years ago, the paper endorsed  John McCain . The U.S.
senator from  Arizona  went on to win the New Hampshire primary
and later the Republican nomination for president.  Mixed Record  Still, the Union Leader has a mixed record on picking
winners in the state’s primary.  In 2000, it endorsed Republican  Steve Forbes . He finished
third in the state’s primary.  The paper backed  Ronald Reagan  in 1980, the year he won the
presidency. It also endorsed Reagan in 1976, when he lost the
primary contest and the nomination to  Gerald Ford .  It also supported Patrick Buchanan in 1992 and 1996. He
failed to win the state’s primary in 1992 and won it in 1996.  “I think it reflects, more than anything else, the
fluidity, the unpredictability of the race right now,” said
Republican candidate Jon Huntsman, a former governor of Utah, on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “A month ago for Newt Gingrich
to have been in the running to capture the Manchester Union
Leader endorsement would have been unthinkable.”  Bloomberg Poll  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, 64, was the
preferred choice of 40 percent of likely  New Hampshire  primary
voters in a  Bloomberg News poll  conducted Nov. 10-12.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  placed second at 17 percent,
while Gingrich was at 11 percent. All the other candidates,
including Huntsman, registered below 10 percent.  Andrew Cline, the newspaper’s editorial page editor, said
in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union” yesterday that
it was a “false assumption” that Romney would be more
electable than Gingrich next year.  “Romney is a very play-it-safe candidate,” Cline said.
“He wants to be liked,” he said, adding, “Imagine what that
would be like as president.”  The New Hampshire primary will be held one week after the
Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses. The two contests traditionally start the
nomination process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  