-- 
Arab League Imposes Sanctions on Syria as Eight-Month Crackdown Persists

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 
2011-11-28T08:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/arab-league-imposes-sanctions-on-syria-including-asset-freeze-travel-ban.html
The  Arab League  imposed
unprecedented sanctions on Syria, including a freeze on
financial assets in Arab countries and a travel ban on senior
officials, after it failed to stop its crackdown on protesters.  The measures also will halt dealings with the Syrian
central bank, Qatari Prime Minister  Sheikh Hamad  Bin Jasim Bin Jaber Al Thani told reporters yesterday in Cairo. The Arab
League banned financial transactions and trade with the Syrian
government, excluding basic commodities, he said. The measures
were imposed after Syria refused to admit Arab observers.  President Bashar al-Assad, 46, is under economic and
political pressure to end an eight-month crackdown against
demonstrators, inspired by popular movements that toppled
leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . The violence has moved the
country closer to a civil war as military personnel defect and
take up arms against the government.  “Sanctions may put more pressure on Assad, but he will
continue his current crackdown as is unless something really big
happens,”  Paul Sullivan , a political scientist specializing in
Middle East security at  Georgetown University  in  Washington ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It has all the
indications of a fall into civil war.”  The United Nations estimates that at least 3,500 people
have been killed since the start of the protests in mid-March.
Thirty-one people were killed by security forces yesterday, al-
Jazeera television reported, citing activists. Syrian soldiers
opened fire on a family as they tried to enter Jordan late
yesterday, the  Jordan Times  reported today, citing Rakan Majali,
Jordan’s minister for media affairs.  Iraq, Lebanon Abstain  The economic sanctions are the first the Arab League has
imposed on a member state since its formation in 1945. In 1979,
the league suspended  Egypt ’s membership after President Anwar Sadat signed a peace agreement with  Israel . It reinstated the
North African nation in 1989.  Syrian neighbors Iraq and Lebanon abstained from voting on
yesterday’s decision. The sanctions were drafted to target
Syrian officials and aren’t intended to hurt the Syrian people,
Sheikh Hamad said.  The opposition Syrian National Council posted a statement
on its Facebook page calling the sanctions “a defeat for the
Syrian regime and an important step to isolate it and stop the
supplies that feed its criminal war against peaceful
protesters.”  The imposition of the measures was “unprecedented,”
Syrian state TV said after the decision was announced.  ‘Natural Capitalists’  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters
in Beijing today that “China believes that the Syrian issue
should be solved within the framework of the Arab League” and
didn’t say whether it would go along with the League sanctions.  Assad, who inherited power from his father in 2000, has
moved to ease  Syria ’s economic isolation and encourage foreign
investment. He had encouraged private industry in Syria’s state-
dominated economy to provide long-term financing for development
and economic reforms.  “Syria is a trading nation and they are natural
capitalists,”  Andrew Tabler , a Syria analyst at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in response to e-mailed
questions. “The businessmen in that country will never tolerate
being cut off to such a degree. This move will get the business
elite off the fence and against the regime.”  ‘Financial Risks’  Syria’s $60 billion economy, which expanded 5.5 percent in
2010, may shrink 2 percent this year, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , a Saudi lender part-owned by Credit
Agricole SA, said on Nov. 26 that it will sell its 27 percent
stake in bank Bemo Saudi Fransi Syria, citing “the financial
risks” in the country.  The Arab League suspended Syria, a founding member, for its
handling of the unrest about two weeks ago. It was the boldest
action by the organization since its condemnation of Muammar Qaddafi’s repression of protests paved the way for the  United
Nations  resolution in March authorizing a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization campaign that ended after Qaddafi’s death.  Sectarian divisions in Syria, where the Alawite minority
has ruled over a Sunni Muslim majority since the Assad dynasty
took power in 1970, have come to underlie political tensions in
the country. In 1982, Assad’s father crushed a rebellion led by
Sunni militants in the city of Hama, killing at least 10,000
people according to estimates cited by  Human Rights Watch .  “The Arab League also sees real trouble if Syria falls
into a full civil war,” Sullivan said. “The closeness of
Assad’s regime to  Iran , and Iran’s support of them during this
brutal time in Syria, worry and irritate many Sunni leaders in
the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Dubai at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew J.
Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  