-- 
Haut-Brion 1945 Vintage Tops $334 Million Auction

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-11-29T08:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/haut-brion-1945-vintage-leads-334-million-christie-s-auction.html
A lot containing 14 bottles of
 Chateau Haut-Brion  together with a bespoke console by London-
based furniture maker David Linley fetched HK$1.2 million
($153,984) at a  Christie’s International  wine sale.  The package, in which all bottles were shipped direct from
the cellars of the Bordeaux winemaker, included a rare 1945
vintage and bottles from 1959 and 1961. A lot also containing a
Linley console and 14 bottles of Haut-Brion white sold for
HK$1.1 million.  The two lots, both of which carried presale estimates of
HK$1 million to HK$2 million, were welcome highlights to an
otherwise lackluster two-day sale that saw many lots of Chateau
Lafite Rothschild go unsold.  “The bidding wasn’t as keen as I expected, so I got
lucky,” said Paul Dunn, a Hong Kong-based collector who bought
both top lots. “Plus Haut-Brion generously donated the proceeds
to the Children’s Medical Fund which added a whole lot of
meaning to the lots, so I decided to go for it.”  The three-day wine sale that ended today raised HK$64.7
million, compared with a presale low estimate of HK$60 million.
About 16 percent of the lots failed to sell.  Christie’s six-day sale also includes Chinese ceramics,
jewelry and watches and is estimated by the London-based auction
house to raise as much as HK$2.6 billion ($334 million).  Burgundy Demand  While some Bordeaux sales flagged, demand for Burgundy
remained strong. The  Liv-Ex 50 Fine Wine Index,  which tracks
Bordeaux first growths, has fallen 18 percent since June. Less
expensive Bordeaux second growths have fared better recently.  The third-most-expensive lot was a case of 12 bottles of
 Romanee-Conti  Domaine de la Romanee Conti 1985 that sold for
HK$1.2 million, almost reaching its presale high estimate of
HK$1.3 million. Romanee Conti accounted for seven of the top 10
wine lots sold.  Caution was also the watchword at Christie’s evening sale
of Asian 20th-century and contemporary art, with works by
Chinese painters  Zhang Xiaogang  and Zeng Fanzhi unsold.
Christie’s raised HK$397 million ($51 million), with just 42 out
of 57 lots finding buyers.  “It’s a price-aware market,” said Jonathan Stone,
Christie’s chairman and international head of Asian art. “There
were strong moments and less strong moments.”  Bonhams Snuff  Across town, a world record amount of HK$25.3 million was
paid for an 18th-century Qianlong era Chinese snuff bottle at a
Bonhams auction today.  The decision by Christie’s to combine Southeast Asian,
Korean and Japanese art together with Chinese for the first time
was justified by the extent of cross-cultural bidding from
different regions, said Eric Chang, international director of
Asian 20th-Century and Contemporary Art.  The two-day sale, which included works from a private
collection on Saturday night and a day sale yesterday, raised a
combined HK$704.7 million compared with a presale estimate of
HK$540 million.  The top-selling lot was an oil by 20th-century abstract
Chinese painter Zao Wou-ki, which sold for HK$35.38 million,
more than double its presale high estimate of HK$15 million.  Pascal de Sarthe, a Hong Kong-based art dealer, said he
bought the painting for a client who was prepared to pay far
more.  “Buyers were more cautious,” he said. “Tonight was a
very lucky spot for me.”  Masriadi Star  Indonesian star Nyoman Masriadi fared better than many
contemporary Chinese artists. His painting showing a parody of
movie hero Indiana Jones carrying a giant diamond sold for
HK$3.38 million, more than its HK$3.2 million top estimate.  While  London  and  New York  events typically are headlined by
paintings, a highlight of  Hong Kong  is the auction of Chinese
antiques. On Nov. 30, this includes a 15th-century Ming dynasty
blue-and-white porcelain moonflask and a Qianlong-era white jade
vase and cover that both have high estimates of HK$35 million.  The day before, Christie’s will offer two unmounted
diamonds each weighing more than 35 carats as separate lots,
carrying high estimates of HK$80 million apiece.  Christie’s also is displaying a collection of jewelry at
the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre venue that
belonged to actress  Elizabeth Taylor . The pieces will go on sale
in New York on Dec. 13-14, including a necklace with a 50-carat
pearl given to her in 1969 by  Richard Burton  that once belonged
to  Spain ’s King Phillip II.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 