-- 
Cain Says ‘False’ Claims, Policy Confusion Caused Slip in Poll

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-11-28T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/cain-blames-false-accusations-along-with-policy-confusion-for-poll-slip.html
Businessman Herman Cain blamed
“false accusations” and “confusion” about his positions on
abortion and foreign policy for his drop in polls in the race
for the Republican presidential nomination.  “I’ve been real clear” on policy questions, Cain said
yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the Union” program. “But a lot
of confusion has been thrown my way and that’s part of the --
part of politics, as they say.”  Cain, the 65-year-old former Godfather’s Pizza chairman
once viewed as a front-runner, slipped to third place in a
national Republican presidential poll last week by  Quinnipiac
University . The poll showed Cain with 14 percent of the vote,
trailing former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  Cain’s videotaped stumble over a question about  Libya  went
viral on the Internet, and he faced allegations that he sexually
harassed women while serving as head of the National Restaurant
Association in the late 1990s. Cain has denied all the
accusations as baseless.  Republican candidate  Jon Huntsman , 51, acknowledging
himself an “underdog” in the New Hampshire primary, said on
“Fox News Sunday” that he thinks people are “finally” giving
his candidacy a first look there. “I like our position,” he
said.  Cain and several members of Congress also debated the
prospects of an extension of a federal payroll tax cut, due to
expire at the end of this year.  ‘Out of Context’  Cain said his statements about abortion during an Oct. 19
CNN interview had been “taken out of context.”  During that interview, he said some abortion-related
decisions should be made by families. “Whatever they decide,
they decide,” he said in the interview. “The government
shouldn’t be trying to tell people everything to do, especially
when it comes to social decisions.”  Yesterday, he said he “absolutely” believes abortion
should be illegal and that his discussion of a “highly
hypothetical situation” was taken out of context. Still, he
said he had made a “poor choice of words in retrospect.”  Cain also said he has been “real clear about how I
disagree with President  Barack Obama  on the drawdown of troops
in Afghanistan and  Iraq .”  “In terms of the mechanics of the campaign, nothing has
gone wrong,” Cain said, though he added, “some people are
heavily influenced by perception more so than reality.”  The U.S. payroll tax cut is set to expire on Dec. 31, and
Senate leaders have said that chamber may vote on an extension
of the cut this week.  Job Creation   “The payroll tax holiday has not stimulated job
creation,” Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, said on the
“Fox News Sunday” program. “We don’t think that is a good way
to do it.”  Senator  Pat Toomey , a Pennsylvania Republican who, like
Kyl, was a member of the congressional supercommittee that
failed to come up with a deficit-cutting plan last week, spoke
more optimistically on ABC’s “This Week.”  “We’ll take that up, and I think probably some package of
that with other features might very well pass,” Toomey said.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Senate Democrat,
said on “Fox News Sunday” that the payroll tax cut for
“working families” should be extended “by imposing a slight
increase on the taxes of the wealthiest people.”  Social Security Tax  The Social Security portion of payroll taxes, which will be
levied on the first $110,100 of income in 2012, is split between
employees and employers. Each side pays 6.2 percent of wages.
For 2011, the Social Security payroll tax for employees was
lowered to 4.2 percent. A worker earning $50,000 a year who is
paid biweekly has been saving $38.46 in each paycheck.  At a minimum, Obama wants to see the current  tax cut  for
employees extended for 2012. He also has called on Congress to
reduce the payroll levy to 3.1 percent for employees and
employers.  Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, said, “It’s
hard to believe Republicans would oppose” a payroll tax
holiday, which “would give middle class families about a
thousand dollars extra in their pockets,” while they are
pushing cuts for the wealthy.  Speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Schumer said that if
Republicans want to discuss options on how to pay for the break,
Democrats would be open to hearing their ideas.  Jobless Benefits  In addition to the payroll tax cut, lawmakers must decide
whether to extend expanded unemployment benefits and a package
of miscellaneous tax breaks that also expire at the end of the
year.  Cain said he could support extending the payroll tax cut,
though he also said it hadn’t done “any good” so far and was a
“thimble of water in the ocean” in terms of improving the  U.S.
economy .  The Republican candidate said he opposed extending long-
term unemployment benefits, also due to expire. “It’s
unfortunate that people are unemployed,” he said, adding that a
better way to put “fuel in the engine” would be to cut
individual and corporate income tax rates.  With the  unemployment rate  stuck at 9 percent, income gains
have been slowing as Americans pulled back on spending in
October. Consumer purchases, which account for 70 percent of the
economy, increased 0.1 percent after a 0.7 percent gain in
September, Commerce Department figures showed.  Gross domestic income, or the money earned by people,
businesses and government agencies, rose at an average annual
rate of 2.8 percent from April through September, down from a
4.3 percent rate in the previous six months, according to the
Commerce Department.  U.S. stocks tumbled last week in the worst Thanksgiving-
week loss for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 1932. The
 S&P 500  slid 4.7 percent to 1,158.67, closing at the lowest
level since Oct. 7. The Dow fell 564.38 points, or 4.8 percent,
to 11,231.78 last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  