-- 
Oil Advances a Second Day on Economic Outlook, Syrian Sanctions

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-11-28T07:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/crude-oil-futures-gain-in-new-york-trading-after-sliding-0-7-last-week.html
Oil rose a second day on bets that
signs of economic growth in the U.S. and steps by  Europe  to tame
its debt crisis will boost fuel demand, while sanctions on Syria
stoked concern  Middle East  crude supplies may be threatened.  Futures rose as much as 2.2 percent in New York after
gaining 0.6 percent on Nov. 25. U.S. retail sales during
Thanksgiving climbed 16 percent to a record. Europe needs treaty
changes to tighten budget discipline and calm markets, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told ARD television in
Berlin yesterday. The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria
after it failed to stop a crackdown on protesters.  “We’re seeing a risk-on session in  Asia ,” Ric Spooner, a
chief analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney, said by telephone today.
“The sanctions cause some people to elevate the risk premium of
supply disruptions.”  Crude oil for January delivery advanced as much as $2.11 to
$98.88 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
and was at $98.71 at 6:21 p.m. Sydney time. It rose 60 cents to
$96.77 on Nov. 25. Prices are 15 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for January settlement climbed 1.5 percent to
$107.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate was at $9.21, compared with $9.63 on Nov. 25
and a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Europe, U.S.  U.S. consumers spent a record $52.4 billion during the
Thanksgiving weekend, according to the National Retail
Federation, citing a survey from BIGresearch.  Treaty change is necessary to give veto power over member-
state budgets to the European Union Commission, Schaeuble said.
Euro-area finance ministers will meet in Brussels tomorrow as
governments bid to regain the confidence of financial markets
after a week in which the sovereign debt crisis worsened.  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of world oil
demand in 2010, according to BP Plc’s annual Statistical Review
of World Energy. The U.S. consumed 19.1 million barrels a day,
or 21 percent of the global total.  The  Arab League ’s unprecedented sanctions on Syria included
a freeze on financial assets in Arab countries and a travel ban
on senior officials. Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad is under
pressure to end an eight-month crackdown against demonstrators.
Oil soared to the highest level in more than two years in May as
unrest in North Africa and the Middle East toppled leaders in
 Libya , where crude production was almost entirely halted,
Tunisia and Egypt.  Libya, Mexico  Libyan output now exceeds 750,000 barrels a day, and the
country’s second-biggest refinery is operating at full capacity,
the state-run National Oil Corp. said on its website yesterday.
Output slipped to 45,000 barrels daily from about 1.6 million
after the revolt against the former regime of Muammar Qaddafi.  Prices also rose after  Mexico  shut its three largest oil-
export terminals because of adverse weather. Petroleos
Mexicanos, Latin America’s largest crude producer, closed Cayo
Arcas, Coatzacoalcos and  Dos Bocas  in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
Mexico’s Merchant Marine said yesterday in its daily weather
bulletin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  