-- Egypt Election 2012: Facts and Figures for Presidential Vote
-- B y   D i g b y   L i d s t o n e
-- 2012-05-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/egypt-election-2011-facts-and-figures-for-parliamentary-vote.html
Egyptians begin voting today in the
first presidential election since the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in February last year.  Thirteen candidates are standing for office, including
former  Arab League  chief Amre Moussa, Islamist candidate Abdel Moneim Aboul-Fotouh, Mohammed Mursi of the Muslim Brotherhood
and Ahmed Shafik, who served as prime minister in the last days
of Mubarak’s government.  Following is a guide to the poll with background on the
leading candidates.  Timetable: The first round of voting is held over two days.
If no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the vote, as is
expected, a two-day run-off will be held starting June 16.
Egyptians abroad began voting via their embassies on May 11.
Final results are due on June 21. Egypt’s  stock exchange  and
government-owned businesses will remain open during the
election.  Eligibility: Voters must be 18 or over. Members of the
armed forces, convicted criminals, those who’ve been declared
bankrupt and people in the care of mental health institutions
aren’t allowed to vote. More than 50 million Egyptians are
eligible, according to state media.  Supervision: The elections commission supervises all
aspects of the poll, from registration of voters and candidates
to the counting of ballots. The ruling military council has said
52 local and international organizations have been permitted to
“attend” the elections, and it will deploy at least 150,000
troops and 11,000 vehicles around the country to ensure
security.  What’s at stake: Egypt has been without a president and
under the control of the armed forces since Mubarak was kicked
out of office in February last year. While the country has
already held parliamentary elections, in which Islamist groups
led by the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom & Justice Party gained a
majority, the body has been at loggerheads with the interim
Cabinet appointed by the ruling generals.  Security and the economy are the main issues dominating the
political debate. The unrest of the past year has crippled
tourism and foreign investment, two of the country’s main
sources of revenue, while the country has endured the worst
economic slowdown in a least a decade. International reserves
have been reduced by more than a half. While  Egypt  is seeking a
$3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  as part
of efforts to boost growth, talks with the fund have yet to
conclude amid wrangling between the government and parliament.  With a new constitution not yet written, it is unclear what
powers the new president will have. While the ruling military
council has said it will transfer authority to a civilian
government after the vote, it still controls large sections of
the economy and will continue to retain political influence.  Candidates: A weekly opinion poll by the semi-official
Ahram Center for Strategic and Political Studies has put Moussa
in first place. Other surveys have given the top spot to Aboul-
Fotouh or to Shafik.  Amre Moussa , 75, served as foreign minister as well as
secretary-general of the Arab League and has touted his
international experience and contacts as an advantage in
securing oversees aid. Portrayed by Islamists as a member of the
wealthy elite and a “remnant” of the Mubarak regime, Moussa
has pitched himself as the only experienced statesman among the
contenders and vowed to “immediately employ” his contacts to
plug the country’s financing gap. He has also pledged to boost
public spending to lower the highest  unemployment rate  in at
least two decades.  Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh, 60, was expelled from the Muslim
Brotherhood after announcing last year that he planned to run
for office, defying a decision by the group’s leadership. A
physician by training, his campaign has attracted broad support
from secular activists and Islamists alike, including the
unexpected backing of an ultraconservative Salafi group. Aboul-
Fotouh served prison terms in the Mubarak era and his campaign
highlights his dissident background and support for last year’s
uprising. In 2007, he defied the Brotherhood’s official line by
backing the right of women and Egypt’s minority Coptic
Christians to compete for the presidency. His policies include a
shift in taxes to favor the poor.  Mohamed Mursi, 60, is an engineer by training and became
the Muslim Brotherhood’s official candidate after the elections
commission disqualified the Brotherhood’s main nominee, Khairaat
el-Shater. Running on a conservative ticket, he failed to get
the backing of a main Salafi group that makes up the second
largest bloc in parliament. On the other hand, the Brotherhood’s
ability to mobilize supporters may prove to be an asset and he
has risen in opinion polls in recent weeks.  Ahmed Shafik, 70, served as prime minister in the dying
days of the Mubarak regime. While this may alienate supporters
of the popular uprising last year, he has run on a law-and order
platform which may appeal to Egyptians frustrated by insecurity
and the bickering between members of the Islamist-dominated
parliament and the interim government.  Hamdeen Sabahy, 57, is leader of the nationalist Karama, or
Dignity, party, and is running as an independent. An avowedly
Nasserist politician, his background in the opposition may
endear him to younger voters who took part in last year’s anti-
Mubarak uprising.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Digby Lidstone in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 