-- 
Jets Beat Bills 28-24 as Patriots, Steelers, Texans Win in NFL’s Week 12

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-11-28T06:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/new-york-jets-beat-buffalo-bills-28-24-to-end-two-game-losing-run-in-nfl.html
Mark Sanchez threw a career-high
four touchdown passes as the  New York Jets  beat the  Buffalo
Bills  28-24 to end a two-game losing streak and avoid losing
ground in the  National Football League ’s playoff race.  Sanchez and Santonio Holmes connected on a 16-yard
touchdown pass with one minute, nine seconds to play as the Jets
improved their record to 6-5. The Jets are one game behind the
 Cincinnati Bengals  for the final wild card playoff berth in the
American Football Conference and face teams with losing records
in four of their final five regular-season games.  “Any time you win in this league, it’s huge, especially
when you need to win six in a row,” Sanchez told reporters.  The Jets remain two games behind New England in the
American Football Conference’s East Division after the Patriots’
38-20 rout of the Philadelphia Eagles yesterday.  The Bills lost their fourth straight game to fall to 5-6
and into third place behind the Jets in the AFC East.  The Pittsburgh Steelers beat the Kansas City Chiefs 13-9
last night to improve to 8-3 and keep pace with the  Baltimore
Ravens  atop the AFC North. The Ravens beat the  San Francisco
49ers  16-6 four days ago on the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.  At 8-3, the Patriots, Steelers and Ravens are tied with the
Houston Texans for the best record in the AFC. The Texans pushed
their winning streak to five games with a 20-13 victory over the
Jacksonville Jaguars yesterday, although they may have lost
backup quarterback Matt Leinart to a broken collarbone.  “There’s a pretty strong possibility I probably won’t be
coming back this season,” Leinart said.  Texans’ Injuries  Houston, seeking a playoff spot for the first time in
franchise history, previously lost starting quarterback Matt Schaub for the season with a right foot injury and are now left
with T.J. Yates and newly signed Kellen Clemens.  The Bengals recovered from a 17-7 halftime deficit to beat
the Cleveland Browns 23-20 on a last-minute 28-yard field goal.  Cincinnati won for the first time in three games to improve
to 7-4 and stay ahead of the Jets in the AFC playoff race. The
Browns slumped to 4-7 with a fourth consecutive loss.  The AFC West-leading Oakland Raiders (7-4) got six field
goals from Sebastian Janikowski in a 25-20 win over  Chicago  that
halts the Bears’ five-game winning run. Caleb Hanie threw three
interceptions in his first career NFL start in place of the
injured Jay Cutler for Chicago, which fell to 7-4.  The  Denver Broncos  and Tennessee Titans pulled out wins
yesterday to keep pace with the Jets in the AFC at 6-5.  Matt Prater kicked a 37-yard field goal with 29 seconds
left in overtime as the Broncos beat the San Diego Chargers
16-13. The Broncos have won four straight games and five of six
with  Tim Tebow  at quarterback, while the Chargers (4-7) have
lost six games in a row.  Titans Rally  Chris Johnson  ran for season-high 190 yards and  Matt Hasselbeck  threw a 2-yard touchdown pass with 3:01 remaining as
the Titans scored 13 unanswered points in the fourth quarter to
beat the Tampa Bay Buccaneers 23-17. It was the fifth straight
defeat for the Buccaneers (4-7).  The  Indianapolis Colts  are winless through 11 games for the
first time since 1986 following a 27-19 loss against the
 Carolina Panthers , who ended a 12-game losing run on the road to
advance to 3-8 for the season. DeAngelo Williams had two rushing
touchdowns as the Panthers won their first road game since Dec.
27, 2009.  The  Atlanta Falcons  beat Minnesota 24-14 for their fifth
victory in six games as Matt Ryan threw three touchdown passes.
The Falcons held off the Vikings (2-9) after opening a 17-0
halftime lead to improve to 7-4, a half-game behind  New Orleans 
in the National Football Conference’s South division.  Saints Host Giants  The Saints (7-3) host the  New York  Giants tonight to cap
the NFL’s Week 12 schedule. The Giants (6-4) are a half-game
behind first-place Dallas in the NFC East following the Cowboys’
20-19 Thanksgiving Day win over the Miami Dolphins.  The Arizona Cardinals (4-7) won for the third time in four
games, beating the St. Louis Rams 23-20 as Beanie Wells rushed
for a franchise-record 228 yards.  Rookie Patrick Peterson had his fourth punt return
touchdown of the season, tying an NFL record set by Jack
Christiansen in 1951 and matched by Rick Upchurch in 1976 and
Devin Hester four years ago. The Rams fell to 2-9.  The  Washington Redskins  ended a six-game losing streak by
beating the Seattle Seahawks 23-17. The visiting Redskins scored
17 straight fourth-quarter points to improve to 4-7 and hand
Seattle (4-7) its first loss in three games.  The Green Bay Packers improved to 11-0 with a 27-15 win
against the Detroit Lions (7-4) four days ago.  Sanchez Leads Jets  The Jets, coming off losses to  New England  and Denver,
trailed the Bills 24-21 yesterday at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford,  New Jersey , after Dave Rayner kicked a 53-yard field
goal with 9:51 to play. Sanchez then drove the Jets 82 yards for
the go-ahead touchdown and New York’s defense held as Buffalo
quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick’s fourth-down pass fell incomplete
in the end zone on the final play.  “I know we can play better than that,” Sanchez said. “We
don’t need to fight it at the end and grind it out and bite our
nails at the end of the game. That’s not the way we need to
play. We won’t win every game like that.”  In Philadelphia, Benjarvus Green-Ellis and Wes Welker each
scored two touchdowns for the visiting Patriots.  Tom Brady finished with 361 passing yards and three
touchdowns for New England, which topped 30 points for the
eighth time this year and matched its season-high tally set in
an opening-week win over Miami.  The Eagles fell to 4-7, including a 1-5 record at Lincoln
Financial Field, where fans chanted for coach Andy Reid to be
fired during the second half. Philadelphia entered the season
among oddsmakers’  Super Bowl  favorites.  “None of us can predict the future and how things will
go,” Reid said at a news conference. “There are a lot of
different variables there, so you keep fighting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  