-- 
Posco Stainless Steel Production to Reach Record on Emerging Market Demand

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-11-28T06:55:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/posco-stainless-steel-production-to-reach-record-on-emerging-market-demand.html
Posco (005490) , the world’s biggest maker of
stainless steel, will report record production this year, saying
it expects to maintain that pace in 2012 supported by demand
from emerging markets.  Output of the alloy used in cars and home appliances may
reach about 3.16 million metric tons this year, up from about
2.9 million tons in 2010, Suh Young Sea, senior vice president
at the Pohang, South Korea-based company, said in an interview
in  Seoul .  Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker, said last
month it will continue expanding in emerging markets, including
 China  and  India . Stainless-steel producers in  Europe  face
overcapacity, higher raw-material costs and falling prices.  “We are probably the only stainless-steel maker that’s
making profit and running at full capacity under the current
situation,” Suh said in the interview Nov. 25. “We will try to
maintain current output levels next year as well.  Emerging
markets  will still likely show some growth, and we are planning
to increase our share in those markets.”  Global stainless steel output may rise 6.5 percent to 33
million tons this year, Suh said. That compares with U.K.-based
industry consultant MEPS (International) Ltd.’s Nov. 2 forecast
of 32.5 million tons. Demand in China and India, the world’s
most populous nations, is increasing with disposable income.  Europe’s debt crisis remains a “swing factor” in terms of
global demand, Suh said. Posco kept domestic stainless steel
prices steady for December for the third straight month.  Posco rose 3.1 percent, the biggest gain since Nov. 14, to
364,000 won in Seoul trading. Nickel, a key raw material for
stainless steel, climbed 1.8 percent to $17,254 a ton in  London .
Stainless-steel makers are the world’s top users of the metal.  Target Cut  “It’s very difficult to make any forecasts for next year
because there are still uncertainties about the global
economy,” Suh said. “However, we’d like to remain optimistic,
pinning hopes on emerging markets such as China, India and
 Southeast Asia .”  Posco posted a 78 percent decline in third-quarter profit
because of foreign-currency losses and weaker demand. The
company cut its total planned spending for this year to 6
trillion won from 7.3 trillion won.  Stainless steel output in  China , the world’s biggest
producer, rose 6 percent to 3.37 million tons in the first nine
months from a year earlier, the China Iron and Steel Association
said Oct. 21. China’s production may climb 13 percent this year
and 11 percent next year, MEPS said.  In terms of raw-material sourcing, Posco is looking at
“multiple projects” in  Indonesia , including the Sulawesi
region, to secure supply of nickel, a key ingredient, Suh said,
declining to elaborate. The company and its Chinese venture,
Zhangjiagang Pohang Stainless Steel Co., will together seek to
develop a nickel mine in Indonesia, Posco said in June.  Outperformance  “Posco is boosting its self-sufficiency in raw-material
sourcing and also expanding sales bases globally, improving its
profitability structure,” said Kim Gyung Jung, a steel and
metals analyst at Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“Such an expansion strategy will benefit the company in the
longer term as it is a major player with a market share of about
10 percent.”  The stock have fallen 25 percent this year, compared with a
38 percent decline in the 76-member Bloomberg World Iron and
Steel Index.  Posco is the world’s biggest maker of stainless steel based
on 2010 output, followed by China’s Taiyuan Iron & Steel Group
Co., according to the Korean mill. Posco and its units have the
capacity to produce more than 3 million tons of stainless steel
a year and the company is building plants and marketing bases in
China, Vietnam and  Turkey .  The company bought Thainox Stainless Pcl,  Thailand ’s
largest maker of rust-proof steel in October. Thainox has a
capacity of 200,000 tons a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 