-- 
Qantas Surges on Profit Outlook, Bookings Rebound

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-11-28T06:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/qantas-profit-may-slump-66-on-strikes-grounding.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  rose the most in
four weeks in Sydney trading after forecasting profit that beat
analyst estimates and saying bookings rebounded from a shutdown
that stranded 80,000 passengers.  Australia ’s biggest airline gained 3.4 percent to A$1.505
at the close of Sydney trading, the biggest increase since Oct.
31. The stock has fallen 41 percent this year, compared with a
14 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Bookings have recovered from strikes that forced the
Sydney-based company to cancel flights and drove away lucrative
business customers before last month’s grounding, Chief
Executive Officer Alan Joyce said in a phone interview. Qantas
predicted earnings before tax and items of as much as A$190
million ($187 million) for the six months ending Dec. 31, with
the labor dispute costing A$194 million.  “The shares are reacting to knowing the full cost of the
grounding,” said Nachiket Moghe, an analyst at Morningstar Inc.
in Auckland with a “hold” rating on Qantas. “Things are now
much clearer, and there is certainty.”  Joyce grounded most of his fleet on Oct. 29, ahead of a
planned lockout of long-haul pilots, engineers and baggage
handlers, who are campaigning for job-security measures in their
contracts.  New Airline  Qantas’s dispute with workers has intensified since Joyce
announced plans in August to start a new full-service carrier
based in  Southeast Asia . The new airline, which has yet to be
named, is part of his strategy to turn around A$200 million of
annual losses from international operations.  Plans for the new carrier may be shelved in favor of
stronger cooperation with  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , the
Australian Financial Review reported today, citing unidentified
people familiar with Qantas’s plans.  The report is “speculation,” no decision has been made
and Qantas remains in talks to start the business in Malaysia or
 Singapore , Luke Enright, a spokesman for the carrier, said by
phone today.  The Oct. 29 grounding triggered intervention by the
government, which sought an end to the dispute and resumption of
negotiations. Fair Work Australia, the nation’s labor regulator,
is now holding arbitration between Qantas and its three unions
after those talks failed.  Qantas said  strike action  before the lockout cost A$68
million. There was also a A$70 million cost from the grounding
that started Oct. 29, including lost revenue, refunds and
accommodation for stranded passengers. The carrier lost bookings
worth A$27 million from the union action and is now spending
A$29 million to win back customers.  ‘Normal Levels’  The cost of not forcing an end to the dispute with unions
would have risen to A$85 million a month, Joyce said.  Bookings on domestic routes, where Qantas has about two-
thirds of the market and almost 90 percent of lucrative
corporate travel, had returned to “normal levels,” the company
said.  “There was a question mark about whether the business
market would come back, but this shows how resilient the Qantas
brand is,” Joyce said in the interview. “We are seeing a very
positive reaction from the CEOs of our major customers.”  The airline had a profit before tax and items of A$417
million in the six months ended Dec. 31.  Qantas will increase capacity by between 4 percent and 6
percent in the six months ending Dec. 31 from a year earlier.
Yield, a measure of the price paid by travelers, will be between
3 percent and 5 percent higher, according to Qantas.  The airline expects fuel costs for the half to rise to
about A$2.2 billion from A$1.7 billion a year earlier on  higher
prices  and more passenger traffic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  