-- 
Schaeuble Says Euro Fund Needs More Work to Reverse ‘Crisis of Confidence’

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-11-28T08:57:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-27/schaeuble-is-confident-euro-can-be-saved-as-eu-considers-treaty-changes.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that European governments are struggling to enact
a pledge to beef up the euro rescue fund, as he called for fast-
track treaty changes to tighten budget discipline as the key to
calming markets.  The European Financial Stability Facility recently paid a
higher rate of interest on debt than  France  or the other AAA
rated countries that guarantee the EFSF, underscoring the
“crisis of confidence” in the euro area, Schaeuble said in an
interview with ARD television in Berlin. The “decisive” answer
remains budget discipline enforced by means of European Union
treaty change, he said.  Treaty change is necessary to give veto power over member-
state budgets to the EU Commission, Schaeuble said in the
interview broadcast late yesterday. “We can do that quickly and
this will send an important signal to markets that the euro is
and remains a stable currency,” he said.  Euro-area finance ministers will meet in Brussels tomorrow
as governments bid to regain the confidence of financial markets
after a week in which the euro-area sovereign debt crisis
worsened. Under guidelines to be considered by finance chiefs,
the EFSF may insure bonds of troubled countries with guarantees
of between 20 percent and 30 percent of each issue to be
determined in light of market circumstances, a draft shows.  Moody’s Warning  Moody’s Investors Service said the “rapid escalation” of
 Europe ’s debt and banking crisis is threatening all the region’s
sovereign-bond ratings, and the probability of multiple defaults
by euro-area countries is no longer negligible.  Schaeuble again ruled out joint euro-area bonds or
deploying the  European Central Bank  to fight the crisis, saying
such a debate is conducted in “those countries that have to
sort out their budget problems and chose to misunderstand that
they have to make more efforts.”  “We must together set up institutions that secure trust in
the euro,” he said. “Everything that detracts from that is
damaging.”  Schaeuble’s comments clash with French Budget Minister
Valerie Pecresse, who suggested that more help from the ECB may
be forthcoming if euro countries implement tougher budget rules.  “Countries need to make a complete commitment to cutting
their debt levels and increasing budgetary convergence,”
Pecresse said yesterday on France’s Canal Plus television.
“Then European institutions will be able to play their full
role. That goes for the commission, the council and also for the
ECB.”  Overhauling Treaties  Pecresse, who is also a spokeswoman for the French
government, said that fellow administrations are working on
“re-making the European treaties,” with the aim of creating
“new governance for the euro zone, a real regulator and real
sanctions to bolster confidence” in the euro.  The euro rose today amid optimism that Europeans will step
up efforts to end the crisis, advancing 0.5 percent to $1.3300
at 9:14 a.m. in  Frankfurt . A report by La Stampa newspaper that
the  International Monetary Fund  is preparing aid of as much as
600 billion euros ($799 billion) for Italy in case that nation’s
funding woes worsen appeared “wide of the mark,” said Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co.  IMF Resources  “The IMF simply does not have the resources,” New York-
based Chandler wrote in a note to clients. The Washington-based
lender had committed $282 billion in loans as of mid-August,
compared with member quotas of $383 billion and additional
pledged or committed resources of about $600 billion, IMF data
show.  Asked about newspaper reports that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  are planning a fast-
track stability pact to stem the crisis, Schaeuble said the
government was “making efforts to convince the European
Parliament that we can make such a treaty change without
summoning to a convention” of representatives from each EU
country to deliberate the matter.  “We need only change so-called protocol 14 of the Lisbon
Treaty -- that is for the members of the single currency to
create their own stability union,” Schaeuble said. “We must
together set up institutions that secure trust in the euro,” he
said. “Everything that detracts from that is damaging.”  Fiscal Discipline  Germany  and France would start a coalition of  euro-zone 
members that would commit to greater fiscal discipline without
waiting to change EU treaties, German newspaper Welt am Sonntag
reported at the weekend. The project, similar in form to the
Schengen agreement that regulates passport-free cross-border
travel, may be announced this week, the newspaper said, citing
unidentified people close to the government.  The deal, which could be implemented by the start of 2012,
would also expect the ECB to take a stronger role as the euro-
area’s crisis-fighter, Welt am Sonntag said.  Schaeuble’s ministry denied a separate report in today’s
Die Welt newspaper that Germany, France and four other AAA rated
euro nations planned to issue joint bonds.  Bond markets in the euro area “are not functioning
normally,” Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said at a
forum in  Tokyo  today. He told reporters that markets have
forgotten  Italy ’s strengths, including a strong industrial base.
Noyer declined to comment on possible IMF talks with Italy.  While the euro area will probably survive “without further
widespread defaults,” policy makers may need even more pressure
from investors to come up with a plan that ends the crisis,
Moody’s said today.  Barring major policy initiatives, “the point is likely to
be reached where the overall architecture of Moody’s ratings
within the euro area, and possibly elsewhere within the EU, will
need to be revisited,” the ratings company said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  