-- ‘Amour’ by Haneke Wins Cannes Festival’s Palme D’Or Award
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/-amour-by-haneke-wins-cannes-festival-s-palme-d-or-award-1-.html
The  Cannes Film Festival  ended last
night with a victory for “Love” (“Amour”) by Michael Haneke,
the story of an elderly woman who suffers a debilitating stroke
and is looked after by her devoted husband.  It was the second Palme d’Or for  Austria ’s Haneke, who won
in 2009 for “The White Ribbon.” He joins a list of only a
half-dozen other two-time winners including  Francis Ford Coppola .  During the televised awards ceremony, Haneke invited his
two lead actors -- Jean-Louis Trintignant (star of the 1966 “A
Man and a Woman”) and Emmanuelle Riva (who was in the 1959
“Hiroshima My Love”) -- on stage. In the movie, she makes him
promise never to take her back to the hospital.  “I thank my wife, who has been putting up with me for 30
years,” said the white-haired, white-bearded Haneke. “This
film is an illustration of the promise we made to each other in
case one of us was to experience a situation like the one in the
film.”  Though there were five U.S. contenders out of the 22 vying
for the Palme d’Or, none of them won anything. All but one of
the awards went to European movies.  The runner-up Grand Prix was garnered by “Reality,”
directed by Italy’s Matteo Garrone, about a Naples fishmonger
who becomes obsessed with a reality show he auditions for. The
film’s lead actor, Aniello Arena, is a prisoner in real life,
and part of a theater troupe.  Angels’ Share  The Jury Prize went to the U.K.’s Ken Loach (winner of the
2006 Palme d’Or with “The Wind That Shakes the Barley”). His
2012 “The Angels’ Share” is a feel-good film about a young
offender who lifts himself out of delinquency by discovering a
vocation in aged whiskey.  Steering this year’s nine-person jury was Italian director
Nanni Moretti (“Dear Diary”). His panelists included actor
Ewan McGregor and couturier Jean-Paul Gaultier, who turned up to
the awards ceremony in an ankle-length skirt with a slit.  Their Palme d’Or pick, “Amour,” opens with the eighty-
something lovebirds, both retired music teachers, attending a
piano recital in Paris. When they return home, he helps her out
of her coat, and compliments her on her beauty.  The next morning, they sit down to breakfast in their
dressing gowns and talk about stepping out to buy the pianist’s
CD. Suddenly Anne blanks out: Her eyes are wide open, but she
seems unable to see or hear anything, and doesn’t react to the
faucet that he leaves running in a panic.  By the next scene, Anne is back from hospital and paralyzed
on one side. She has suffered a stroke, and a post-stroke
operation has backfired. She makes Georges promise to keep her
home.  Dance Embrace  Georges becomes her full-time carer, cutting up her food
into little mouthfuls, brushing her hair and helping her do her
leg exercises. As he lifts her out of her wheelchair in one
scene, they embrace in a touchingly still dance.  Haneke films every scene like life itself, virtually in
real time. The only interruptions occur during visits from their
neurotic daughter (Isabelle Huppert), who discusses her husband
and real-estate investments, and when the cleaner vacuums.  Beautiful yet harrowing to watch, “Amour” is a rare
instance of a movie camera settling on elderly, wrinkled faces.
Haneke is unsparing yet affectionate in his handling of the
subject matter.  Cannes this year featured the worst weather in recent
memory. It rained for much of the festival, including for the
closing-night ceremony, forcing participants to go around,
unusually, carrying umbrellas.  Pitt, Kidman  There were plenty of  Hollywood stars  gracing the red
carpet, including  Brad Pitt ,  Nicole Kidman ,  Bruce Willis  and
 Matthew McConaughey .  Kylie Minogue , who had a cameo in the weird
French movie “Holy Motors” (by Leos Carax), got photographers
working overtime. So did  Robert Pattinson , the “Twilight”
actor who starred in “Cosmopolis” by  David Cronenberg .  It was a breakthrough festival for a string of talented
male actors in tough-guy parts. Matthias Schoenaerts played a
bouncer-boxer who meets a killer-whale trainer in “Rust &
Bone” starring  Marion Cotillard .  Tom Hardy  was excellent as the fearless Virginia bootlegger
in “Lawless” with  Shia LaBeouf . And Garrett Hedlund stood out
in Walter Salles’s otherwise lackluster adaptation of Jack Kerouac’s classic coming-of-age novel “On the Road.”  The best-actor prize evaded them all. It went to Mads Mikkelsen for the Danish movie “The Hunt,” directed by Thomas Vinterberg, the story of a teacher wrongly accused of
pedophilia.  The Romanian title “Beyond the Hills,” directed by
Cristian Mungiu, took the best-script award, while its two leads
Cristina Flutur and Cosmina Stratan shared the best-actress
honor.  This year’s festival was the 65th of its kind. The first
one took place in 1946, a year after World War II ended. Among
the event’s earliest award winners were directors  Orson Welles ,
 Luis Bunuel ,  Ingmar Bergman  and Satyajit Ray.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include: Warwick Thompson on London
 theater , Jorg von Uthmann on Paris  arts , Frederik Balfour on
Hong Kong  auctions  and  Greg Evans  on U.S.  television .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 