-- Lagarde Expresses Sympathy for Greece, Says Rich Must Pay Taxes
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-05-27T14:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/lagarde-expresses-sympathy-for-greece-says-rich-must-pay-taxes.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said she was sensitive to the plight
facing Greece, while reiterating that the wealthy must pay their
fair share of taxes.  The comments, posted on Facebook, came a day after Lagarde
said in an interview with the  Guardian newspaper  that children
in  Africa  needed more help than the Greeks and that many in the
country were “trying to escape tax all the time.” The posting
generated more than 8,300 comments, including hundreds written
in the Greek language.  “As I have said many times before, I am very sympathetic
to the Greek people and the challenges they are facing,”
Lagarde wrote on the social networking site. “That’s why the
IMF is supporting  Greece  in its endeavor to overcome the current
crisis and return to the path of economic growth, jobs and
stability. An important part of this effort is that everyone
should carry their fair share of the burden, especially the most
privileged and especially in terms of paying their taxes.”  The prospect of Greece leaving the 17-nation euro region
increased after parties opposed to the terms of the nation’s
second bailout by the European Union and the IMF won most of the
votes in May 6 elections. A fresh round of voting will be held
June 17. The once-taboo issue of a Greek withdrawal from the 17-
nation currency union entered into public debate this month,
even as EU forecasts showed the country’s economy will contract
by a further 4.7 percent in 2013.  ‘Simplistic’ Comments  Lagarde, who was finance minister under the ousted
conservative President  Nicolas Sarkozy , also came under attack
from the spokeswoman of the country’s new Socialist government,
Najat Vallaud-Belkacem.  “I think the comments were simplistic and stereotypical,”
Vallaud-Belkacem said in an interview on Canal-Plus television
today. “It’s not a time to be giving lessons. It’s not like
this we will solve the crisis.”  The response to Lagarde’s Facebook page came from across
 Europe , and expressed a variety of views. Some were unprintable
attacks on Lagarde, while others reproduced Greek poems about
the country’s revival from past sufferings. A few accused
 Germany  of benefiting from Greece’s predicament. One Greek man
said the country will honor its debts and asked fellow European
to ignore the “mob” posting comments on Lagarde’s page.  ‘Little Kids’  “The last thing we in Greece seek is her compassion,”
Alexis Tsipras, head of the Syriza movement that wants to
renegotiate the terms of Greek aid, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Greek workers pay their heavy taxes. When it
comes to  tax evasion  she should speak” to Pasok and  New
Democracy , which led previous administrations, he said.  In the interview with the U.K.’s Guardian, Lagarde said
Greek parents have to take responsibility if their children are
being affected by spending cuts and “pay their tax.”  “I think more of the little kids from a school in a little
village in  Niger  who get teaching two hours a day, sharing one
chair for three of them, and who are very keen to get an
education. I think they need even more help” than people in
Greece, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  