-- Mahathir Says Limited Asia Threat if Greece Exits Euro
-- B y   A i k a   N a n a o   a n d   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-05-28T03:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/mahathir-says-limited-asia-threat-if-greece-exits-euro.html
Greece  leaving the euro would have
limited effect on Asia and the Mediterranean country should
study such an exit as a way to restore competitiveness,
Malaysia’s leader during the 1998 Asian financial crisis said.  “I think if it’s just Greece alone it will not affect the
Asian market that much,” former Malaysian Prime Minister
Mahathir Mohamad said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Tokyo May 26. “With Greece it will still be possible to confine
the effect more to  Europe  than to the rest of the world.”  Mahathir, 86, joins other world leaders in discussing an
orderly Greek departure as Europe’s debt crisis deepens. While
concern Greece will leave the euro erased about $4 trillion from
global stocks this month, policy makers including International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  have said it’s
an option. Mahathir drew investor condemnation and the ire of
the IMF when he imposed  capital controls  during the Asian crisis.  “If they go back to the drachma in a controlled fashion,
it may be possible for them to lower their costs and regain
their competitiveness,” Mahathir said. “They must seriously
consider Greece exiting the euro. They cannot devalue the euro
in order to become more competitive.”  His view contrasts with that of Malaysia’s central bank
Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz, who as acting governor implemented
capital controls for Mahathir in 1998. A Greek exit could cause
contagion comparable to that during the Asian crisis and have
“unimaginable” consequences for Europe, she said in an
interview earlier this month.  ‘A Step Back’  Mahathir responded with capital controls when investors
fled Asian economies during the crisis about 15 years ago, with
 Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  South Korea  getting IMF bailouts. The
 Thai baht  was devalued in July 1997, setting off a plunge in
regional currencies. The ringgit fell 89 percent to 4.77 against
the dollar in the next six months. Mahathir blamed the ringgit’s
slide on investors, including billionaire financier  George Soros ,
whom he labeled a “moron” who was trying to destroy growth
through speculative attacks on the currency.  In September 1998,  Malaysia  set limits on foreign-exchange
transactions, trapping an estimated $18 billion of foreign
capital for at least a year. It also fixed the ringgit at 3.80
to the dollar, a peg that would remain for almost seven years
until Mahathir’s successor, Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, ended it in
July 2005. Some curbs on offshore trading of the ringgit remain.  The IMF called Malaysia’s response to the Asian crisis at
the time “a step back.” The Washington-based lender later
softened its stance after previously pushing spending cuts and
rate increases in countries from South Korea to Indonesia as a
condition for aid. In 2010, it released a study saying limits on
capital flows are a “legitimate” tool in some cases for nations
facing surges in investment that may destabilize their economies.  ‘Weak’ Position  Mahathir, who won five consecutive national elections as
the leader of Southeast  Asia ’s third-biggest economy before
stepping down in 2003, reiterated advice for current Prime
Minister Najib Razak to hold off on national polls due by early
2013. Najib’s government is in a “weak” position, he said.  “Maybe sometime in the next five months before the end of
the year,” Mahathir said of the best election timing.  Asked about a growing backlash in Europe to austerity,
Mahathir said such measures must not be applied too rigidly.
Still, Europeans and Americans must adjust to lower standards of
living, he said.  “The Europeans and the Americans were paying their people
far too much, giving them all kinds of perks,  unemployment
benefits , early pensions,” Mahathir said. “All these things
have got to be looked into.”  Disorderly Default  “At the moment, there’s no legal and formal mechanism for
Greece leaving the euro so a lot of people don’t know exactly
how it would happen,” said Christopher Gothard, head of foreign
exchange at Brown Brothers Harriman ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. “If you
have a disorderly sovereign default followed by a financial
crisis in Greece followed by a financial crisis across Europe in
terms of a banking crisis then it’s not going to look so good.”  Slowing growth in Europe and the U.S. associated with
political and economic turmoil has hurt Malaysia, Mahathir said,
causing it to lose exports. A looming slowdown in  China , Asia’s
largest economy, also threatens to affect shipments, he said.  “If there is a slowdown in China we would suffer in terms
of losing the Chinese market,” he said. “At the same time we
may be able to improve the competitiveness of our products.”  Malaysian Slowdown  Malaysia’s economic growth slowed last quarter, with  gross
domestic product  rising 4.7 percent after expanding 5.2 percent
in the previous period,  Bank Negara Malaysia  said on May 23.  Its economy will probably expand within the central bank’s
4 percent to 5 percent range forecast for this year, driven by
domestic demand and private investment, Zeti said on May 23.
That compares with 5.1 percent growth last year.  Mahathir said Najib should wait to call elections until
after the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, which ends in August.
The current prime minister inherited a weakened National Front
coalition, Mahathir said, which won 2008 elections by the
narrowest margin since independence in 1957.  “Being weak, he has to respond to the criticisms,”
Mahathir said. “But when you are faced with this problem
anything you do is not enough.”  In the run-up to elections Najib has faced two rounds of
protests from a group known as the Coalition for Clean and Fair
Elections, or  Bersih , which is supported by the opposition.
Police fired tear gas and arrested 512 people as they marched in
 Kuala Lumpur  on April 28, seeking faster and more radical
changes to the country’s voting rules.  Najib has promised to pass laws boosting personal freedoms.
In April, he tabled legislation limiting how long police can
hold suspects without trial and that states people cannot be
arrested for political beliefs.  Mahathir, who led the country for 22 years, recommended in
February that Najib should take more time before holding the
next election in order to win more support from groups such as
the country’s ethnic Chinese. Najib said this month the election
will be held “very soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aika Nanao in  Tokyo  at 
 ananao@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  