-- Tales of India’s Economy Twistier than Kama Sutra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-05-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/tales-of-india-s-economy-twistier-than-kama-sutra.html
In 2006,  Foreign Affairs , among many
other periodicals, proclaimed India to be “a roaring capitalist
success story.” This story, we are now increasingly told, is
over. The rate of growth in India’s gross domestic product has
slowed to slightly more than 6 percent from the peak of about 10
percent that once excited fantasies of India overtaking  China .
The rupee is plunging.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded India’s
credit-rating outlook to “negative” from “stable.” The next 
stage is “junk,” if it loses its BBB- grading.  Corruption and India’s threat of retroactive taxes on
companies, most notably the government’s attempt to recoup as
much as $3.72 billion from Vodafone Group Plc, the U.K.-based
telecommunications company, on its 2007 acquisition of an Indian
company are scaring away foreign investors. India’s own captains
of industry are looking for more opportunities abroad.  Still, is it premature to bring down the curtains on the
“India Growth Story”? To be sure,  foreign investment  in India
sparked a retail credit boom -- and visions of hundreds of
millions of middle-class Indians achieving the purchasing power
and consumption patterns of their European and American peers.
Total GDP  grew , even though employment had no corresponding
increase, and a terrible agrarian crisis caused by high
indebtedness, drought, failed crops and international
competition -- which compelled some 200,000 farmers to commit
 suicide  -- didn’t rapidly boost mass consumption.  Fragrant Cliches  The glossy services sector, such as  information technology 
and back-office operations, boomed. The rise of financial
services -- and its accompanying foreign and local business
media staffed with innumerable short-termist analysts and
reflexive boosters -- also helped make India appear to be “the
story of unusual national advancement,” as Amartya Sen put it
recently, making “an alleged reality out of what is at best a
very partial story.”  Some fragrant cliches came to be lavished on the chronicle
of “India Rising.” This is how it went: Since its introduction
in 1991, free-market capitalism has been liberating India from
the darkness of “socialism” and a mindless regulatory regime
(aka, the License-Permit Raj), sparking a consumption boom that
is lifting hundreds of millions out of poverty and making India
a superpower in our newly flattened world.  This account of India’s past always mystified those who
actually knew the country before and after 1991 -- a place very
far from socialism, as I have pointed out in a previous column,
and even further from free-market capitalism. For India in the
previous decade witnessed what  Raghuram Rajan , formerly the
chief economist of the  International Monetary Fund  and now an
adviser to Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , calls “the
Resource Raj.” This is a polite euphemism for crony capitalism,
whereby, in the Financial Times’ gloss, “an alliance of well-
connected industrialists and public officials…carve up the
permissions and licenses that have in the past underpinned
India’s growth.”  Looking around my own village in  Himachal Pradesh , I could
see that economic growth and the related change in consumption
patterns were due mostly to real-estate speculation by the
already rich and powerful. In the absence of industrialization,
adequate education and employment, and indeed plucky
entrepreneurship, the main source of capital was land, almost
invariably acquired illegally by a nexus of businessmen and
politicians.  No Horatio Algers  My experience was admittedly very narrow. But, magnified
many times, this was also the “success story” of economic growth
heavily dependent on easy access to and privatization of
national resources; information technology, which still employs
only 2.5 million of a workforce of more than 400 million, played
a tiny role. There are very few Indian Horatio Algers. Many of
the country’s long-established companies, often assisted by
foreign partners, maintained their dominance with their
unmatched ability to acquire mining leases, infrastructural
contracts, property-development rights and mobile-phone
spectrum.  A series of scandals beginning with the Commonwealth Games
fiasco in 2010 and peaking with a reportedly  $210 billion coal-
mining racket  exposed the influence of business over politics
and, more alarmingly, the media. The larcenies of “socialist”
India suddenly seemed small-time compared with the massive
plunder of public money and resources under the auspices of
free-market capitalism.  Caught red-handed in many instances, the government froze,
shamefully aware of betraying its left-wing rhetoric. Heavy
electoral defeats -- punishments by the poor for intolerably
high inflation -- have further impaired its policy-making
mechanism, which was always prone to eccentric behavior.
Desperate to reassert their power, some bureaucrats and
politicians have taken to prosecuting corporate offenders in the
lucrative sectors -- telecoms, coal, power and gas -- that are
most tainted by corruption scandals.  Detailing the woes of India’s business barons, the
newsmagazine India Today recently expressed shock at seeing
high-profile businessman  Mukesh Ambani  being harassed by the
government. “If that is the fate of Mukesh Ambani, India Inc.
ought to be very scared,” the magazine said.  So it should be after the easy run enjoyed in the previous
decade by well-connected corporations. Could it be that, as the
Financial Times wrote, “India’s democracy is responding to the
administrative inefficiency and impropriety of the old system,
albeit slowly and imperfectly?” Will India’s oligarchs be reined
in by politicians who draw votes by posing as protectors of the
weak?  Falling Behind Bangladesh  We shall see. In the meantime, a politically shell-shocked
government is unlikely to risk appearing too business-friendly.
Faced with widening fiscal deficits and probably a balance-of-
payments crisis, the government seems, as in the Vodafone case,
to have resorted to shaking down foreign corporations.  The government is clearly betting that as Western economies
flounder, foreign corporations seeking a decent return have no
option but to invest in  India , agreeing to pay taxes that are,
in the end, a small fraction of their revenue. It may be proved
right: Ikea Group is again in play in India after the single-
brand retail sector was opened to foreign companies. Vodafone
shows no signs of pulling out.  In any case, those who noticed how India, in the previous
decade of record GDP growth,  slipped behind   Bangladesh  in  life
expectancy , child survival, fertility and immunization rates and
allowed  Nepal  to catch up were never much swayed by the
histrionic narrative of an inexorably rising country.  One must remain wary of yet more giddy distortions of
India’s multifaceted reality. As  Robert Zoellick , the outgoing
president of the  World Bank , points out, India’s shrunken growth
rate of less than 7 percent can only cause envy in European and
American hearts. Incremental reforms in agriculture, education
and public health will do more to shape India’s future than the
moods and whims of foreign investors today. Certainly, the story
of India must be wrested back from the cliche-mongers, who,
having once circulated the most garish fantasies, seem now to be
peddling melodramatic despair.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the global shortage of
pain medication ; William D. Cohan on  Wall Street’s pay packages ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s counterterrorism policies ; Pawel
Swieboda on  Europe’s far-right parties .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  