-- Roddick Ousted at French Open as Venus Williams Returns With Win
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-27T22:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/andy-roddick-ousted-at-french-open-stosur-and-kuznetsova-win.html
  Andy Roddick , the last American man
to win a major tennis title, lost on the opening day of the
 French Open  to  France ’s Nicolas Mahut. Venus Williams and
Samantha Stosur won.  Roddick, the 2003 U.S. Open champion, was beaten by the
88th-ranked Mahut 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 yesterday at Roland Garros
in Paris.  Roddick, a former world No. 1, had been trying to win his
first match on clay this season. The 26th seed lost all three
matches he played for the U.S. at last week’s World Team Cup in
Dusseldorf, Germany. The 29-year-old missed clay-court events in
Rome and Madrid in the run-up to the French Open because of a
hamstring problem. The injury had forced Roddick to retire in
the second round of the Australian Open in January.  Roddick, whose 26 winners were 16 fewer than Mahut’s,
refused to blame his injury problems for his loss.  “I move just horrendously out here,” he said at a news
conference. “My first step is just so bad on this stuff. I feel
like I’m always shuffling or hopping or not stopping or
something. My footwork on this stuff now is just really bad.”  The American, who before yesterday’s match on Court Suzanne
Lenglen had won four straight meetings against Mahut, has never
got past the third round on the slow clay-court surface in Paris.
Mahut, known for playing the longest match in history against
 John Isner  of the U.S. at Wimbledon in 2010, had lost in the
opening round eight times in 10 appearances at the French Open.  Li Na Begins Defense  On today’s schedule,  China ’s  Li Na  starts her title defense
against Romania’s Sorona Cirstea while Novak Djokovic plays
Italy’s Potito Starace. The top-ranked Serb is trying to become
the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to win four majors in a
row.  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland , the champion in 2009, starts
against Germany’s Tobias Kamke. Women’s top seed and Australian
Open winner  Victoria Azarenka  faces Italy’s Alberta Brianti.  Williams of the U.S. overcame Argentina’s Paula Ormaechea,
one of six teenagers in the women’s draw, 4-6, 6-1, 6-3
yesterday. Williams, 31, is playing her first Grand Slam since
she pulled out of the  U.S. Open  last year with Sjogren’s
syndrome, an energy-sapping autoimmune disease. Williams,
runner-up in Paris in 2002, is a seven-time major champion. The
American, one of 14 players older than 30 in the women’s draw,
gave a thumbs-up sign to her parents after her win.  “It’s a big accomplishment for me to be here right now,”
Williams, whose win improved her chances of making the London
Olympics, told reporters. “I just learned how to live with this.
It’s different. I have a lot to learn still.”  Olympic Criterion  Players have to be ranked within the top 56 to have a
chance at automatic qualification for the Olympics, which start
July 27. Williams is currently ranked 53rd.  U.S. Open champion Stosur of  Australia  started her quest
for a first French Open title with a straight-sets win over
Britain’s Elena Baltacha. Former champion Svetlana Kuznetsova
also won.  The sixth-seeded Stosur defeated the 68th-ranked Baltacha
6-4, 6-0 on Court Philippe Chatrier.  “It was good,” Stosur said. “Very happy with the way I
played and the score line and everything else.”  ‘Very Difficult’  The Australian, who made nine unforced errors and struck 23
winners, last year won her first major singles title when she
defeated  Serena Williams  at the U.S. Open. Stosur said the high-
bouncing center court at  Roland Garros  suited her game of heavy
top-spin forehand and kick-serve.  “I knew it was going to be a very difficult match, I did
play one of the best clay-court players in the world,” Baltacha
told a news conference.  Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 2009 winner, also won easily. The
Russian, a former U.S. Open champion, defeated Croatia’s Mirjana
Lucic, 6-1, 6-3.  Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina, the 2009 U.S. Open
champion, beat Spain’s Albert Montanes, 6-2, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 6-1.
Ana Ivanovic, the 2008 winner from Serbia, advanced by beating
Lara Arruabarrena-Vecino of Spain, 6-1, 6-1.  Fifth-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, one of 17 Frenchmen in the
main draw, defeated  Russia ’s Andrey Kuznetsov 1-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-4.
Michael Berrer of  Germany  ousted Austria’s Jurgen Melzer, the No.
30 seed and a former semifinalist, 6-7 (5-7), 4-6, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3.
Croatia’s  Marin Cilic , the No. 21 seed, defeated Daniel Munoz-De
La Nava of Spain 6-4, 6-4, 7-5.  American wild card  Melanie Oudin  moved to the second round
by beating Sweden’s Johanna Larsson, 6-3, 6-3. It was Oudin’s
first win in the main draw of a major since the 2010 U.S. Open.  Oudin had a breakthrough year in 2009, when she upset three
seeded Russian players to reach the quarterfinals of the U.S.
Open when she was 17 years old. After reaching a career-high
ranking of No. 31 in 2010, Oudin has dropped to No. 269.  “I played well,” Oudin said in a news conference. “I
played some really, really good points, better than I’ve played
in a long time. It’s my first win ever at Roland Garros, so
definitely a good feeling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 