-- Loyola Meets Maryland in Search of First Men’s Lacrosse Title
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/maryland-upsets-no-3-duke-meets-loyola-in-men-s-lacrosse-final.html
Top-seeded Loyola University  Maryland 
will play the  University of Maryland  as it seeks its first
national men’s college lacrosse championship title.  Loyola’s Greyhounds defeated Notre Dame 7-5 and Maryland’s
Terps upset third-seeded Duke 16-10 in their National Collegiate
Athletic Association semifinals to reach tomorrow’s final at
Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts.  The Greyhounds are making their first final appearance
since 1990 when coach Charlie Toomey, then a goalie, and
volunteer coach Steve Vaikness were on the team.  “Steve Vaikness and I room together. Steve Vaikness and I
ride the bus next to each other,” Toomey told reporters. “All
we ever wanted was for these guys to have the same feeling that
we had 22 years ago. And that’s what they have right now.”  Loyola lost to Syracuse 21-9 in 1990 in a game marred by
the ineligibility of Syracuse’s Paul Gait. After the
championship, the NCAA ruled that it would not recognize
Syracuse and coach Roy Simmons Jr.’s 3-0 record, and Gait’s
seven goals and seven assists.  In yesterday’s semifinal, Eric Lusby scored five goals for
a total of 13 goals in the playoffs for the Greyhounds, who are
ranked fourth in the country in offense.  Westy Hopkins contributed two goals for  Notre Dame .  Maryland has now reached the final 11 times, winning the
championship in 1973 and 1975.  “Everyone has rededicated themselves,” said coach John
Tillman, who has taken the Terps to the finals in his first two
seasons with the team. “Everyone has stepped up.”  Last year, Maryland lost to seventh-seeded Syracuse 9-7 in
the championship game.  Yesterday, Drew Snider scored four goals and Owen Blye had
three for the Terps, who return again as an unseeded opponent.  Justin Turri and Robert Rotanz each scored two goals for
Duke’s Blue Devils.  Syracuse University  and  Northwestern University  will meet
today in the women’s college lacrosse national championship game
at LaValle Stadium in  Stony Brook ,  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  