-- Austerity Bites, but Fascism Won’t Snarl in Europe
-- B y   P a w e l   S w i e b o d a
-- 2012-05-27T22:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/austerity-bites-but-fascism-won-t-snarl-in-europe.html
Europe ’s citizens are turning the
tables on their ruling elites as austerity bites. In election
after election, they send their governments packing and turn
instead to fringe parties, some of which evoke the ghosts of
Europe’s authoritarian and racist past.  Yet there are good reasons to believe this is not the
1930s, redux. Something else is going on in Europe that is quite
profound: The shape of European democracy is changing. It is
fragmenting and opening new channels for protest and political
action that make it less likely some new Hitler or Mussolini
will suddenly ride a wave of support to power.  It’s becoming clear that the political transformation
accelerated by the financial crisis will need to be at least as
deep as the economic one, and this means the end of mainstream
politics. There will no longer be a once-per-generation societal
consensus, as was the case throughout the post-World War II
period. Instead, Europe will see a continual process in which
governments, voters and civil movements renegotiate their social
and economic contracts.  The result, by definition, will be less predictable and
more disorienting. There will also be much more uncertainty
about the level of entitlements and the extent of provision of
public services. The rise of boutique parties, including extreme
ones, reflects this trend of fragmentation and will be crucial
to its unfolding.  Neo-Fascists to Pirates  There is hardly a European country that has been spared the
phenomenon. It’s not only in  Greece  where we see new entities
emerging, such as the hard-left Syriza coalition or the neo-Nazi
 Golden Dawn . Also in  Germany , a country with strong mass-
membership parties, the Pirate Party, sometimes dismissively
called the cafe-latte and laptop-generation party, has now made
it into three German state parliaments, polling around 8 percent
of the vote each time. In the U.K., the fringe Respect party won
a parliamentary by-election on a platform of opposing the
country’s policies on the  Middle East . The U.K. Independence
Party scored unexpectedly well in local elections. It advocates
the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union.  These niche parties are filling the gap that has been left
by mainstream politicians, with social media their natural
territory. When government policies fail, populists call things
by their name, attracting support. The anti-immigration
sentiment that the National Front in  France , the Party for
Freedom in the Netherlands or Golden Dawn in Greece are riding,
for example, hasn’t primarily been about the dislike of
foreigners. It has been about the lack of credible immigration
policies.  Much of the recent fragmentation and radicalization of
politics in Europe is a direct result of the financial crisis
and its mishandling. Europe’s political elite failed to explain
to people the scale of the economic adjustment that’s taking
place. But even before the crisis many of these parties were
gaining ground, as larger mainstream ones saw membership bases
fall.  This longer trend has several causes. First, we now have
lower barriers of entry into the political system, mostly as a
result of new communication technologies, such as Facebook,
Twitter and other social media. Increased transparency can help
new movements to grow more quickly, and bring down established
actors in cases of abuse. The Arab Spring offers ample testimony
for the power of this technological accelerator.  Impenetrable EU  The growing complexity of decision making, especially acute
in the EU with its multilayered institutions and shared
sovereignty, is another factor. The conclusions of EU summits,
for example, can be important, but even for those who are
interested, they are impenetrable. National leaders have fewer
and fewer levers left in their hands to control their economies.
Financial markets, meanwhile, are anonymous: They have no phone
number to call and no democratically accountable representative
to invite to parliamentary hearings for direction. All of this
increases the attractiveness of single-issue parties because
they are more easily understood.  Democracy is changing also because its representative
version is weakening, while the empty space is filled by new
forms of activism and expression such as plebiscites, whether
through referenda or poll taking. People get mobilized directly,
for one cause at a time, rather than by the cross-cutting
ideologies that defined mainstream political parties.  What’s more, people have diminishing stakes in the
durability of the system. One example is the shift from defined-
benefit to defined-contribution pensions, which transferred risk
from companies and the state to the individual. The role of the
state is changing to that of an insurer of last resort. Citizens
feel less like stakeholders in the state because they feel their
vote no longer has any real impact on outcomes, while their
tangible gains from the system become less certain. This
contributes to disaffection.  Much of this is reminiscent of the 1930s, a period in which
people also felt that their governments were unable to offer
solutions, as they suffered severe economic and social
dislocation. The difference with the 1930s is that, whereas the
only alternative then appeared to be a radical new party that
would seize control of the state and put everything right, today
people have more alternatives and more channels of expression.  That’s important because it means people are not helpless,
even if they are frustrated. So they  occupy Wall Street ; or drum
up Facebook-led campaigns; or, as happened in  Italy  last year,
they force a referendum to block the government from launching a
nuclear-energy industry and privatizing water utilities.  The flip side of that coin is that for radical parties, the
allure of being in power is much tainted today. Populists are
even more anti-establishment, but they are shrewd enough not to
seek power because accepting responsibility doesn’t work for
them in the new era. So, when  Geert Wilders  brought down the
Dutch government by leading his Party for Freedom out of the
coalition recently, it wasn’t a sign of strength but of
weakness. His support in opinion polls had been dropping. The
anti-austerity agenda was being exploited by other actors on the
country’s political scene.  Out of Power  None of this means people should be less vigilant in
opposing the rise of neo-fascist politics. But notably, despite
all the radicalization of popular feeling in the past few years,
with the departure of Wilders there is currently no extreme
right-wing populist party in any governing coalition in the EU.  Winston Churchill ’s  dictum  that, while imperfect, democracy
is the best of all available political systems remains true. But
it’s becoming clear that institutions will have to be reshaped
to negotiate a path between our ever-more-polarized interests
and the minimum common denominator catering to society’s
fundamental needs. This will mean a more prominent role for the
grassroots movements, alongside stronger, more inclusive
institutions.  There will doubtless be turbulence in the years ahead, and
times in Europe when everyone holds their breath for fear of the
worst. Yet representative democracy isn’t under an existential
threat. There are new safety valves in the system alongside the
old ones, and they are proving to be surprisingly effective.  (Pawel Swieboda is president of the Demos Europa Center for
European Strategy and a former adviser on Europe to the Polish
president. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the global shortage of
pain medication ; William D. Cohan on  Wall Street’s pay packages ;
 Pankaj Mishra  on  whether India will keep booming ;  Albert R. Hunt 
on  Obama’s counterterrorism policies .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pawel Swieboda at  pawelswieboda@demoseuropa.eu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  