-- Australia Needs Better Data on Farmland to Manage Mining
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-27T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/australia-needs-better-data-on-farmland-to-manage-mining.html
Australia, the second-biggest wheat
exporter, needs to improve information on its agricultural real
estate to manage competition for land from mining and energy
interests, the Australian Farm Institute said.  “Australia does not have a national policy approach about
whether areas of high quality agricultural land need to be
preserved for that purpose,” according to a report released
today by the  institute , which conducts farm policy research.
“There is not even a national agreement on what should be
considered to be strategically important agricultural land.”  Coal-seam gas producers in the country, the top shipper of
 iron ore , coal and wool, are facing opposition from groups
concerned their drilling methods contaminate and deplete water
supplies and cut the capacity of food-producing land. New South
Wales plans to begin a process of granting and renewing coal-
seam gas exploration licenses in June after keeping them on hold
to review the environmental and safety impact, Chris Hartcher,
the state’s resource minister, said March 20.  “An increasing number of people are starting to express
concerns that  Australia  has been too profligate with its best
agricultural land, and future generations might regret decisions
that are currently being made about the use of that land,”
according to the report. “Despite Australia’s apparent
abundance of land, quality agricultural land in good rainfall
areas is a relatively rare commodity.”  Land Availability  The lack of information probably comes from the amount of
land available and food self-sufficiency, the report said. That
has meant that agricultural land and production capacity have
never been considered as a high-value resource in need of
protection or policy attention, it said. Australia currently
produces more than twice the food it consumes.  Mineral and energy projects worth a record A$260.8 billion
($254 billion) were being developed as of April 30 as companies
seek to tap the country’s large reserves and proximity to  Asia ,
the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said May 24.  Australia exported 20 million tons of liquefied natural gas
last year, making it the world’s fourth-largest LNG supplier,
Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said this month. The country may
be capable of producing about 80 million tons of LNG annually by
2017, surpassing Qatar as the world’s largest exporter of the
fuel, Total SA,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil producer, said May 14.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  