-- Bankia’s Writedowns Cast Doubts on Spain’s Bank Estimates
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-28T08:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/bankia-s-writedowns-cast-doubts-on-spain-s-bank-estimates.html
Spain ’s two-week effort to overhaul
its lenders and estimate for what it will cost taxpayers may 
already look out of date.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said May 11 that a law
tightening provisioning rules, his second in three months, would
require public funds of less than 15 billion euros ($19
billion). BFA-Bankia, the bank nationalized the same week, said
on May 25 it was taking 8.5 billion euros of provisions on top
of those demanded by the two decrees, as it sought a 19 billion-
euro state bailout. Bankia shares fell as much as 29 percent in
Madrid trading today.  “They’ve done two reforms already and there will probably
be more; I don’t know how many more,” Javier Diaz-Gimenez, a
professor at the IESE business school in Madrid, said in a
telephone interview. “They have zero credibility.”  Spain is seeking to clean up banks and help its cash-
strapped regions just as its own access to  capital markets  has
narrowed and depends increasingly on domestic lenders. The
nation’s bank-rescue fund has 5 billion euros in cash, de
Guindos said this month, leaving its ability to bail out lenders
dependent on Spain’s access to markets.  The country plans to inject public debt instead of cash
directly into the Bankia Group to pay for the bank’s
recapitalization and avoid having to go to market with the
instruments,  El Pais  reported yesterday, without citing anyone.  Yields Climb  Based on what happened at Bankia, the recapitalization
needs of Spain’s banks could amount to as much as 60 billion
euros, Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International said in
a report today. “Given the current economic and political
uncertainties facing the  euro zone , this could see additional
pressure on Spain to consider using external funds for the bank
recapitalization,” he wrote.  The yield on Spanish 10-year debt jumped to 6.42 percent
from 6.29 percent on May 25. The spread between Spanish 10-year
debt and German bunds rose to 507 basis points, a record, from
491.2 basis points.  Until now, to pay for bank bailouts, the state would sell
debt in the market through its bank rescue fund, known as the
FROB, and use the cash to aid banks. A jump in yields has made
debt sales more difficult and expensive, El Pais said.  The nationalization of  BFA-Bankia (BKIA)  on May 9 and the new
provisioning rules two days later were Spain’s fourth attempt in
three years to restore confidence in lenders after the property
crash left them saddled with 184 billion euros of what the Bank
of Spain calls problematic assets linked to real estate. The
present government came to power on Dec. 21.  Capital Requirements  In the first round, led by the former Socialist government,
the FROB spent 10 billion euros buying preference shares in
lenders it encouraged to merge, including Bankia, which received
4.5 billion euros.  Last year, authorities increased capital requirements and
coaxed unlisted lenders onto the stock market. Bankia responded
by selling shares to the public in July, since then their value
has fallen 58 percent.  In February, de Guindos, a former Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. executive, ordered banks to set aside 53.8 billion euros of
provisions and capital. His second decree on May 11 called for
another 30 billion euros on performing real estate lending.  De Guindos said the cost to taxpayers of the May 11 decree
would be less than 15 billion euros, even as economy officials
who later briefed reporters on condition of anonymity said that
figure included the cost of rescuing Bankia. A spokesman for the
 Economy Ministry  said the figure referred solely to the impact
of the decree, and said the government was sticking to its
forecasts.  Real Estate  “They are trying to do the minimum all the time and kick
the can down the road,” Juan Rubio-Ramirez, an economics
professor at  Duke University  and visiting scholar at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta , said by phone yesterday.  Efforts so far have focused on assets linked to the real
estate industry, while the government and executives including
Banco Santander SA Chief Executive Alfredo Saenz have said that
household mortgages don’t pose a risk. Spain’s unemployment rate
 exceeds  24 percent and the economy is suffering its second
recession since 2009.  “Mortgages get paid in good times and in bad,” Saenz said
on April 27. “Anyone raising this problem as one of the issues
for the Spanish financial system is saying something stupid.”  Stress Test  Bankia may have cast doubt on that position by setting
aside another 2.2 billion euros in provisions for individual
loans, most of which are residential mortgages. Bankia based the
new provisions on an assumption that mortgage defaults would
rise to 8 percent to 10 percent, Director General Jose Sevilla
said on May 26, compared with the current sector-wide rate of
less than 3 percent. It also increased provisions for lending to
companies outside the real-estate industry by an additional 3.3
billion euros.  As part of de Guindos’s latest overhaul, Spain has
commissioned Oliver Wyman Ltd. and Roland Berger AG to carry out
a  stress test  on all Spanish banks’ entire loan book. That will
be followed by a detailed audit carried out by three companies.  “There should be a higher level of non-real estate
provisions, whether that’s done through legislation or
informally on the back of this external review,” Nomura’s Quinn
said in a telephone interview. “There will be pressure for
every domestic Spanish bank, except Santander and BBVA, to raise
capital if you assume the kind of provisioning we’ve seen in
Bankia.”  Domestic Lenders  Risks to Spain’s financial industry and the state are
increasingly intertwined as the government’s access to borrowing
narrows, and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  says the nation risks
being locked out of markets. Foreign investors cut their
holdings of Spanish debt to 37 percent Spain’s total outstanding
debt in circulation in April from 50 percent at the end of last
year.  Domestic lenders, bolstered by emergency funding from the
 European Central Bank , have picked up the slack, increasing
their share to 29 percent from 17 percent over the same period.
At a bond auction on May 17, foreigners took 20 percent to 30
percent of the issue, a government official, who declined to be
named, told reporters at a briefing that day.  Spain has repeatedly ruled out seeking European Union help
either to shore up the banks or its sovereign debt. De Guindos
told parliament on May 23 that Bankia is a “specific case,”
without any implications for the rest of the industry, a view
Bankia Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri endorsed on May 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Charles Penty at   cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  