-- Blair to Testify at Media-Ethics Probe Today on Murdoch Links
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/blair-to-testify-at-media-ethics-probe-today-on-murdoch-links.html
Former Prime Minister  Tony Blair  will
appear before the U.K.’s media-ethics inquiry today to answer
questions about his relationship with  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch .  The probe, set up by Prime Minister  David Cameron  last year
in the wake of the phone-hacking scandal, is hearing testimony
from politicians about how they dealt with the media. When
Cameron announced the inquiry, he made a point of saying it
would hear from members of the former ruling  Labour Party  as
well as his own Conservatives. Blair will be questioned starting
at 10 a.m. in London.  With Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt fighting for his job
amid allegations he was too partial to News Corp. in its bid to
take over  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the government is
seeking to remind voters that both main parties sought to be
close to Murdoch before the phone-hacking scandal that led News
Corp. to shut its News of the World tabloid last year.  Blair courted Murdoch from the moment he became leader of
the Labour Party in 1994. In 1995, he traveled to Australia to
address News Corp. executives. Murdoch joked at the time that
“I suspect we will end up making love like two porcupines --
very carefully.”  Murdoch’s Sun newspaper switched from the Conservatives to
endorse Blair in the 1997 election, and Murdoch was an early
visitor to Blair after his victory. The Sun backed Blair in the
following two elections, and supported him in his most
controversial decision, the 2003 invasion of  Iraq . It switched
back to the Conservatives in 2009, after Blair had left office.  In 2007, as he prepared to leave office, Blair gave a
speech attacking the media for focusing on comment over news
reporting, and referring to reporters as “feral beasts.”  The inquiry heard last week that Hunt had written Cameron a
memo in November 2010, a month before he was given the task of
adjudicating on the BSkyB bid, arguing that if the deal was
blocked, “our media sector will suffer for years.”  Cameron defended Hunt, saying he believed the culture
secretary carried out his role properly. Hunt will testify to
the inquiry, headed by Judge Brian Leveson, on May 31.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 