-- Australia Biggest Brothel Plan Poised to Defeat Council
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-05-27T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/brothel-poised-to-trump-council-in-sydney-sex-industry-victory.html
A plan to build  Australia ’s largest
brothel is poised to overcome local government opposition in a
victory for Sydney’s sex industry over creeping regulation.  The A$12 million ($11.7 million), three-story extension to
the Stiletto brothel near the city center can be approved once
client numbers are capped, Commissioner Susan O’Neill of the
Land & Environment Court of New South Wales said in Sydney May
25. She asked for submissions from lawyers on how to limit
customers before giving final approval.  Such a ruling would be a victory for  Artazan Property
Group , the Sydney firm overseeing the project, and the state’s
sex industry. Even after being decriminalized in 1995, New South
Wales brothel owners are increasingly turning to courts to
reverse rejections by councils opposed to the industry, said the
 Scarlet Alliance , which represents Australian sex workers.  “We’re at risk because of the way local government is
treating the industry: refusing applications in the name of
politics,” said Julie Bates, who prepares development
applications for sex-services premises as head of Sydney-based
firm Urban Realists Planning & Health Consultants. “Brothels
are never going to be a vote winner.”  The Stiletto proposal, rejected in September by City of
Sydney council, included 40 working rooms, 21 waiting rooms and
a 24-space basement parking lot.  “I am satisfied that the proposal can be approved,”
Commissioner O’Neill said last week.  ‘Police Corruption’  In the U.S., prostitution is illegal, except in  Nevada ,
outside of  Las Vegas . In Ontario,  Canada ’s most populous
province, the top court ruled on March 26 that prohibitions of
bawdy houses were unconstitutional, increasing the dangers
prostitutes face by being forced to work outside. The
Conservative federal government has  appealed .  Operating a brothel in Australia’s most populous state
stopped being a crime in 1995 after a Royal Commission in New
South Wales found “a clear nexus between police corruption and
the operation of brothels.” Decriminalization handed oversight
from police officers to planning authorities at local councils.  “Research usually shows brothels are not a problem in a
community,” said Wayne Morgan, a lecturer specializing in
sexuality-related law at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra. “Staff are usually very discreet, and clients, by
their very nature, are very discreet. This was partly the point
of legalizing brothels in the first place -- to take out the
criminal aspect.”  The state is home to as many as 10,000 female sex workers,
and there are as many as 200 brothels within 20 kilometers of
Sydney’s central business district, according to a March report
on the industry funded by the state’s Ministry of Health.  ‘Most Erotic’  Stiletto, open 24 hours a day, lines Parramatta Road, the
main road west from the city center. The brothel offers “the
most erotic experience in Sydney,” its website says. Rooms
include ‘The Library’ and ‘The Office,’ while ‘The Presidential
Suite’ demands a minimum four-hour fee of A$1,480.  Delecta Ltd. (DLC) , an Australian publicly traded adult services
company, in October scrapped a A$16 million takeover of Stiletto
after  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the nation’s second biggest lender,
pulled funding for the deal.  Brothel operators in Sydney find it increasingly difficult
to win approvals from councilors focused on re-election, which
drives more to masquerade illegally as massage parlours, said
Bates, of Urban Realists.  ‘Losing Ground’  “We’re losing ground on what the intentions were in the
first place,” Bates said. “It’s better to regulate and know
they’re there.”  An  inquiry  in August 2007 by the state’s Independent
Commission Against Corruption found a council worker in
Parramatta, west of Sydney, had received free sexual services
for four years from at least five prostitutes in return for
allowing them unauthorized use of buildings.  In Australia’s parliament, former Labor lawmaker  Craig Thomson , a union official before becoming a politician in 2007,
this month denied claims he used his union credit card to pay
for prostitutes. Thomson was kicked out of the  Labor Party  by
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and sits as an Independent.  The New South Wales state government, a Liberal-National
coalition which won power in March 2011, plans to introduce a
Brothel Licensing Authority.  “Illegal operations need to be shut down,” the office of
the government’s Special Minister of State, Chris Hartcher, said
in an e-mail. “The government is currently working on
delivering this election commitment.”  Licensing Model  According to the Scarlet Alliance, a licensing model in
neighboring Queensland state has led most sex workers to operate
illegally as they ignored the new systems’ requirements.  The emergence of an illegal sector makes it harder for
health workers or police officers to reach sex workers and their
clients, according to the website of the Sex Workers Outreach
Project, a Sydney-based group that provides health information
and support to people who engage in sex work.  “Licensing is a joke,” said Basil Donovan, co-author of
the March report for the New South  Wales  Ministry of Health and
a medical doctor, who said the Stiletto brothel would be
Australia’s biggest. “It has never worked and never will.
People don’t want to go onto lists and police registers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  