-- Buren’s Sunshade Forest Transforms Paris Grand Palais
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-05-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/buren-s-sunshade-forest-transforms-paris-grand-palais-review.html
Daniel Buren’s installation at the
Grand Palais in Paris isn’t going to alter his reputation.  For some people, he is a master of conceptual art. For
others, he is the epitome of pretentious banality.  Buren’s latest work, titled “Excentrique(s),” is the
fifth sequel of a series, grandly called  “Monumenta,”  in which
artists are invited to use the vast space beneath the glass-and-
steel dome of the Grand Palais for a solo show.  The series started in 2007 with a landscape of leaning
towers by  Anselm Kiefer  of  Germany . In 2008, U.S. sculptor
 Richard Serra  followed with a row of massive steel sheets. In
2009, an installation made from used clothes by the French
artist Christian Boltanski suggested an extermination camp.  Last year, the Indian-born U.K. sculptor Anish Kapoor
created a giant walk-in balloon whose reddish interior felt like
a mother’s womb.  Buren’s first impulse, he said in an interview with “Le
Monde” newspaper, was to work only on the dome and leave the
rest of the hall untouched. Because this would have been too
time-consuming, he decided to recreate the circular elements of
the dome on the ground.  He has transformed the hall into a forest of sunshades --
350 Plexiglas discs of different diameters in blue, yellow,
green and red resting on 3-meter-high pillars. In the center,
between the two halves of the forest, mirrors reflect the dome,
revealing some panes covered in blue.  Oriental Pattern  On the concrete floor, the four colors form a pattern that,
with some imagination, may remind you of an Oriental carpet.  Wandering around, you suddenly have the feeling that
somebody is calling you. What you hear, in fact, is a noise
emerging from loudspeakers -- a text concocted by the artist,
listing numbers and colors in 37 different languages and read by
37 different people.  It’s not the first time the 74-year-old Buren uses sounds.
In 1967, at the beginning of his career, he and three colleagues
installed a loudspeaker in the room where their paintings were
exhibited with a message in three languages: “Buren, Mosset,
Parmentier, Toroni advise you to become intelligent.”  What’s missing in the show is Buren’s trademark, his
deckchair-like vertical stripes alternating white with another
color as seen in his best known -- some would say his most
notorious -- work in the courtyard of Paris’s Palais Royal.  Striped Stumps  “Les Deux Plateaux,” or the Two Levels, a grove of
striped column stumps of various heights directly below the
windows of  Jack Lang , the minister of culture who commissioned
them in 1985, provoked a public outcry. When Lang’s successor,
Francois Leotard, indicated his willingness to have them knocked
down, the artist sued the government and saved his work.  For many Parisians, “Les Colonnes de Buren,” as they are
familiarly called, remain an eyesore.  At the Grand Palais, the famous stripes appear only in a
watered-down version: The pillars are painted black and white.  The loudspeaker messages aren’t the only side dish Buren is
serving. On May 31, Buren-Cirque, his troupe of circus
performers, will appear at the Grand Palais.  Other events include a reading in Latin of “De Rerum
Natura,” a didactic poem in six books of hexameters by the
philosopher Lucretius, and “Libido Sciendi,” a ballet of nude
dancers strictly reserved for adults.  “Monumenta 2012” runs through June 21. The exhibition is
supported by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,  Steelcase
Inc. (SCS) , Banque Neuflize OBC SA, Illycaffe SpA, Pascon SA and
Renolit AG. Information:  http://www.monumenta.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include: Warwick Thompson on London
 theater , Farah Nayeri on  film  from Cannes, Frederik Balfour on
Hong Kong  auctions  and  Greg Evans  on U.S.  television .  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 