-- Bush’s Terror Overreach Becomes ’New Normal’ Under Obama
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-05-27T15:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/bush-s-terror-overreach-becomes-new-normal-under-obama.html
Critics of President  George W. Bush ’s
anti-terrorism efforts, mainly Democrats and some Republicans,
rejoiced when  Barack Obama  was elected. They were convinced that
what they considered the post-Sept. 11 trampling of
constitutional rights and civil liberties would end.  As a candidate, Obama, a former constitutional law
professor, promised to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
as well as to end indefinite detention and the rendition of
terrorism suspects to other countries, where they often were
tortured. He also vowed greater accountability and transparency
in the conduct of war.  Things look different today. In his new book, “Power and
Constraint: The Accountable Presidency After 9/11,” Jack Goldsmith, a Harvard Law School professor who served in the
Office of Legal Counsel under Bush and objected to some of that
administration’s tactics, writes: “The Obama administration
would continue almost all of its predecessor’s policies,
transforming what had seemed extraordinary under the Bush regime
into the ‘new normal’ of American counter-terrorism policy.”
That seems only a slight exaggeration.  Self-Correction  Goldsmith argues this largely reflects a self-correction on
Obama’s part. The  Bush administration ’s anti-terrorism policies
were excessive, reined in by the courts and Congress. His
successor then overpromised in the other direction and was
reined in by politics.  The Obama administration “strongly” disagrees with
Goldsmith, says Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the White House
National Security Council. He points to achievements such as
ending the war in  Iraq , beginning to wind down the Afghanistan
conflict, the “devastated” leadership of al-Qaeda, ending
torture and modifying other post-Sept. 11 security policies.  Others contend the administration capitulated after it
received political flak for wanting to close Guantanamo and try
accused terrorists in civilian courts. There was a celebrated
confrontation between the then-White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel , who argued these controversial promises were impeding
Obama’s economic agenda, and the then-White House Counsel
Gregory Craig, who made the civil-liberties and campaign-
commitment case for change; Emanuel won, Craig later resigned.  More recently, some of the toughest criticism has come from
the Constitution Project, a bipartisan group of experts.  “Obama has fulfilled some promises, not fulfilled many
others, either because Congress made it impossible or they
decided on their own not to change,” says Morton Halperin, a
longtime liberal national security expert who is a senior
adviser to the Open Society Foundations.  “Fundamentally, the policies are the same and in some ways
Obama has extended the reach of government,” says David Keene,
a veteran conservative activist. He was critical of Bush’s anti-
terrorism policies, as were some Democrats, he notes, but
they’re silent now.  In his first week in office, Obama pledged to close
Guantanamo, issued an executive order banning torture and
suspended military commissions. There was tremendous political
blowback to his decision to close Guantanamo and move the
accused terrorists to the U.S. or try suspects such as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in U.S. courts. Congress ultimately cut off
funding for any such actions.  Obama achieved some victories. He ended the torture
practices of the Bush administration. The targeted killing of
suspected terrorists, including Americans, with drone attacks
isn’t a policy reversal: Obama had vowed to adopt that approach
in 2008; he didn’t make clear that the attacks might be directed
out of the White House.  Rendition Reversal  He backed off on ending rendition -- the policy of sending
alleged terrorists to other countries for interrogation --
insisting that the U.S. would ensure that torture is no longer
practiced in the places they are sent and that their treatment
is in accord with international laws. The administration also
says it has curbed the excesses of indefinite detention without
trial, which now requires judicial review.  Other observers see little change. Federal Judge  Reggie Walton  said Obama’s adjustments to military detention without
trial represent “a minimal if not ephemeral” difference from
the Bush position.  As a candidate, Obama promised transparency and openness.
Yet this administration has brought more charges -- six -- for
leaking information than all previous presidents combined.  “Openness and transparency doesn’t mean we’re OK with
people breaking the law by leaking classified information that
would harm our national security,” Vietor says.  The government is trying to force the  New York  Times
reporter James Risen to testify as to whether a former CIA
official, now on trial, was a source and leaked information
about the Iranian nuclear program. In court filings it has been
revealed that federal prosecutors obtained Risen’s telephone,
bank and credit-card data and travel records.  A district court judge ruled against the government’s
effort to force the reporter to reveal his confidential sources;
the Obama administration is appealing that decision.  “In the campaign, Obama said Bush overreached in using
state secrets,” Halperin says. This administration has “been
worse.”  Vietor says the administration wouldn’t comment on a
pending case.  On accountability, Obama assailed the Bush administration’s
failure to heed the War Powers Act, requiring congressional
authorization when the U.S. is engaged in foreign hostilities
for more than several months. Candidate Obama, in a
questionnaire for the Boston Globe in late 2007, vowed it would
be different in his administration: “History has shown us time
and time again,” he responded, “that military action is most
successful when it is authorized by the legislative branch.”  The U.S.-led bombing attack on the regime of  Libya ’s
Muammar Qaddafi began Feb. 17, 2011, and ended more than eight
months later. The White House insisted Congress had no say,
arguing that it was a NATO-led war and that U.S. ground forces
weren’t involved. Senator  James Webb , a Virginia Democrat, said
this set “a very disturbing precedent” for the use of force in
the age of drones and sophisticated air attacks.  In this political campaign, Obama probably won’t pay any
price for these flip-flops. Bagging  Osama bin Laden  immunizes
him from attacks on his conduct of the war on terror. The
presumptive Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , is in
no position to criticize; he has suggested that as president he
would reinstate the use of torture.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the global shortage of
pain medication ; William D. Cohan on  Wall Street’s pay packages ;
 Pankaj Mishra  on  whether India will keep booming ; Pawel Swieboda
on  Europe’s far-right parties .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 