-- China’s Li Says No Pressure From $42 Million French Open Win
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-28T14:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/china-s-li-na-says-no-pressure-from-42-million-french-open-win.html
Li Na returned to  Roland Garros 
today, millions of dollars richer and with a place in history as
the first Asian to win a tennis Grand Slam singles title. Still,
she says she doesn’t feel extra pressure.  While Chinese women had won Olympic gold and Grand Slam
titles in doubles, Li Na’s 6-4, 7-6 (7-0) defeat of  Italy ’s
Francesca Schiavone in last year’s French Open final broke the
country’s singles drought. Her victory was watched by 116
million viewers in  China  alone.  Soon after, she signed endorsement deals worth $42 million,
her agent  Max Eisenbud  said, making her the second highest-paid
female athlete in the world after  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia .
Although life has changed,  Li Na  said in an interview that she
doesn’t feel any different now that she’s a Grand Slam champion.  “The worst thing is that there are so many people who say
‘She has the pressure, she is the defending champion,”’ said
Li, wearing a diamond-studded watch that she said was a gift
from her sponsor Rolex Group for winning in Paris. She spoke at
the Rome Masters shortly before Roland Garros.  “But I would like to tell the truth, I am not young
anymore, I am 30 already,” said Li, who started her title
defense today with a 6-2, 6-1 win against Romania’s Sorana
Cirstea. “I don’t know how many years I can still play. I have
to listen to my body and see how it feels. I really do not think
about ‘Oh, right now I have to defend those points and this
title.’ I just really want to enjoy playing on the court, in
front of the fans.”  Djokovic Quest  Also today, Novak Djokovic is playing Italy’s Potito Starace. The top-ranked Serb is trying to become the first man
since  Rod Laver  in 1969 to win four majors in a row.  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, the champion in 2009, beat  Germany ’s
Tobias Kamke 6-2, 7-5, 6-3. Women’s top seed and Australian Open
winner Victoria Azarenka of Belarus needed three sets to
overcome Italy’s Alberta Brianti, 6-7 (6-8), 6-4, 6-2.  Li, seeded seventh in Paris, said it took her six months to
adjust to her new status as one of China’s most famous athletes.
She lost in the second round of Wimbledon last June, the opening
round of the  U.S. Open  in August and the fourth round of the
Australian Open in January.  “You lose your time, because you have to give time to the
sponsors,” said Li. “I lost my private time.”  Although Li said she now gets recognized wherever she goes,
the attention is strongest in her home nation.  “I was eating in a restaurant in China, and some fans
would come up to me and say ‘Oh, Li Na is eating.’ But I still
have to eat, like any other normal person. But some people now
think I am different,” she said.  Since Roland Garros, Li has signed seven deals with
companies including German carmaker  Daimler AG’s (DAI)  Mercedes-Benz
brand and Chinese insurance company Taikang Life Insurance Co.  Endorsements  Her agent Eisenbud, a vice president at IMG Tennis who
signed Li in November 2009, also represents Sharapova, who earns
about $26 million a year from prize money and endorsements,
according to Forbes magazine.  Li Na wears the Mercedes-Benz and Taikang logos as patches
on the sleeves of her outfit, made by her clothing and footwear
sponsor,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  She is the only tennis player allowed to do
so by Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company.  “I used to look at  Serena Williams  and Maria and I was
like ‘Wow, they are stars’ because they both had huge big
sponsors,” Li said. “I now have 12 sponsors after I won the
French Open. Max was working hard. I was really shocked. But of
course, the more sponsors come for me, it does mean you are more
public.”  Li has regained her form on European clay this year. She
was runner-up in  Rome  last week, losing in three sets to
Sharapova, and made quarterfinals in Stuttgart and Madrid.  Li is looking forward to playing on the main Court Philippe
Chatrier again.  “The best thing about going back to Roland Garros is that
you remember the good things from last year,” Li said. “I
remember seeing the Chinese flag on the center court, and
listening to the Chinese national anthem. It was very
exciting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  