-- China Industrial Companies’ Profits Decline 2.2% in April
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-27T23:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/china-industrial-companies-profits-declined-2-2-in-april-1-.html
Chinese industrial companies’  profits 
fell in April, a government report showed, as the nation’s
slowing economy curbed demand.  Earnings declined 2.2 percent from a year earlier to 407.6
billion  yuan  ($64.2 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics
said on its  website  yesterday. That compared with a 4.5 percent
gain in March.  The deceleration in corporate profit growth underscores
concerns that the slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy
is deepening. China’s State Council said on May 23 that downside
risks to growth are increasing and the government will intensify
“fine-tuning” policies as needed, signaling it may take more
aggressive steps to support the nation’s expansion.  “ China’s economy  is slowing down, so profit growth will
also be slower this year,”  Lu Zhengwei , Shanghai-based chief
economist at Industrial Bank Co., said before the release. “The
pace may pick up a bit in coming months if the economy rebounds
after policy easing filters through.”  Industrial profit growth for the full year is likely to be
in a range of 10 percent to 20 percent, compared with 25.4
percent in 2011, Lu said.  Property Curbs  China ’s  economy  may expand 7.9 percent this quarter from a
year earlier, the least since 2009, a Bloomberg survey this
month showed, as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimps exports and
property curbs cool domestic demand. That’s down from an 8.1
percent pace in the first three months that was the fifth
quarterly deceleration.  The government “must proactively take policies and
measures to expand demand and to create a favorable policy
environment for stable and relatively fast economic growth,”
according to a government statement summarizing the State
Council’s May 23 meeting.  A preliminary reading of HSBC’s China purchasing managers’
index released May 24 indicated manufacturing may contract for a
seventh month, adding to signs that growth is weakening. The
report followed data that showed industrial production in April
rose the least since 2009 and new lending was the lowest this
year.  Premier  Wen Jiabao , while visiting a remote region in  Hunan
province , called for extra government support for the nation’s
poorest areas, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. The country should speed up important infrastructure
projects and improve health-care services in impoverished
regions, Wen was cited as saying.  Steelmaker Losses  Industrial profit for the first four months fell 1.6
percent from a year earlier to 1.45 trillion yuan, yesterday’s
statistics bureau report showed. That compared with a 1.3
percent drop in the first quarter. Sales in the period rose 12.7
percent to 27 trillion yuan, according to the data.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , which supplies half of China’s
automobile steel, reported a larger-than-estimated 60 percent
drop in first-quarter profit on slowing demand, according to a
statement filed to the Shanghai stock exchange on April 27.
Steelmakers in China, the world’s biggest producer, had combined
losses of more than 1 billion yuan in the first quarter, China
Iron and Steel Association data show.  China’s industrial-profit data cover companies in 41
industries. Starting last year, the statistics bureau raised the
minimum annual sales for businesses included in the survey to 20
million yuan from 5 million yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  