-- Consolidation Expected in Clean Energy in 2012, E&Y Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-05-27T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/consolidation-expected-in-clean-energy-in-2012-e-y-says.html
Declining investments, lower prices
and the uncertain future of government subsidies will result in
more consolidation among renewable-energy companies over the
next year, according to Ernst & Young LLP.  Mergers and acquisitions in the first quarter of 2012
increased 41 percent worldwide to $21.7 billion from the
previous quarter and will continue to grow this year, the New
York-based consulting company said in a report today.  Global overcapacity is driving down prices and profit
margins in the wind and solar industries, which is spurring
consolidation, Ben Warren, Ernst & Young’s energy and
environmental finance leader, said in the report.  “The next 12 months are likely to be characterized by
further consolidation in the solar and wind supply chain, with a
large number of deals expected in  Asia ,” Warren said.  Much of the deals are driven by companies seeking to
control their supply chain and reduce costs, or gain access to
new markets, he said.  Funding for new projects fell 30 percent to $24.2 billion
from the fourth quarter of 2011 and was down 7 percent from a
year earlier, “undermined by wavering political support and
continuing lack of liquidity in the project financing market,”
Ernst & Young said.  The U.S. and several countries in  Europe 
are trimming subsidies for wind and solar energy.  “Access to capital will remain the single biggest
differentiator for companies in both the technology and
infrastructure markets for the foreseeable future,” Warren
said.  U.S. Tops China  The U.S. increased spending on renewable energy 33 percent
last year to $55.9 billion over 2010, topping  China  for the
first time since 2008. The Asian nation spent $47.4 billion in
2011, up 1 percent, the report said.  President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal for 2013 includes
support for a clean-energy standard requiring that 80 percent of
the country’s power come from clean sources by 2035. While that
may prompt investment, spending is threatened by expiring
subsidies.  “Uncertainty over tax-credit renewals and a continued lack
of commitment to long-term  energy policy ” in an election year
“exacerbates the boom-bust scenario” in the U.S., according to
the report, which includes data compiled by London-based
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  