-- Canad Plans Back-to-Work Law to End Strike at CP Rail
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-05-28T18:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/cp-rail-teamsters-end-talks-without-pact-railway-says-1-.html
Striking workers at  Canadian Pacific
Railway Ltd. (CP)  may be back on the job in three days after the
government introduced legislation to end a strike that has
snarled rail traffic in the world’s 10th-biggest economy.  “We would like to see CP Rail continuing to roll on
Thursday, but we’d like it sooner quite frankly and that’s the
message today,” Labor Minister Lisa Raitt told reporters in
Ottawa after announcing the legislation.  The work stoppage is having a “grave and significant”
impact on the Canadian economy and the two sides have “become
entrenched” in their positions, Raitt said. “That’s why we as
a government must intervene to protect the interests of all
Canadians.”  Freight traffic at the country’s second-largest railroad
has been stalled since Teamsters union members walked off the
job May 23 in a contract dispute. Raitt gave notice last week
that she may introduce legislation to end the strike once
Parliament was in session after a one-week break.  Canadian Pacific   fell  2.1 percent to C$75.54 at 2:26 p.m.
trading in Toronto. The stock has risen 9.5 percent this year,
compared with a 3 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index.  Federal action to halt the strike would make Calgary-based
Canadian Pacific the third company where Raitt has intervened
since Harper’s  Conservative Party  won a majority a year ago.  The Teamsters, representing more than 4,000 engineers,
conductors and rail-traffic controllers, is at odds with
Canadian Pacific over matters including pension payments and
work rules.  Economic Impact  “The economic impact on the Canadian economy is
significant day after day so we don’t want this to drag on,”
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters today in Toronto.  The strike, which began after the carrier and the labor
group failed to reach a deal on contract talks dating to
October, constricted supply chains for growers and miners while
slowing shipments at  Canada ’s two largest ports. The government
estimated a prolonged stoppage might cost as much as C$540
million ($524 million) a week.  Negotiation “seems to be over,” said Doug Finnson, vice
president of Teamsters Canada Rail Conference and chief
negotiator.  “CP Rail is hiding behind the government again,”
he told reporters in Ottawa. “Collective bargaining in this
country is under attack.”  Pension Plan  Central to the dispute is Canadian Pacific’s  pension plan .  The railroad sought to cut costs after contributing C$1.9
billion to its retirement programs in the past three years to
reduce funding shortfalls, while union members resisted what
they said was a 40 percent cut in post-retirement benefits.  The pensions helped push Canadian Pacific’s operating
expenses as a percentage of sales above those of its peers, and
the company said it sought changes to bring spending in line
with industry norms.  The railroad’s operating expenses were criticized by
activist investor  William Ackman  during a months-long proxy
fight that led to the departure of former Chief Executive
Officer  Fred Green  and five other board members on May 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  