-- Egypt Meets T-Bill Goal, Cuts Reserve Requirement After Vote
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-27T14:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/egypt-offers-t-bills-as-presidential-election-heads-for-runoff.html
Egypt  met its fundraising target at a
government-debt auction and the central bank cut the local-
currency reserve requirement after the country’s presidential
vote last week.  The North African country sold three- and nine-month notes
valued at 1 billion pounds ($166 million) and 2.5 billion
pounds, respectively, according to central bank data on
Bloomberg. The central bank lowered the required reserve ratio
for banks to 10 percent, the second reduction this year, to free
up funds for lenders. The move aims to “further ease credit
conditions in the market and provide additional permanent
liquidity into the banking system,” it said.  The government’s borrowing costs surged by about 50 percent
since the start of the uprising that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s three
decades of rule last year. Violence and political unrest forced
foreign investors out of the market, and local banks to increase
their government-debt holdings. Today’s sale is part of a
 Finance Ministry  plan to raise 150 billion pounds this quarter,
the last of the country’s fiscal year.  The reserve requirement cut is “positive for the banking
sector because it will increase liquidity,” said  Mona Mansour ,
co-head of research at CI Capital. Still, “yields will remain
high until we see what happens with the elections and after the
results are announced. I think there may still be unrest for the
coming six months.”  Runoff Round  The presidential election is poised for a second round
after the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi came in first,
followed by Ahmed Shafik, the former civil aviation minister-
turned-premier in Mubarak’s last days in office, unofficial
results showed. Hamdeen Sabahi, who emphasized his pro-
revolution stance during his campaign, was third and has vowed
to contest the result because of alleged irregularities. Since
no candidate appeared to have secured more than 50 percent of
the vote, a runoff round will be held next month between the top
two.  The average yield on  three-month securities  at today’s sale
rose seven basis points, or 0.07 of a percentage point, to
14.388 percent, the highest level since Bloomberg started
tracking the data in 2006. The  nine-month yield  declined four
basis points to 15.825 percent.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 of a percentage point, 6.74 percent
on May 25, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest level since April 5. The Egyptian pound was little
changed at 6.0405 a dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  