-- Egypt Shares Slump Most Since March on Post-Vote Unrest
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-05-27T13:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/egypt-shares-slump-most-since-march-on-post-vote-unrest-concern.html
Egyptian stocks tumbled the most in
two months after unofficial presidential election results showed
the two most-divisive candidates are headed for a runoff next
month. Persian Gulf shares retreated.  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding (TMGH) , the biggest publicly traded
property developer by market value, plunged 7 percent.  Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  fell the most since April 8. The benchmark
 EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  dropped 3.5 percent, the biggest decline since
March 25, to 4,798.14 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The
measure has decreased 3 percent this month. Kuwait’s gauge
declined the most since September and the Bloomberg GCC 200
Index slipped 0.1 percent.  Egypt ’s first presidential election after last year’s
ouster of Hosni Mubarak gave the lead to Muslim Brotherhood
candidate Mohamed Mursi and Mubarak’s last Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik, according to unofficial tallies. The closeness of the
result, with only about 1 percentage point between the two top
candidates, reflected the divisions that persist.  “We’re really back to square one: the Muslim Brotherhood
versus the old regime,” said Teymour El-Derini, head of  Middle
East  sales at Cairo-based Naeem Brokerage. “Investors fear the
chaos that might happen until the runoff. People are starting to
realize not much has changed, and it may be the cause of more
unrest in the future.”  The official result is due to be announced this week after
appeals are heard. In the likely event that no candidate secured
more than 50 percent of the vote, a second round will be held on
June 16 and 17.  Kuwait’s Drop  Talaat Moustafa dropped to 4.11 Egyptian pounds.  Orascom
Telecom (OTLD)  slumped 5.9 percent to 3.2 pounds. An Algerian court is
due to resume today hearing Orascom’s appeal of a $1.3 billion
fine against its local unit because of foreign exchange
violations.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, slid as much as 6.3 percent to
24.53 pounds, before trimming losses to 25.12 pounds after the
central bank lowered the local-currency reserve requirement for
the second time this year to 10 percent.  The Kuwait SE Price Index retreated 1 percent, the most
since Sept. 25, to 6,277.21 after the finance minister resigned,
raising investor concern that renewed political wrangling will
hurt economic growth. The index fell for all but five days this
month as Europe’s debt crisis pushed  oil prices  13 percent
lower.  Market Turbulence  Mustafa al-Shimali submited his resignation May 24 after an
11-hour questioning by opposition lawmakers who alleged
financial irregularities in institutions under his authority.
That day, an arbitration panel ordered the fourth-biggest OPEC
producer to pay  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  a $2.16 billion fine after
canceling a 2008 agreement to buy Dow’s plastics business.  “For sure Al-Shimali’s resignation added to the turbulence
in the market,” said Fouad Darwish, head of Middle East and
North Africa brokerage at Kuwait-based Global Investment House.
“Kuwait, more than other Gulf states, is very receptive to its
political environment.”  Repeated standoffs between the government and opposition
lawmakers have stymied public spending plans to boost the non-
oil economy, which grew less than Oman, Saudi Arabia and Qatar
last year, according to International Monetary Fund data.  Agility Public Warehousing Co. (AGLTY) , a Kuwaiti storage and
logistics provider, fell for a second day, declining 1.2 percent
to 400 fils.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  increased less than 0.1 percent
and  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index retreated 0.2 percent. Oman’s
MSM30 Index lost 0.5 percent. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share
Index fell 0.4 percent and Bahrain’s measure dropped 0.2
percent. Israel’s market was closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  