-- Egypt Cuts Bank Reserve Ratio With Yields Near Record Low
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-27T12:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/egypt-cuts-bank-reserve-ratio-with-yields-near-record-low.html
Egypt  cut the local-currency reserve
requirement for banks to 10 percent today, the second reduction
this year, to free up funds for lenders as government debt
yields climb to near-record levels.  The central bank lowered reserve ratio from 12 percent to
“further ease credit conditions in the market and provide
additional permanent liquidity into the banking system,” it 
said in a statement . The rate was cut by the same amount in
March, its first reduction in 13 years. The reserve requirement
represents the amount of money a bank must keep aside as a
percentage of deposits.  Local banks’ funding has come under pressure since the
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  last year as lenders
increased their holdings of government debt to compensate for a
slump in purchases by foreign investors. Treasury-bill yields
soared to record levels this year as the government sought to
raise money to help finance its  budget deficit .  “It’s positive but didn’t have a dramatic effect the last
time they did it,” Liz Martins, Dubai-based senior economist at
HSBC  Middle East , said by phone. “It did contribute to yields
coming down for a little while but we did see them edge back up
and I think there are other reasons for those pressures to
continue.”  The Arab country sold  three-month treasury bills  today at
an average yield of 14.388 percent, the highest level since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006. It issued one-year
securities last week at a near-record 15.899 percent.  The central bank will use all tools available to meet the
liquidity requirements of local banks, Rania Al-Mashat,
assistant sub-governor, said this month. The latest reserve-
ratio change is effective from the so-called maintenance period
starting June 26, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  