-- Egypt Shares Heads for Biggest Loss in 7 Weeks After Elections
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-05-27T09:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/egypt-shares-heads-for-biggest-loss-in-7-weeks-after-elections.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index headed
for the biggest drop in seven weeks after initial presidential
election results showed that the two most divisive candidates
will vie for the post in a run-off next month.  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding, the biggest publicly traded
property developer by market value, tumbled 6.1 percent.
 Pioneers Holding (PIOH) , a financial services company, headed for the
biggest decline since May 2. The benchmark EGX 30 Index tumbled
2.2 percent, poised for the biggest loss since April 9, to
4,863.59 at 11:15 a.m. in Cairo.  Egypt’s first presidential election after last year’s
ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  gave the lead to Muslim Brotherhood
candidate Mohamed Mursi and Mubarak’s last Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik, according to unofficial tallies. The closeness of the
result, with only about 1 percentage point between the two top
candidates, reflected the polarization that has developed in
Egypt since the uprising, where the hope for a new start that
millions had harbored has been overshadowed by an increase in
crime and a slump in the economy.  “We’re really back to square one: the Muslim Brotherhood
versus the old regime,” Teymour El-Derini, head of Middle East
sales at Cairo-based Naeem Brokerage, said by phone. “Investors
fear the chaos that might happen until the runoff. People are
starting to realize not much has changed, and it may be the
cause of more unrest in the future.”  Talaat Moustafa declined to 4.15 pounds, while Pioneers
tumbled 4.8 percent to 3.94 pounds. The two-day run-off vote is
set for June 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  