-- Teixeira, Sabathia Lead Yankees’ 9-2 MLB Victory Over Athletics
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/teixeira-sabathia-lead-yankees-9-2-mlb-victory-over-athletics.html
Mark Teixeira  hit two homers and
drove in a career-high five runs as the  New York Yankees 
defeated the Oakland Athletics 9-2 to win their fourth
consecutive Major League Baseball contest.  CC Sabathia (6-2) allowed two runs on seven hits and struck
out four in seven innings yesterday at O.co Coliseum in Oakland,
 California .  Teixeira hit a solo home run in the fourth, followed by a
two-run single in the fifth and a two-run homer in the ninth
inning.  “I’m glad I’m seeing some results. Just being real
aggressive with my swings and trying to let it go, which I’ve
done my whole career,” Teixeira told reporters. “I am who I am.
I wouldn’t know how to explain what kind of hitter I am. I just
go up and try to see the ball and hit it really hard.”  Robinson Cano’s home run in the second tied the game at 1-1,
 Derek Jeter  hit a run-scoring single in the third, Chris Stewart
scored on  Alex Rodriguez ’s sacrifice fly in the fifth and Nick Swisher scored after Jeter was hit by a pitch with the bases
loaded in the eighth.  Jeter tallied his 3,154th hit to tie George Brett for 14th
place on the career-hits list.  Jonny Gomes gave the Athletics a 1-0 lead in the first
inning with a run-scoring single and Josh Reddick tallied a solo
home run off Sabathia in the third to tie the game at 2-2.  “After the home run he threw more sliders and curves and
that made his fastball look even faster coming in,” Reddick
said.  Bartolo Colon  gave up six runs on nine hits while striking
out three in six innings.  The Yankees (25-21) are in third place in the five-team
American League East, 3 ½ games behind the Baltimore Orioles
(29-18). Oakland (22-25) is second in the four-team AL West, 6 ½
games behind the  Texas Rangers  (28-18).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  