-- England Bowlers Take Control Against West Indies in Second Test
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-05-27T18:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/england-bowlers-take-control-against-west-indies-in-second-test.html
England  reduced West Indies to 61-6
at close of play on day three of the second cricket Test to take
control as it seeks a series win to retain No. 1 status.  West Indies holds a 3-run lead with only four wickets in
hand in its second innings at Trent Bridge in Nottingham, a
stadium where the tourists are unbeaten in eight previous Test
matches.  “It puts us in a really good position but we’ve still got
a lot of work to do,” England’s  Tim Bresnan , who took three
late wickets, told Sky Sports.  England won the first Test by five wickets at Lord’s. The
hosts need to win the three-match series to stay atop the
 International Cricket Council ’s  Test rankings  ahead of South
Africa. England will host South Africa in a best-of-three
contest in July and August.  James Anderson removed West Indies openers Adrian Barath
and Kieran Powell within the opening five overs before Stuart Broad dismissed top-ranked Test batsman Shivnarine Chanderpaul,
who was caught when he hooked a short ball to Jonathan Trott.  Bresnan then took his three wickets to leave West Indies
reeling. Marlon Samuels is 13 not out, with captain Darren Sammy
yet to face a ball.  Earlier, England made 428 in its first innings with captain
Andrew Strauss finishing as top-scorer on 141. Kevin Pietersen
hit 80 runs and Bresnan was 39 not out.  England had started the day on 259-2 but added only eight
runs before Pietersen was out leg before wicket. Four more
wickets tumbled before Bresnan and Broad shared a 53-run
partnership to take their team past the West Indies’ first
innings total of 370.  West Indies hasn’t won an away Test in a country other than
bottom-ranked Bangladesh since winning in  South Africa  in
December 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 