-- Erdogan Siding With Generals May Signal Islamist Split
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-05-28T15:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/erdogan-siding-with-generals-may-signal-islamist-split.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
rare expression of sympathy for Turkish generals this month may
signal a split with Turkey’s most powerful religious movement,
undermining the unity of his government.  Erdogan, who has backed a series of inquiries into alleged
coup plots that have left hundreds of army officers in prison,
was critical of the latest probe, saying it was “unsettling”
the country. Previously, he blocked an attempt by one of the
investigations to interrogate Turkey’s intelligence chief.  Many Turkish analysts saw those actions as a warning
directed at Fethullah Gulen, a Turkish imam based in the U.S.
and leader of a  movement  widely seen here as a driving force
behind the prosecutions. Curbing the army’s power has been a key
policy for Erdogan, who has presided over  record growth  after
ending an era of fragile coalition governments. Now, the premier
and Gulen may no longer share the same goals, threatening the
stability that underlay Erdogan’s economic success.  “All movements start to crack once they’ve reached a
certain point,” said Atila Yesilada, an Istanbul-based analyst
at Global Source Partners, a political and economic research
firm. “If Gulen believes that Erdogan will never share
political power with him, he will organize within alternative
institutions to rival him.”  Conquer From Within  Gulen has been based in  Pennsylvania  since he left Turkey
in March 1999 to undergo a health check-up in the U.S.,
according to Ahmet Sik’s book “The Imam’s Army.” In June that
year, Turkish television broadcast footage of the imam telling
followers to spread his ideas and conquer the state from within
in the name of Islam, the book says. Gulen was prosecuted in
absentia for seeking to overthrow the constitution, a charge
that was dismissed by judges in 2008.  His followers are known as the Cemaat, or Congregation, in
Turkey. The organization runs more than 1,000 schools in 140
countries, Mustafa Yesil, one of its leading figures and
chairman of the  Journalists and Writers Foundation  in Istanbul,
told Taraf newspaper this month. He described the movement as
“faith-based, pacifist, pluralist, colorful and pro-
democratic.”  Detractors say it has cells within key areas of the Turkish
state. Sik’s study chronicles the group’s efforts to organize
inside the police force. Prosecutors banned the book and Sik was
arrested and charged with involvement in a coup plot. He was
released pending trial in March after 13 months in jail.  Yesil told Taraf that there are Gulen followers in the
police and judiciary, though their loyalty to the group wouldn’t
interfere with their responsibility to enforce the law. He
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg. Gulen’s website
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Ekrem Dumanli,
editor-in-chief of Gulen-backed Zaman newspaper, the country’s
best-selling daily, didn’t respond to requests for an interview.  ‘End This Injustice’  Hundreds of serving and retired military officers,
including former Chief of General Staff Ilker Basbug, have been
jailed during the probes, as well as academics including Baskent
University Rector Mehmet Haberal, and journalists including Sik
and Nedim Sener who wrote about the Gulen movement.  “What’s scary is that the Gulen followers in the
prosecution are trying to do away with respectable public
personalities in order to recreate  Turkey  in their vision,”
Sener, who was released together with Sik, said in a phone
interview. “The government can’t control this and is
uncomfortable. Still, the government isn’t taking any action,
it’s only voicing disturbance. Its duty is to do something to
end this injustice.”  Disturbed by Raids  On May 8, Erdogan said he is “disturbed” by the unending
raids against current and former military officers, after the
arrest of army personnel for allegedly plotting to remove the
government in 1997. He urged the prosecution to get their
investigation “over and done with” -- backtracking from
earlier expressions of support when he said the case should be
pursued “as far as it needs to.”  Prosecutors detained four retired generals today in
connection with their investigation of the so-called postmodern
coup 15 years ago, sending them to Ankara for depositions. All
were members of the National Security Council that prosecutors
say ousted the government, NTV news channel reported.  Fadi Hakura, an analyst at Chatham House research institute
in  London , said he’s skeptical whether Erdogan’s comments mark a
change of course, saying he may be seeking to assuage domestic
and external critics of the investigations, which have been
slammed by the European Union and rights groups. The government
has shown in the past that it can remove prosecutors from cases
when it isn’t happy with their direction, and that hasn’t
happened with the 1997 coup probe, he said in a phone interview.  Still, the comments earned Erdogan a rebuke from Gulen’s
media outlets. They will be “etched into history as not
befitting a prime minister,” wrote Bulent Kenes in the Gulen-
backed newspaper  Today’s Zaman . “The masses, who are the main
makers of history and the main power driving the ruling AKP, do
not agree with the prime minister in this respect.”  Army Powers  Erdogan’s own background is Islamist: he was a leading
member of two parties banned on the grounds they threatened
Turkey’s secular system, and served a jail sentence in the 1990s
for reading a religious poem at a political rally.  Since his  Justice and Development Party  or AKP came to
power, Erdogan has reduced the powers of the military, which has
seen itself as the guardian of secularism in Turkey and ousted
an Islamist-led coalition in 1997. He ended army control over
the National Security Council and ignored military objections to
a United Nations plan to unify Cyprus.  When the generals objected to his choice of  Abdullah Gul  as
president in 2007, Erdogan called a snap election, won with an
increased majority, then installed Gul as head of state. Erdogan
is favored to succeed to the presidency, an above-party job,
when Gul’s term ends in 2014.  Under Erdogan the economy has grown at an annual average of
about 5.5 percent. His government slashed  budget deficits ,
helping reduce borrowing costs to record lows and the national
debt to less than 40 percent of economic output.  Erdogan ‘So Dominant’  For now, “Erdogan is so dominant, I’m not sure Gulen would
want to take him on,” said Tim Ash, head of  emerging markets 
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London.  Still, when the premier was off work sick last year, “we
saw guys around him battling Gulen’s people,” Ash said,
referring to a row over legislation on soccer match-fixing late
last year. Factional disputes could intensify and become “a big
issue for Turkey” if the presidency takes Erdogan away from
day-to-day politics, he said.  Erdogan’s support for the coup probes that began rounding
up army officers in 2007 pushed the four top military commanders
to quit in July last year.  “Erdogan is quite happy with the current leadership of the
Turkish military because they were effectively chosen by him,”
Hakura said.  There are signs that Erdogan is concerned by the spread of
the investigations. When prosecutors asked in February to
question the national intelligence chief, Hakan Fidan, an
Erdogan appointee, the prime minister pushed through a law
within a week that shields Turkey’s spies from the judiciary.  “Even though the party and the congregation deny it,
there’s a serious battle,” Open Source’s Yesilada said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  