-- Euro Rises as Greek Pro-Bailout Party Leads Opinion Polls
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-05-28T21:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/euro-rises-as-greek-pro-bailout-party-leads-opinion-polls.html
The euro rose against the dollar from
the weakest level since July 2010 as polls showed Greece’s pro-
bailout parties gaining ground, easing concern the nation will
exit the currency bloc.  The Dollar Index fell for the first time in five days as
demand for higher-yielding assets boosted stocks. Japan’s yen
snapped a two-day decline against the dollar after minutes of
the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s April meeting damped speculation policy
makers will increase monetary easing to achieve a 1 percent
inflation goal.  “It’s a momentary respite” for the euro, said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  in  London . “There hasn’t been any positive news other
than these polls. It’s a watch-and-wait market.”  The euro strengthened 0.2 percent to $1.2541 at 5 p.m.
London time, after climbing as much as 0.9 percent. It dropped
to $1.2496 on May 25, the weakest level since July 6, 2010.
 Europe ’s shared currency was little changed at 99.67 yen. The
dollar fell 0.3 percent to 79.47 yen  The 17-member shared currency has depreciated more than 5
percent versus the greenback in May, poised for the biggest
monthly slump since September after inconclusive Greek elections
on May 6 sparked concern the nation may exit the bloc. The euro
has slid 3.3 percent this year.  U.S. financial markets are shut today for a holiday. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares was little changed.  Greek Polls  Greece’s New Democracy party, which supports the plan
negotiated by the government with international lenders, ranked
first in all six opinion polls published on May 26 in
campaigning for the June 17 general election. It led by as much
as 5.7 percentage points over Syriza, the main party opposed to
implementing the terms of financial aid packages, according to a
poll by Kapa Research SA for To Vima newspaper.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.2 percent to 82.215.  Gains in the euro were tempered before reports forecast to
show the debt crisis is hurting the region’s economic growth.  Consumer confidence  in the euro area was at minus 19.3 in
May, from minus 19.9 in April, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before the final reading is released on May 30. The
 unemployment rate  climbed to 11 percent in April, the highest in
data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1990, economist
forecasts in a separate survey showed before the June 1 report.  ‘Base Case’  “The base case is that it’s on track for about $1.20,
$1.21 or so,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney, said about the euro today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “That’s pretty much just
based on the deceleration in the European economy.”  Spain  is considering injecting debt issued by the
government or its bank-rescue fund instead of cash into the
Bankia group, using a mechanism that would free it from raising
the money from investors. The government hasn’t made a decision
on whether to use its debt to recapitalize the nationalized
lender and will decide in two or three months, a spokesman for
the  Economy Ministry , who asked not to be named in line with its
policy, said in a phone interview today.  Until now, to pay for bank bailouts, the state would sell
debt in the market through its bank rescue fund and use the cash
to aid banks. A jump in yields has made debt sales more
difficult and expensive, El Pais reported yesterday, without
citing anyone.  This type of step “may generate more worry in markets,”
Emma Lawson, a currency strategist at  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  in Sydney, wrote in a research note today.  Spanish Yields  Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 6.42 percent after rising to this year’s
high of 6.51 percent on May 16.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
nation’s credit rating on April 26 to BBB+ from A, saying there
is an increasing likelihood the government will need to provide
further fiscal support to the banking sector.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased wagers
the euro will decline versus the dollar to 195,361 in the period
ended May 22, the most on record going back to 1999, according
to the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Lloyd’s of London Ltd. is prepared for a collapse of the
European single currency that may be triggered if  Greece  leaves
the euro, The Sunday Telegraph said, citing an interview with
Chief Executive Officer Richard Ward.  Lloyd’s has a contingency plan to switch from euro
underwriting to multi-currency settlement if Greece returns to
the drachma, the newspaper said.  Fibonacci Charts  The euro is likely to extend losses against the yen after
dropping below the 76.4 percent Fibonacci retracement of its
advance from the January low and the March high, Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. said in a report today. The common currency
may decline to 97.04 yen, the January low, the bank said.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a new high or low.  BOJ board members said they need to avoid any
“misunderstanding” that the central bank would continue to
increase the size of its asset-purchase program in an automatic
manner, according to the minutes released today. The BOJ on
April 27 boosted the amount of government debt it plans to buy
for the period through June 2013.  “It looks like the BOJ is taking a somewhat less
aggressive stance toward its easing measures,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest banking group by market
value. “That’s leading to a bit of buying in the yen.”  Swiss Franc  The  Swiss franc  weakened against 12 of 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg after Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said controls on capital inflows are among measures being
considered by a government-led panel to stop the franc from
strengthening if the euro-area debt crisis escalates.  “The working group focuses mainly on instruments to combat
the franc strength based on a joint approach of the government
and the central bank,” Jordan told the SonntagsZeitung
newspaper in an interview published yesterday. “We also need to
be prepared for the possibility of the currency union
collapsing, even though I don’t expect it.” SNB spokesman
Walter Meier confirmed Jordan’s remarks to the newspaper.  The franc weakened 0.1 percent against the euro to 1.20191.
It dropped the most, or 0.9 percent, versus the  New Zealand
dollar  and the South Korean won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  