-- Funds Make Wrong-Way Bets Before Price Slump: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-05-28T17:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/funds-may-wrong-way-bets-before-price-slump-commodities.html
Speculators raised bullish bets on
commodities before signs of  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis and
slowing Chinese growth drove prices lower for a fourth
consecutive week, the longest slump since September.  Money managers boosted net-long  positions  across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 9.5 percent to 675,362 contracts in the
week ended May 22, government data show. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials reached a five-month low on
May 23. A gauge of net positions for 11 U.S. farm goods surged
21 percent, the most since February, before agriculture prices
tracked by S&P posted the biggest weekly loss in eight months.  The euro dropped to the lowest since July 2010 on May 25
after Catalonia’s president repeated his call for  Spain ’s
central government to help regions access funding and S&P cut
the credit ratings for five of the country’s banks. China’s
biggest lenders may fall short of loan targets for the first
time in at least seven years, three bank officials said, and the
nation’s State Council refrained from backing Premier  Wen
Jiabao ’s push to expand credit.  “It’s bit a surprising to see so much on the long side,
because the trend is down in commodities,” said Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . “We’re probably not going to
see an extended rally until we get some type of monetary easing.
Buying now is an aggressive move. You’re betting on a short-term
pop from some sort of resolution in Europe.”  Agriculture Gauge  The S&P GSCI index fell 1.4 percent last week and is down
9.4 percent in May, heading for the biggest monthly loss since
September. The S&P agriculture gauge tumbled 4.8 percent last
week. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rose 0.7
percent, and Treasures slid 0.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp.
index shows. The dollar rose 1.4 percent against a basket of six
currencies, rallying for a fourth week.  Twenty of the 24 raw materials tracked by S&P dropped last
week. Corn tumbled 9 percent, the most in a year, and cocoa
slumped 7.2 percent, the biggest loss in 2012. Natural gas fell
3 percent today.  A political impasse in  Greece , where voters rejected
austerity measures in elections on May 6, has raised concern
that country may leave the euro. Spain’s government is analyzing
“with all caution” requests from regional governments to help
them regain access to  capital markets , Deputy Prime Minister
Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said May 25. Catalonia is one of 17
semi-autonomous regions in the country.  Europe’s crisis risks deepening, damaging the world
economy, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said in a report May 22.  ‘Aggressive’ Stimulus  China’s Wen, in comments posted on the government’s website
May 20, said the nation should put “stabilizing growth in a
more important position” and increase lending to support
construction. More “aggressive” stimulus measures will spur
Chinese economic expansion and boost copper prices in the second
half of the year, Morgan Stanley analysts led by New York-based
Hussein Allidina said in a report May 21.  Copper inventories monitored by  Shanghai ’s exchange fell
for a seventh straight week to the lowest since January. China
is the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metals. Novelis
Inc., the top global producer of rolled aluminum, said last week
that doubling its output capacity may not be enough to meet
rising demand from car makers.  “Where investors struggle at the moment is that they can
see in the medium- to long-term it’s still a bull story,” said
Jonathan Whitehead, the global head of  commodities markets  at
Societe Generale SA. “Most of the reasons why commodities spent
the 2000s going up are still there -- growing demand and
increasing supply issues.”  $1.18 Billion  Investors pulled $1.18 billion from commodity funds in the
week ended May 23, the fifth consecutive drop and the most this
year, according to  Brad Durham , a managing director at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money
flows. Gold and precious metals outflows totaled $631.7 million,
also the biggest exit this year, he said.  Money managers boosted corn wagers by 30 percent to 109,022
futures and options contracts, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said. That’s the biggest jump since July 2010. Last
week’s 9 percent tumble in Chicago prices extended this year’s
decline to 11 percent.  Speculators are bullish on wheat for the first time since
September. Funds went from a short position, or betting on price
declines, of 50,057 futures and options to a long holding of
7,026 in the week ended May 22, the CFTC data show. The gain of
57,083 contracts was larger than for any of the 18 raw materials
tracked by Bloomberg. Prices fell 2.2 percent last week.  Export Sales  Slowing growth in  China , the world’s biggest pork consumer,
is eroding demand for grains used in livestock feed. In the week
ended May 17, U.S. corn  export-sales  for delivery before Aug.
31, 2013, plunged 44 percent from a week earlier, the Department
of Agriculture said May 24.  Gold wagers dropped for a third week to 77,318 contracts,
extending a slump to the lowest since December 2008. Funds are
bearish on copper prices for the first time since January, going
to a net-short position of 2,808 contracts as of May 22, from
net-long holdings of 4,833 a week earlier.  Nine of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal
to drop this week and three were neutral. Traders were bearish
for a second week, the first consecutive negative outlook since
early April.  “There’s been a down shift in demand for a lot of
commodities with the concerns over growth in China and Europe,”
said  Jack Ablin , the Chicago-based chief investment officer of
BMO Harris Private Bank, which oversees about $60 billion of
assets. “There are generally a lot of headwinds. We’re
underweight in commodities and may go to zero.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  