-- Gillard Backs Australian Jobs as Overseas Worker Plan Criticized
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-27T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/gillard-backs-australian-jobs-as-overseas-worker-plan-criticized.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  pledged
to protect Australian workers after labor unions criticized her
government’s decision to let billionaire mining magnate  Gina
Rinehart  employ more than 1,700 overseas workers.  “We are going to see amazing growth in our resources
sector,” Gillard said in Canberra yesterday. “There will be
some need for some foreign labor because of the sheer size and
scale, but we’ll always put Australian  jobs  first.”  The government on May 25  approved  an enterprise migration
agreement authorizing Rinehart’s Roy Hill mining project in
Western  Australia ’s Pilbara region to sponsor as many as 1,715
overseas workers for its three-year construction phase because
of a shortage of local employees.  The plan brought renewed criticism of Gillard’s Labor
government, which trails the opposition Liberal-National
coalition by 15 points, according to a Newspoll survey conducted
May 11-13. Labor lawmaker Joel Fitzgibbon is canvassing for
votes to return her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  to the party
leadership, Melbourne’s Age newspaper reported yesterday,
without saying where it obtained the information.  Gillard, Australia’s first female prime minister, fended
off a challenge for the leadership from Rudd in February.
Fitzgibbon said in a Twitter post yesterday that he  supports  the
prime minister.  “I think his words are clear,” Gillard said. “I’m
looking forward to leading the team into the 2013 election.”  Union Criticism  The Communications, Electrical and Plumbing Union said May
26 that the government should reverse its decision on taking
overseas workers because proper attempts to find local people
weren’t made.  “The concept of enterprise migration agreements has been
approved by Cabinet and it’s been around for quite some period
of time,”  Greg Combet , minister for industry and innovation,
told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. The Roy Hill
venture “is a A$10 billion dollar project,” he said.
“Thousands and thousands of people will be employed on it and
it’s very good for the economy.”  Australia’s economy is being powered by demand for the
energy and minerals of the nation’s north and west from emerging
countries including India and  China . That’s put pressure on non-
resource industries such as manufacturing and tourism in the
most-populous states of New South  Wales  and Victoria.  Mineral and energy projects worth a record A$261 billion
($255 billion) were being developed in Australia as of April 30,
the  Bureau  of Resources and Energy Economics said May 24.
Including less-advanced projects, the total value was A$504
billion, it said.  Job Cuts  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , the nation’s largest carrier, will cut
500 jobs to contend with rising fuel prices and losses, the
company said May 21.  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest
aluminum producer, said May 23 that it had started talks with
workers to shut down its Kurri Kurri smelter amid falling metal
prices and the country’s carbon tax. Kurri Kurri, located near
Newcastle in the state of New South Wales, employs 344 people.  Hancock Prospecting Pty Ltd. has spent or committed over
A$1 billion in contracts during the past 10 months to build the
Roy Hill iron ore mine, the company said May 25. Rinehart, who
controls the company, is the world’s richest woman, with a
personal wealth of A$29.2 billion, according to BRW magazine.
She is ranked the 30th richest person in the world, with a net
worth of $18.2 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  