-- Graff Plans Asia Expansion After $1 Billion Share Sale
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-28T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/graff-diamonds-plans-asian-expansion-after-1-billion-h-k-offer.html
Graff Diamonds Corp. , the London-
based jeweler founded in 1960, plans to open 11 new stores in
 Asia , including eight in  China , in the next two years after a $1
billion initial public offering in Hong Kong.  Demand for high-end diamonds will grow in China and other
Asian countries as the “super rich” increase, Chief Executive
Officer Francois Graff said at a press conference in Hong Kong
yesterday. Graff, which depends on just 20 customers for almost
half its revenue, is offering as many as 311.2 million shares at
HK$25 to HK$37 apiece, according to a sales prospectus.  Graff is pushing ahead with the offering even as investors
shun new equity in volatile markets and jewelry sales growth
slow in the Chinese city. With only $1.4 billion raised,  Hong
Kong ’s IPO market is set for its slowest first half since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re preparing to double the number of directly owned
stores over the next three years with most new stores in Asia,”
said Graff, son of chairman and founder Laurence Graff.
“Showcasing our jewelry and watches at exhibitions in Asia will
continue to be a core part of our sales and brand-building
strategy.”  The company, which has 18 directly owned stores globally,
plans to open five new stores in Hong Kong,  Shanghai , Macau,
Hangzhou and  Tokyo  this year, Francois Graff said. Another six
stores will open next year in Macau, Beijing, Shenyang, Chengdu,
 Seoul  and  Singapore , he said.  Twenty Customers  The company aims to raise $850 million by selling new
shares, the prospectus shows. More than half of the proceeds
will be used to buy assets controlled by  Laurence Graff ,
including a diamond store in  Monaco  and stones from another
company, according to the document. Anne-Marie Graff, wife of
Laurence Graff, also plans to sell shares for $150 million in
the offering.  Graff’s business is “dependent on purchases by a
relatively small number of high and ultra high net worth
individuals,” the company said in the prospectus. One customer
accounted for 13.2 percent of Graff’s $755.6 million in sales
last year, while the top 20 customers accounted for 44 percent,
the document shows.  “The reliance on a few key clients makes it highly
vulnerable to externalities,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a principal
trader at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd.  Share Valuations  Sales of jewelery, watches and valuable gifts in Hong Kong
rose  19 percent  in March from a year earlier, slowing from 55
percent growth in March 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Graff is offering the shares at a valuation similar to
where  Prada (1913)  SpA is trading, people with knowledge of the matter
said on May 18. The offering range is about 18 times to 24 times
estimated 2012 earnings, they said.  Prada is trading at about 22 times estimated earnings for
the year ending January 2013, after rising 16 percent from its
June IPO through last week, Bloomberg data showed. Tiffany &
Co., the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry retailer,  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and  Cie Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) ,
owner of the Cartier brand, trade at an average of 15 times the
current year’s estimated earnings, the data show.  “It’s more of an art than science working out its
valuation,” said Sullivan. “You can’t even compare it with
Tiffany, as Tiffany tends to be more mass market-oriented.”  Biggest IPO  Graff’s IPO would be the largest in Hong Kong this year.
With the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  down 14 percent from
its February high, companies have raised $1.4 billion in IPOs so
far in 2012, compared with $7.3 billion in the same period a
year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. China Yongda
Autmobiles Services Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest BMW
distributor, today scrapped a Hong Kong IPO that may have raised
as much as $430 million, according to two people with knowledge
of the sale.  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929)  has dropped  36 percent 
from its initial offer price after raising about $2 billion in
December in Hong Kong. Chow Tai Fook currently trades at about
12 times estimated earnings for the year ending March 2013,
Bloomberg data show.  Graff plans to start trading on June 7, according to the
prospectus. Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley are managing the offering,
the document shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  