-- Greek Pro-Bailout Parties Gain Amid Euro Collapse Concern
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-05-28T08:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/greek-pro-bailout-parties-gain-amid-warnings-of-euro-collapse.html
Greek opinion polls showed voters
warming to parties supporting the European Union’s bailout
agreement as political leaders at home and abroad warned of
economic catastrophe should the single currency fragment.  New Democracy , which supports the austerity plan negotiated
with international lenders, placed first in all six  polls
published on May 26 as campaigning continued for next month’s
election. Party leader Antonis Samaras sought to sketch out the
consequences of a euro exit, saying Greek incomes,  bank deposits 
and property values would lose at least half their value within
days, while food prices would rise by a quarter.  “No society, no economy and no democracy can tolerate such
a sudden collapse in so little time,” Samaras told party
activists in a May 26 speech in  Athens .  As the Spanish government this week prepares to channel 19
billion euros ($24 billion) to the Bankia group to restore
confidence to its banking sector, Greek electoral rhetoric
alluded to what might happen if the 2 1/2-year debt crisis
deteriorates. Pressure also built from outside as International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  upbraided
Greek taxpayers and Juergen Fitschen, the incoming co-chief
executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG, referred to the country
as a “failed state.”  The poll results helped send the euro and stocks higher.
The currency rose against the dollar for the first time in five
days, climbing 0.5 percent to $1.2573 at 11:15 a.m. in Athens.
The euro rebounded from its biggest weekly loss since December.
The Euro Stoxx 50 Index added 0.4 percent.  ‘Replacing its Anger’  New Democracy led the biggest anti-bailout party, Syriza,
which was at or near the top of the polls last week, by a margin
of 5.7 percentage points, according to a survey by Kapa Research
SA for To Vima newspaper. The smallest margin was 0.5 percent.
Greeks vote on June 17 following an inconclusive ballot on May
6.  One poll by Marc SA for the Ethnos newspaper, gave New
Democracy a 2.2 percent point lead over Syriza and said that
would give Samaras’s party 125 seats in the 300-member
parliament. The result would enable it to form a pro-bailout
coalition with the
Socialist Pasok party, which the poll said would get 41 seats.  “A large part of the electorate seems to be replacing its
anger with concern for the dangers of leaving the country
ungoverned and of an exit from the euro,” Athens-based To Vima
wrote in a commentary on May 26.  ‘Blind and Catastrophic’  While the May 6 vote gave New Democracy the most
parliamentary seats, the party fell short of a majority,
prompting days of political deadlock before President Karolos Papoulias called new elections.  Greek voters face a choice between supporting a review of
the country’s aid package or the “blind and catastrophic”
route of terminating the deal unilaterally,  Evangelos Venizelos ,
Pasok’s leader, said yesterday.  The cost of Greece exiting the euro would probably exceed 1
trillion euros,  Charles Dallara , head of the Washington-based
 Institute of International Finance , said May 25. Dallara said in
an interview that those believing a departure by Greece would be
manageable “should think again.”  “It’s not really in Greece’s interest to leave the euro,”
 Charles Lieberman , chief investment officer at Advisors Capital
Management LLC, said May 25 on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart.” If Greece departs, “their currency collapses,
inflation goes through the roof, they have to walk away from all
their obligations -- and they’re outcasts within  Europe . And for
what? What does it get them?”  ‘Failed State’  EU leaders wrapped up a six-hour summit last week by urging
Greeks to vote for parties supporting austerity measures tied to
the 240 billion-euro bailout. Euro finance ministers and leaders
do not plan to meet again until after the election.  The tensions surrounding  Greece  were underscored by
comments from Lagarde and Fitschen. The IMF head told the
 Guardian newspaper  that children in  Africa  needed more help than
the Greeks, who were “trying to escape tax all the time.”
Deutsche Bank’s Fitschen said Greece’s political system is
unable to escape corruption.  “Greece is the only country, I feel, where we can say it’s
a failed state, it is a corrupt state, corrupt as far as its
political leadership is concerned and obviously other people had
to be willing to support this,” Fitschen said in a speech at a
conference in Berlin on May 25.  Mortgage Provisions  Lagarde posted comments on Facebook yesterday saying she
sympathized with Greece, while reiterating that the most
privileged should pay their taxes.  The U.K. may impose emergency immigration controls if the
euro-area debt crisis deteriorates and creates a wave of
migrants, Home Secretary Theresa May told the Daily Telegraph
newspaper on May 26. Meanwhile Lloyd’s of London Chief Executive
Officer Richard Ward yesterday told the Sunday Telegraph that it
had a contingency plan to switch from euro underwriting to
multi-currency settlement if Greece returns to the drachma, the
newspaper said.  With Ireland poised to vote on May 31 in a referendum on
the EU’s new fiscal treaty, officials and investors will be
looking to  Spain  to detail the means by which it will prop up
 Bankia (BKIA)  and aid confidence in its banking sector.  Bankia’s Cost  The Valencia-based lender, which was nationalized earlier
this month, will seek the 19 billion euros in state financing as
it sets aside provisions for residential mortgages and corporate
lending. Director General Jose Sevilla detailed additional
provisions on May 26 after additional assessments.  As the government of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles
to stave off EU aid, the unraveling of Bankia is drawing
scrutiny to the health of Spain’s banks and the risk posed to
the public finances. The 19 billion-euro figure for the group
exceeds Economy Minister Luis de Guindos’s two-week-old estimate
of 15 billion euros for the whole industry.  Concern over Spain has driven the yield on the country’s
 10-year bonds  closer to the level that induced sovereign
bailouts for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal . The yield climbed
14.8 basis points to 6.311 on May 25.  “Bankia is the tip of an iceberg as we’ve been saying all
along,” Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
in  London , said in a phone interview on May 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  