-- Indian Hospitals Lure Private Equity as Demand Surges
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-05-28T11:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/indian-hospitals-lure-private-equity-as-demand-surges.html
Indian hospitals are admitting more
than just patients.  Private equity funds such as  Sequoia Capital  and Advent
International Corp. are buying stakes in hospitals in the South
Asian nation, lured by a market that’s forecast to reach more
than $80 billion in revenue in 2015.  “If you want to deploy capital in  India , health care is a
nice area to be in,” Abhay Pandey, a managing director at
Sequoia’s India unit, said in an interview. “It has lesser
regulatory issues and usually no governance issues. Most of the
investment is going after a very large, untapped market.”  Private equity firms are set to invest the most in Indian
hospitals in at least six years in 2012, according to Chennai-
based  Venture Intelligence . There were 12 investments in
hospitals, clinics and drug makers totaling $527 million so far
this year, almost double the $287 million in 2011, the
researcher said. Sequoia, the fund that backed  Google Inc. (GOOG) , said
this month it paid 1 billion rupees ($18 million) for a stake in
Moolchand Healthcare Ltd., a  New Delhi  hospital operator which
plans to add fertility clinics and medical centers.  Revenue for the hospital services industry was $37.4
billion last year and will more than double over four years,
according to RNCOS, a researcher based in Noida near New Delhi.
India, which has a population of 1.2 billion, still needs to add
3 million hospital beds to meet the global average of three for
every 1,000 people.  Health Problems  With government-run hospitals suffering from shortages of
doctors and equipment, the growing ranks of India’s middle
classes are increasingly turning to private health care. Prakash
Gupta, head of Mumbai-based public-health researcher Healis,
said private clinics are widely accepted as offering a “far
better” service. India’s gross domestic product per capita
based on purchasing power parity surged to $3,425 in 2010 from
$1,512 in 2000 and $872 in 1990, according to  World Bank data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Increasing wealth may also lead to health problems as
people’s work and dietary habits change, adding more pressure
for hospitals to grow. The International Diabetes Federation
estimates that the number of diabetics in India was 61.3 million
in 2011 and may reach 101 million in 2030.  “Incomes are rising, and more people are getting lifestyle
diseases like diabetes, but the pace of new hospitals coming up
is very slow,” Siddhant Khandekar, a Mumbai-based health-care
analyst at ICICI Direct, said in an interview. “That’s why
 private equity  funds are ready to come to India to put money and
wait for five to seven years.”  Market Momentum  Hospitals are tapping private equity as the market for
public share offers shrinks. Indian companies raised 198 billion
rupees from 18 stock sales so far this year, less than half the
amount in the same period in 2010 when issues peaked, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Aside from private equity, there
is a “lack of public markets momentum or other sources of
capital” for hospitals, according to Avnish Mehra, a director
at Advent International.  In November, India  changed  its policy and made it mandatory
for overseas investment in local drugmakers to get government
approval.  Similar transactions for hospitals aren’t subject to review
and “that’s why those investments continue to happen,” said V.
KrishnaKumar, partner, mergers and acquisitions, at Ernst &
Young Pvt. in Mumbai.  Apollo  Investors are predicting the new hospitals will emulate the
growth of operators such as  Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. (APHS) ,
ICICI Direct’s Khandekar said. Apollo, the biggest operator of
hospitals by market value, surged more than 38 percent in the
past year.  Shares of Apollo rose 4.4 percent to 663.95 rupees at the
close in Mumbai trading, highest since Dec. 7. The company will
announce earnings tomorrow.  Advent, the Boston-based leveraged buyout firm founded by
Peter Brooke, spent $105 million buying shares of Hyderabad-
based  Care Hospitals , it said in April. The deal was its third
in India and follows investments in a provider of outsourced
transaction processing and a corporate e-learning business.
Care, which operates 1,700 beds in its 12 hospitals, plans to
almost double capacity by end-2014, Chief Executive Officer
Krishna Reddy said in a telephone interview.  Eye-Care Clinics  Vasan Healthcare Pvt., a Chennai-based operator of eye-care
clinics, in March got $100 million from  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp.  to fund new clinics and acquisitions. Sequoia
is also an investor in the chain.  Olympus Capital Holdings Asia, a private-equity firm, in
January bought a stake in DM Healthcare Pvt., which runs
hospitals under its Aster brand in Kolhapur, in western state of
Maharashtra, and Faridabad near New Delhi, for 5 billion rupees.
DM, which operates hospitals in Qatar, Oman and  Saudi Arabia ,
has more than 900 hospital beds in India and aims to reach about
3,000 beds by 2015, it has said.  Moolchand plans a network of in vitro fertilization, or
IVF, clinics across India, either through acquisitions or
opening new branches, Chief Executive Officer Shravan Talwar
said in a telephone interview. It also expects to spend 5
billion rupees on acquisitions in the next five years, he said.  Doctor Shortage  Investing in the  health care industry  in India isn’t
without its drawbacks. The nation’s hospitals face shortages of
doctors, nurses, technicians and paramedics as they expand,
putting services and expansion at risk. The country has 0.67
doctors for every 1,000 people, compared with a global average
of 1.4, according to a report this month by  Technopak Advisors
Pvt. , a Gurgaon-based consultant. India needs at least 800,000
additional doctors and 1.8 million more nurses, it said.  Interventions by private equity in the decisions of the
management of a hospital sometimes leads to problems, according
to  Frost & Sullivan . Transition from an operation run by the
founders, who are usually doctors, to one that’s backed by
private equity firms may lead to friction, the researcher said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Still, exposure to private equity brings some benefits for
staff in India, according to Care Hospital’s Reddy.  “It’s like getting an executive MBA program in a
management school for some of our senior managers,” he said.  Recession-Proof  Investors in India could use some good news. The nation’s
economy is growing at the slowest pace in three years and the
rupee,  Asia ’s worst performer this year, tumbled to a record low
against the dollar last week amid concern about the nation’s
finances.  Hospitals may offer a haven from the turmoil.  “The health care industry is relatively recession-proof,”
said Ernst & Young’s KrishnaKumar. “Rising disposable incomes
are improving people’s capacity to pay. Besides, there is severe
shortage of good-quality health care facilities in India. Hence
this sector will continue to grow in excess of 15 percent per
annum and even average business-models will continue to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  