-- India’s Singh Says Myanmar Visit Will Define Future Partnership
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-05-27T05:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/india-s-singh-says-myanmar-visit-will-define-future-partnership.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said his three-day visit to Myanmar starting today will define a
road map for future cooperation between the neighbors, including
forging economic ties.  “Stronger trade and investment links, development of
border areas, improving connectivity between our two countries”
are areas to focus on, Singh said in a statement today.  India and Myanmar are likely to sign agreements in these
areas during the visit, the prime minister said.  Singh, 79, the first Indian leader to visit Myanmar in a
quarter of a century, is resurrecting ties to a neighbor with 64
million people and reserves of natural gas and lumber, as
Myanmar reconnects with the global economy following five
decades of isolation during military rule.  “ India  welcomes Myanmar’s transition to democratic
governance and the steps taken by the government of Myanmar
toward a more broad-based and inclusive reconciliation
process,” Singh said in the statement.  The prime minister said he’s scheduled to meet with pro-
democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi during his visit to Yangon and
looks forward to “addressing a cross-section of Myanmar
society.”  India, which in British colonial days oversaw the monetary
and financial system of what was then Burma, ranked 13th last
year in investments in Myanmar, with $189 million pledged in
five projects, according to  data  compiled by IHS Global Insight.
 China  led with $8.3 billion, and South Korea, whose president
visited Myanmar earlier this month, pledged $2.95 billion.  ‘Gold Rush’  “There is a huge gold rush going on in Myanmar right now
and everyone is jockeying for position,” said Rajiv Biswas,
chief economist in  Singapore  at IHS. “India is being left
behind. They are not as aggressive in their economic diplomacy
as countries like China and  South Korea .”  Myanmar Prime Minister Thein Sein’s steps to end military
rule have been rewarded with an easing of U.S. and European
sanctions, bolstering prospects for a nation the  International
Monetary Fund  said in January could be “the next economic
frontier in  Asia .” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  earlier
this month pledged to increase aid to Myanmar and the countries
agreed to enhance cooperation on energy and developing resources.  Singh will relax terms on a $500 million line of credit,
announce a new bus service between India’s northeast and the
tourist city of Mandalay and oversee the opening of branches of
Indian banks, according to an Indian Foreign Ministry official,
who asked not to be named because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  Insurgent Groups  Also on the agenda is cooperation to contain insurgent
groups with bases in Myanmar that have sought independence or
greater autonomy for some of India’s northeastern states.  India, Myanmar’s fourth-largest trading partner after China,
Thailand and Singapore, approved plans in 2010 for  Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  to invest a combined $1.3 billion
in a natural gas project in Myanmar.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s
biggest commercial-vehicle maker, said in March last year it
will help set up a factory in Myanmar to build trucks.  Myanmar’s economy is set to grow 6 percent in the fiscal
year ending March 31, the fastest pace since 2006, on higher
natural gas sales and government measures to make it easier to
do business, according to the Asian Development Bank. The
country has one of the lowest per capita gross domestic products
in Asia, according to IMF estimates.  Policy Shift  The nation, which borders China and India and has the
second-largest land area in  Southeast Asia  behind Indonesia,
earlier this year implemented its biggest economic policy shift
since  Thein Sein  took office a year ago. The central bank
scrapped a 35-year fixed currency system in April, and is moving
to unify multiple exchange rates for the kyat that have
discouraged trade and foreign direct investment, according to
the IMF.  The last Indian prime minister to visit Myanmar was Rajiv Gandhi in 1987. The next year marked the public emergence of Suu
Kyi, daughter of a Myanmar independence hero. She was first
detained before 1990 elections in which her party won about 80
percent of seats for a committee that was designed to draft a
new constitution. The military rejected the results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  