-- ‘Horrified’ Annan Arrives in Syria as Massacre Draws Ange
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-05-28T19:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/international-community-opposition-condemns-syrian-massacre-.html
United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan 
arrived in  Syria  today for talks with President Bashar al-Assad
after three days of attacks left more than 100 dead, including
dozens of children, and drew growing international condemnation.  Annan said he was “shocked and horrified” by the massacre
of more than 100 people in the town of Houla, and that “those
responsible for these brutal crimes must be held accountable,”
according to an e-mailed statement from his office. The diplomat
is due to meet senior government officials as well as
representatives of the opposition and civil society.  At least 34 people, including eight children, were killed
in army shelling of Hama that started yesterday, the opposition
Syrian National Council said on Facebook today. The attack
followed the May 25 massacre in Houla, condemned by the UN
 Security Council , in which 32 children were among the dead.  Syria’s Foreign Ministry said in a letter to the UN
Security Council that militants were responsible for the Houla
killings, the state news agency SANA reported. In a battle with
the militants, three Syrian soldiers were killed and 16 wounded
as the army fought to protect civilians, SANA said.  Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi told
reporters in Damascus yesterday that gunmen funded by foreign
powers were responsible for the killings. Burhan Ghalioun, head
of the Syrian National Council, called on Syrians to intensify
their revolt and unite against Assad, saying they had “nothing
to lose,” and accused world powers of failing to shoulder their
responsibilities.  ‘Bold Steps’  The killings add to evidence that the cease-fire agreement
brokered by Annan last month has failed to deter Assad’s efforts
to crush an uprising that began with peaceful protests and has
evolved into an armed insurgency shaking the stability of the
region. Assad’s forces have killed more than 10,000 people since
March 2011 when the protests began, according to the UN.  Annan urged the Syrian government to “take bold steps to
signal that it is serious in its intention to resolve this
crisis peacefully.” He said his message applied to “everyone
with a gun” involved in the conflict.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and French President
 Francois Hollande  spoke today and “agreed to act together to
increase the pressure of the international community on Assad
and to bring an end to the bloody suppression of the Syrian
people who aspire to freedom and democracy,” Cameron’s office
said in an e-mailed statement.  Cameron also suggested the UN Security Council should
consider sending more observers to Syria to boost the chances of
success for Annan’s plan. The prime minister made the suggestion
in a phone call to UN General Ban Ki-moon today, according to an
e-mailed statement.  Violence Spreading  Violence has spread into Lebanon this month, with gun
battles between Assad supporters and opponents. Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services today cut the outlook on Lebanon’s
credit rating to negative from stable, saying the spread of the
conflict from Syria is “threatening government stability” in
the neighboring state.  The Security Council yesterday condemned “in the strongest
possible terms” the killings in Houla, in the central province
of Homs, without holding Assad’s troops responsible because of
Russian objections. Alexander Pankin, Russia’s deputy envoy at
the UN, said circumstances surrounding the deaths remain murky
and it was “difficult to imagine” the Syrian government would
massacre women and children.  Russian Response  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said both sides of
the conflict are behind the Houla massacre, and urged the
international community today to put concerted pressure on Assad
and armed opposition groups to halt the violence. Some countries
are encouraging the Syrian opposition to undermine the UN peace
plan, and that “isn’t a fair game,” he told reporters in
Moscow today.  Western and Arab powers accused Assad’s army of carrying
out atrocities, including killing children, an allegation denied
by his government.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said
yesterday that President  Barack Obama  “can no longer ignore
calls from congressional leaders in both parties to take more
assertive steps,” including arming Syrian opposition groups.  An editorial in  China ’s state-run Global Times newspaper
today said it was too early to say who was responsible, and that
the West must not use the massacre as an excuse to push for
Assad’s ouster.  Russia  and China “must firmly oppose the
hysterical escalation of interventionism,” the English-language
editorial said.  China’s Demands  At a regular briefing today, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Liu Weimin  said Beijing was demanding a full
investigation into the killings and wants all sides to adhere to
Annan’s plan.  The UN now has 271 unarmed military observers to monitor
the Syria cease-fire plan, and expects to have a full contingent
of 300 there by the end of this month. The 90-day mission will
be reviewed in July.  The chief of the UN’s observers in Syria, General Robert
Mood, told the Security Council at an emergency meeting
yesterday that at least 116 people were killed in Houla, more
than the 90 reported earlier, according to two diplomats who
were at the meeting. Herve Ladsous, under secretary-general for
peacekeeping operations, put the figure at 108.  “The observers were not able to immediately determine the
cause of death, but observed shotgun wounds and wounds
consistent with artillery fire,” Ki-moon wrote in a letter
yesterday to the Security Council. “The villages in question
were outside of the government control but surrounded by heavy
military presence.”  Shabiha Group  Local residents interviewed by observers visiting the site
said that the armed men who entered the village were members of
a pro-Assad militia group, known as “Shabiha,” Ban said in the
letter. The observers said there was evidence of shootings at
close range and “severe physical abuse,” according to Ban.  The events in Houla may speed the supply of weapons to
rebels battling Assad’s forces, said  Theodore Karasik , director
of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis, in a phone interview.  “Those who oppose the Syrian regime are sending money and
arms flowing to the Syrian Free Army,” he said. “Will this
process now be sped up because of the event of Houla? I think
the answer is yes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  