-- Irish Lawyers Battle Bankers for Mortgage Escape as GE Eyes Exit
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-05-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/irish-lawyers-battle-bankers-for-mortgage-escape-as-ge-eyes-exit.html
As Ireland’s mortgage crisis worsens,
attorney Ross Maguire just gets busier.  Maguire, 43, leads a group of about 50 lawyers working for
free on behalf of homeowners fighting repossessions after the
worst housing-market collapse in western  Europe . The nation’s
 central bank  estimated last week that one in 10 Irish home loans
is in arrears, and Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said they
represented the single biggest concern for the country’s people.  “We started out thinking about this in a humanitarian
manner,” Maguire said in an interview at his office close to
Dublin’s main courts complex on the banks of the River Liffey.
“But the more we looked at it, the more we discovered the
scandal of what had gone on. People were granted mortgages where
there was no mathematical possibility they could repay.”  The bursting of the real estate bubble in 2008 put Ireland
at the vanguard of the  European debt crisis  that’s still raging
more than three years later. While the government has been
trying to show investors the country isn’t like  Greece ,
escalating mortgage woes are hampering Ireland’s prospects of
escaping the worst recession in its modern history.  Deputy Central Bank Governor Matthew Elderfield told
reporters in Dublin on May 21 that “overwhelmed” lenders
aren’t sufficiently prepared to deal with struggling homeowners,
and urged banks to move quicker to deal with bad loans.  “Losses have to be borne and trying to avoid them by not
doing restructuring for zombie households will leave the economy
languishing,”  Michael Saunders , head of European economics at
Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in an interview. “Mortgage debt
is a very serious problem.”  ‘Escape Valve’  Unemployment has tripled since 2007 and  home prices  have
plunged about 60 percent, while the government has taken over
five of the country’s biggest banks and overseas lenders like
 General Electric Co. (GE)  are fleeing Ireland.  Maguire and his group, called New Beginning, want to
“unionize” borrowers to increase their power against lenders
and force them to accept more debt write-offs.  “What we want to do is take over negotiations for as many
borrowers as we can,” said Maguire, adding he’s “swamped” by
requests for help. “The banks are scared if the escape valve is
opened there could be an explosion.”  Rising Arrears  Irish home loans in arrears for more than 90 days rose to
10.2 percent of the total at the end of March from 9.2 percent
at the end of last year, the central bank said in a report on
May 25. Some 38,658 loans have been restructured and aren’t in
arrears, giving a total of 116,288 mortgages, or 15.2 percent of
the total stock, in trouble. That’s an increase from 14 percent
at the end of last year, the figures show.  Arrears on property bought for investment, so-called buy-
to-let real estate, are higher again.  Allied Irish Banks Plc’s (ALBK)  arrears on such properties more
than tripled to 32 percent at the end of December, after the
Dublin-based bank took over smaller EBS Ltd., it said March 30.  While Maguire’s lawyers carry out normal paid commercial
work, they represent homeowners for free on a part-time basis.
The group plans to introduce an advisory service with an
administration charge of 100 euros to 200 euros.  His group has scored some successes already. GE Capital,
part of General Electric Co., agreed to write off existing debt
of about 200,000 euros, in a deal that turned the homeowner into
a tenant and saw a housing association buy the house with state
support, according to Maguire.  GE Capital Exit  Dublin-based  GE Capital  spokesman Ben Valdimarsson said he
can’t comment on individual cases, while the company works to 
avoid court action and repossessions, “which is always a 
regrettable last resort.” GE Capital stopped lending for homes 
in Ireland in 2008, and is selling its unit here, taking a charge 
of about $200 million.  “A lot of things are getting better around the world, but
the Irish mortgage portfolio was one place we didn’t see the
outlook improving,” Keith Sherin, GE’s chief financial officer,
said in a telephone interview last month.  Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s largest lender, last
month agreed to forgive 152,000 euros for Laura White, a nurse,
in a deal negotiated by New Beginning. She ended up handing back
the keys to the property, though with most of her debt written
off. A Bank of Ireland spokeswoman declined to comment.  White agreed to repay the Dublin bank 18,000 euros over six
years as part of the accord, she told national broadcaster RTE
at the time. She said she bought the house in North Dublin with
a loan of 245,000 euros.  New Beginning wants to expand into representing the “10s
of thousands” of home owners in arrears before they come to the
courts, according to Maguire.  “We want to be able to go to the bank and say we are
acting for Mr. and Mrs. Smith, but we are also acting for 50,000
Mr. and Mrs. Smiths and you have to deal with us,” Maguire said
at his Dublin office. “We would hope to be a big organization
in the next six months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  