-- Asia Stocks Snap Loss Streak as Greece Exit Concern Eases
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-05-28T10:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/japan-stock-futures-little-changed-as-greek-concern-eases.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index climbing from a five-month low, as concern eased
that  Greece  may exit the euro, outweighing a report that profit
growth slowed at China’s industrial companies.  Nintendo Co. (7974) , a Japanese maker of game consoles that
depends on  Europe  for a third of its sales, climbed 3.5 percent.
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, advanced
1.4 percent in Sydney.  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  sank 11 percent
after a person briefed on the matter said the maker of
semiconductors used in cars and appliances plans to raise 100
billion yen ($1.3 billion) and cut more than 10,000 jobs.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.7 percent to 112.44
as of 7:47 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge is heading for a 10 percent
decline this month, the biggest monthly drop since October 2008,
as slumping loan demand and factory output in  China  add to signs
of a deeper slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy, and
as European leaders pressure Greece to meet bailout terms before
elections next month.  “There will be no exit by Greece,”  Binay Chandgothia , a
Hong Kong-based portfolio manager at Principal Global Investors,
which manages $250 billion globally, said on Bloomberg
Television. “If they take structurally positive steps, things
will be all right in the long run. China is a little bit of a
concern but China has policy levers. They can use policy
incentive to get growth back on track.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, a  U.S. dollar  denominated
gauge, rose as the yen gained for the first time in three days.
Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  slid 0.1 percent. The index last week capped
an eight week stretch of declines, the longest losing streak
since 1977.  ‘Misunderstanding’ The BOJ  Bank of Japan  board members said they need to avoid any
“misunderstanding” that central bank asset purchases will
automatically increase, according to minutes of an April 27
policy meeting released today.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.5 percent and
Singapore’s Straits Times Index advanced 0.5 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 1 percent. South Korea’s
markets were closed today.  Greek opinion polls showed voters warming to parties
supporting the European Union’s bailout, easing concern the
country will exit the currency bloc.  The New Democracy party, which supports the rescue plan
negotiated with international lenders, led by a margin of as
much as 5.7 percentage points over Syriza, the main party
opposed to implementing the terms of financial aid packages,
according to a poll by Kapa Research SA for To Vima newspaper.  Valuations Fall  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.8
percent today. The index slid 0.2 percent in  New York  on May 25,
paring its first weekly rally since April. Financial markets in
the U.S. are closed for the Memorial Day holiday.  Declines in equities dragged the average price of stocks on
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  to 11.5 times estimated earnings on
May 25, compared with a multiple of 12.6 for the S&P 500 and
10.1 for the Stoxx 600.  Chinese industrial companies’  profit growth  fell in April
as the nation’s slowing economy curbed demand, a National Bureau
of Statistics report showed. China’s State Council said on May
23 that downside risks to growth are increasing and the
government will intensify “fine-tuning” policies as needed.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd., an electronics
retailer, slumped 4.6 percent to HK$1.26 after first-quarter
profit plunged 88 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  