-- Japan’s Kan Says He Acted to Prevent Fukushima Plant Evacuation
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   P e t e r   L a n g a n
-- 2012-05-28T09:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/japan-s-edano-recalls-threat-of-evacuation-at-fukushima-plant.html
Former Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said concern that  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  may evacuate all
workers from its Fukushima atomic plant after last year’s quake
and tsunami prompted him to create a joint response center.  Kan, who was prime minister at the time of the disaster
that wrecked the plant and caused radiation leaks, spoke today
before the probe headed by Kiyoshi Kurokawa, a professor
emeritus at Tokyo University.  “When this withdrawal issue was raised as a possibility, I
felt we needed to integrate the government and  Tokyo Electric ’s
decision making or else a terrible situation would arise,” Kan
told the commission. The body comprising officials from the
government and the company known as Tepco was established on
March 15, he said.  Then Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  woke Kan early on March 15
with news of a plan by Tepco President  Masataka Shimizu  to
withdraw staff from the crippled reactors. The former premier
said he disagreed with the proposal because he had been assured
by plant manager Masao Yoshida that more could be done to
control the mounting crisis.  When Kan called Shimizu, the company president assured him
that the withdrawal wouldn’t occur, he said. Shimizu resigned in
May last year.  The company’s view is that it never requested a complete
withdrawal. A statement to this effect is on Tepco’s website.  Kurokawa, the head of Japan’s latest probe into the
Fukushima nuclear disaster, promised to dig deeper than previous
inquiries into the events that unfolded after last year’s March
11 earthquake and tsunami. He has said he will present the
findings of the commission, which has subpoena powers and was
appointed by Japan’s parliament, by June.  Edano’s Testimony  Kan’s testimony came a day after Trade Minister  Yukio Edano 
recollected his own response as then-chief cabinet secretary to
Tepco’s proposal that workers be evacuated from the plant.  “I received a phone call from Tepco’s president about full
withdrawal from the plant,” Edano told the investigation. “My
response was that will make the situation worse and
uncontrollable.”  Kan said at today’s hearing that he was concerned about a
meltdown at the station because it housed six separate reactor
units and seven spent fuel pools.  “In terms of Chernobyl, it was only one reactor,” he
said. “This would not just be a few times more than the damage
in Chernobyl but dozens of times, hundreds of times.”  Nationalization  The committee on May 15 questioned Tepco Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata , who said it was the job of the company’s president to
implement safety plans. Katsumata will be replaced as chairman
in June following the government’s announcement it would
nationalize the utility.  At an earlier meeting of the panel in February, Nuclear
Safety Commission Chairman Haruki Madarame played down his own
agency’s responsibility for the crisis, saying utilities and
bureaucrats were to blame for lax enforcement of the country’s
atomic safety rules.  Kurokawa’s 10-member parliamentary panel includes some of
the most vocal critics of the government and Tepco before and
after the March 11 accident.  They include seismologist Katsuhiko Ishibashi, who in 2007
warned of a catastrophic disaster at a nuclear plant similar to
that which unfolded at Fukushima, and Mitsuhiko Tanaka, a former
atomic equipment engineer and now an anti-nuclear activist.  Japan ’s government said this month it will take control of
Tepco and provide 1 trillion yen ($12.6 billion) as part of a
bailout that is the nation’s largest since the rescue of the
banking industry in the 1990s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan in Tokyo at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  