-- Employment Probably Accelerated: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-28T20:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/job-growth-in-u-s-probably-picked-up-after-april-slowing.html
(Corrects figure for average 2012 job growth in sixth
paragraph of article published on May 27.)  Job growth probably picked up in May
after the weakest gain in six months, and the U.S.  unemployment
rate  held at a three-year low, signs of gradual improvement in
the labor market, economists said before reports this week.  Payrolls climbed by 150,000 workers after a 115,000 gain in
April, according to the median forecast of 68 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor Department figures due
June 1. Manufacturing cooled and household purchases increased,
other data may show.  Bigger job and wage gains will probably be needed to
trigger a self-sustaining cycle of increases in hiring and
consumer spending that will spur the recovery. At the same time,
slowdowns in Europe and parts of  Asia  threaten to curb exports
and manufacturing, representing a barrier to faster growth.  “We have a labor market that’s improving, but not the kind
of job growth that would really propel the recovery to a
stronger phase,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North
America  at BNP Paribas in  New York . “Barring a bad scenario in
Europe, we would expect some stronger numbers in the second half
of the year.”  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, climbed
160,000 in May after rising 130,000 last month, the weakest
since August, economists forecast the Labor Department report
will show.  The projected gain in total payrolls would bring the
monthly average this year to 190,600, compared with 176,200 in
the first five months of 2011.  Unemployment Rate  The  jobless rate , derived from a separate survey of
households, held at a three-year low of 8.1 percent in May,
economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted. Unemployment has
exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the longest such stretch
since monthly records began in 1948.  Federal Reserve officials reduced forecasts for the jobless
rate, to an average 7.8 percent to 8 percent in the fourth
quarter compared with a January projection of 8.2 percent to 8.5
percent, according to central tendency estimates released April
25. The new forecasts are still above policy makers’ estimates
for full employment, which range from 5.2 percent to 6 percent.  Through April, the economy had recovered about 3.7 million
of the 8.8 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  With the economy and unemployment the top issues in this
year’s presidential race, presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  has criticized President  Barack Obama  by saying White
House policies haven’t brought about a fast enough recovery from
the downturn. The former Massachusetts governor has said in
speeches and interviews that Obama is “not up to the task” of
guiding the economy.  Consumer Spending  Even with the recent slowdown in the pace of job growth,
Americans are spending. A Commerce Department report due June 1
will provide details of how consumption fared at the beginning
of this quarter. Purchases may have grown 0.3 percent in April,
matching the previous month’s gain, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Incomes also rose 0.3 percent following a 0.4
percent increase, economists said.  Sustained purchases are prompting companies like Amazon.com
Inc., the world’s largest Internet retailer, to bring on new
workers. The Seattle-based firm announced this month it plans to
hire an additional 1,000 employees, according to the Puget Sound
Business Journal.  Automobile sales are also making a bigger contribution to
overall household spending. Demand for cars and light trucks so
far this year is running at the fastest pace since 2008,
according to industry data. Those gains are having a ripple
effect through manufacturing and may help counter slowdowns in
 Europe  and Asia.  The Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s  factory index 
fell to 53.8 this month from a 10-month high of 54.8 in April,
according to the Bloomberg survey median ahead of the June 1
report. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Stock Prices  Growing concern over the  European debt crisis  is weighing
on investors. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has fallen 6.3
percent so far this month.  Falling  gas prices  and an improving labor market may give a
boost to  consumer confidence . The Conference Board’s gauge
climbed to 69.5 in May from 69.2 the previous month, according
to the Bloomberg survey. That would be in line with other
measures -- the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index and the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment --
which have recently climbed to four-year highs.  Consumers may also be encouraged by stabilization in the
housing market, the industry that precipitated the recession.
 Home prices  declined 2.6 percent in the 12 months through March,
the smallest decrease since the year ended December 2010,
economists surveyed project a May 29 report from S&P/Case-
Shiller will show.  Revised first-quarter gross domestic product figures
probably showed a slower pace of expansion, economists said
ahead of a May 31 report from the Commerce Department. The
economy grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate from January through
March, compared with the initial estimate of 2.2 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  