-- Obama Campaign Attacks Romney’s Bain Record Over Job Creation
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-05-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/obama-campaign-attacks-romney-s-bain-record-over-job-creation.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign attacked  Mitt Romney ’s record at Bain Capital LLC, with
a top adviser saying Americans have a “visceral reaction” to
the Republican candidate’s record leading the private-equity
firm.  Romney’s tenure at Boston-based Bain, which he founded and
ran for 15 years, is emerging as a flash point in the
presidential race. The Obama campaign and its allies this month
began airing commercials targeting Romney’s record at Bain,
portraying him as a corporate raider eager to put profits ahead
of employees.  Bain Capital “loads up companies with debt,” Robert Gibbs, an Obama campaign aide and former White House press
secretary, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program yesterday.
“It takes money out of those companies and pays those
investors. It’s not about  job creation .”  Republicans say the Obama campaign’s attacks on Bain are
part of a broader antagonism toward the private sector of the
economy and a preference for government-run programs.  “This president is hostile to job creators,”  Ed Gillespie , a Romney campaign adviser, said on “Face the
Nation.”  Romney often tells campaign audiences that he helped create
a net of 100,000 jobs during his years at Bain, pointing to
retail sales positions at  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  and Sports Authority Inc.
Neither the private-equity firm nor his campaign have documented
that figure in response to repeated requests by Bloomberg News.
Bain Capital doesn’t track jobs lost or gained as a result of
its investments.  Bain Investments  Gillespie said 80 percent of the companies in which Bain
invested grew.  “There were a number of investments that didn’t perform
well,” he said. “In the case of Bain it was less than 5
percent of the investments that ended up in bankruptcy.”  Former  New York  City Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani , a Republican
candidate for president in 2008, said Romney’s success in
running Bain contrasts well with Obama’s experience as a
community organizer, law professor and legislator who began
running for president as soon as he arrived in Washington as a
U.S. senator.  “We have found out what a president who has no experience
is going to give us,” Giuliani said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” program. “He’s going to give us tremendous failure, the
largest debt we’ve ever had, the highest levels of sustained
long-term unemployment since the depression.”  Job Growth  Democratic National Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  said Obama will be happy to run on his record on the
economy, including his support of tax breaks for small business
and lower  interest rates  on student loans.  Obama can point to “26 straight months of job growth in
the private sector, a resurgence in the manufacturing sector and
an opportunity to rescue, and thankfully rescue, the American
automobile industry when Mitt Romney would have let them go
bankrupt,” the Florida representative said on the CNN program.  Former Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich  said
Obama can’t win a debate over the state of the economy. The U.S.
 unemployment rate  was 8.1 percent in April, down from a peak
during Obama’s term of 10 percent in April  “Obama picking a fight on the economy is probably the
worst possible strategy for his campaign,” said Gingrich, the
former House speaker, on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  