-- London Games Start of Journey, First Qatar Female Olympian Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-05-27T21:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/london-games-start-of-journey-first-qatar-female-olympian-says.html
Nada Mohammed Wafa Arkaji will be one
of the first female athletes Qatar sends to the Olympics. She
says it’s just the start of her journey.  The 17-year-old swimmer will join two other Qatari women at
the  London  games to represent the conservative Gulf state.
Bahiya Al-Hamad, 19, will compete in shooting events, and 17-
year-old sprinter Noor Al-Malki will participate on the track
when the games open July 27.  “I am sure that it’s going to be a great experience and
opportunity for me,” Arkaji said. “This is just the start of
my journey. Now I am going to focus on the experience. I am
going to try my hardest but also I am going to enjoy the
experience.”  Qatar, which this week lost its bid to host the 2020
Olympics, will host soccer’s 2022  World Cup . The women are the
first the Muslim country will send to the games after criticism
of its all-male squad. While Brunei is also sending women to the
Olympics for the first time this year, neighboring  Saudi Arabia 
rejected the idea. Qatar, a nation of about 1.7 million people,
has become a major mediator in Arab affairs as well as an
investor in European assets.  Arkaji is the only woman on the national swim team. She
will compete in the 50-meter freestyle. Her personal best in the
event is 30 seconds, outside the 25.27 qualifying time and 24.06
Olympic record.  Athletic Family  Her father played on Qatar’s national soccer team and
encouraged his daughter’s participation. Her parents plan to
attend the games in London.  An only child, she began swimming at age 9 with a local
club. She took part in her first major international
competition, the Arab games, in December, coming sixth.  “I guess there was something about the water,” Arkaji
said. “I enjoyed it. Everyone was encouraging, especially my
parents and the school as well.”  She said she’s proud to represent the country, and that
she’s only gotten positive comments from other citizens.  “I think that Qatar is doing so much to encourage girls
and boys to take up sports,” she said. “The facilities we have
here are incredible. All the athletes should be very lucky.”  Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Brunei were the only countries not
to send women to the 2008 games in Beijing. Arkaji said she
wants to inspire other girls to take up sports and compete at a
high level. She plans to go to the 2016 summer games in  Brazil .  “So far, there are little kids, but for my age, it’s just
me” competing,” she said. “Hopefully, I will be able to start
a trend, which will mean a lot to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  