-- RBA Steps Up Financial Stability Focus on Payments, Stevens Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-27T23:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/rba-steps-up-financial-stability-focus-on-payments-stevens-says.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  is
stepping up its focus on financial stability in the nation’s
payment system and embracing greater innovation on transactions,
Governor  Glenn Stevens  said.  “The board’s mandate in relation to financial stability
remains a key focus, and the global response to the financial
crisis dictates that we take on a greater, and probably more
complex, role as the global focus shifts to centralized
financial market infrastructure,” Stevens said in the text of a
speech in Sydney today. “This doesn’t mean that the board will
be paying less attention to the payments system efficiency
matters for which it is perhaps best known.”  Stevens didn’t address monetary policy or the outlook for
the economy in the speech to the Australian Payments Clearing
Association. He said the nation’s approach to retail payments
that make funds available the next business day needs to be
overhauled.  “This has served acceptably well to date, but, with
systems for real-time transfers available in countries ranging
from the  United Kingdom  to  Mexico , Australia’s approach is
starting to look a bit dated,” Stevens said. “It is our belief
that availability of real-time transfers would fill some
important existing gaps, but would also open up enormous
potential for innovation on top of that system.”  The RBA is due to release its strategic review of
innovation in the next couple of weeks, Stevens said today.  “The financial stability element of the Payments System
Board’s role is only going to increase,” he said. “This is a
continuation of a trend that has been under way for some time,
and to which we have already responded with a significant boost
in the resources we devote to these issues within the bank.”  The RBA on May 1 lowered the overnight cash rate target to
a two-year low of 3.75 percent from 4.25 percent, the deepest
reduction in three years, after two quarter-point cuts late last
year. Traders are certain the RBA will cut the rate again at
next month’s meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  