-- Repsol Seen Cutting Dividend to Defend Rating After YPF: Energy
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-28T15:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/repsol-seen-cutting-dividend-to-defend-rating-after-ypf-energy.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  is expected to cut the
highest  dividend payments  among major oil producers to defend
its credit rating after  Argentina ’s seizure of  YPF SA. (YPFD)   Repsol will probably opt to lower its annual payout from
1.155 euros ($1.44) a share, or about 1.4 billion euros in
total, to conserve cash after  Standard & Poor’s  said its debt
risks a downgrade to junk, said Lydia Rainforth at Barclays Plc
and Brendan Warn at Jefferies International Ltd. They didn’t say
how much Repsol will reduce dividends, which yield 8.3 percent.  “They have to keep the  ratings agencies  happy and one way
to do that is cutting the dividend,” said Rainforth, an oil
analyst at Barclays’s investment-banking unit in  London . “My
sense is that they will take the opportunity to rebase it.”  Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  will present a new strategy
tomorrow to investors asking how he plans to fund investments in
oil production after Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner nationalized the YPF unit, her country’s largest oil
company. YPF contributed 26 percent of 2011 operating profit and
45 percent of Repsol’s 2.2 billion barrels of proven reserves.  Kristian Rix, a spokesman for Repsol in  Madrid , declined to
comment on the plans ahead of the presentation.  S&P last month reduced Repsol’s  credit rating  to BBB-
following the expropriation and said it may cut the company’s
debt one more step to junk unless borrowings are lowered.  Pay for Wells  Without the revenue from Argentina, Repsol’s upstream
division needs average crude prices of $120 a barrel to pay for
the wells it plans to bring into production, Mark Bloomfield, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note. The company intends
to begin pumping oil and gas from deposits in  Spain ,  Peru ,
 Bolivia  and  Venezuela  over the next three years. Benchmark Brent
crude has averaged about $118 a barrel in London this year.  “Delivery of growth, maintenance of dividend and defense
of an investment-grade rating are incompatible,” Bloomfield
said. “Repsol must cut the dividend.”  Bloomberg’s  dividend forecast model  predicts the company
will pay a dividend of 1 euro a share from 2012 earnings, down
from 1.155 euros for 2011, which was split into an interim
payout of 0.5775 euros and a final dividend at the same level.
Repsol is likely to increase the payout to 1.08 euros for 2013,
the projection shows.  The shares fell 0.4 percent to close at 13.82 euros in
Madrid.  Payout Ratio  Repsol’s payout ratio of 64 percent of profit over the past
12 months is the highest among the 23 members of the Bloomberg
Industries Integrated Oil Producers Index.  Eni SpA (ENI)  ranks second
with 53 percent while  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest oil
producer, paid out 23 percent.  Repsol is likely to announce higher production goals
tomorrow. The company aimed for output growth of 4 percent to 6
percent through 2014 under its previous strategic plan drawn up
two years ago. First-quarter production excluding YPF increased
by 8 percent from a year earlier.  Output may climb by 9 percent a year through 2016, reaching
about 500,000 barrels a day, compared with about 300,000 barrels
a day last year, according to forecasts from Deutsche Bank’s
Bloomfield. Production may reach 581,000 barrels a day by 2020,
he said.  Bloomfield and Jefferies’s Warn also urged Brufau to sell
Repsol’s 30 percent stake in  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) , which is valued
at about 2.8 billion euros at market prices.  Gas Natural Debt  Repsol is obliged to account for 30 percent of Gas
Natural’s debt, amounting to about 4.8 billion euros, on its
balance sheet, straining the financial ratios that rating
companies focus on, Warn said. Repsol’s debt excluding Gas
Natural and YPF is 4.2 billion euros.  “Repsol should divest its stake in Gas Natural in order to
better concentrate its resources in the high-growth upstream
operations,” Warn said in a research report. “This amount
could provide Repsol with enough firepower to compete with large
global E&P players in the scramble for high-growth, high-return
resources globally.”  Repsol controls Barcelona-based Gas Natural with Caixa
Holding SA, the investment arm of  La Caixa  Group, which has a 35
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brufau
worked at La Caixa from 1988 and was chairman of Gas Natural
from 1997 to 2004 before joining Repsol.  La Caixa’s banking unit, Caixabank, is also Repsol’s
biggest shareholder, with a 13 percent stake.  Share Swap  Repsol executives have emphasized that the company is
determined to hang on to its investment-grade rating since the
YPF seizure.  They will allow holders of about 3 billion euros of
preferred shares to swap them for mandatory convertible bonds as
well as offering investors stock instead of cash for last year’s
dividend. About 35 percent of holders opted to be paid in stock,
Chief Financial Officer Miguel Martinez said on a May 13
conference call with analysts.  The company can also sell treasury stock if it needs to
raise more capital. Repsol holds 5 percent of its own shares
that it acquired from  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  last year to help
the construction company, then its biggest holder, refinance.  “We are totally committed to keeping our investment
grade,” Martinez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  