-- Tadic to Lead Serb Coalition Talks, Seeks to End Stalemate
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-28T17:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/serbia-s-tadic-to-lead-coalition-talks-seeks-to-break-stalemate.html
Former Serbian President  Boris Tadic 
will start formal coalition talks to form a government to bring
the former Yugoslav republic’s finances under control, cut
unemployment and pursue European Union membership.  President-elect  Tomislav Nikolic  met Tadic in Belgrade
today to discuss the transfer of power after winning the
presidential election on May 20. Tadic wants to become prime
minister even though his party was second in parliamentary
elections this month. Tanjug reported today that Nikolic will
take the oath of office on May 31.  “I think you can now look at Serbia’s political future
with a lot more optimism,” Nikolic told reporters, as he and
Tadic left the meeting together, and pledged to “closely
cooperate.”  Serbia, which is struggling to head off a return to
recession, has been without a government able to cut spending
and create new jobs in an economy with unemployment at about 24
percent. Tadic needs to cobble together a majority to get his
party back in power after it lost to Nikolic’s Progressive Party
in May 6 general elections.  The Progressive Party’s victory gave it 73 seats in the
250-seat Parliament and control of about 94 lawmakers in a pact
with the anti-EU party of former Premier Vojislav Kostunica.
Tadic’s Democrats came in second place with control of 111 seats
in an alliance with the third-place Socialist Party. A coalition
needs 126 seats to gain power.  Time Pressure  Nikolic asked Tadic and Socialist leader Ivica Dacic to
quickly form the government. The administration needs to be
approved by lawmakers within the first 90 days of the new
Parliament’s first session.  “If there is really such an agreement, let’s quickly get
on with it,” Nikolic told state broadcaster RTS in an interview
late on May 25. “All parties are aware of the seriousness of
the situation and waiting for the final deadline at the
beginning of September is catastrophic for  Serbia .”  Tadic said he wants to lead a government whose main task
will be the “fight against unemployment and poverty and the war
against corruption and crime,” while ensuring better standards
of living by the end of its term.  Tadic met Dacic at 4 p.m. in Belgrade and said that forming
a new government “won’t be easy” and “will take a
compromise.” They need to discuss fiscal and political
strategies, including Serbia’s path toward membership of the
European Union.  Third Partner  Dacic said the two sides set a goal of having a coalition
agreement in a month, while Tadic ruled out any coalition with
the Progressive Party, which won the most votes in May 6 general
elections. They also need to decide who will be the third
partner in their coalition to garner the majority in parliament.  The past four years have coincided with the global economic
and European debt crises. The dinar has lost 30 percent,
unemployment rose 10 percentage points, public debt increased 16
percentage points to 14.4 billion euros ($18 billion) and the
average take-home wage is 360 euros per month.  Over the past five months, Serbia has widened its deficit
to 6 percent of gross domestic product as revenue lagged
forecasts. The goal was to keep the gap within 4.25 percent of
GDP, in line with a $1.3 billion precautionary loan program with
the  International Monetary Fund , frozen in February when it
became clear that Serbia would slip on its fiscal target.  The economy contracted 1.3 percent in the first quarter and
the dinar has weakened by 8 percent this year to the lowest in a
decade as investors pulled out amid uncertainty over Serbia’s
direction after the general elections.  Expressed Concern  Nikolic, who met with National Bank of Serbia Governor
Dejan Soskic, expressed concern about intervening to prop up the
dinar almost daily. The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije has
spent more than 1 billion euros to help the national currency
over the past four months.  The dinar traded at 116.2388 to the euro at 4:00 p.m. in
Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The main
stock index of the 15 most actively traded assets closed 0.15
percent down at 449.91 points, the lowest in three years.  Soskic has spoken with the IMF and other institutions, who
are waiting for a new government so fresh aid talks may begin,
Nikolic said.  “They must return as quickly as possible so we can decide
what can be done right away,” Nikolic told  RTS . If the
government is not formed soon, Serbia may face a Greek scenario,
he said.  Dacic said his party “won’t insist” on taking part in a
new coalition, and warned that a “a policy of continued
austerity is history, it makes the poor even poorer and
investments must be accompanied by wage increases.” Finding
“the right balance between fiscal responsbility and the need
for economic development” will not be easy,’’ Dacic said.  Soskic said today Serbia could not afford any fiscal
expansion and that spending cuts don’t have to be painful, while
any policy loosening would be punished by financial markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  