-- Simpson, Bowles See Recession, Inflation Without Budget Action
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-05-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/simpson-bowles-see-recession-inflation-without-budget-action.html
U.S. lawmakers must take steps to
address $7 trillion in “economic events” next year or the
economy may go into recession, the co-chairmen of President
 Barack Obama ’s fiscal commission said on CNN.  Automatic tax changes and cutbacks to federal spending
mandated by Congress as part of last year’s agreement to raise
the federal debt limit may affect as much as 2 percent of the
U.S. gross domestic product next year, co-chairman Erskine Bowles said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  Economic events occurring next year include the expiration
of tax cuts instituted by former President  George W. Bush  and
changes to the Alternative Minimum Tax and payroll tax
deductions. The automatic spending cuts, mandated by Congress as
part of an agreement last year to raise the federal debt limit,
are “senseless, mindless,” said Bowles, who was chief of staff
to former President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat.  “If we have a negative effect on 2 percent of GDP, we’ll
be right back in recession,” Bowles said. A report issued May
22 by the  Congressional Budget Office  said the U.S. was
approaching a “fiscal cliff” that may lead to recession
without action by federal lawmakers.  Without congressional action, increased inflation and
 interest rates  will hurt the middle class, said former
Representative  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican and co-
chairman of the committee.  “You know who will get hurt the worst when interest rates
go up and inflation kicks in? The little guy,” Simpson said in
the interview, to be broadcast today.  ‘Ripped to Shreds’  The Simpson-Bowles plan issued by Obama’s fiscal commission
advocated a series of spending cuts and tax increases to balance
the budget. The plan was never adopted nor openly endorsed by
the president. The House voted down the plan, with Republicans
saying it had too many tax increases and not enough spending
cuts.  Obama couldn’t have provided more public support for the
plan or “he would have been ripped to shreds” by Republicans
and his own  Democratic Party , Simpson said.  “If he’d have embraced it, the Republicans en masse in the
House would have rejected it,” while Democrats would have
criticized changes to Medicare, Simpson said. “So either way,
he’s going to get hammered. So he is playing the waiting game.”  Lame Duck  Simpson and Bowles are currently working with 47 senators
of both parties and members of the House to reach an agreement
on a new plan to improve the  U.S. economy , Bowles said. An
agreement is possible during the lame duck session following the
November elections, he said.  “It doesn’t have to be exactly what the Simpson-Bowles
plan has but it’s going to be a balanced plan,” Bowles said.
“If we don’t, then I think you will see the markets really take
an adverse look at the country. I think you’ll see us lose
another downgrade in our credit.”  Last year’s Budget Control Act, which followed debate over
lifting the federal debt ceiling, set up an automatic spending-
reduction process for across-the-board cuts called
sequestration, which would be made equally from defense and non-
defense spending beginning in 2013.  Sequestration is would cut $1.2 trillion over nine years
from the federal deficit. About $110 billion will need to be
sequestered next year, with half from defense accounts and half
from all other spending, unless Congress and the president agree
to stop it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  