-- Slinky Power Vixen, Danny DeVito, Gender Swapping
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-05-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/slinky-power-vixen-danny-devito-gender-swapping-london-stage.html
A vixen inspires some hens to revolt
against a bossy rooster. Cluck, cluck! They’re free! Then the
vixen decapitates them. Euro-crisis leaders, take note.  It’s one of several curious little episodes in the opera
“The Cunning Little Vixen” (1924) by Janacek. One of the many
virtues of Melly Still’s new production at  Glyndebourne  is that
she lets the audience make up its own mind about their meaning.  Vixen Sharp Ears (Lucy Crowe) is caught by a Forester
(Sergei Leiferkus) who tries to domesticate her. She escapes,
meets the swaggering Fox Goldmane (Emma Bell), and has plenty of
cubs. All goes well until a poacher shoots her dead. The seasons
turn, and one of her cubs meets the Forester again.  Is it an allegory? A satire? A fairy tale? The director
leaves us to guess by creating a straightforward production full
of visual delights. The action takes place around a huge old
tree. Changes of season are indicated by pictures of buds,
blossoms and autumnal leaves descending around the branches.  A path snakes to the back of the set, and in a clever trick
of perspective it rises vertically (designer Tom Pye).
Characters walk on it with the discreet use of a flying harness.  At one point, this twisty vertical path becomes a
labyrinthine badger’s sett. Vixen Sharp Ears and her new beau
Goldmane tumble down it together in the first throes of lust.  Froggy Gaze  There are some wonderfully inventive costumes by Dinah
Collin. A mosquito’s opalescent wings are suggested by a clear
plastic raincoat. A child appears in a green leotard with eyes
stitched onto his gloves: When he holds them up above his head,
the effect is amusingly froggy.  The vocal lines are mostly short, sweet snatches of musical
dialogue with few opportunities for extended lyrical display.
It’s up to the orchestra to supply atmosphere, tension and wit,
and here conductor Vladimir Jurowski comes into his own. The
strings murmur mysteriously at the opening. The speeds change
naturally and spontaneously. The wedding music of Vixen and Fox
blares out with triumphant energy.  The director loses her touch just once or twice, when it
feels unclear whether a scene is ending in a “clap now”
tableau or not. A little tightening will easily sort it out.  Crowe makes a lively and amusing Vixen with a high, clear
voice. Bell, dressed as a 1960s California hippie, swaggers and
blusters beautifully as the Fox. The smaller parts, including
several children’s roles, are all performed well. A great start
to the Glyndebourne Festival season. Rating: ***1/2.  Humpty Dumpties  The casting directors of “The Sunshine Boys” deserve a
gong for pairing homunculus-sized  Danny DeVito  and the
enormously rotund Richard Griffiths on the stage of the  Savoy
Theatre . As soon as they appear together, it looks funny.
Unfortunately, that’s where the comedy ends.  Neil Simon ’s 1972 play is about a couple of cantankerous
old vaudevillians who spent 43 years as a double act. Eleven
years on, they have a chance to team up again for a television
special. Old wounds are opened. They bicker.  “As a comic, no one could touch him. As a human being, no
one wanted to touch him,” says DeVito’s character.  As with so much of Simon’s writing, plot and depth are
sacrificed to a relentless drip-drip-drip of watery one-liners.  DeVito times them superbly, and Griffiths is no slouch
either (even if his American accent wobbles). Thea Sharrock’s
direction is straightforward, and Hildegard Bechtler’s set, a
cramped, shabby  New York  apartment, looks fine. It just doesn’t
add up to a barrel of laughs. Rating: **.  Horrifying Fun  There’s more fun at a frenetic revival of Joe Orton’s
 “What the Butler Saw”  (1969), a scabrous and troubling farce.  During a job interview, the lecherous psychiatrist Dr.
Prentice tries to get his prospective secretary Geraldine
Barclay to remove all her clothes. Prentice’s alcoholic wife,
who is being blackmailed by a lusty hotel bellboy, walks in on
them.  A switchback of lies, mistaken identities, gender swapping
and mind-boggling revelations is set in motion.  Orton’s genius was to be able to take the elements of
classic farce, zhoosh them up in a cocktail shaker, and invest
them with truly disturbing violence.  When Prentice hits his wife in the face, it’s a sickening
moment in the whirlwind of banging doors and improbable excuses.
The final revelations are as horrifying as they are funny.  There’s an old saying that farce is Greek tragedy with
gags. It feels truer here than usual.  The performances are highly choreographed in an exaggerated
style, and work beautifully. Tim McInnerny and Samantha Bond
spar well as the Prentices, and Omid Djalili does a terrific
turn as an increasingly loopy psychiatric inspector.  There’s a lull in Act 2, when not even  Sean Foley ’s
precise, well-timed direction can keep the threads of artifice
from feeling over-strained. Never mind. There’s a great payoff
at the climax to compensate. Rating: ***.  “The Cunning Little Vixen” is in repertoire at
Glyndebourne. Information:  http://www.glyndebourne.com  or +44-
1273-813813.  “The Sunshine Boys” is at the Savoy Theatre. Information:
 http://www.sunshineboystheplay.com  or +44-844-871-7687.  “What the Butler Saw” is at the Vaudeville Theatre.
Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or +44-844-412-4663.  Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri on  film  from Cannes,
Jorg von Uthmann on Paris  arts , Frederik Balfour on Hong Kong
 auctions  and  Greg Evans  on U.S.  television .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 