-- SNB’s Jordan Says Capital Controls Among Possible Moves
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-05-28T08:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/snb-s-jordan-says-capital-controls-among-possible-moves.html
Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  President Thomas Jordan said controls on capital inflows are among measures being
considered by a government-led panel to stop the franc from
strengthening if the euro-area debt crisis escalates.  “The working group focuses mainly on instruments to combat
the franc strength based on a joint approach of the government
and the central bank,” Jordan told the SonntagsZeitung
newspaper in an interview published yesterday. “We also need to
be prepared for the possibility of the currency union
collapsing, even though I don’t expect it.” SNB spokesman
Walter Meier confirmed Jordan’s remarks to the newspaper.  Any  capital controls  would follow the SNB’s efforts to stem
franc gains by purchasing euros in the 15 months through June
2010. As the euro crisis worsened last year, prompting investors
to pile into currency, Swiss policy makers imposed a ceiling of
1.20 versus the euro to protect the economy, using the measure
for the first time since the 1970s.  “We could consider such comments as a sign that even the
SNB is worried about their ability to maintain the lower bound
at 1.20 against the euro in the case of a serious escalation of
the crisis,” Peter Kinsella, a senior currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London , said in an e-mailed note today.
“However, this is merely contingency planning.”  Possible Measures  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in
December that a  task force  is examining options such as capital
controls and negative  interest rates  to curb the franc’s
strength if needed. Jordan is part of that panel.  “One measure would be capital controls, or measures that
directly influence the inflow of capital into  Switzerland ,”
Jordan said, without elaborating. “We’re identifying these
instruments in case more measures are needed.”  The euro region’s fiscal crisis deepened after Greece’s
inconclusive elections on May 6 fueled concerns about a breakup
of the 17-member area. The single currency dropped to the lowest
in almost two years versus the dollar last week. The  Swiss
National Bank  introduced a franc ceiling on Sept. 6 after the
franc reached near parity with the euro, hurting exporters and
raising deflation threats.  “I certainly see it as a possibility, especially if we get
in a situation where we’re seeing a capital flight in  Europe ,”
said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro in London in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It would be something they
wouldn’t want to do, but I can understand why they’re saying it.
They don’t want to rule it out.”  ‘Upward Pressure’  The Swiss currency traded at 1.2027 versus the euro as of
10:07 a.m. in Zurich and at 95.64 centimes against the dollar.  “The situation over the past few weeks has worsened and
has become a lot more uncertain,” Jordan said. “At the same
time, we are observing a considerable upward pressure on the
franc. Investors are looking for a safe haven. For many, the
franc is part of that.”  The SNB doesn’t expect  Greece  to leave the euro, according
to Jordan. The central bank’s “basis scenario sees a longer
phase of larger difficulties,” he said. We’re “bracing
ourselves for very turbulent times.”  Jordan’s Thesis  Jordan said his university thesis in the early 1990s, which
focused on the European currency union being prone to crises
with just few countries meeting criteria for full membership,
was based on “economic analysis and a healthy common sense,”
which led him to this “skeptical forecast.”  The 49 year-old, who took the helm of the SNB last month,
said that while the Swiss economy will avoid a recession, he
understands “demands for an increase” in the franc ceiling,
with many companies in “very difficult” situations.  “Still, we can’t manipulate our currency
indiscriminately,” Jordan said. “That would be fatal and
counter-productive in an even worse crisis situation. The
minimum  exchange rate  needs to be legitimized. The current
minimum exchange rate is realistic.”  The SNB will continue to defend its minimum exchange rate
“with the utmost determination even under the most difficult
conditions,” he said. Asked whether the central bank is
purchasing euros to weaken the franc, Jordan said, “we never
give details about our activities in the market.”  The SNB will hold its next monetary assessment on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  