-- Sony’s ‘Men in Black 3’ Tops Box Office With $69 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-05-29T21:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/sony-s-men-in-black-3-opens-as-no-1-movie-with-55-million.html
“Men in Black 3,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s sci-
fi comedy, led the U.S. box office over the U.S. Memorial Day
weekend, collecting $69.3 million in sales and ending a three-
week, first-place run for “Marvel’s The Avengers.”  “The Avengers” fell to second with $47.2 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. “Chernobyl Diaries” finished in sixth place
in its debut with $9.36 million in sales.  The 3-D “Men in Black 3” is the fifth Sony film to open
in first place this year, following releases that included
“Underworld Awakening” and “The Vow.” “Men in Black” was
expected to generate $73 million over the four-day holiday
weekend ending today, an estimate from researcher Boxoffice.com.  “It was a little bit of a disappointing first weekend,”
 Paul Sweeney , a media and entertainment analyst for Bloomberg
Industries, said in a May 27 telephone interview. “But it
should have some legs. My sense is it’s going to be one of the
movies that will play well for several weeks.”  Will Smith  and Tommy Lee Jones star in the effects-laden
film as operatives in a government agency charged with managing
Earth’s secret alien population. Smith’s character, Agent J,
travels back in time to prevent a villain’s attempt to change
history. To accomplish his mission, he must work with a younger
version of Jones’s character, played by  Josh Brolin .  $1.3 Billion  The first two “Men in Black” films, released in 1997 and
2002, generated a combined $1.03 billion in worldwide ticket
sales for the studio, according to researcher  Box Office Mojo .
“Men in Black 3” had the best debut weekend of the three
films, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Avengers” has taken in $523.9 million
in domestic sales and $1.31 billion globally since it opened on
May 4.  “It was a great run for ‘The Avengers,’ but I think it’s
had its time in the sun,” said Sweeney. “It will still do
fairly well, but it will tail off over the next several weeks as
more big-budget movies are released.”  The film, which set an opening-weekend record of $207.4
million earlier this month, unites several Marvel characters,
including  Iron Man  and Thor, to battle an alien invasion. The
movie is the year’s best box-office performer, followed by  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s “The Hunger Games.”  Battleship  Third place’s “Battleship,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures , took in $13.9 million and has earned $47.4
million in domestic sales since opening in the U.S. on May 18.
The film, made for about $209 million, stars Taylor Kitsch as a
U.S. Navy officer who helps lead a sea battle against invading
aliens. Brooklyn Decker,  Alexander Skarsgard  and Rihanna are
also featured.  “The Dictator” fell to fourth from third with $11.5
million. The film, from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures ,
features Sacha Baron Cohen as the oppressive, all-powerful ruler
of a North African nation who is replaced by an impostor during
a visit to the U.S. Penniless, he is forced to adjust to life
among poor immigrants, some of them exiles from his country, in
New York city. Ben Kingsley co-stars.  Not Alone  “Chernobyl Diaries,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner
Bros., tells the story of tourists who venture into a Ukrainian
city that was abandoned after the 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl
nuclear power plant. While exploring they discover that not
everyone left.  Boxoffice.com forecast a $13 million opening over four days
for the film, written and produced by “Paranormal Activity”
director and writer Oren Peli.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 31 percent to
$185.5 million from a record Memorial Day weekend a year ago,
Hollywood.com said. Domestic film sales this year have risen 12
percent to $4.28 billion, with attendance up 15 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
25 through May 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  