-- Soothe Cancer Agony Worldwide by Easing Morphine Controls
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/soothe-cancer-agony-worldwide-by-easing-morphine-controls.html
Based on an estimate of the morphine
it would need in 2009,  Burkina Faso  ordered 153 grams (0.34
pound) of the drug, enough to treat the pain of eight terminal
cancer patients. That year in Burkina Faso, 23,000 people died
of cancer.  The situation is not much different in most of the
developing world. Although morphine is cheap -- it costs as
little as 30 cents a day to treat  a cancer or AIDS patient  --
almost 90 percent of the global supply is consumed in  North
America  and  Europe , while the entire developing world uses 6
percent. Because governments in poor countries have not made
pain relief a priority,  four out of five people  worldwide have
inadequate access to the opioids necessary to treat moderate or
severe physical suffering.  The number of people who go without these medicines is
growing as the global burden of cancer shifts to the developing
world. Over the next 20 years, cancer deaths are expected to
remain fairly stable in wealthy countries while  increasing 62
percent  in poor ones.  To get pain relief to those who lack it,  developing
countries  need to increase their opioid estimates. The
 International Narcotics Control Board , which monitors United
Nations drug control conventions, grants governments import
approvals based on how much of each substance they say they’ll
require. In 2009, Benin asked for only enough morphine to cover
0.5 percent of those who needed it, based on estimates by
 researchers  using World Health Organization statistics on
terminal cancer and AIDS patients.  Egypt  requested only 3
percent, and the  Philippines , 8 percent.  Then there’s the challenge of delivering the medicine to
patients. Typically, developing countries pile restrictions on
top of the  international requirement  that opioids be made
available only by prescription. Some governments limit
prescribing power to specialists or to panels of doctors, or
require health ministry approval. Some restrict the institutions
that can dispense the drugs. These add-ons should be stripped
back.  Governments often fear that reducing regulations will lead
to patient addiction and illicit use. Drug dependence isn’t an
issue for those who most need opioids: patients in the late
stages of terminal illness. Used as prescribed, opioids normally
don’t produce a high; what they do is enable patients to become
communicative and find a measure of comfort in their final days.  Moreover, morphine poses relatively modest abuse risks. It
doesn’t produce the euphoria of newer opioids such as OxyContin,
which are  rampantly abused  in the U.S. And those drugs are too
expensive for the developing world. Though some people will
inevitably abuse morphine, the alternative is to abandon
millions of others to unrelieved agony.  Experience shows that all these reforms can be
accomplished. Uganda and Vietnam have eased restrictions
limiting opioid availability. They, as well as  India ,  Kenya  and
 South Africa , have started training medical practitioners in
pain management.  The painkiller gap hasn’t attracted as much attention as
the fights against illnesses such as malaria or AIDS: It’s not
about saving lives, and progress will require great patience.
Once the right policies are in place, it will be possible to do
a world of good with an inexpensive dose of old medicine.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: William D. Cohan on  Wall Street’s pay
packages ; Pankaj Mishra on  whether India will keep booming ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Obama’s counterterrorism policies ; Pawel
Swieboda on  Europe’s far-right parties .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 