-- Stosur, Kuznetsova Start With Straight-Sets Wins at French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-05-27T12:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/stosur-kuznetsova-start-with-straight-sets-wins-at-french-open.html
U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur of
Australia started her quest for a first  French Open  title with a
straight-sets win over Britain’s Elena Baltacha. Former champion
Svetlana Kuznetsova also won.  The sixth-seeded Stosur defeated the 68th-ranked Baltacha
6-4, 6-0 on Court Philippe Chatrier on the opening day of Roland
Garros.  “It was good,” Stosur said in a news conference.
“Obviously very happy with the way I played and the score line
and everything else.”  The Australian, who made nine unforced errors and struck 23
winners, last year won her first major singles title when she
defeated  Serena Williams  at the U.S. Open. Stosur today said the
high-bouncing centre court at Roland Garros suited her game of
heavy top-spin forehand and kick-serve.  “I knew it was going to be a very difficult match, I did
play one of the best clay-court players in the world,”
Baltacha, who made 17 unforced errors and produced nine winners,
told a news conference.  Svetlana Kuznetsova, the 2009 champion, also won easily.
The Russian, a former  U.S. Open  winner, defeated Croatia’s
Mirjana Lucic, 6-1, 6-3.  American wild card  Melanie Oudin  also moved to the second
round by beating Sweden’s Johanna Larsson, 6-3, 6-3. It was
Oudin’s first win in the main draw of a major since the 2010
U.S. Open.  Oudin had a breakthrough year in 2009, when she upset three
seeded Russian players to reach the quarterfinals of the U.S.
Open when she was only 17 years old. After reaching a career-
high ranking of No. 31 in 2010, Oudin has dropped to No. 269.  “I’m doing much better than I have in a while,” Oudin
told a news conference.  Williams Returns  Venus Williams of the U.S. faces  Argentina ’s Paula
Ormaechea, one of six teenagers in the women’s draw, later
today. Williams, ranked 52nd, is playing her first Grand Slam
since she pulled out of the U.S. Open last year, announcing she
has Sjogren’s syndrome, an energy-sapping autoimmune disease.  Andy Roddick, the last American man to have won a major
title, at the 2003 U.S. Open, plays France’s Nicolas Mahut,
while 2009 U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina
meets Spain’s  Albert Montanes .  Li Na of China is the defending champion in the women’s
draw, while Rafael Nadal of Spain is seeking a men’s record
seventh Roland Garros title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 