-- U.S. Joins International Condemnation of Syria ‘Massacre’
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-05-27T14:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/syria-says-government-wasn-t-involved-in-houla-massacre.html
The international community condemned
the “unimaginable” killing of more than 90 people in the
Syrian town of Houla, prompting the government of President
Bashar al-Assad to deny a role in the violence.  General Robert Mood, head of the United Nations observers
in  Syria , said the circumstances of the killing of civilians in
Houla were still unclear. UN observers are in the village
gathering information and will report to the world body as soon
as their work is complete, Mood told Al Jazeera television in a
telephone interview today. He described the violence as
“unimaginable.”  The U.S. condemned the acts after “credible” reports of
violence in the town, “including stabbing and ax attacks on
women and children,” according to a White House statement.
 France  and the U.K. urged increased international support after
the May 25 violence in the town in Homs province, an area of
resistance against the rule of Assad.  More than 32 children under the age of 10 and more than 60
adults were killed in the town, according Mood, who yesterday
cited UN military and civilian observers who viewed the bodies.
The observers confirmed the use of artillery and tank shells
fired at a residential neighborhood in an attack that Mood
called a “brutal tragedy.”  In  Washington , U.S. Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona 
Republican, called the U.S. response to the massacre  “a
shameful episode” which he said highlighted failures in the
foreign policy of President  Barack Obama .  ‘Feckless’ Policy  “This administration has a feckless foreign policy which
abandons American leadership,” McCain, who lost the 2008
presidential race to Democrat Obama, said on “Fox News Sunday”
today. He called Syria “a brutal regime” and said Obama’s
approach is “an abdication of everything America stands for and
believes in.”  Gunmen funded by foreign powers were responsible for the
slaying, Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi told
reporters in Damascus today. International officials blaming
Syrian troops for the attack are jumping to conclusions and
accusations against the government were part of a “tsunami of
lies” that Syria is being subjected to, he said.  “We categorically deny any involvement” in the attack,
Makdissi said at a news conference, adding that the government
has formed a committee to investigate the “brutal” killings.
The findings are expected in three days, he said.  Foreign Aid  Syria says it is fighting foreign terrorists, armed gangs
and Islamists, and blames countries such as  Saudi Arabia , Qatar,
 Turkey  and the U.S. for aiding the opposition.  “These acts serve as a vile testament to an illegitimate
regime that responds to peaceful political protest with
unspeakable and inhuman brutality,” said Erin Pelton, a
spokeswoman for the White House National Security Council. The
U.S. is “horrified” by the killings, she said.  Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of British-based Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights, said in a telephone interview from Coventry
that according to information his group received from people in
the vicinity, the victims perished in government shelling of
Houla.  “It’s normal for Makdissi to defend the government,” he
said. “We would like to know where were the shells that the
government was firing till late at night falling?” Rahman
called for the formation of an international committee to
investigate the bloodshed and that the perpetrators of the Houla
massacre “be brought to justice.”  A further 60 people were killed in Syria yesterday, the
Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mail yesterday. The
 United Arab Emirates  called for a meeting of the  Arab League  to
discuss the attack, the state-run news agency WAM reported,
citing Foreign Minister Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan.  Hague Statement  British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  called the killings
“an appalling crime” and said the U.K. would be calling for an
“urgent” meeting of the UN Security Council. The international
community must stop the “martyrdom of the Syrian people,”
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  The killing hasn’t stopped since Assad agreed to a peace
plan by UN special envoy  Kofi Annan  two months ago. His forces
have killed more than 10,000 people since March 2011 when
protests began as part of the wave of uprisings in the  Middle
East , according to UN estimates.  Annan and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon issued a
statement yesterday condemning “this appalling and brutal
crime” and demanding that Syria’s government “immediately
cease the use of heavy weapons in population centers.”  The UN now has 271 unarmed military observers for Syria and
expects to have a full contingent of 300 there by the end of
this month, according to Ban.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  