-- U.K. Hometrack House Prices Increase as London Values Surge 0.6%
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-05-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/u-k-hometrack-house-prices-increase-as-london-values-surge-0-6-.html
U.K.  house prices  rose for a third
month in May on gains in  London , according to Hometrack Ltd.,
which said the euro-area debt crisis will weigh on the market
and limit price growth this year.  Values rose 0.2 percent from April as the number of new
property listings grew at the slowest pace since January, the
London-based property research company said in an e-mailed
report today. Prices in the capital jumped 0.6 percent.  The recovery in residential property may falter as euro-
area officials’ struggles to contain the debt turmoil and ensure
Greece stays in the currency bloc undermine  consumer confidence 
in Britain. Data last week showed the U.K. economy’s  contraction 
in the first quarter was deeper than an initial estimate.  “Increased  mortgage rates  and mounting concerns over the
impact of the euro zone on the U.K.’s economic growth and
employment are likely to keep demand and prices in check as we
move into summer,”  Richard Donnell , director of research at
Hometrack, said in the report.  From a year earlier, prices fell 0.6 percent in May,
Hometrack said. The number of new properties listed with real-
estate agents rose 2.2 percent in May from the previous month,
when they increased 4.8 percent. The number of potential buyers
registering with agents to browse listings increased 0.4
percent, the least since January.  Out of the 10 regions assessed by Hometrack, three showed
price increases from April, three had no change and four showed
declines. The average time on the market held at 9.3 weeks, with
the average for London the lowest, at 5.1 weeks.  Inflation Eases  Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club said  slowing inflation  and the
government’s increase in the personal tax allowance will ease
pressure on consumers this year. It sees price growth slowing to
match wage increases and said that Britons will have an extra
482 pounds ($755) for spending this year and 624 pounds in 2013.  “After the tightest squeeze on consumer incomes in a
generation, the worst is now behind us,” said  Andrew Goodwin ,
senior economic adviser to the ITEM Club. “Most people should
start to feel a bit better off by the end of the year.”  A separate report by manufacturers’ lobby EEF said credit
conditions for U.K. companies improved in the second quarter. A
survey of 246 companies showed a net balance of 4.3 percent
reported improved access to new credit over the past two months.
Still, a measure of the cost of credit worsened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  