-- Republican on U.S. Labor Board Quits After Watchdog Allegations
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-28T04:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/u-s-nlrb-s-flynn-resigns-after-criticism-of-released-memos-1-.html
Republican U.S. National Labor
Relations Board member  Terence Flynn  resigned after an
independent watchdog said he released non-public information,
including decisions before rulings were issued.  Flynn sent his May 25 resignation letter to Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce, who announced the decision yesterday in a
statement. Flynn recused himself from board business until his
resignation is effective July 24, according to the statement.
The resignation also was sent to President  Barack Obama .  The NLRB’s inspector general said in a May 2 report that
Flynn, while a board employee, gave unpublished information,
including a draft of a board decision, to a former agency
member. The AFL-CIO labor federation and two Democrats in
Congress had called on Flynn to resign after the disclosures.  Pearce thanked the board’s staff for their “hard work and
commitment to excellence through even the most difficult
circumstances.” The chairman will comment further May 29,
according to the statement.  The  watchdog’s allegations , in separate reports March 19
and May 2, added to criticism of the board that mediates
disputes between labor and employers. Obama in January appointed
Flynn, who had been nominated a year earlier, and two Democrats
when the Senate wasn’t in session, bypassing confirmation and
triggering legal challenges from Republicans. Flynn was one of
two Republicans on the five-member board.  Pearce said after the watchdog report this month that he
took the allegations seriously and that they raised questions
about ethics and trust.  Miller, Harkin  California Representative  George Miller , senior Democrat on
the House Education and Labor Committee, and Senator  Tom Harkin ,
an Iowa Democrat who heads the Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions Committee, asked Flynn to resign after the May 2 report
was released.  The inspector general’s report said that Flynn, while chief
counsel to a Republican member and before he was appointed by
Obama, improperly gave a draft of an unpublished decision and
dissents in three cases to Peter Schaumber, his NLRB boss until
August 2010. Some of the information was released while
Schaumber was a labor adviser to Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , according to Inspector General David P.
Berry. Schaumber’s name has since been dropped from Romney’s
campaign website.  In response to the March 19 report from watchdog, which
prompted the AFL-CIO to call for his resignation, Flynn said he
had none nothing improper and intended to “fulfill my
responsibilities” on the board.  Schaumber E-Mail  Berry, in his reports, said that about a month after
Schaumber left the agency, he sent his former chief counsel an
e-mail asking to “keep me posted” on board decisions.
“Sure,” Flynn responded, 54 minutes later, according to
Berry’s report.  In one case in which Flynn distributed a dissent, the NLRB
eventually said that a  MasTec Inc. (MTZ)  unit wrongfully fired
employees who appeared on a television news broadcast in work
uniforms and were critical of the company’s compensation plan.  In another case highlighted by the inspector general, Flynn
notified Schaumber by e-mail of a board decision that stationary
banners announcing a labor dispute didn’t violate laws. Flynn
sent his e-mail six days before the decision was announced,
according to the watchdog report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  