-- Wall Street Titans Outearned by Media Czars
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-05-27T22:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/wall-street-titans-outearned-by-media-czars.html
Think Wall Street is the land of
plenty when it comes to compensation? Think again.      If 2011
pay to top executives is a window into the Wall Street
compensation machine, then compared with other industries -- the
entertainment media, for instance -- the bloom is definitely off
the rose.  In 2011, the best-paid Wall Street chief executive officer
was  Jamie Dimon  at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  He got  $23 million  in
total compensation. John Stumpf of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  got $17.9
million, while Lloyd Blankfein at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  had
to settle for $16.2 million. Although Vikram Pandit at  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  received $14.9 million, 55 percent of Citigroup’s
shareholders voted for a nonbinding resolution that would have
denied him that pay.  James Gorman  at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  took home
$10.5 million, a pay cut of 25 percent from the previous year.
Brian Moynihan at  Bank of America Corp.  got $8.1 million.  I understand that this is a great deal of money. And that
it remains true that Wall Street firms pay out a larger
percentage of their annual revenue as compensation to employees
than any other industry where companies are publicly traded --
generally between 40 percent and 50 percent, although  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  has been averaging a payout ratio of 63 percent of revenue
for the past two years. Yet there is a clear pattern: Absolute
levels of Wall Street pay, in relation to some other fields,
have been coming down in recent years.  A Sea Change  There are good reasons for this, of course. Generally,
profits have been down, return on equity is down, revenue growth
is down, stock prices are down and regulation is up. And the
prospects for finding ways out of this conundrum are minimal.
While few tears will be shed for Wall Street’s executives, or
for anyone else fortunate enough to work there -- after all,
where else can so much money be made without having to put in
any of your own capital? -- these trends may bring a sea change
at the big banks.  For more than a generation,  Wall Street  has been able to
recruit the world’s best and brightest mostly by promising them
more money than they can possibly make elsewhere. Indeed it is
the rare Wall Street employee, especially among those just
starting out, who admit to being motivated by anything other
than the fat paychecks they have been promised. But when that
promise can no longer be kept, or when paychecks are smaller
than expected, the best and the brightest begin voting with
their feet.  Where do they go? Well if the theorem is true that they
follow the money, then there should be a stampede back into
professions such as the media industry, where top executives
quietly hauled down a fortune in 2011 compensation. For
instance, Les Moonves, the CEO of  CBS Corp. (CBS) , was paid $69.9
million in 2011. David Zaslav of  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) 
received $52.4 million, while Philippe Dauman at  Viacom Inc. (VIA)  was
paid $43 million.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Robert Iger got $31 million.
Jeff Bewkes, at  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , was paid $26 million in 2011.  Even the top executives at  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , Brian Roberts and
Steve Burke, received compensation of $27 million and $24
million, respectively, despite their pay being cut 13 percent
and 32 percent, respectively, from the previous year. (It’s
worth noting that Comcast patriarch Ralph Roberts, now 92 years
old and still a regular in the executive offices at the company,
once again took $1 in compensation for 2011.)  Six media executives wound up in the top 15 of the
 Associated Press ’s list of  highest-paid executives  released last
week; not a single banker joined them. No doubt these talented
executives are worth every penny of their exorbitant pay:
Profits at their companies are up, as are stock prices. But one
would be hard-pressed to remember the last time that the top pay
at media companies outstripped that of Wall Street.  This apparent paradigm shift occurs infrequently, and could
well signal the beginning of a new era -- the first in
generations -- when the pay potential is no longer highest on
Wall Street. When you combine that with just how miserable it is
to work at one of those banks on a day-to-day basis, there may
be value for the leaders of Wall Street to rethink not only
their business models but also what they will need to do to
continue to attract the best and the brightest when offering the
highest pay is no longer an option.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  the global shortage of
pain medication ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  whether India will keep
booming ; Albert R. Hunt on  Obama’s counterterrorism policies ;
Pawel Swieboda on  Europe’s far-right parties .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  