-- Zach Johnson Breathes Sigh of Relief After Golf Win at Colonial
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-05-28T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-27/zach-johnson-survives-18th-hole-scare-to-win-crowne-plaza-golf.html
Zach Johnson  thought he had a short
putt on the final green to win golf’s Crowne Plaza Invitational
for a second time by three shots. Turned out he narrowly avoided
being disqualified.  Johnson moved his ball marker at No. 18 to allow Dufner to
putt out. He then failed to return the marker to its original
spot before taking his final 5-foot putt. The error cost him a
two-shot penalty, reducing his margin of victory to a single
stroke yesterday at Colonial Country Club in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  “One, I got lucky because it was a two-shot penalty; two,
I got lucky because they told me before I signed my score
card,” Johnson, wearing the champion’s red plaid jacket, said
in a news conference. “I’m just lucky that they mentioned it to
me before I signed my score card and left the building.”  Had Johnson, the 2007 Masters Tournament winner, signed for
a score of even-par 70, he would have been disqualified. Had he
missed his final putt, Johnson would have dropped into a playoff
with Dufner. As it turned out, the champion finished at 12-
under-par 268 following a 2-over 72.  Dufner was 11-under after a 74, four shots ahead of  Tommy
Gainey , who was third.  It was Johnson’s eighth win on the U.S.  PGA Tour  and first
since his win at Colonial in 2010. Johnson’s victory, his fourth
in Texas, prevented Dufner from winning two weeks in a row and
securing his third title since April 29.  “What he’s done the last month is beyond impressive,”
Johnson said of Dufner. “I feel like I somewhat unseated a
king, because he’s been on top for four weeks.”  Dufner beat Ernie Els in a playoff at the Zurich Classic of
 New Orleans  for his maiden title on the tour before getting
married and winning seven days ago at the Byron Nelson
Championship in nearby Irving.  Dufner began yesterday with a one-shot lead over Johnson at
15-under par. The duo exchanged the lead several times during
the final round before Johnson took a one-shot advantage with a
10-foot (3 meter) birdie putt at the 14th hole.  Johnson extended his advantage to four shots with three
holes to play after Dufner hit his second shot from a fairway
sand trap into a water hazard at No. 15. The error led to a
triple-bogey seven, dropping Dufner to 11-under.  Johnson’s lead proved just enough to withstand a three-putt
bogey at the par-3 16th and his error at No. 18.  The tour now moves to Muirfield Village Golf Club in
Dublin,  Ohio , for the  Memorial Tournament . Tiger Woods is
scheduled to play in the May 31 to June 3 event that’s hosted by
 Jack Nicklaus . Woods won the title three straight years through
2001 and again in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 