-- A Berlusconi Comeback Would Be No Answer to Italy’s Woes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/a-berlusconi-comeback-is-last-thing-italy-needs.html
Until recently, it was hard to
imagine that  Silvio Berlusconi ,  Italy ’s scandal-prone former
prime minister, might attempt another comeback.  Now, sadly for Italy and  Europe , he might. Italy’s
prospects are troubled enough without the turmoil that a
resurgence of the billionaire media mogul would stir.  Berlusconi, 75, was out of favor when he left office in
November, and his career in politics looked over. A busy
retirement -- including defending himself on a charge of paying
a minor for sex, which he denies -- seemed in prospect. Hopes
were high that the emergency administration appointed by Italy’s
president and led by  Mario Monti , no flamboyant politician but a
well-regarded international civil servant, would come to grips
with Italy’s financial problems.  Support for the technocrats has already waned, however, and
there’s talk of an early election. Brooding about the low
standing of his People of Liberty party, Berlusconi is
contemplating re-entry. He has said that when Monti’s unelected
administration ends its term, Italian politics will return to
“normal.” You might say, that’s the problem.  Since taking office, Monti and his team have done well,
considering. They bravely raised taxes and cut public spending,
bringing fiscal policy under control. Structural reform of labor
markets and other backward parts of the Italian economy proved
harder, and in those areas a lot is left to do.  In 2011, the  World Bank   ranked  Italy 30th out of 31
advanced economies, ahead of only  Greece , for ease of doing
business. Evaluated in 10 categories, it scored poorly across
the board: 29th in “getting electricity,” 28th in “getting
credit,” 27th in “dealing with construction permits,” and dead
last in “paying taxes” and “enforcement of contracts.” This
sustained accretion of official incompetence hinders new
enterprises especially, stifling productivity and innovation,
and holding back growth.  A recent  report  by the  International Monetary Fund  found
much the same. In their evaluation, the IMF economists stressed
Italy’s needlessly complex regulation and lack of competition in
local public services, which raises business costs. A serious
 effort  to confront the full range of supply-side issues could
raise Italy’s output by nearly 6 percent in the medium term, the
report says.  Monti has made a start and has done as much as any leader
could in such a short time. Yet Italy has already lost patience,
and its economic prospects aren’t brightening. Unemployment is
high, and the economy is shrinking. Renewed fears over the
future of the euro-area countries have driven Spanish 10-year
bond yields above 7 percent in recent days, and Italy’s, despite
Monti’s efforts, above 6 percent.  In one way, that’s odd. Unlike  Spain , Italy has a primary
 budget surplus  (the fiscal balance excluding debt interest), and
its banks are healthier. Yet markets remain alarmed.  That’s probably for two reasons: Italy’s stock of debt, at
125 percent of GDP, remains high, and growing political
uncertainty calls Monti’s reforms into question. The debt was
the legacy of previous governments, including those led by
Berlusconi -- and the former prime minister’s talk of a return
to politics can only be adding to the  risk premium  on Italy’s
cost of borrowing. You can forgive the technocrats in  Rome  if
they feel frustrated, including by the part Berlusconi is
playing in their troubles.  Europe’s austerity caucus, led by German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, could help Monti by supporting European Central Bank
purchases of Italian government debt, either directly or, if
that’s too hard to swallow, indirectly through investors. This
would lower the  interest rate  Italy must pay to finance its
debt, and Monti, in turn, would be able to show voters positive
results from his budget cutbacks and fend off any seductive,
populist attacks by Berlusconi. So far,  Germany  has opposed
aggressive ECB bond buying. The longer it does, however, the
more Berlusconi-like heads of state will come to power in
Europe, setting back the reforms Germany seeks.  Italy’s prospects will stay clouded until the country and
its politicians recognize that Monti’s reforms -- and more of
the same -- need to be entrenched and extended. With or without
Berlusconi, the last thing Italy needs is to get back to normal.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  housing as a campaign issue ;
Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Mexico’s energy reforms ; William Pesek
on Japan’s attempts to  weaken the yen ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why
Republicans will  win the tax debate ;  Alexander Friedman  and
Kiran Ganesh on the  butterfly effects  of central banks; Carrie
Lingo on the excitement of  women’s field hockey .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 