-- Thai Billionaires Embracing Yingluck Soft Power for Asia Exports
-- B y   Y o o l i m   L e e
-- 2012-07-30T21:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/thai-billionaires-embracing-yingluck-soft-power-for-asia-exports.html
In the hubbub of the  World Economic
Forum  on East  Asia  in Bangkok in May, Thapana Sirivadhanabhakdi,
a scion of a business empire stretching from beer to real
estate, jumps up from his seat during an interview when he sees
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra passing by. He bows to
her, beaming, his palms pressed together near his forehead as he
utters, “Sawatdee-khrap,” which means “Hello” in Thai.  Yingluck, elegantly dressed in a black suit and surrounded
by her entourage of cabinet ministers, stops briefly to return
the smile and the greeting, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its September issue. Thapana, 37, is an unabashed fan. He
says Yingluck’s charm, patience, tolerance, politeness and
flexibility have helped restore political stability to the
country since she took office in August 2011. “She represents
the soft power of Thailand,” he says.  Thapana directs the conversation back to the overseas
expansion his business has embarked upon. His firm,  Thai
Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , Thailand’s biggest brewer and distiller, has
Myanmar in its sights. The neighboring country’s political
transformation has presented Thai businesses with an underserved
consumer market of more than 60 million people. Separately, in
its biggest acquisition, Thai Beverage said in July it agreed to
pay $2.2 billion for a 22 percent stake in Singapore-based
Fraser & Neave Ltd., a shareholder in  Asia Pacific Breweries
Ltd. (APB) , the maker of Tiger beer. Thapana, one of the sons of
billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, who made his fortune
selling inexpensive beer and whiskey in Thailand, says he’s
negotiating to set up spirits and beer factories in Myanmar with
a local partner, which would make Thai Beverage one of the
largest producers there.  Expanding Overseas  Thapana’s plan reflects a growing trend of Thai companies
expanding overseas. Having overcome the obstacles of the 2008
global credit crisis and last year’s devastating floods -- and
armed with cash, regional expertise and business connections --
Thai firms are looking abroad for new opportunities, including
promising and largely untapped consumer markets such as
Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam.  Coal producer  Banpu Pcl (BANPU) , energy company  PTT Pcl (PTT) ,  Siam
Cement Pcl (SCC)  and  Thai Union Frozen Products Pcl (TUF)  are among Thai
companies that have spent a total of $20.4 billion buying
overseas assets from the beginning of 2008 -- the year Thai
firms, taking advantage of the crisis, started investing more
outside the country -- through July 18, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with just $1.4 billion from
2003 to 2007.  Charoen Pokphand Foods  Several Thailand-based entrepreneurs have become
billionaires by profiting from Asia’s consumption explosion. One
is Dhanin Chearavanont, 73, whose family is Thailand’s richest,
according to Bloomberg data. His business empire,  Charoen
Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) , with a market value of $8 billion as of July
30, derives 39 percent of its sales from abroad, including China
and Vietnam.  Another is Indian-born billionaire Aloke Lohia, who owns
Thailand’s most acquisitive company,  Indorama Ventures Pcl (IVL) , the
world’s largest producer of polyethylene terephthalate, or PET,
a plastic resin used in a myriad of consumer products from
toothbrushes to bottles.  Lohia says Thailand is a good platform for international
businesses. The government in January cut corporate tax rates to
23 percent from 30 percent. The rates will drop further, to 20
percent, in 2013 and 2014. The Thai economy, the biggest in
 Southeast Asia  after Indonesia’s, has been a rare bright spot as
the  European debt crisis  deepened, U.S. economic growth cooled
and Brazil, China and India braced for a slowdown.  Growth Forecast  In May, the Thai central bank raised its 2012 growth
forecast to 6 percent; its March forecast was for 5.7 percent
 growth  this year. The economy expanded in the first quarter as
factories owned by such industrial powerhouses as Japan-based
Honda Motor Co. resumed production in Thailand and local demand
revived after the nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years.
Manufacturing output in April rose for the first time in eight
months.  For all of the upbeat assessments, the country faces rising
competition in winning overseas investment away from other
nations. Morgan Stanley earlier this year conducted a survey of
109 foreign firms with exposure to Thailand; of these, 63
percent said they planned to reduce or maintain their
investments in Thailand, while only 37 percent said they
intended to increase them.  Value Chain  “The challenge for Thailand is to move up the value chain
and not get stuck on low-value-added jobs,” says Hozefa Topiwalla, head of research for Southeast Asia at Morgan Stanley
in Singapore, who cites favorably the government’s plan to raise
the minimum wage by about 40 percent, to 300 baht ($9.50) a day
by 2013.  Political uncertainty remains a disincentive to investors,
according to the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness
Report 2011-12. The WEF ranked Thailand 39th among 142 nations,
down one spot from the previous year and three places from the
year before that. Thailand has been rocked by violent protests
since former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  was deposed in a
coup in 2006. Thaksin’s supporters held street demonstrations
that led to clashes with the military and left more than 90
people dead in 2010. Thaksin, 63, has lived outside the country
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power in 2008.  In July, Thailand’s  Constitutional Court  said that if
Yingluck’s governing party wants to rewrite the country’s
constitution, it should hold a nationwide referendum first; the
court’s decision boosted stocks as investors dismissed the
threat of an immediate political clash. Thaksin’s allies say the
amendments would be designed to increase the power of elected
officials, while his opponents say they’re part of a strategy
aimed at allowing him to return to Thailand.  Improved Relations  Yingluck, Thaksin’s 45-year-old sister, has promised to
govern the country in a spirit of compromise to reconcile
Thaksin’s supporters and opponents. “I have to be fair for
everyone, not just for my brother,” she told Bloomberg TV in
May. She has taken steps to improve relations with the military
and the palace. In removing Thaksin from office, the military
high command said his offenses, which he denies, included
showing disrespect to  King Bhumibol Adulyadej .  In May, Yingluck announced she would donate family land
valued at 20 million baht to the king, who took the throne in
1946 and who, at 84, is the world’s longest-serving head of
state.  1997 Crisis  Today’s relatively thriving kingdom bears little
resemblance to the country whose currency devaluation in July
1997 sparked a financial crisis that spread through Asia. The
government at the time abandoned the baht’s peg to the  U.S.
dollar , as the current-account deficit widened; in 1997, the
baht plunged 82 percent and the benchmark  stock index  dropped 55
percent.  In August 1997, Thailand agreed to a $17.2 billion bailout
package from the  International Monetary Fund  in return for
closing 56 ailing small finance companies, overhauling
bankruptcy laws and other conditions. Thailand repaid its IMF
loan in 2003, one year ahead of schedule.  In May, Thailand’s economic turnaround made an impression
on Myanmar democracy-movement leader and newly elected member of
Parliament Aung San Suu Kyi on her first foreign trip in 24
years. While Myanmar has remained an impoverished backwater, the
Thai capital city has grown a mantle of glamour. It’s now dotted
with posh restaurants, trendy bars and luxury hotels in the
midst of ageless Buddhist temples.  ‘Completely Fascinated’  The 67-year-old Nobel Peace Prize laureate, who was
released from house arrest in November 2010, said that as she
flew into Bangkok at nighttime in May, she was struck by the
contrast between the city and her homeland’s former capital.
“Thirty years ago, a scene that met my eyes landing in Bangkok
would not have been very different from what would have met my
eyes landing in Rangoon,” she told WEF delegates. “I was
completely fascinated by the lights because I had just left a
Burma suffering from electricity cuts.”  One of those who has benefited from the economic progress
that Suu Kyi witnessed is Indorama’s Lohia. After seeing
thousands of businesses go under during the 1997-to-1998 crisis,
Lohia, 53, says he set his company on the path to international
expansion in order to diversify risk. In 2002, he was looking
for financing for his first overseas acquisition: Tiepet Inc.,
an Asheboro, North Carolina-based PET resin manufacturer that
had gone out of business.  International Success  Lohia says a Bangkok banker friend advised him against the
purchase because many Thai companies had gotten burned badly
overseas. He says the banker pointed to the case of Thai tuna
canner Unicord Co, which went bankrupt several years after
acquiring U.S. rival Bumble Bee Seafoods Inc. for $283 million
in 1989. Lohia went ahead, and today Tiepet, renamed StarPet
Inc., is one of 39 Indorama factories in 15 countries
manufacturing products including PET, which is used by Coca-Cola
Co. and PepsiCo Inc. to make plastic bottles and by  Procter &
Gamble Co . to make disposable diapers. Indorama went public in
Bangkok in February 2010. The Lohia family’s 66 percent stake
was valued at $2.9 billion as of July 30.  Lohia came to Thailand by accident at age 29. In 1988, his
father, who was running a successful textile business in
Indonesia, sent Lohia, his youngest son, to Bangkok to find out
more about the polyester business. Two decades later, Lohia is
in the process of setting up a factory in  Nigeria , which will
become one of the first PET producers in Africa.  In 2011, Indorama ranked 62nd among 1,917 chemical
companies as measured by annual sales, according to Bloomberg
data. Lohia says his goal is to build the firm into one of the
world’s top 15 chemical makers within 10 years. “That excites us
and pushes us to our limits,” he says. While questions hang over
the future of Thai politics, a sunny Lohia says he trusts that
the country will settle into the stability required to spearhead
growth in the years ahead. “Thailand has been extremely good to
me,” Lohia says. “I am here to stay.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Yoolim Lee in Singapore at 
 yoolim@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  