-- Thai Baht Weakens on Speculation Importers Buying More Dollars
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-30T08:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/thai-baht-weakens-on-speculation-importers-buying-more-dollars.html
Thailand’s baht retreated from its
strongest level in almost four weeks on speculation importers
are stepping up dollar purchases to take advantage of a
favorable exchange rate. Government bonds advanced.  The currency touched 31.43 per dollar today, the strongest
level since July 4. The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares rose
after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  agreed in Berlin yesterday to “do everything to
protect the euro area,” according to an e-mailed statement from
German government spokesman Georg Streiter. Thai  imports  climbed
2.6 percent in June from a year earlier, while  exports  dropped
4.2 percent, official data showed July 25.  “Around 31.50 is a good level for importers to buy the
dollar,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at
 Bangkok Bank Pcl. (BBL)  “We can also expect month-end dollar demand
from importers. Risk sentiment is quite good today on some
positive comments from European officials.”  The baht declined 0.2 percent to 31.59 per dollar as of
3:12 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its one-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 5.02 percent.  Investment in infrastructure and water-management projects
may boost imports, putting pressure on the baht, Bank of
Thailand Assistant Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said July 27.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will meet U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Frankfurt today as he
seeks consensus for a plan to ease borrowing costs in Spain and
Italy.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.14
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 