-- Air France-KLM Quarterly Loss Narrows on Cost Reductions
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-07-30T16:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/air-france-klm-quarterly-loss-narrows-on-lower-operating-costs.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, surged the most since its formation more than
eight years ago as the introduction of a 2 billion-euro ($2.5
billion) savings plan helped halve its second-quarter loss.  Air France’s operating loss narrowed to 66 million euros
from 145 million euros a year earlier, beating the 163 million-
euro average  estimate  of analysts in a Bloomberg poll.  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s top low-cost carrier, posted a 29 percent
drop in  net income  to 98.8 million euros as fuel costs jumped.  Air France-KLM closed almost 73 cents or 19 percent higher
at 4.62 euros in Paris, where the company is based, the sharpest
gain since the group was founded via a Franco-Dutch merger in
May 2004. That boosted the stock’s advance this year to 16
percent, giving a market value of 1.39 billion euros.  “Air France is going in the right direction but I’m still
not convinced that they’re prepared to be radical enough in the
face of industrial strife over job cuts,” said  John Strickland ,
director of JLS Consulting in  London . “Ryanair on the other hand
will do whatever’s necessary in terms of grounding aircraft when
demand is low, and they don’t have labor issues to worry about.”  Ryanair, which is based in Dublin, closed up 2.4 percent at
4 euros after earlier sliding as much as 5.4 percent.  Job-Cut Costs  Air France-KLM said last month it would eliminate more than
5,000 jobs at its  French unit  as Chief Executive Officer Jean- Cyril Spinetta seeks the savings he says are needed to guarantee
survival. As the economic slump combines with volatile oil
prices and exchange rates, the quarterly results show how
crucial the Transform 2015 turnaround plan is, he said today.  The carrier posted a restructuring charge of 368 million
euros against buyout packages related to the job cuts, extending
its second-quarter net loss to 895 million euros from 197
million euros. Sales advanced 4.5 percent to 6.5 billion euros.  “The vast majority of charges were taken into account at
end of June,” Chief Financial Officer Philippe Calavia said on
a conference call. “For the second part of the year, they will
be much lower.” Excluding exceptional items, the net loss would
have been about 230 million euros, he said.  Air France aims to post an operating profit higher than the
195 million euros achieved in the second half of 2011 and on
that basis should reduce net debt by the end of the year.  “These are interesting results, because they’ve halved
their operating loss when everyone thought it would be in line
with last year,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo
Securities in Paris with a “buy” recommendation on the stock.
“The debt picture is also evolving in a positive way.”  Fuel Burden  Air France-KLM’s quarterly fuel bill advanced 13 percent to
about 1.9 billion euros and will reach 9.4 billion euros for the
year, and increase of about 400 million euros, it said today.  Ryanair’s profit was short of the 106 million euros
expected by analysts as fuel costs jumped by 117 million euros,
or 27 percent, in the three months, its fiscal second quarter.  That wiped out the positive impact of a 6 percent gain in
passenger numbers and a 4 percent boost in fares that helped
spur revenue 11 percent to 1.28 billion euros. The Irish carrier
is seeking to sustain growth by expanding in Eastern Europe and
making a 694 million-euro takeover bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   “There’s austerity right across piece, it’s everywhere,”
Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar said in a telephone
interview, reiterating that full year earnings will shrink to
between 400 million euros and 440 million euros after rising 25
percent to 502.6 million euros in the 12 months to March 31.  ‘Cautious’  The deepening European slump means it’s tougher to increase
prices this year. Ryanair idled 80 aircraft last winter, curbing
capacity and helping to boost average fares 16 percent.  Pricing may improve slightly this quarter, generally the
busiest for the  airline industry , with fares up as much as 7
percent, Millar said. For the 12 months, passenger numbers
should increase by about 5 percent, or 4 million, to 79 million.  The full-year fuel bill is likely to be about 1.95 billion
euros, up 320 million euros, the CFO said, and while Ryanair is
hedged at $94 a barrel on 50 percent of its requirement for the
first half of fiscal 2014, versus $100 this year, that will be
more than offset by the euro’s lower value versus the dollar.  “Our outlook remains cautious for the year,” Ryanair
Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in a statement.  The  job cuts  being targeted at Air France-KLM, equal to 10
percent of posts at the French unit, are to be achieved through
voluntary departures and attrition, avoiding firings, it says.  Cabin-Crew Question  Unions representing ground workers and pilots last week
backed the cuts, Air France said, though two of the main cabin-
crew groups oppose the proposals, causing the carrier to suggest
that it may scrap current accords when they expire in March.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s No. 2 airline, said on May
2 that it would scrap about 3,500 administrative posts as part
of a 1.5 billion-euro savings plan. The German company may also
cut 1,000 jobs at LSG Sky Chefs, the world’s biggest inflight
caterer. It reports second-quarter results on Aug. 2.  Air France also plans to slim its European business into
three units to slash costs at the perennially unprofitable
operation, it said May 24. Brit Air, Regional and Airlinair,
which serve smaller cities, will become a single division, while
a leisure arm will be established around discount unit Transavia
and Air France’s short-haul brand will add a no-frills class.  Passenger traffic rose 2.4 percent in the second quarter
and the  load factor , a measure of seat occupancy, also improved.
Bookings in the summer, the busiest period for travel, are
“strong,” Calavia said.  Genuine Bid  Ryanair has gained 10 percent this year for a market value
of 5.8 billion euros.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest
discount carrier, has advanced 45 percent.  Millar said Ryanair’s bid for shares of Aer Lingus that it
doesn’t already own has too many cost implications for it not to
be meant as a serious offer, even though European Union
regulators blocked two previous approaches.  Dublin-based Aer Lingus on July 18 urged investors to
reject O’Leary’s 1.30 euros-a-share offer, saying it was too low
and probably incapable of completion under antitrust rules.  Ryanair last week asked an English court to block a U.K.
Competition Commission probe into its existing 29.8 percent Aer
Lingus stake, added six years ago, arguing that it violates the
jurisdiction of the EU, which is considering the latest bid.  The 2012 Olympics, being held in London, are having little
impact on Ryanair, Millar said, even though the U.K. is its
biggest market. EasyJet said last week that the games have hurt
demand as Britons avoid travel and business visitors stay away.  Ryanair has no interest in buying more planes at the prices
on offer from  Boeing Co. (BA) , Millar said, adding that the U.S.
company has “sold lots of aircraft to people who have no money.”  The Irish carrier is continuing to work with Commercial
Aircraft Corp. of  China , which is developing the C919 jet,
though there’s no prospect of an order soon, the executive said.  “We’re helping them out,” he said. “But it’s a long way
off. You are talking towards the end of this decade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  