-- Air Canada Rallies Most Since April on Pilot Contract
-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-07-31T20:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/air-canada-pilot-contract-backed-by-arbitrator-as-union-objects.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  rose the most in three
months after a government-appointed arbitrator supported the
carrier’s final contract offer to pilots, resolving a labor
dispute dating to 2010.  The Class B shares climbed 5.4 percent to C$1.14 at the
close in Toronto for the biggest intraday advance since April
27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Air Canada (AC/B)  hadn’t
settled at that level since Feb. 9.  The five-year agreement will remain in effect until April
1, 2016, Air  Canada  said yesterday in a statement, even as the
3,000-member Air Canada Pilots Association renewed its criticism
of the government’s decision to intervene in the case by
bringing in a federal arbitrator.  “The conclusion of this, the last outstanding agreement
with our main labor groups in Canada, brings closure to a long
and difficult round of labor negotiations,” Chief Executive
Officer Calin Rovinescu said in the statement.  Arbitrator Douglas Stanley’s decision drew immediate
criticism from the pilots union, which accused the government of
“political meddling” and “heavy-handed legislation” to help
secure new labor agreements. Air Canada has said it needed cost
savings to help return to  profit .  “Pilots are angry at the way they have been treated by the
government and their employer,” union President Paul Strachan
and Chairman Jean-Marc Belanger said in a statement. “This
arbitration will only add to their disillusionment, creating a
drag on Air Canada’s future performance.”  Labor Minister Lisa Raitt blocked a planned lockout of
pilots in March by referring the matter to an arbitrator. The
government barred a Machinists strike at the same time, after
the union accused the airline of doing too little to bolster its
pension program. In June, the arbitrator in the Machinists case
chose the company’s final offer.  Pilots had been working under the terms of their last
accord, which expired in March 2011, after talks dating to late
2010. The union has been resisting the possible creation of a
discount unit that Air Canada has said would help reduce costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivek Shankar in  San Francisco  at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  