-- Taiwan Bonds Decline, Currency Advance on Europe Debt Optimism
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-07-30T08:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/taiwan-bonds-decline-currency-rallies-on-europe-debt-optimism.html
Taiwan ’s bonds fell the most in nine
months and the local dollar rallied on optimism European policy
makers will take action to ease the region’s debt turmoil.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Italian Prime Minister
Mario Monti yesterday backed European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s approach to combat the sovereign debt crisis,
saying they will do what’s needed to protect the 17-nation euro.
Taiwan’s government may report tomorrow that the island’s
economy grew about 0.5 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
following a 0.39 percent expansion in the previous three months,
a Bloomberg survey of economists showed.  “Investors are embracing riskier assets today as there’s a
surge of optimism in the market,” said George Pu, a bond trader
at Sinopac Securities Corp. in Taipei. “The market is also
waiting to see if Taiwan’s economy is going as bad as we
think.”  The yield on the 1.25 percent bonds due March 2022 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.169 percent,
the highest level since July 12, according to Gretai Securities
Market. That’s the biggest increase in the  benchmark 10-year
rate  since Oct. 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Taiwan dollar  rose 0.1 percent to NT$30.080 against its
U.S. counterpart after touching NT$30.24 on July 26, the weakest
level in almost seven months, according to Taipei Forex Inc.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, dropped seven basis points to 4 percent.  The  overnight money-market rate  slipped one basis point to
0.39 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Centre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  