-- Anadarko Beats Analysts’ Estimates, Raises Sales Forecast
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-07-31T21:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/anadarko-reports-second-quarter-loss-on-writedowns.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the
second-largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by
market value, boosted its 2012 sales volume forecast and posted
adjusted quarterly profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The company reported a second-quarter net loss of $380
million, or 76 cents a share, from a profit of $544 million, or
$1.08, a year earlier, The Woodlands, Texas-based company said
in a statement yesterday. Excluding a reduction in the value of
coalbed methane properties and other one-time items, per-share
profit was 8 cents more than the 77-cent average of 30 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Anadarko’s sales volume climbed 8.3 percent from a year
earlier to the equivalent of 742,000 barrels of oil a day, the
company said. The record sales were driven by increased
production in  Colorado  and the Gulf of Mexico and higher volumes
from  Algeria . Anadarko also increased the midpoint of its full-
year sales forecast by 3 million barrels to a range of 261
million to 265 million barrels.  “They did very well,”  Fadel Gheit , a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in a telephone interview
today. “Very strong performance in all aspects of their
business,” said Gheit, who doesn’t own Anadarko shares and
expects them to perform better than the market.  Gas Prices  Anadarko recorded a $628 million after-tax charge in the
second quarter that was mostly related to the declining value of
coalbed methane properties because of lower  gas prices . Gas
futures traded in  New York  averaged $2.354 per million British
thermal units, a decline of 46 percent as the use of new
drilling techniques created a glut of the furnace fuel.  Second-quarter revenue declined 12 percent from a year
earlier to $3.2 billion.  Brent crude futures, a global benchmark, dropped 7 percent
from a year earlier to average $108.76 in the second quarter.
Anadarko is looking to U.S. onshore formations, including in
Colorado and  Texas , to help boost output of liquids such as oil.
The company is also exploring off the coast of  Africa , and in
the  Gulf of Mexico .  Anadarko will consider further transactions after
announcing about $1 billion of joint ventures in  Wyoming  and the
Gulf of Mexico, President and Chief Executive Officer Al Walker
said on a conference call with analysts and investors today.  Mozambique, Brazil  “A lot of people” have approached the company about
possibly buying a stake in its gas assets off the coast of
 Mozambique , Walker said. Mozambique is on a list of transactions
to consider, he said.  “Once we find the right deal that we think makes sense for
us and our shareholders, we’ll be inclined to pursue something
if we in fact can indeed find that,” Walker said.  Anadarko remains in a “holding pattern” on the possible
sale of assets in  Brazil  as it assesses how a possible
unitization may affect the value, Chief Financial Officer Bob Gwin said on today’s conference call. Brazil is still on the
list of expected future divestitures, he said.  In the Gulf of Mexico, the company’s partnership increased
the estimated recoverable resources at the Vito prospect to more
than 300 million barrels of oil equivalent from more than 200
million barrels.  Tronox Case  Anadarko continues to seek a “reasonable resolution”
related to a lawsuit by Tronox Inc., Bobby Reeves, the company’s
general counsel, said on today’s conference call. The company
plans to issue its 10-Q regulatory filing on or by Aug. 9 and
will include information on the case, Reeves said.  Anadarko is defending itself against a $25 billion lawsuit
by the U.S. and Tronox over environmental and tort claims
related to Tronox’s 2005 spinoff from Kerr-McGee Corp., which
Anadarko later acquired.  The case “has created an unfortunate cloud” as
misunderstandings have affected the stock price, Walker said
today.  The shares fell 3.2 percent to $69.44 at the close in New
York. The stock has dropped 9 percent this year.  The stock is behaving as though a Tronox settlement may be
near $5 billion, Gheit said. He expects a settlement closer to
$2 billion. Anadarko ended the second quarter with about $2.8
billion of cash on hand, according to its earnings statement.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value. Independent  oil companies  don’t own
refineries or a chemical business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  