-- Manchester United Is Said to Be Poised to Begin IPO
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-30T19:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/manchester-united-is-said-to-be-poised-to-begin-ipo.html
Manchester United Ltd. (MANU) , the English
soccer team with a record 19 national championships, is poised
to kick off its initial public offering and may set terms as
early as today, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The person asked not to be named because the process is
private. United, whose players include  England ’s striker  Wayne Rooney  and Welshman Ryan Giggs, filed for the U.S. IPO July 3.
The club planned to seek as much as $300 million in the sale, a
person familiar with the matter said this month.  United chose a U.S. sale after scrapping plans for an
offering worth as much as $1 billion in  Singapore . The club is
taking advantage of a rebound in the U.S. market, which froze
this year following Facebook Inc.’s disappointing debut, to
raise money to pay down debt, said Ipox Schuster LLC’s Josef Schuster.  “ Manchester United  is such a strong brand and probably has
some upside with the merchandising,” said Schuster, who helps
oversee about $2.5 billion at the Chicago-based investment firm.
“It could still be viewed as attractive by some institutions if
it’s priced in the right range.”  General Motors Co., the world’s largest carmaker, announced
today that it signed a seven-year deal to have its Chevrolet
brand on United’s jerseys. The contract begins in 2014,
according to a press release. Insurance company Aon Corp. pays
about 20 million pounds ($31 million) a year for its logo to
appear on the team’s red shirt under its current accord.  Club’s Expansion  United’s sponsorships and product licensing helped generate
89.5 million pounds of revenue in the nine months through March
31, more than one-third of total revenue, filings show. That’s
17 percent more than the year-earlier period.  Philip Townsend, a spokesman for the  soccer club , declined
to comment on the offering plans.  The club has doubled its followers to about 659 million
over the past five years, bolstered by fans in  Asia . Profit at
the club in the 12 months through March 31 was about 38 million
pounds, with sales of 345.6 million pounds, according to
filings.  Long-term debt at United totaled 417 million pounds as of
March, according to the filings. The club is controlled by the
Glazer family of the U.S., which acquired United for 790 million
pounds in 2005. The Glazers also own the  National Football
League ’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers.  Glazers’ Stake  The Glazers, who have full ownership of United, hold Class
B shares, which are entitled to 10 votes apiece. The Class A
shares being sold in the IPO get one vote each, according to
filings.  Jefferies Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are leading the U.S. offering for the soccer club.
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , which had been hired to lead the sale in
Singapore, is no longer working on the sale. The club plans to
list on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol MANU.  Last week was the busiest for U.S. IPOs since April, led by
offerings from steakhouse chain Del Frisco’s Restaurant Group
Inc. and Tex-Mex restaurant operator Chuy’s Holdings Inc.
Companies have raised $36 billion in U.S. IPOs so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  