-- Manchester Utd. Signs 7-Year Jersey Contract With GM
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-30T17:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/manchester-utd-signs-7-year-jersey-contract-with-gm.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  signed a seven-
year contract to have its Chevrolet brand displayed on English
soccer team Manchester United’s jerseys a day after GM’s
marketing head quit for failing to meet expectations.  The world’s largest carmaker, which dropped its  Super Bowl 
sponsorship in May, will start its contract with the 19-time
English soccer champion in 2014, according to a statement. The
terms weren’t disclosed. Insurance company AON Corp. pays 20
million pounds ($31 million) a year for its logo to appear on
the team’s red shirt under its current accord.  The deal, coming as United prepares for an initial public
offering in the U.S., builds on a five-year contract announced
in May for Detroit-based GM to be the soccer’s team’s official
carmaker. GM unveiled a similar agreement with United’s English
rival Liverpool on July 24.  “We have been partners with  Chevrolet  for only six weeks,
but already they have produced some fantastic ideas that will
benefit both the partnership and our 659 million followers
around the world,” Richard Arnold, United’s commercial
director, said in the statement.  The contract is the latest success for United’s marketing
team, which reorganized itself in 2008. Since then the value of
its commercial operation has grown to more than 100 million
pounds from 40 million pounds. The club has sales offices in
Manchester, London and  Hong Kong , a location where it considered
a listing to raise $1 billion. It also sought to raise the cash
in Singapore before canceling those plans and focusing on the
U.S.  Ewanick Resigns  In a preliminary filing announcing its equity sale plans
this month, the team said it would use any money to pay off its
debts. The club has spent more than 500 million pounds in
interest and fees connected to the 2005 leveraged buyout by the
Glazer family who took control for 790 million pounds. Its net
debt remains at about 450 million pounds.  GM Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick  resigned because he
didn’t “meet the company’s expectations of an employee,” the
automaker said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Under Ewanick, 52, GM decided in May to end advertising on
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  after a regular spending review. GM began
discussions about resuming ads on the social-network website,
two people familiar with the talks said this month. Ewanick also
decided not to advertise during the  National Football League ’s
Super Bowl championship game next year on CBS.  The former GM executive told reporters when the first
United deal was announced that the Super Bowl had become too
expensive, saying “enough is enough, you have to pull back.”  “Manchester United’s statistics are impressive, but this
relationship goes far beyond the numbers -- this relationship is
about connecting our brand with the deep-seated emotion that
surrounds the team everywhere it goes,” Alan Batey, General
Motors’ North America vice president, U.S. sales and service,
said today in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  