-- Manchester United Seeks Up to $333 Million in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-31T06:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/manchester-united-seeks-up-to-333-million-in-ipo.html
Manchester United Ltd. (MANU) , the English
soccer team with a record 19 national championships, plans to
raise as much as $333 million in a U.S. initial public offering.  The company and its selling shareholder, the Glazer family,
are offering 16.7 million shares at $16 to $20 each, according
to a regulatory filing yesterday. United, whose players include
 England ’s striker  Wayne Rooney  and Welshman Ryan Giggs, is
scheduled to price the U.S. IPO on Aug. 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  United chose a U.S. sale after scrapping plans for an
offering worth as much as $1 billion in  Singapore . The club is
taking advantage of a rebound in the U.S. market, which froze
this year following Facebook Inc.’s disappointing debut, to
raise money to pay down debt, said Ipox Schuster LLC’s Josef Schuster.  “ Manchester United  is such a strong brand and probably has
some upside with the merchandising,” said Schuster, who helps
oversee about $2.5 billion at the Chicago-based investment firm.
“It could still be viewed as attractive by some institutions if
it’s priced in the right range.”  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s largest carmaker, signed a
seven-year deal to have its Chevrolet brand on United’s jerseys
starting in 2014, according to a press release yesterday. GM
agreed to pay more than 25 million pounds ($39 million) per
year, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Club’s Expansion  GM is paying about 25 percent more than insurance company
Aon Corp. pays for its logo to appear on the team’s red shirt
under its current accord. The carmaker ousted its marketing
chief,  Joel Ewanick , after its leaders perceived that he failed
to make clear some details of the Manchester United contract to
the senior management team, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private.  United’s sponsorships and product licensing helped generate
89.5 million pounds of revenue in the nine months through March
31, more than one-third of total revenue, filings show. That’s
17 percent more than the year-earlier period.  The club has 659 million followers, United said in its
filing, citing a study by Kantar Media. The number of followers
is estimated based on the number of respondents in the study who
answered, unprompted, that United was either their favorite team
or a team they enjoyed following, the filing shows. The IPO
values the club at about $4.50 per follower, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stronger Market  The midpoint of the offering range would value the club at
$2.95 billion, or about 50 times profit of 38 million pounds in
the 12 months through March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s also about 5 times sales of 345.6 million pounds
during the same period.  The range makes United more than twice as pricey as  Parken
Sport & Entertainment A/S (PARKEN) , the operator of F.C. Kobenhaven and
its stadium in Copenhagen, which trades at 18 times profit and
0.6 times sales in the 12 months through March, Bloomberg data
show.  Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE) , the Turin, Italy-based team,
trades at about 0.5 times sales in the 12 months through March
31, the data show.  Last week was the busiest for U.S. IPOs since April, led by
offerings from steakhouse chain Del Frisco’s Restaurant Group
Inc. and Tex-Mex restaurant operator Chuy’s Holdings Inc.
Companies have raised $36 billion in U.S. IPOs so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Makes Sense’  In Singapore by comparison, companies have raised $781
million so far this year through IPOs, down from $7 billion a
year before. Earlier this month Global Telecommunications
Infrastructure Trust scrapped a $1 billion offering that would
have been the city’s largest IPO this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It was the largest deal to be delayed in
Singapore since Manchester United’s IPO there last year.  “It makes sense for Manchester United to issue its IPO in
the U.S. rather in than Singapore,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-
based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages almost $100 billion. “IPOs going into stronger
markets are usually more successful. They should still get the
pricing right.”  United also disclosed that revenue for the year ended June
30 was 315 million pounds to 320 million pounds, compared with
331.4 million pounds in the previous period. Commercial revenue
rose to at least 115 million pounds compared with 103.4 million
pounds a year earlier. The club had about 437 million pounds of
borrowings at the end of June.  Glazer’s Stake  The club is controlled by the Glazer family of the U.S.,
which acquired United for 790 million pounds in 2005. The
Glazers also own the  National Football League ’s Tampa Bay
Buccaneers.  The Glazers, who have full ownership of United, hold Class
B shares, which are entitled to 10 votes apiece. The Class A
shares being sold in the IPO get one vote each, according to
filings. The Glazers will maintain almost 99 percent voting
power over the club after the offering, in which a 10 percent
stake of the company is being sold.  Jefferies Group Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are leading the U.S. offering for the  soccer club .
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , which had been hired to lead the sale in
Singapore, is no longer working on the sale. The club plans to
list on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol MANU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  