-- Apple Said to Ready IPhone Redesign for Sept. 12 Debut
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-07-31T20:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/apple-said-to-prepare-iphone-redesign-for-sept-12-introduction.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is preparing to introduce
the next version of the iPhone on Sept. 12 in what will be a
design overhaul of its top-selling product, according to two
people with knowledge of the company’s plans.  The people asked not to be named because an official
announcement hasn’t been made. The new iPhone will have a larger
screen and thinner body, and is expected to work with faster
long-term evolution wireless networks being introduced by
carriers such as Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) , according to
analysts such as Piper Jaffray Cos.’  Gene Munster .  The design change will be Apple’s first for the best-
selling smartphone since 2010, when it unveiled the iPhone 4.
Last year’s update, the 4S, had the same look as the prior
version. Anticipation for the new model has led to a drop in
sales for the current devices, causing Apple to miss analysts’
sales and profit targets for three months that ended in June.
The iPhone accounted for 46 percent of the company’s  revenue  in
the quarter.  Apple is battling  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  for supremacy in
the $219.1 billion smartphone market. While Apple’s strategy has
been to release a single smartphone each year, Samsung has
become the world’s leading handset maker by putting out several
devices a year in a range of sizes and prices.  The planned September debut was reported earlier by  iMore ,
a technology news website.  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for
Apple, declined to comment.  Higher Prepayments  Signs that Apple is preparing to introduce a new product
were evident in its quarterly financial results. The company
increased the prepayments it is making for components by $1.15
billion -- a jump that may indicate a new product is going to be
introduced, according to a report yesterday from Maynard Um, an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities.  Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  had worked closely on the
redesigned phone before his death in October, one person
familiar with the matter said in May.  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, rose
2.6 percent to $610.76 at the close in New York, for the biggest
gain since May 21. The shares of the Cupertino, California-based
company have increased 51 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  