-- Apple Got Special Treatment for Grand Central Lease, Audit Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-07-30T17:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/apple-got-special-treatment-for-grand-central-lease-audit-says.html
Apple Inc., (AAPL)  the world’s biggest
company by market value, was given an inside track to win a
lease for a store in Grand Central Terminal by the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , an audit by New York Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli  found.  Apple and MTA officials negotiated the lease for more than
a year before the agency asked companies for proposals on
filling the space, according to the audit, which DiNapoli
released today. Before that request was released in May 2011,
Apple and Metrazur, a restaurant then occupying the space, had
already entered a $5 million buyout pact, the auditors found.
The MTA then required companies bidding for the space to pay the
same amount upfront.  “The MTA set a troubling precedent when it played
favorites and gave Apple a competitive edge over others,”
DiNapoli said in a statement.  DiNapoli said he performed the audit as a follow-up to a
2010 review of the real estate practices at the MTA, whose 8.5
million daily riders make it the biggest U.S. transit agency. It
operates  New York City ’s subways, buses and the Long Island Rail
Road and Metro-North rail lines. The previous audit found MTA’s
real-estate division didn’t regularly use a competitive process
to market rental properties.  MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota said in a statement that the
audit wasn’t accurate and didn’t account for how high-profile
commercial real estate works.  ‘Worthless’ Opinion  “The MTA’s lease process with Apple was open, transparent
and followed both the spirit and letter of the law,” Lhota
said. “This audit is not fact-based, and accordingly, the
auditors’ opinion is worthless.”  In a letter to DiNapoli’s office attached to the audit,
Jeffrey Rosen, the MTA’s real-estate director, said the agency
intervened in negotiations between Apple and Metrazur because it
saw an opportunity to have the restaurant surrender its lease
almost 10 years early so Apple could take over and pay higher
rent. Under Metrazur’s lease, which ran through 2019, the
restaurant paid $263,997 annually, about a quarter of what Apple
is paying, the letter said.  Metrazur was demanding that the lease be bought out and the
sum be included in new proposals for the space, Rosen wrote.
Given those circumstances, “this situation was highly
unusual,” Rosen wrote.  Michaela Wilkinson, a spokeswoman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, maker of the iPad and iPhone, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  