-- Apple Jury Will Be First in U.S. to Weigh Samsung Fight
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-30T20:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/apple-jury-will-be-first-in-u-s-to-weigh-samsung-fight.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s $2.5 billion patent-
infringement lawsuit against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  began today
in federal court in  California  with selection of the first U.S.
jury to consider the global smartphone dispute.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , who practiced as
an intellectual-property litigator in Silicon Valley for eight
years, is presiding over the trial. Jurors will decide each
company’s claims that its rival infringed patents covering
designs and technology for mobile devices, with potential damage
awards reaching billions of dollars.  Koh interviewed potential jurors to determine whether they
harbored any bias that would prevent them being impartial in the
case. No jurors were selected or questioned by lawyers for the
companies by the time Koh dismissed them for lunch. Both sides
told Koh they planned to use almost 1.5 hours for opening
statements, increasing the chance they won’t begin until
tomorrow.  The case is the first U.S. jury trial of a battle being
fought on four continents for dominance of a mobile-device
market that Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last
year. Apple, the iPhone maker based in Cupertino, California,
just 11 miles from the courthouse, won’t benefit from any bias
from a jury drawn from Silicon Valley, said Stanford Law School
Professor  Mark Lemley .  Valley People  “Just as many people in the valley work for Android
companies like Google as work for Apple,” Lemley said in an e-
mail, referring to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system that
some Samsung products use. “I expect that a Silicon Valley jury
will be more technologically sophisticated than most, and that
may work in Samsung’s favor.”  Four jurors have been dismissed. Koh said she would reject
a request by William Lee, a lawyer for Apple, to dismiss for
“for cause” another juror who said he owns shares in Google.  “His credibility, as far as I’m concerned, I believe it
when he says he can be fair and impartial,” Koh said, noting
that the juror said his family owns many Apple products. “For
right now he’s been solid that he can be fair and impartial, so
he’s staying on,” Koh said.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , has countersued and
will present claims that Apple is infringing two patents
covering mobile-technology standards and three utility patents.
Samsung is demanding royalties of as much as 2.4 percent for
each device sold, according to a court filing.  ‘Rectangular Body’  Samsung said in a court filing that it plans to show jurors
evidence that in 2006, before Apple’s January 2007 introduction
of the iPhone, Samsung was developing the next generation of
mobile phones, envisioning “a simple, rounded rectangular body
dominated by a display screen with a single physical button on
the face.”  Apple’s $2.5 billion in damages is based on claims Samsung
copied the iPhone and iPad. Apple also wants to make permanent a
preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet
computer, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Koh, in a pre-trial ruling yesterday, refused to let
Samsung show the jury pictures that Apple created for its
internal use to demonstrate what a smartphone might look like if
it were designed by Sony Corp. The decision upheld a federal
magistrate’s prior ruling.  Steve Jobs  In a separate order, Koh said she would let Apple show the
jury five images of the company’s founder,  Steve Jobs , who died
last year.  Overuling objections by Samsung, the judge said the photos
are relevant to Apple’s iPhone and iPad design-patent and trade-
dress claims. Their display wouldn’t cause undue jury bias, she
said.  Apple is trying to deflect Samsung’s infringement claims in
part by arguing that Samsung deceived the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute, according to a court
filing. Samsung was pushing the organization to adopt certain
standards without disclosing that it had applied for patents
covering the same technology, Apple claims.  In the second quarter of this year, consumers worldwide
bought 406 million mobile phones compared with 401.8 million in
the same period last year, according to IDC, a Framingham,
Massachusetts-based information service covering consumer
technology markets. Samsung and Apple shipped almost half of
those phones, IDC said.  Samsung Lead  Samsung extended its lead over Apple during the second
quarter, shipping 50.2 million mobile phones, representing 32.6
percent of the market, compared with 26 million units, or 16.9
percent of the market, for Apple, according to IDC.  Samsung Chief Executive Officer Choi Gee Sung and Apple CEO
 Tim Cook  failed to settle the San Jose case at a court-ordered
May 21 meeting in  San Francisco . Previously, company officials
met in September and December and on May 4 to discuss resolving
a related dispute before the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  