-- Arizona Law Criminalizing Abortions After 20 Weeks Is Upheld
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-30T19:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/arizona-law-criminalizing-some-abortions-not-halted-by-judge-1-.html
An  Arizona  law making it a crime for
doctors to perform abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy was
upheld by a judge who said the state showed credible evidence an
unborn child may feel pain during such procedures.  The law, set to take effect Aug. 2, was challenged by three
doctors who said it’s preempted by the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973
Roe v. Wade decision. The doctors sought a court order putting
the measure on hold while their lawsuit proceeded. U.S. District
Judge James Teilborg in Phoenix said their complaint couldn’t
succeed and dismissed the case.  A woman’s right to abortion isn’t unlimited, Teilborg said,
and states’ interest in the lives of unborn children may have
“sufficient force so that the right of the woman to terminate
the pregnancy can be restricted.”  Arizona’s legislature said it sought to prevent abortions
that caused pain to unborn children during the procedure as one
purpose of the law, Teilborg said in his ruling today.  The state presented  “uncontradicted and credible
evidence” that an unborn child has the capacity to feel pain
during an abortion by at least 20 weeks gestational age, said
Teilborg, who was appointed by President  Bill Clinton .  ‘Legal Precedent’  “Today’s decision casts aside decades of legal precedent,
ignoring constitutional protections for reproductive rights that
have been upheld by the United States Supreme Court for nearly
40 years and threatening women’s health and lives,” said Nancy
Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive Rights, in an
e-mail. The group represented the doctors and plans to file an
emergency appeal in a federal appeals court in  San Francisco  to
prevent the law from taking effect, according to the e-mail.  Signed by Governor Jan Brewer in April, the law makes it a
misdemeanor, punishable by as long as six months in jail, to
perform an abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy except in a
medical emergencies to prevent death or “irreversible
impairment of a major bodily function.”  The statute is the most extreme abortion ban in the nation,
said the  American Civil Liberties Union , which is also
representing the doctors.  The physicians claim no fetus is viable at 20 weeks, and
that under Roe v. Wade and other cases, women have the right to
terminate pregnancies before viability.  William Montgomery , Maricopa County Attorney, which
includes Phoenix, said enforcement of the law with its exception
for medical emergencies is permitted by Roe v. Wade.  The case is Isaacson v. Horne, 12-01501, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  