-- Marks & Spencer Buyout Seen as Stock Below Peak: Real M&A
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-07-31T17:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/marks-spencer-buyout-seen-as-stock-below-peak-real-m-a.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the 128-
year-old store chain, is offering private-equity shoppers the
biggest bargain in more than seven years versus its main U.K.
clothing competitor.  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland , who took over in
2010, has failed to revive the retailer’s shares, which are
 languishing  55 percent below their peak prior to the onset of a
global recession five years ago. The seller of apparel,
specialty foods and housewares is valued at 6.2 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, after
this month reaching the steepest discount to rival Next Plc
since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is also
cheaper than 85 percent of similar-sized chains worldwide.  Marks & Spencer “at this level, could always be vulnerable
to a bid,”  Paul Mumford , a London-based  fund manager  at
Cavendish Asset Management Ltd., which manages $1.2 billion in
assets and holds Marks & Spencer stock, said in a telephone
interview. “It would be perfect for a private-equity firm. It’s
cash generative, it has a decent brand name, a food side which
gives it a defensive quality and a portfolio of shop property in
fairly prime positions.”  U.K. Mainstay  Marks & Spencer, which is trading 16 percent below the
value of a spurned takeover bid in 2004, had its first  profit
drop  in three years as sales growth slowed. While faced with a
pension-fund shortfall, the 5.4 billion-pound ($8.5 billion)
company owns real estate and a stable food business that could
attract a buyout, according to Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc. With
the chain generating three times  more cash  relative to its stock
price than peers,  Societe Generale  SA said it could be taken
private for 430 pence a share, a 28 percent premium.  Daniel Himsworth, a spokesman for Marks & Spencer, said the
London-based company wouldn’t comment on takeover speculation or
its valuation.  Marks & Spencer, which traces its  roots  to 1884, is the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer by sales. The company runs more
than 1,000 stores, most of which are located in the U.K. and
Ireland, according to its 2012 annual report.  After posting net income of 822 million pounds in the
fiscal year ended in March 2008, Marks & Spencer had a 38
percent drop in net income in 2009 and  earnings  have never fully
recovered, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Going Nowhere’  Bolland, who took over in May 2010 vowing to rejuvenate the
Marks & Spencer brand, instead has overseen two years of slowing
sales growth and a fall in annual profit in fiscal 2012. In May,
he lowered sales forecasts as conditions worsened in the U.K.,
where the economy is mired in a double-dip recession.  “Has the business moved on? I don’t think it has,”
Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd. in  London ,
said in a phone interview. “The earnings are going nowhere for
the last couple of years. Women’s wear is a major problem.”  Same-store sales of general merchandise, which is mostly
apparel, fell 6.8 percent in the quarter ended in June, the
worst performance since 2008. The division’s leader announced
this month plans to step down in a management shuffle.  Marks & Spencer’s shares, which peaked in May 2007 at 749
pence, closed yesterday at 337.1 pence, down more than more than
6 percent since Bolland took over.  Today, the stock fell 1 percent to 333.7 pence in London.  Including net debt, the company was  valued  yesterday at 6.2
times trailing 12-month Ebitda, compared with 8.2 times for
Leicester, England-based  Next (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer by sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On July 12, it was valued at a 27 percent discount to
Next, the cheapest since 2005, the data show.  Buyout Opportunity  Marks & Spencer also trailed the median multiple of 11.5
times Ebitda for department-store chains with a market value of
more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “When things are weakened like this it makes it more of a
possibility” for a buyout firm to step in, Jean Roche, an
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London, said in a phone
interview. “It needs a face lift. You wouldn’t have to answer
to the stock market so you could make changes more quickly. It
could be a real opportunity.”  Marks & Spencer could attract private-equity suitors
because it generates cash and still has a leading market-share
position in U.K. apparel with a well-known brand, Mumford at
Cavendish said. The chain has a free-cash-flow yield of 9.6
percent, compared with an average of 3.1 percent for similar-
sized rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property ‘Buffer’  A U.S. retailer seeking to enter the U.K. or European
market could buy Marks & Spencer, improve the product line and
benefit from its brand awareness in the region, Mumford said.  Tim Green , who helps manage more than 24 billion pounds at
Brewin Dolphin in London, including Marks & Spencer stock, said
the chain’s food business could appeal to a buyer, while its
portfolio of properties provide an “embedded buffer” for the
company.  Food sales  climbed 3.9 percent in fiscal 2012, even as
general merchandise revenue declined 0.9 percent.  Food “is the part of the business that is reasonably well-
fixed,” Green said in a phone interview. Any bidder “may look
to the company in its current form and just seek to run it more
effectively. What is clear is the business is not trading to its
potential.”  About 30 percent of Marks & Spencer’s stores are
franchises, while the remainder are owned or leased by the
company, according to the retailer. With the estimated market
value of the owned properties at about 5 billion pounds, a buyer
could potentially use the real estate to partly finance a bid,
said  Anne Critchlow , a London-based analyst at Societe Generale.  Bid Analysis  A private-equity firm could acquire the retailer for a
price of 430 pence a share and use debt to fund 50 percent of
the price, Critchlow said. The buyer could then sell property
and pay down borrowings with the company’s cash flow for a
return on equity of 22 percent after five years, she said.  “Financially, in theory, it stacks up at 430 pence,” a 28
percent premium to its stock yesterday, Critchlow said. “I’m
assuming they sell 4.3 billion pounds of property and that helps
the bid work. That’s the key enabling factor in the bid model,
the presence of freehold property and the ability to sell it.”  Critchlow said her analysis doesn’t take into account
property interests that have been pledged toward the company’s
pension plan, which had a shortfall of 1.3 billion pounds as of
March 2009. Marks & Spencer put 800 million pounds of funding in
place to fill part of that gap as of May 2010, including
increasing the plan’s interest in a property-backed partnership.  Debt Load  Marks & Spencer also has 1.82 billion pounds of  net debt ,
more than three times Next’s 604 million pounds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The pension and the debt would be an issue” for a buyer,
Panmure’s Roche said. Critchlow also cited debt as a practical
concern for an acquirer.  A turnaround of the retailer would involve investing in the
brand, said Dan Murphy of restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal in
London. Private-equity firms tend to focus instead on cutting
expenses and paying down debt, he said.  Buyout firms “focus on all the cash efficiencies, pricing,
promotions and margins, but it misses the point of a brand-led
retailer like M&S,” Murphy said in a phone interview. “They
would only exacerbate the problem. They don’t understand the
concepts of brand because they are interested in a three- to
five-year exit window.”  Still, there is room to cut operating expenses and improve
the business, Societe Generale’s Critchlow said. Marks &
Spencer’s  operating margin  was 6.9 percent in the latest fiscal
year, compared with 13 percent in 2008.  Cheaper Now  At current levels, Marks & Spencer would be a smaller
acquisition for a potential buyer than when the company fended
off a hostile bid in 2004 by billionaire  Philip Green , whose
Arcadia Group owns the Topshop fashion chain. The 400-pence-a-
share attempt failed after Green was unable to garner the
support of the firm’s board and the retailer promised to
repurchase 2.3 billion pounds of stock to placate shareholders.  Green’s proposal valued the company at 9.1 billion pounds,
compared with the current 5.4 billion-pound market
capitalization.  “It’s a lot cheaper to buy,” Cavendish’s Mumford said.
“With the shares languishing at a low level, it could make an
attractive takeover proposition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 