-- Asia Bond Risk at Four-Month Low as Leaders Pledge Euro Support
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-30T05:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/asia-bond-risk-at-four-month-low-as-leaders-pledge-euro-support.html
The cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds in Asia from non-payment fell to an almost four-
month low after policy makers in  Europe  pledged to do whatever
it takes to preserve the euro.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan dropped 7 basis points to 160 basis
points as of 8:41 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The index is headed for its lowest close
since April 4 and a second consecutive monthly decline,
according to data provider CMA.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is trying to
build consensus among governments and central bankers for a plan
to ease borrowing costs in Spain and Italy before ECB policy
makers convene on Aug. 2. Berlin, Paris and Rome have already
endorsed his approach, which involves Europe’s rescue fund
buying  government bonds  on the primary market, and Draghi will
meet with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in  Frankfurt 
today.  After positive comments on the weekend supporting the ECB’s
position, “traders are unwinding bought protection,” Mark Reade, a credit analyst at Credit Agricole SA in Hong Kong, said
in a phone interview. “There’s still potential for credit to
rally over the next couple of weeks given the positive backdrop,
the low rate environment and thin liquidity as a result of the
London Olympics.”  The improving perceptions of creditworthiness came as  Shui
On Land Ltd. (272) , a Chinese property developer, said in a statement
to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange that it plans to sell more of
its U.S. dollar notes due 2015.  Price Guidance  Shanghai-based Shui On Land is marketing the bonds to yield
about 8.75 percent, a person familiar with the matter said
today. Deutsche Bank AG, Standard Chartered Plc and UBS AG are
managing the sale, the person said, asking not to be identified
because the details are private.  Shui On Land, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Vincent
Lo, issued $475 million of the 9.75 percent notes in February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  State Bank  of India and China Fishery Group Ltd. led U.S.
dollar bond sales totaling $2.4 billion last week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in July total $7.1 billion,
the data show.  Yields on corporate dollar bonds in  Asia  have fallen 26
basis points to 5.03 percent this month, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes. The yield reached a 2012 low of 4.98
percent on July 20, after touching as high as 6.24 percent on
Jan. 10.  Australian Index  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index fell 4 basis points to
167 as of 10:46 a.m. in Sydney, National Australia Bank Ltd.
prices show. The measure is on track for its lowest close since
May 8, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 6 basis points to 179
as of 9:20 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  