-- Asian Stocks Advance Third Day on Optimism Over Europe
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-30T10:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/asian-stocks-advance-third-day-on-optimism-over-europe.html
Asian  stocks  headed for the biggest
three-day gain since December, as financial firms advanced amid
optimism European policy makers will support the monetary union
and after companies including  Konica Minolta (4902)  Holdings Inc.
reported earnings.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  Australia ’s biggest lender
by market value, gained 1.8 percent in Sydney after the cost to
protect Asian bonds against default declined.  Konica Minolta , an
imaging-equipment maker that gets 28 percent of its sales in
 Europe , jumped 5.8 percent in Tokyo after operating profit
almost doubled from a year earlier. Iluka Resources Ltd. surged
9.2 percent in Sydney after Morgan Stanley raised the mining
company’s investment rating.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 1.2 percent to 117.32 as
of 7:33 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost three stocks rising for each
that fell. It’s up 3.9 percent over the past three days, the
biggest such gain since Dec. 5. Nine of the 10 industry groups
rose on the index.  “There is a strong political and financial will for the
euro,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of
investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian unit. The Swiss bank
has about $1.5 trillion in assets under management. “Actions
that address the EU challenges will create the opportunity for a
sustainable rally ahead.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 10 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through July 27 amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will worsen and  China’s economy  is
slowing. The regional benchmark index traded at 11.7 times
 estimated earnings  at the end of last week, compared with 13.5
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11 for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Results  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.8 percent as the
busiest two weeks of earnings season started. Konica Minolta
jumped 5.8 percent to 550 yen after first-quarter operating
profit surged 94 percent.  Almost half of the 1,671 companies in the Topix Index, the
country’s broadest measure of equity performance, have more cash
than debt on their balance sheets, a record. At the same time,
the index’s 75 percent drop since 1989 pushed prices to 0.86
times book value, 4 percent from a two-decade low, data show.
The Topix rose 0.7 percent today.  South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.8 percent even after
manufacturers’ confidence dropped to the lowest level in more
than three years. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 gained 0.9 percent,
while New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index increased 0.5 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.6 percent while  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.9 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits
Times Index added 1.1 percent.  Bond Purchases  Futures on the  S&P 500  fell 0.2 percent today. The gauge
rose 1.9 percent on July 27 amid expectation Europe may move
toward a new round of bond purchases to ease borrowing costs in
Spain and Italy.  Asian equities today extended a global rally after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande 
said their countries are “bound by the deepest duty” to keep
the euro area intact.  Two central bank officials said ECB President  Mario Draghi 
will hold talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann to
overcome the biggest stumbling block to new measures including
bond purchases. The ECB is scheduled to meet on Aug. 2.  “It seems we can avoid the worst-case scenario for now,
and that is a combination of the worsening debt crisis in Europe
and a global economic downturn,” said  Masahiko Sato , an analyst
at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest brokerage by market
value. “Europe’s woes will stay with us for a long time, and we
need to be on guard.”  Banks Rise  Banks and insurers accounted for 38 percent of the gain on
the MSCI Asia Pacific measure as concern eased that Europe’s
crisis will derail the global financial system. The  Markit
iTraxx Asia index  of credit-default swaps from 40 investment-
grade borrowers outside Japan dropped about 7 basis points to
163.6 basis points on July 27, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  gained 1.8 percent to
A$57.20.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  rose 1.9
percent to HK$4.32 in  Hong Kong .  In the U.S., the  Federal Open Market Committee  will
announce a policy decision on Aug. 1 after a report last week
showed the economy expanded at a slower pace in the second
quarter, giving the central bank scope to add to stimulus
measures to spur growth.  Of the 1,007 companies listed on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, 272 firms are scheduled to post earnings this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 161 companies to
have reported so far and for which Bloomberg had earnings
estimates, more than half failed to meet the projection, the
data show. Earnings per share at companies on MSCI Asia Pacific
Index are expected to grow 20 percent this fiscal year.  Iluka Resources soared 9.2 percent to A$9.50, the biggest
gain on the  Asia-Pacific index , after its investment rating was
raised to equal-weight at Morgan Stanley following recent share
price weakness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 