-- Athletes in Pleats Play Fast Sport of Field Hockey
-- B y   C a r r i e   L i n g o
-- 2012-07-30T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/athletes-in-pleats-play-fast-sport-of-field-hockey.html
If you’re not paying attention to
Olympic women’s field hockey because you think it’s a boring
game played by slow women in long, pleated skirts wielding
wooden sticks over a dusty field, you may be missing one of the
most exciting competitions in  London .  The Olympics have included women’s field hockey since 1980.
But these days, those skirts are tailored to allow the players
to move at high speed. And those sticks have been streamlined
and re-engineered to send the ball at 80 miles an hour over blue
artificial turf, watered down before matches to make sure the
game never slows.  Argentina ,  Germany  and the Netherlands are the powerhouses
this year, followed by the U.K. As for the U.S., for the first
time in history, the national field hockey team is playing in
its second consecutive  Olympic Games . Ranked 10th in the world,
the U.S. is an underdog, but what better position to be in?  Its first match against Germany, the gold medal favorite,
was a 2-1 loss that included an early penalty goal by Fanny
Rinne, a German veteran with 335 international matches. Despite
falling behind at the start, the U.S. battled back and dominated
the front line with strong performances from strikers Katie
O’Donnell and Paige Selenski. Sadly, in the final seconds, the
team was unable to capitalize on a scoring chance.  Still, the game to watch is Tuesday at 2 p.m.  New York 
time, when the U.S. meets its Pan Am rival Argentina, led by
Luciana Aymar, who has been named the International Hockey
Federation World Player of the Year seven times.  The U.S. team may not have a legend of that caliber, but it
does have 16 women with tremendous speed, endurance, eye-hand
coordination, agility, strength and focus. Veteran players like
33-year-old Keli Smith-Puzo, a mother of two who also played in
the Olympics in 2008, bring experience to balance the speed and
unpredictability of younger players like 20-year-old Julia
Reinprecht.  Lee Bodimeade, the U.S. coach, and Terry Walsh, the
national director -- Australians, both -- have had the team
training with Navy SEALs, carrying boats, running in sand and
swimming in the Pacific to build mental and physical strength.  The games of 2012 will feature some of the top female field
hockey athletes in the world. Look for precision passing and
speed. And look for the underdogs to shine.  (Carrie Lingo is a former member of the U.S. Women’s
National Field Hockey Team. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  housing as a campaign issue 
and on why Italians should deepen Monti’s reforms and  reject
Berlusconi ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Mexico’s energy reforms ;
William Pesek on  Japan ’s attempts to  weaken the yen ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on why Republicans will  win the tax debate ;  Alexander
Friedman  and Kiran Ganesh on the  butterfly effects  of central
banks.  To contact the writer of this article:
Carrie Lingo at  carrielingo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 