-- August Rally Signaled by Record Cash Wave Spillover: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/august-rally-signaled-by-record-cash-wave-spillover-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal market
is wrapping up its best month since January. If the past decade
is any indication, August may be even better.  Munis have earned 1.5 percent on average in August since
2001, the most for any month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. Local debt has gained about 1.8 percent this month
through July 26. Helping propel the gains, about $142 billion
flowed to bondholders from redemptions and refinancing since
May, the most ever for a three-month period, according to
Citigroup Inc.  The fund surge may spill over to the next four weeks after
localities  issued  $25 billion of debt in July, the least since
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The slowdown shows no
sign of a letup during the U.S. summer months. It is leaving
bondholders with uninvested money amid a 2012 fixed-income rally
fueled partly by concern the global economy is slowing.  “Bond funds are sitting on a huge pile of cash that
remains to be invested,” said Vikram Rai, a muni strategist at
Citigroup in New York. “The flight-to-safety bid has been very
strong, and that has served munis well.”  The tax-exempt market enters August with  interest rates 
close to the lowest in more than four decades. Twenty-year
general-obligations yielded 3.61 percent last week, according to
a Bond Buyer weekly  index . Aside from a 3.60 percent reading
earlier this year, it hasn’t been lower since 1967.  Cost Boon  Tumbling borrowing costs are a boon to municipalities
struggling to restore their finances three years after the
nation emerged from the longest recession since the 1930s. Of
the $206 billion of municipal offerings this year through July
18, about 63 percent has been for refunding, Bank of America
data show. Washington state and Monroe Township,  New Jersey , are
among issuers planning to refinance higher-cost debt next month.  Issuance is still set to be below the 2012 average.
Municipalities have $6.7 billion of  sales scheduled , according
to the Bloomberg 30-Day Visible Supply index, about 26 percent
below the average this year.  “Historically the summer months are a fight to get paper,
and that positive demand dynamic takes you right through into
September,” said  John Dillon , chief muni strategist in
Purchase, New York, at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, which
manages more than $150 billion in state and local debt. “You’re
still going to have July money being put to work in August.
You’re still going to have robust municipal fund inflows.”  Beating Treasuries  With defaults on the decline and state finances improving,
munis have been a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis and signs the
U.S. rebound is cooling. The world’s biggest economy grew at a
1.5 percent annual rate last quarter after a 2 percent gain the
prior three months, Commerce Department figures showed last
week.  Local debt has returned 5.9 percent this year through July
26, the best start since 2009, and beating a 3.1 percent advance
by Treasuries, Bank of America data show.  Forty-two municipal issuers have defaulted for the first
time this year through July 24, down from an average of 76 in
the same period the past two years, according to Municipal
Market Advisors. Yields have dropped even as three California
localities decided to seek  bankruptcy protection  since June.  Tax-free yields haven’t declined as quickly as those on
Treasuries, which  fell  to record levels this month. Yields on
tax-exempts due in 10 years have exceeded their federal
counterparts since mid-May, the longest span since 2009. The
elevated  ratio  means munis are cheaper than Treasuries.  Balancing Out  “The ratio offers a counterbalance against the absolute-
low yield levels we’ve been contending with,” Dillon said.  Municipal mutual funds have added $18 billion this year
through July 25, the most for the period since 2009, Lipper US
Fund Flows data show.  Muni-debt sales are poised to exceed bond calls and
refundings by $12.3 billion in August, the most since December
2010, after a negative $6.2 billion in July, according to
Citigroup. In the last three months, investors were faced with
“net negative supply” as bond sales trailed the money received
from redemptions and refunding.  “We’re not going to see a large back-up in yields just
because we have positive bond supply,” said Rai.  Following are pending sales:  DORMITORY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF  NEW YORK  plans to offer
$250 million of taxable bonds as soon as Aug. 2. The debt will
be sold for the New York University Hospitals Center. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the securities A3, seventh-highest.
(Added July 30).  New York’s TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE & TUNNEL AUTHORITY plans to
sell about $1.2 billion of revenue bonds as early as this week,
according to an offering statement. Proceeds will be used to
refund debt. (Added July 30).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  