-- Aussie Touches 4-Month High After Building Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-31T06:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/aussie-dollar-halts-gain-before-building-permits-data.html
Australia ’s dollar touched its
highest level in four months after a report showed the nation’s
building approvals decreased by less than economists expected.  The so-called Aussie gained versus most major counterparts
on prospects the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will leave unchanged
the highest borrowing costs among major developed economies at a
meeting next week and as Asian stocks rose. The Australian and
New Zealand dollars are set to close out a second monthly gain
against the greenback as the  Federal Reserve  begins its two-day
policy meeting today amid speculation it will consider expanding
monetary stimulus.  “The Australian dollar is being supported because of the
less-than-expected fall in building approvals,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “The
RBA is still quite cautious about what’s happening in the  euro
zone , but on the other hand, they’re still saying the domestic
economy is still pretty resilient.”  The Australian dollar climbed 0.1 percent to $1.0517 as of
4:22 p.m. in Sydney after earlier touching $1.0537, the
strongest level since March 27. The Aussie rose 0.2 percent to
82.26 yen. New Zealand’s currency gained 0.1 percent to 80.97
U.S. cents and reached 81.13 cents, the highest since May 2. The
so-called kiwi added 0.2 percent to 63.34 yen.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.11 percent. New Zealand’s
two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, rose one basis point to 2.78 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 0.9 percent.  Building Permits  The number of  permits  granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments declined 2.5 percent in June after rising a
revised 27 percent in the previous period, the Bureau of
Statistics said today. The result compares with the median
forecast of a 15 percent drop in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  RBA officials will meet on Aug. 7 for a policy decision
after keeping the overnight  cash rate  target at 3.5 percent in
their previous two gatherings.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled
by Bloomberg show a better than 70 percent chance the central
 bank rate  will be unchanged next week, up from odds of 23
percent a week earlier.  “While external conditions hold various risks to the
Australian dollar, the domestic economic situation does not look
too adverse,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy
at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report today.
“An eventual correction in the markets’ overly dovish stance
will help to support the Australian currency, given its strong
sensitivity to interest-rate expectations.”  Monthly Gains  The Aussie has advanced versus all of its major peers this
month, rising 2.7 percent against the dollar and gaining 0.7
percent versus the yen. The kiwi has added 1.1 percent against
its U.S. counterpart since June 30 and lost 0.9 percent versus
 Japan ’s currency.  Fed officials will begin a two-day gathering today after
they refrained from introducing a third round of asset purchases
at their session last month. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this
month the central bank is considering a range of further options
to ease policy in case the faltering economic recovery fails to
lower unemployment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  