-- Aussie Gains on Hopes for Stimulus as Global Central Banks Meet
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-30T21:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/aussie-gains-on-hopes-for-stimulus-as-global-central-banks-meet.html
The Australian dollar reached a
lifetime high against the euro and gained against the greenback
as central banks in Europe and the U.S. prepare to meet amid
speculation policy makers will seek to boost the global economy.  The Australian dollar strengthened against most of its 16
major counterparts before the  European Central Bank  announces
its next policy decision Aug. 2 The  Federal Reserve  starts a
two-day policy meeting today at which it may announce additional
measures to boost economic growth. The New Zealand dollar,
nicknamed the kiwi, declined against the greenback as North
American stocks fell.  “I think the market’s really looking to get some more good
news from either the ECB or the Fed,”  Steve Butler , director of
foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotia Capital unit, said in a telephone interview. “I’m a
little concerned on that note that the hopes are set a lot
higher than they would have been if we hadn’t heard from the ECB
last week.”  Australia’s dollar appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.0503
yesterday in New York. The Aussie fell 0.2 percent to 82.11 yen
and reached A$1.1652 per euro, the strongest since the 17-nation
currency started trading in 1999.  New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to 80.89 U.S. It lost
0.5 percent to 63.24 yen.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  met U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  yesterday as he attempted to
win over Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann on measures to ease
the region’s debt woes. The proposal involves the European
Financial Stability Facility buying government bonds in the
primary market, buttressed by ECB purchases on the secondary
market to ensure transmission of its record-low  interest rates ,
two central bank officials said July 27 on condition of
anonymity.  While U.S. central bank policy makers refrained from
introducing a third round of asset purchases at their session
last month, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated that it’s a
possibility. The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of securities from
2008 to 2011 in two rounds of a stimulus strategy called
quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  