-- Backseat Sex Ads Urge Young Spaniards to Get a Room: Mortgages
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-07-31T11:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/backseat-sex-ads-urge-young-spaniards-to-get-a-room-mortgages.html
Idealista.com ’s pitch to Spaniards
in their 20s still living with mom and dad is simple: Rent your
own place or end up having sex in the back of a cramped car for
years to come.  The new 20-second TV  advertisement  by Spain’s biggest real
estate website features still shots of couples and threesomes
caught naked in cars with looks of surprise. It’s aimed at 20-to
29-year-old Spaniards, seven in 10 of whom still haven’t left
home as Spain’s  unemployment  rate soars to a record.  “We were brainstorming the moment when people most think
‘I need my own home’ and having sex in a car sprang to mind,”
said  Fernando Encinar , co-founder of Idealista. “Millions of
Spaniards have gone through it.”  Spain has the highest rate of home ownership in the  euro
zone  after Estonia and  Slovakia , at 83 percent of dwellings,
compared with a 65.5 percent rate in the U.S. The Spanish
government is trying to encourage more people to rent as banks
give fewer mortgages, making it more attractive for foreign
funds to invest in the nation’s 1.5 million of unsold homes. The
rental market in Spain will grow to 25 percent of the total by
2015, according to Encinar.  “Youngsters with no deposit saved and permanent labor
contract are effectively locked out of the mortgage market,”
Encinar said. “We are already seeing part of that huge pent-up
demand running into flat sharing as it’s the only option for
some.”  Shared Rentals  There are 25 million homes in  Spain , 3 million of which are
empty and 1.8 million are rented. Ads on Idealista for rooms in
shared rental apartments have surged more than 120 percent to
26,079 in the past 12 months. The company organizes regular
gatherings to match up those seeking rooms in shared rentals
with people looking for roommates.  In May, Public Works Minister Ana Pastor said she will
adopt measures to boost investment in the rental market. The
changes would protect landlords by speeding up evictions of
tenants who don’t pay, allow landlords to raise rents above the
annual  inflation  rate and reduce the duration of leases.  “There’s an assumption that if the government
professionalizes the market, it will be easier for banks to
dispose of foreclosed homes,” saidAlexander Pelteshki, an
analyst at ING Financial Markets in Amsterdam.  There have been about 330,000 foreclosures in Spain since
2007, according to Plataforma de los Afectados por la Hipoteca,
a group known as PAH that supports people who have lost their
homes to lenders.  Foreign Funds  The measures, expected to be brought before congress by
year’s end, would encourage foreign funds that are looking to
invest in Spain by purchasing apartment blocks and absorbing
some of the housing stock, said Fernando Rodriguez de Acuna Martinez, a partner at Madrid-based property consultant R.R. de
Acuna & Asociados.  “Funds, mainly from the U.S., are showing interest in
becoming big landlords here like those that you have in the
Netherlands and the U.S. because they see a huge percentage of
the population has been priced out of the buyer market and
rentals are the future,” according to Rodriguez de Acuna.
“They are awaiting the introduction of these measures to secure
legal guarantees before they get their wallets out.”  The Spanish economy, the euro area’s fourth-largest, is
mired in its second recession since 2009 after the collapse of a
decade-long property and construction boom, which at its height
accounted for about  18 percent  of gross domestic product. Rents
in  Madrid  have fallen 14 percent from their June 2008 peak. In
Barcelona, Spain’s second-largest city, they’ve dropped 20
percent, according to Idealista data.  Youth Unemployment  Youth unemployment in Spain surged to 52.1 percent in May
from 45.4 percent a year earlier. The overall jobless rate at
24.6 percent is the highest in the 27-nation European Union. A
study by La Caixa coordinated by Almudena Moreno and titled
“Transition to Adulthood of the Spanish Youth” found that of
those who have found a job, 59 percent have short-term
contracts.  “Young Spaniards no longer have the option to move out of
the family home as high unemployment and precarious contracts
for those that do work means they can’t emancipate themselves,”
she said. “Many young people are even emigrating or thinking
about it.”  In the first half, the number of Spaniards moving abroad
jumped 44 percent from a year earlier to 40,625. Among those
planning to leave is Miguel Castillo, who said he’s had to live
at his parent’s home in Malaga after failing to find a permanent
job even with a fine arts degree and a master’s degree in gender
studies. He doesn’t own a car.  ‘Dignified Way’  “I feel damaged by the system,” Castillo said in a
telephone interview. “I have all this education and I can’t do
anything with it or lead my life in a dignified way.”  Castillo, 30, said he’s planning to go to the U.K. in
October to learn English and find work doing “anything at all”
after only finding jobs as a waiter or a supermarket cashier in
his hometown of Alhaurin del Grande.  About 60 percent of Spanish newborns have parents more than
30 years old, the highest average among the 15 original European
Union nations, according to a  La Caixa  study published July 10.
At the same time, the  birth rate , historically one of the lowest
in  Europe , has been in decline since 2009, according to the
 National Statistics Institute .  Home Prices  Spanish home prices posted their biggest annual decline on
record in the first quarter, falling 12.6 percent, the most
since the measurement began in 2008, the National Statistics
Institute in Madrid said June 14. Home prices have declined 30.4
percent since the peak in December 2007, according to Tasaciones
Inmobiliarias SA, the country’s biggest home-appraisal company.  “Even with the drop we’ve seen already, buyers with cash
are making offers with a 20 percent discount to asking prices
and those bids are being accepted,” said Cesar Oteiza,
Idealista’s other co-founder. “Home prices are down so much and
there’s more on sale, yet to young people buying is more out of
reach than ever.”  Idealista advertises about 686,000 homes on its website,
more than double the amount in 2010.  In the first quarter, the number of home sales was 72
percent below their peak in the second quarter of 2006,
according to data from the Ministry of Public Works. Spanish
banks granted 21,498 new mortgages in April, an 83 percent drop
from the peak in January 2007, according to the Bank of Spain.  Rodriguez de Acuna said young people represent the majority
of current and future demand for homes and mortgages in Spain.  “We’ve never seen the suppression of this element of
demand on such a scale,” he said. “It will affect home sales
and lending for years and years to come.”  Collapsed Boom  Spain is negotiating a bailout for its banking industry,
which was once the envy of Europe. Souring real estate helped
drive bad loans to an 18-year high in May and forced the
government to seek European aid.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish
residential mortgage backed securities above benchmarks has
widened 165 basis points, or 1.65 percentage points, to 615
basis points in the past year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data. The spread is 1.15 percentage points greater than for
similar Italian home loan bonds and more than five times the
level for U.K. debt.  Ratings Downgrades  While  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s largest lenders, remain investment grade
after Moody’s Investors Service cut their ratings last month, at
least a dozen other banks have been lowered to junk.  Ratings downgrades raise banks’ funding costs, forcing
lenders to rein in loan-to-value ratios, which were as high as
120 percent during the nation’s real-estate boom, to 80 percent.
They also more carefully examine mortgage applicants’ ability to
pay, according to Encinar.  Idealista’s ad aimed at encouraging rentals, entitled
“Caught in the Act,” has been banned in  Italy . The uncensored
version can only be shown in Spain after 10 p.m. It has received
400,000 viewings on video-sharing website Vimeo, according to
Encinar.  “It’s a testimony to the fact we have really connected
with how young people feel today,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 