-- Bain Said to Be in Advanced Talks for Genpact Stake
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-07-30T15:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/bain-said-to-be-in-advanced-talks-for-genpact-stake.html
Bain Capital  Partners LLC is in
advanced talks to buy a $1.6 billion stake in  Genpact Ltd. (G)  from
General Atlantic LLC and Oak Hill Capital Partners LP, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Bain Capital, the private-equity firm co-founded by U.S.
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  that manages almost  $65
billion , may announce an agreement for the 40 percent stake as
soon as this week, the person said, asking not to be identified
because the talks are private. Apax Partners LLP had also bid
for the asset, two people said.  Genpact, a computer-services company spun off by  General
Electric Co. (GE)  in 2004,  advanced  18 percent this year through July
27, bringing its market value to $3.9 billion. The stake held by
Oak Hill and General Atlantic is worth almost $1.6 billion.
Genpact fell 0.3 percent to $17.54 at 10:34 a.m. in New York
trading.  James David, a spokesman for  Oak Hill , and Pat Hedley, a
spokeswoman for General Atlantic, declined to comment. Benjamin
Harding, a spokesman for Apax in London, and Alex Stanton, a
spokesman for Bain, also declined to comment.  Genpact started operations in 1997 as an India-based unit
of GE that assisted the U.S. company’s finance division. The
Bermuda-based company still gets a quarter of revenue from GE,
President NV “Tiger” Tyagarajan said last month.  Oak Hill and General Atlantic acquired 60 percent of the
unit, formerly known as GE Capital International Services, for
$500 million in 2004. They sold some of their investment in
Genpact’s $494 million initial public offering in August 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ranjit Pandit, head of investments for India at General
Atlantic, said in October that the private-equity firm may sell
stakes in information technology companies, without identifying
them. General Atlantic also owns stakes in Indian technology
companies including  Hexaware Technologies Ltd. (HEXW)  and  Infotech
Enterprises Ltd. (INFTC)   Bain Capital’s other investments in India include a stake
in Hero Investments Pvt. and Lilliput Kidswear, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  