-- Bank of America, Barclays, Credit Suisse Sued Over Libor
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-30T22:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/bank-of-america-barclays-credit-suisse-sued-over-libor.html
Bank of America Corp.,   Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  were among the banks sued by an
investor over alleged manipulation of the Libor benchmark
interest rate.  The investor, 33-35 Green Pond Road Associates LLC, bought
an interest rate swap with a floating rate tied to the U.S.-
dollar Libor, it said in a complaint filed today in federal
court in Manhattan. Green Pond Road seeks to represent a class
of investors that bought  U.S. dollar  Libor-based derivatives
beginning on Aug. 1, 2007.  Green Pond Road claims the banks illegally colluded to fix
Libor, injuring investors in securities based on the rate. The
suit seeks unspecified damages, which could be tripled under
U.S. antitrust law.  Libor is the most widely used benchmark for setting values
on about $360 trillion in financial products, with the rate
being fixed each morning by the British Bankers’ Association.  U.S. prosecutors are preparing to file charges later this
year against traders from several banks involved in a bid-
rigging scheme to manipulate Libor rates, according to a person
familiar with the case, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is confidential.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to immediately comment
on the complaint. Steven Vames, a spokesman for Zurich-based
Credit Suisse, didn’t immediately return a message seeking
comment on the lawsuit. A call to the press office of London-
based Barclays after regular business hours in the U.K. wasn’t
immediately returned.  The case is 33-35 Green Pond Road Associates v. Bank of
America, 12-cv-05822, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  