-- Barclays Says USDA May Cut Outlook for Russia, EU Wheat Harvests
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-30T15:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/barclays-says-usda-may-cut-outlook-for-russia-eu-wheat-harvests.html
U.S. government estimates for wheat
harvests in Russia,  Kazakhstan  and the European Union may be too
high as adverse weather spurs “widespread production
downgrades,” Barclays Plc said.  Dry weather in the Black Sea area and excess rain in
western  Europe  may prompt the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  to
reduce its outlook for both regions,  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an
analyst at Barclays in London, said today in a report. The USDA
is scheduled to update its global crop  forecasts  on Aug. 10.  Wheat prices on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, have surged 46 percent since mid-June as the worst
U.S. drought since 1956 threatens to slash corn supplies. Both
grains are used in livestock feed.  “While market focus has rightly been on the sizable cuts
to U.S. corn and soybean supply estimates, the wheat market has
also been witnessing a spate of weather woes,” Unnikrishnan
said. “We expect global balances for all three markets -- corn,
wheat and soybeans -- to tighten further” in the next USDA
report, she wrote.  The 27 countries of the EU make up the world’s largest
wheat grower, according to the USDA. The agency on July 11
estimated EU wheat production at 133.1 million metric tons, up
1.6 percent from its June forecast.  The USDA this month pegged  Russia ’s wheat output at 49
million tons, down 7.5 percent from its June estimate, while
Kazakhstan’s harvest was seen at 13 million tons, 13 percent
lower than projected a month earlier. Russia was the world’s
third-biggest wheat exporter in the 2011-12 season ended June 30
after the U.S. and Australia, and Kazakhstan ranked sixth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  