-- Best Buy Founder Schulze Recruiting Executives for Buyout
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-07-30T20:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/best-buy-founder-schulze-recruiting-executives-for-buyout.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard Schulze
is recruiting executives to help lead the retailer if his
attempt to take the company private is successful, according to
a senior Best Buy executive.  “He is talking to people he trusts,” J.D. Wilson, senior
vice president of enterprise capabilities, said in an interview.
“There is a small group he’d like to have with him in righting
the ship. He is serious as a heart attack.” Wilson, who said
his position is being eliminated as part of Best Buy’s cutbacks,
was approached by Schulze in June and said he would work for the
company if a deal went through.  Schulze also has been seeking to recruit other executives
such as former Chief Executive Officer Brad Anderson, said a
person familiar with the matter. Anderson has told other former
Best Buy executives he is interested in joining Schulze’s
effort, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private.  Schulze, 71, has been exploring taking the world’s largest
electronics retailer private after stepping down as chairman
last month, a person familiar with the matter has said. An
internal probe found he failed to tell the board about
allegations that then-CEO  Brian Dunn  was having an inappropriate
relationship with a female employee. Schulze said when he
resigned that he would consider all options, including selling
his 20 percent stake in the Richfield, Minnesota-based company.  Through a spokesman, Schulze declined to comment. Bruce Hight, a spokesman for Best Buy, declined to comment. Anderson
didn’t return a phone message seeking comment.  ‘Cooler Heads’  Best Buy rose 1.7 percent to $18.06 at the close in  New
York  after advancing as much as 5.9 percent. The shares have
fallen 23 percent this year.  “Cooler heads are prevailing as they crunch the numbers
and see that while Richard Schulze would like to take Best Buy
private, the probability is very low,”  Anthony Chukumba , an
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets, said today by telephone from
New York.  Schulze would need to raise $1 billion to $2 billion from a
private-equity firm and $7 billion to $8 billion in debt, said
Chukumba, who rates Best Buy shares hold.  “Lenders are wary in this macroeconomic environment,”
Chukumba said.  A takeover of Best Buy would cost at least $30 a share, for
a total value of about $11 billion including net debt, to
persuade long-time investors to sell, according to Chukumba.  Raising Money  While Schulze has had discussions with several former
executives interested in rejoining the company, he hasn’t
reached an agreement with anyone, said a person familiar with
the matter. He also has been speaking with potential investors
and private-equity funds about raising money from them, said
this person.  Best Buy has struggled as customers migrated to  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and other online merchants, posting a net loss of $1.23
billion on revenue of $50.7 billion for the fiscal year that
ended in March, its first annual loss since 1991, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Same-store sales have declined in seven of
the last eight quarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  