-- Biggest Farm Groups Oppose Extension of Agriculture Law
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-07-30T21:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/biggest-u-s-farm-groups-oppose-extension-of-agriculture-law.html
The two largest U.S. farm groups
have come out against a proposed  one-year extension  of an
agriculture-policy law that expires in September, saying
producers of the nation’s crops and livestock need more
certainty, especially amid a record drought.  House Republican leaders last week proposed an extension,
tying the measure to a provision that would revive drought-
relief measures for ranchers that expired a year ago. Unlike
growers of major crops such as corn and soybeans, livestock and
poultry producers aren’t covered by government insurance
programs. The House Rules Committee is scheduled to consider the
bill tomorrow, just days before Congress leaves  Washington  for
its August recess.  “As the drought wreaks havoc across the nation, our
farmers and livestock producers are looking for relief and
certainty,”  Roger Johnson , the president of the  National
Farmers Union , said today in a statement. A one-year extension
would mean beginning the process of writing a farm bill again in
January, when lawmakers elected in November take office, he
said.  The group would support an extension only if it leads to a
House-Senate conference on a full five-year bill before current
law expires, Johnson said.  The  American Farm Bureau Federation  said today that it
would continue to push for the passage of a five-year bill this
year. The group is the biggest farm group, followed by the
National Farmers Union.  Five-Year Bill  “AFBF believes the priority is passage of a new five-year
farm bill,” Mary Kay Thatcher, senior director of congressional
relations for the Farm Bureau, said in an e-mail. “This
approach is not being presented as a vehicle to get the
respective full Senate and House committee versions of the farm
bill in conference, and therefore does not appear to be getting
us any closer to completing the new farm bill.”  The one-year bill “does nothing” for hog or poultry
producers and little for the  dairy industry , Thatcher said.
Disaster-relief provisions in the extension legislation also are
in the Senate and House five-year bills.  House Speaker  John Boehner  is opposed to using the proposed
one-year extension as a way to get to a conference with the
Senate on a full five-year bill, a spokesman,  Michael Steel ,
said today in an e-mail. Steel said no conversations concerning
that approach are taking place.  Current Law  The current agriculture-policy law was passed in 2008,
authorizing spending for all U.S. Department of Agriculture
programs, including  food stamps  and conservation initiatives and
subsidies, through Sept. 30.  The Senate, where the Democrats are in control, passed a
replacement bill in June that would cut $23.6 billion if
stretched out over a 10-year period. The House Agriculture
Committee on July 12 approved a version with deeper reductions,
$35.1 billion over a decade. Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , never
scheduled a vote on the measure.  The Washington-based Club for Growth, which espouses
smaller government, today said it would urge House Republican
leaders to resist a conference with the Senate.  “Republicans should be fighting to cut spending and limit
government, not compromising with Democrats to spend billion on
 farm subsidies  and food stamps,” the group’s president,  Chris Chocola , said today in a statement.  The one-year extension bill is H.R. 6228.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  