-- Obama Calls for Decisive Action to Stop Euro From Unraveling
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/bill-clinton-to-nominate-obama-for-second-term-aides-say.html
President Barack Obama says European
leaders can forestall dissolution of the euro by taking prompt,
“decisive steps” to solve their debt crisis.  “I don’t think ultimately that the Europeans will let the
Euro unravel, but they are going to have to take some decisive
steps,” Obama told a $40,000 per-plate fundraiser at the NoMad
hotel in  New York  City yesterday. “And I am spending an
enormous amount of time, trying to work with them. The sooner
that they take some decisive action, the better off we are going
to be.”  Obama told the donors, including members of the financial
services community, their taxes must rise to help provide $1.5
trillion in revenue to put the country’s fiscal future on solid
footing. He added that he wouldn’t be asking them for any more
money after this political campaign. “Fortunately, I’m about to
graduate, so this is it, guys,” he said.  When an audience member asked him if he would be calling to
solicit funds for a future presidential library, Obama said,
“Someone else will make that call.”  The event, attended by 60 people, was hosted by  Marc Lasry ,
founder of Avenue Capital Group LLC,  Roger Altman , chairman and
founder of Evercore Partners, Inc., and Mark Gallogly, a
managing principal of Centerbridge Partners.  Obama said he is confident he would win the election if it
“were held today.” Still, he expressed concern about being
outspent and warned of the millions of dollars Republican
political action committees are funneling into campaign ads to
defeat him.  Clinton’s Role  Earlier yesterday, the Democratic National Convention
Committee announced that former President  Bill Clinton  will
place Obama’s name in formal nomination for re-election at the
party’s convention. Clinton will be preceded by Massachusetts
Senate candidate  Elizabeth Warren  on the second night of a
three-day convention.  Clinton will nominate Obama on Sept. 5 in Charlotte,  North
Carolina , during a prime-time speech on the economy, according
to an announcement by convention organizers. The former two-term
president remains one of the most popular and unifying
Democratic figures, and his high-profile role at the convention
signals an effort to pull out all stops in the battle against
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  “There is no better validator for the Obama middle-class
economic policies than President Clinton,” said Democratic
strategist  Paul Begala , a former Clinton adviser. “He can make
the case for President Obama in a powerful, persuasive
fashion.”  Biden to Speak  Vice President  Joe Biden  is scheduled to speak on Sept. 6,
the night Obama formally accepts the nomination. That evening
will have the highest number of television viewers.  Biden “will give a first-hand testament to the president’s
focus on doing what is right for the country, not what is
politically popular,”  Antonio Villaraigosa , the convention
chairman and mayor of Los Angeles, said in a statement.  Clinton’s prominent role means “the president recognizes
that he needs everybody to do whatever they can” to win the
November election, said  Pat Griffin , associate director of the
Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American
University in Washington and Clinton’s former chief lobbyist in
Congress.  Clinton was president during a time of economic expansion
and budget surpluses from 1998 to 2001.  Republican Romney  Republicans will hold their convention to nominate Romney
in Tampa, Florida, Aug. 27-30. Romney has collected more than $9
million from the investment and securities industry, according
to the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics. Obama
has amassed $3.4 million, hurt by comments about “fat cat
bankers” and an advertising campaign against Romney’s private-
equity record.  The Democratic Party yesterday took the first step toward
endorsing gay marriage as party platform drafters recommended
including such a provision among its 2012 positions, said a
spokesman for Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank .  The drafting subcommittee, which met in Minneapolis last
weekend, included the marriage equality plank in its
recommendations to the full platform committee, said Eric Orner,
a spokesman for Frank, a member of the drafting panel. It has
been almost three months since Obama said in an ABC News
interview that same-sex couples should be allowed to marry.  -- With assistance by  James Rowley  in Washington. Editors:
 Steven Komarow , Jim Rubin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  