-- Boeing Dreamliner GE Engine Probed After Jet Spews Debris
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-30T16:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/boeing-dreamliner-ge-engine-probed-after-jet-spews-debris.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
U.S. officials are looking into a malfunction that spewed metal
debris from a GE engine on a 787 Dreamliner and caused an
airport grass fire in  South Carolina .  Material was ejected from the back of the engine during
preflight testing,  Rick Kennedy , a GE spokesman, said yesterday.
Julie O’Donnell, a Boeing spokeswoman, declined to comment,
saying the July 28 mishap at the Charleston, South Carolina,
airport was still under investigation.  The incident was the second in less than 10 days involving
engines from GE and  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  on Dreamliners.
Japan’s  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  pulled five 787s with Rolls-Royce
engines from service on July 21 after the manufacturer found
that some components had a shorter-than-expected service life.  Boeing is “unaware of any operational issue that would
present concerns about the continued safe operation of in-
service 787s powered by GE engines,” according to a statement
from the Chicago-based planemaker.  While the company said in the statement that the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board was investigating, an NTSB
spokesman, Terry Williams, said today by e-mail that the agency
was still gathering information to determine whether the
incident was serious enough to warrant a formal inquiry.  Air India  The jet involved in the episode is due to go to  Air India 
Ltd. Japan Airlines Co., the only current 787 operator using GE
engines, is in contact with Boeing and GE and hasn’t received a
directive to check the engines, Sze Hunn Yap, a spokeswoman,
said in Tokyo today. JAL’s Dreamliners are flying as scheduled,
she said.  The incident marked the first “significant issue” with
GE’s new GEnx engine, Kennedy said. About 100 of the units are
in service and are performing well, he said.  No one was hurt in the grass fire that occurred after
debris from the plane fell onto the runway at the Charleston
airport, said Becky Beaman, a spokeswoman for the facility. Two
arriving flights were diverted and a departing  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  plane was delayed.  Boeing’s North Charleston factory is one of two assembly
sites for the twin-engine 787, along with the company’s wide-
body plant in Everett, Washington.  The Dreamliner is the world’s first jetliner with a
fuselage and wings built chiefly from composite materials. All
Nippon and Japan Airlines are the only airlines flying the
plane, which entered commercial service in late 2011 after more
than three years of delays.  Boeing designed the plane to fly long-haul routes while
cutting fuel consumption. The 787 has become Boeing’s fastest-
selling new model ever, with 859 orders through June, according
to the planemaker’s website.  All Nippon was the first carrier to fly the Dreamliner in
commercial service.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  has said it
expects to start receiving 787s in September, which will make it
the first U.S. airline to operate the jet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  