-- Election Rules, Barclays, Insider Trading: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-30T11:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/bofa-wells-fargo-used-firms-that-led-to-accord-correct-.html
The  Federal Election Commission  on
Friday said that it would require groups funding issue ads, such
as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Crossroads GPS, to disclose
their donors.  The FEC ruling applies only to what are known as
“electioneering communications,” so-called issue ads that run
before an election and mention a federal candidate without
urging viewers to vote for or against the person. “Independent
expenditures,” which advocate support or opposition to a
candidate, aren’t affected by the FEC decision.  The commission said all groups should report donors of
$1,000 or more effective March 30. That’s when a U.S. District
Court judge threw out FEC rules allowing groups to hide their
contributors. The case was brought by Representative  Chris Van
Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, who argued that the 2002 campaign-
finance law required such disclosure.  That district court ruling has been appealed, and the FEC
said it could reverse its policy if a higher court overturns the
decision. A phone calls to the Chamber wasn’t immediately
returned.  “The FEC statement is not new policy, but rather
reiterates the Van Hollen decision,” said Jonathan Collegio, a
Crossroads spokesman.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  McKesson Reaches $151 Million Deal With States on Drugs  McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the largest U.S drug distributor, reached a
$151 million settlement with states over claims it caused
Medicaid programs to pay too much for prescription drugs.  The agreement resolves allegations that McKesson overbilled
states by reporting inflated prices for medications, state
attorneys general said Friday. The deal follows a settlement
reached in April with the federal government.  “This settlement holds McKesson accountable for attempting
to make millions of dollars in illegal profits,”  New York 
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who helped lead
negotiations, said in an e-mailed statement.  Kris Fortner, director of communications at San Francisco-
based McKesson, said in an e-mailed statement that the company
adhered to all applicable laws and regulations and that the
claims are “without merit.”  “We did not manipulate drug prices and did not violate any
laws,” Fortner said. The settlement was in the best interest of
the company’s employees, customers, suppliers and shareholders,
according to Fortner.  Barclays Says FSA Investigating Finance Director Over Fees  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said the Financial Services Authority is
investigating four current and former senior employees including
Finance Director Chris Lucas over the sufficiency of disclosure
of fees payable.  “The FSA is investigating the sufficiency of disclosure in
relation to fees payable under certain commercial agreements and
whether these may have related to Barclays capital raisings in
June and November 2008,” Barclays said in a statement on
Friday. “Barclays considers that it satisfied its disclosure
obligations and confirms that it will cooperate fully with the
FSA’s investigation.”  The bank made the disclosure Friday as it reported first-
half  profit  that beat  analyst  estimates.  “We are sorry for what has happened,” Chairman Marcus
Agius said in a statement. “However, our leadership continues
to focus on the delivery of our financial performance targets.”  The bank is also being investigated over whether it
adequately disclosed fees it agreed to pay to the Qatar
Investment Authority as it sought to raise money from investors
including the sovereign wealth fund, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  “The bank entered into an agreement for the provision of
advisory services by Qatar Investment Authority to Barclays in
the Middle East,” the lender said in a June 2008 statement
detailing the fundraising. The FSA is probing whether that
disclosure was adequate, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms of the investigation are private.  Stephen Benzikie, an external spokesman for Qatar Holding,
part of the Qatar Investment Authority, and Liam Parker, an FSA
spokesman, declined to comment.  Dutch Regulators Probe Libor, Euribor Submission Process  Dutch regulators are conducting a probe into potential
rigging of interbank lending rates, as a global scandal
triggered by the manipulation of Libor widens.  “The Dutch central bank is conducting an investigation in
the broadest sense into possible manipulation of the Libor and
Euribor submission process,” said Kees Verhagen, a spokesman
for the Amsterdam-based central bank. The probe is being carried
out jointly with financial markets regulator AFM and in
cooperation with international supervisors, he said by telephone
Friday.  The central bank declined to say which firms are under
investigation. Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad reported
on Friday that Rabobank Groep, the only Dutch bank on the Libor
panel, fired four traders in 2008 and 2011 for possible
involvement in manipulation of the rate. The bankers, based in
London, were suspected of rigging rates to help colleagues boost
profit, the paper said.  Rabobank spokesman Hendrik Jan Eijpe declined to comment on
the employees. The bank is cooperating with the investigations
by regulators, he said.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank, earlier this month said it suspended two
London-based traders as investigators probe the suspected
manipulation of benchmark  interest rates . The two traders
formerly worked at Rabobank, one of at least 12 banks being
probed by regulators over allegations they rigged the London and
euro interbank offered rates, a person with knowledge of the
situation said on July 9.  The U.K. and the U.S. are criminally investigating how
derivatives traders and rate submitters colluded to rig Libor,
and other interest rates. Barclays was fined 290 million pounds
($456 million) in June by U.S. and U.K. regulators for
submitting false rates. The lender on Friday apologized for its
role in the scandal.  U.K. Insider-Trade Ring Members Sentenced to Up to 42 Months  Six men who were found guilty in the U.K.’s largest
insider-trading-ring prosecution were sentenced to jail terms of
as long as 42 months in prison.  The men, who traded on inside information taken from the
print rooms for  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , received
sentences ranging from 18 months to three-and-a-half years
Friday at a London criminal court. They were found guilty of
making 732,044 pounds ($1.15 million) after a four-and-a-half
months-long trial.  “You knew precisely what you were doing and the fraudulent
trading was carefully planned,” Judge Jeffrey Pegden told the
defendants. “Your offending is so serious as to only justify
immediate custodial sentences.”  The arrests of the eight men came at the height of the
financial crisis in 2008 as the U.K. Financial Services
Authority was under criticism from lawmakers and other
regulators for failing to do enough to combat market abuse. The
London-based FSA, which was created in 1997, had only filed
three criminal insider-trading cases before the raids in the
print-room investigation.  For more, click here.  BofA, Wells Fargo Used Firms That Led to CFPB Accord  Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
were among the largest clients of firms whose products led to a
$210 million settlement between  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and
federal regulators.  Intersections Inc. (INTX)  and Affinion Group Holdings Inc. both
provided credit-monitoring programs that were marketed and sold
by third-party vendors to Capital One cardholders, according to
settlement  documents  dated July 17. Bank of America, Wells Fargo
and Citigroup were listed in securities filings as major
customers by one or both of the providers, with Bank of America
accounting for more than half of annual revenue at
Intersections. The vendors weren’t named, and regulators didn’t
accuse Intersections or Affinion of misconduct.  Capital One settled accusations July 18 that vendors used
deceptive, high-pressure practices to sell optional products
such as credit monitoring and payment protection. It was the
first public enforcement case brought by the year-old Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, and Director  Richard Cordray  said
more firms that marketed similar products will face sanctions.  “We know these deceptive marketing tactics for credit-card
add-on products are not unique to a single institution,”
Cordray said last week. “We expect announcements about other
institutions as our ongoing work continues to unfold.” He
didn’t name any of the firms, and Jen Howard, a CFPB
spokeswoman, declined to comment on enforcement plans.  The dispute concerns so-called payment protection, which
pays credit-card bills in case of job loss or disability, and
monitoring services that alert customers to changes in their
credit profiles.  Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup spokesmen
declined to comment on whether they received complaints or faced
enforcement actions similar to those at McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One, and the CFPB hasn’t accused them of wrongdoing.  Intersections is a publicly traded firm based in Chantilly,
Virginia, while Affinion, based in Stamford, Connecticut, is
owned by private-equity firms  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
 General Atlantic LLC .  James Hart, an Affinion spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s relationship with current clients. Affinion hasn’t
worked with Capital One since 2001, when Intersections took over
management of credit-protection products, Hart said. Leslie
Garrett, a spokeswoman for Intersections, declined to comment on
specific clients.  For more, click here.  Halliburton Says Has Started Internal Investigation on Iraq Work  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-largest oilfield
services provider, has begun internal investigations into its
operations in Angola and Iraq.  The probes are looking at payments made to third-party
agents related to customs matters in Angola and Iraq, as well as
visa issues in Iraq, Houston-based Halliburton said Friday in a
federal filing.  Halliburton alerted U.S. Justice Department and Securities
and Exchange officials during the second quarter that it had
begun the inquiry after meeting with them about another internal
investigation the company has under way about possible
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA.  Halliburton has previously said it received an anonymous e-
mail in December 2010 alleging that current and former employees
violated Halliburton’s own business-conduct codes and the FCPA,
mainly through its dealings with an Angolan vendor. The e-mail
has alleged “conflicts of interest, self-dealing and the
failure to act on alleged violations,” Halliburton has said in
federal filings.  Two Duke Energy Directors Resign, Call for CEO Replacement  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  directors Theresa M. Stone and John D.
Baker II, who joined the board when the company took over
Progress Energy Inc., resigned and called on Duke to begin the
process to replace its chief executive officer.  Stone and Baker, who previously served on the Progress
board, announced their resignations in separate  letters  filed
Friday with the  North Carolina  Utilities Commission. The state
agency is investigating Duke’s decision to fire  Bill Johnson ,
the former Progress CEO, within hours of completing its $17.8
billion takeover on July 2.  Johnson, who was supposed to become CEO of the new company,
was replaced by Duke CEO  Jim Rogers . Two other former Progress
board members, E. Marie McKee and James B. Hyler, told the
commission on July 19 they were considering resigning over the
executive change. The board of the combined company had voted
10-5 to replace Johnson, with all former Progress members
opposed.  “The board should immediately identify and adopt a process
for selecting a new CEO and institute that process as soon as
possible,” Baker wrote in a letter to Rogers and Ann Maynard
Gray, the company’s lead director. “Only after taking these
immediate steps will the board be able to work together for the
best interests of Duke’s shareholders.”  SEC Freezes Trader Assets in Probe of Cnooc’s Nexen Purchase  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission obtained a
court order to freeze assets of traders who allegedly reaped
more than $13 million by trading illegally ahead of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s
announcement that it would buy  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Hong Kong-based Well Advantage Ltd., controlled by Zhang
Zhi Rong, and other unidentified traders stockpiled shares of
Nexen based on confidential information about the deal, the SEC
said in a July 27 statement announcing a complaint filed in
federal court in Manhattan. The court order froze about $38
million in assets, the SEC said.  Nexen’s stock rose more than  50 percent  on July 23 after
Cnooc, China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer, said it
would pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire the Calgary-based
company. Well Advantage’s owner Zhang, a billionaire, is the
controlling shareholder of  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , a Hong Kong-based company that engages in
significant business activities with Cnooc, the SEC said.  “This may be the tip of an iceberg suggesting that the
government in China has to be more careful about their business
and business partners,” said Joseph Fan, co-director of the
Institute of Economics and Finance at the Chinese University of
Hong Kong.  Many individuals doing business with state-owned
enterprises are well connected and there are complicated
relationships and transactions between them, Fan said.  Zhang wasn’t available for comment, Glorious Property’s
public relations manager Doris Chung said.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries said in a statement that
Zhang doesn’t have any executive role, and business operations
won’t be affected. The shipbuilder won an order from state-owned
Cnooc to build a deepwater pipe-laying vessel in 2007 and Cnooc
was one of the cornerstone investors in its initial public
offering in Hong Kong in November 2010.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission and Cnooc
declined to comment on the case.  For more, click here.  Anglo Irish Debt Exchange Was ‘Negative Inducement,’ Judge Says  The measures the Irish government used to persuade
bondholders to take losses as it restructured Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. were unfair to the minority of investors who didn’t want
to take part, a U.K. court ruled.  Judge Michael Briggs on July 27  called  the mechanism a
“negative inducement” to force bondholders to accept the
offer. The case was brought by Anglo Irish bondholder Assenagon
Asset Management SA.  The ruling focuses on the legality of so-called exit
consent measures under which the nationalized lender offered
holders of the bonds a choice between receiving a smaller amount
in exchange for their notes or being effectively wiped out.
Other countries, including Greece, used similar methods to
restructure their debt.  The exchange offer was “fair, transparent” and all note
holders were provided with comprehensive notice in advance,
Irish Bank Resolution Corp., the successor to Anglo Irish, said
in a statement. “IBRC is firmly of the view that these
securities would have been valueless without the
recapitalization of the bank by the Irish State.”  The IBRC said it was given permission to appeal and is
“considering its options.”  The case is Assenagon Asset Management SA v. Anglo Irish
Bank Corp.,  High Court  of Justice Chancery Division, HC11C01320.  In the Courts  ABP Suit Against Ace Securities Can Proceed, Judge Says  A lawsuit brought by Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, Europe’s
second-biggest pension fund, against a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
affiliate over residential mortgage-backed securities can
proceed, a New York judge ruled.  Ace Securities Corp. must face two claims in the suit, for
common-law fraud and fraudulent inducement, New York State
 Supreme Court  Justice Jeffrey Oing in Manhattan said Friday. The
judge dismissed claims of aiding and abetting fraud and
negligent misrepresentation. The plaintiffs could refile the
aiding-and-abetting claim, he said.  ABP, based in Heerlen, Netherlands, sued Ace Securities,
Deutsche Bank and four other bank affiliates in state court in
Manhattan in September, saying it bought residential mortgage-
backed securities while relying on allegedly false and
misleading statements.  ABP has sued other banks in the same court over similar
allegations, including Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Ace Securities, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was
formed by Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. to facilitate the sale
of residential  mortgage loans  through securitizations, ABP said
in the complaint.  Oing dismissed Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank Home Lending
LLC and DB Structured Products Inc. from the case, leaving Ace
Securities, Deutsche Bank Securities and another Deutsche Bank
affiliate as defendants.  “We are encouraged that the judge dismissed several claims
and defendants and is still considering whether to dismiss the
entire case on statute of limitations grounds,”  Duncan King , a
New York-based spokesman for Deutsche Bank, said in a statement.  The ruling “shows that investors will be able to get to
discovery on these claims,” Geoffrey C. Jarvis, an attorney
with Grant & Eisenhofer who is representing ABP, said after
Friday’s hearing. The fraud allegation is the “key claim” in
the suit, he said.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Ace Securities
Corp., 652460/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Iceland’s Kaupthing Sues to Rescind $1.5 Billion of Transactions  The caretakers of failed Icelandic lender  Kaupthing Bank hf 
have filed about 50 lawsuits in order to rescind transactions
that were executed in the last months prior to the bank’s
collapse.  “The aggregate nominal amount claimed by Kaupthing in
these cases is equivalent to approximately 180 billion
Icelandic” kronur ($1.5 billion), the bank said in an e-mailed
statement from Reykjavik.  Kaupthing and two other Icelandic lenders defaulted on $85
billion in 2008, triggering an economic collapse in the north
Atlantic island and an International Monetary Fund-led bailout.  The bank is now aiming to complete the winding-up
proceedings by seeking an agreement with creditors which would
give them a stake in the future value of the bank’s assets.
Kaupthing has 5.2 billion euros ($6.4 billion) in assets and 17
billion euros in claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  