-- Bordeaux Water Squeeze May Be End of Era for Veolia, Suez
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-30T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/bordeaux-water-squeeze-may-be-end-of-era-for-veolia-suez.html
Bordeaux, the French city known for
$3,000 bottles of wine, is obsessed with the price of tap water.  Municipal plans to lower household bills and take control
of Bordeaux’s water and waste treatment facilities will shrink
domestic profits that are already declining for  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE)  and  Suez Environnement (SEV) , the world’s biggest
water companies. Dimmer prospects in the 5 billion-euro ($6.13
billion) French market signal the end of an era that gave the
Paris-based utilities the financial muscle to expand abroad.  “The large water companies have understood that we are
entering a new phase,” Jean-Pierre Turon, vice president of
water at the Bordeaux Urban Community, which represents 27
municipalities said in an interview. “They can no longer take
for granted big profits and complete control over operations
that they enjoyed in the past. Water is a special kind of
consumer good, not like other merchandise.”  Bordeaux follows Paris and Nantes in taking back control of
water supplies as politicians including newly elected president,
 Francois Hollande , try to cut household bills. Contract renewals
on tougher terms are costing water suppliers as much as 80
percent of their profit margins, according to Veolia Vice
President for Finance Pierre-Francois Riolacci.  Bordeaux, center of the largest fine wine-growing area in
France with about 10,000 producing properties, this month
published preliminary results of bids for a six-year sewage
contract. Four companies competed. Turon said the winner
“scraped through.”  Earnings Tomorrow  As a result, the incumbent Lyonnaise des Eaux, a unit of
Suez Environnement, which reports half-year results tomorrow,
will be forced to lower water treatment costs 30 percent and the
typical annual household bill by 6 percent from 451 euros over
the term of the contract, according to Bordeaux Urban Community.  The utilities’ earnings this year have also been crimped by
the economic slowdown in  Europe  as cuts in factory output,
leaving less waste for treatment. Veolia and Suez shares
havefallen 16 percent and 14 percent respectively in the last
three months, making them the worst performers in the 17-member
Bloomberg World Water Index, down 3 percent in the same period.  Unwinding Deals  Lyonnaise des Eaux has managed Bordeaux’s water treatment
for two decades and will continue to operate six sewage plants
serving 239,000 people under the new mandate until January 2019,
when the municipalities take over the business.  For Bordeaux, the deal marks an important step to unwind
20- and 30-year water treatment and distribution deals in which
Lyonnaise des Eaux enjoyed “too comfortable profits,” Turon
said. In 2006 and 2008, agreed to lower rates and invest 280
million to compensate for past profits, he said.  “French water margins are being squeezed, there is big
pressure on tariffs,” said Yohann Terry, an analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas. “We aren’t yet seeing the end of the tunnel.”  Under Socialist Mayor Bertrand Delanoe, Paris took the
city’s water distribution out of private hands in 2010. Suez
Environnement and Veolia controlled water distribution on
opposite sides of the Seine River that divides the capital.
Veolia had been supplying water to Parisians since 1860.  After Veolia was spun off from Vivendi SA in 2002, former
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  went on a 4 billion-euro
acquisition spree starting in 2006 to expand the utility’s
water, trash collection, transport and energy businesses to span
77 countries.  Asset Disposals  That growth turned into writedowns and asset sales after
Proglio was replaced as CEO in 2009 by Antoine Frerot. The
utility will operate in fewer than 40 countries by the end of
next year, Frerot has said. The Paris-based company, which
reports half-year results on Aug. 2, has announced over the past
month the sale of its U.K. regulated water, U.S. waste-
management and Baltic waste businesses.  Suez Environnement, created in 1880 to supply water to
Lyon, followed Veolia in expanding abroad. It gained control of
 Spain ’s largest non-state water supplier Sociedad General de
Aguas de Barcelona SA, or Agbar, in 2010, making that country
its second-biggest water revenue source after  France .  The company issued a profit warning on higher costs at an
Australian desalination plant and an outlook for flat 2012
earnings rather than previously forecast growth.  ‘Made Crazy Amounts’  The utilities, which make as much as 40 percent of revenue
in France, have been accused by politicians of using profits at
home to finance expansion abroad.  “They made crazy amounts of money, double-digit profit
margins,” Evelyne Didier, a Communist senator and vice
president of the waste study group in France’s upper house of
parliament. “It’s important that this be controlled. Thirty-
year contracts need to be scrutinized.”  Water prices are coming down in some communities.  “Municipalities are preoccupied with the price of water.”
Philippe Maillard, head of Lyonnaise des Eaux, said by telephone
yesterday. “ They are trying to lower rates or keep rises as
low as possible. They are asking for more control, transparency
on prices and different development models. The market is
changing, the clients are changing.”  For towns that have chosen to take over water services,
some have contracted out billing or leak repairs to the private
sector, he said.  Contract Erosion  Veolia’s margins are shrinking in the French water business
due to “contractual erosion,” finance chief Riolacci said in
May. In the last 18 months, the company has seen renewals cut
profit margins by as much as 80 percent, he said on a conference
call.  An official declined to comment further yesterday.  The utility agreed to reduce water prices on a 3 billion-
euro deal signed in 2010 to supply water in suburban Paris for
12 years. That contract is the largest in France. Suez
Environnement has reported an average 12 percent drop in tariffs
for water contract renewals in 2010 and 2011.  A U.S. deal signed  by Veolia in April may point the way
for future French contracts, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The company won a  New York  City contract where revenue
from efficiency savings made by its water division would be
split between the utility and the city.  “Veolia is seeing a loss of Ebitda in France this year
while Suez has managed to keep earnings flat due to a more
efficient cost-cutting plan and market share gains,” Exane
BNP’s Terry said. “We remain cautious.”  Declining Use  French water use has steadily declined since 2006, while
prices have risen since 1994. From 1995 to 1998, the price
increases were 3.7 percent to 8 percent a year compared with
about 3 percent from 2008 to 2010, industry group FP2E said.  Bordeaux has to decide in the coming months on investing in
new sources of water. Nearby deep aquifers are over-used,
leaving the wine industry capital no choice except to seek more
distant reservoirs or turn to the Garonne River. The waterway
was key to the 12th century start of trading of barrels of
claret from the region to  England .  Today, London wine merchant Berry Brothers & Rudd lists a
2003 bottle of Petrus, often the region’s most expensive wine,
at 1,925 pounds ($3,000).  “We can’t forget that to have wine, one needs water,”
Turon said. “In this new water era, there will be work for
everyone, it just won’t be managed in the same way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  