-- BP Partners Reject Request for $1 Billion Dividend at TNK-BP
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-07-30T16:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/bp-partners-reject-request-for-1-billion-dividend-at-tnk-bp-2-.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s billionaire partners
rejected a proposal from the U.K. energy producer for TNK-BP,
their Russian oil venture, to pay a $1 billion dividend,
increasing pressure to resolve a shareholder impasse.  “A payment now of an additional dividend is not prudent,”
 Stan Polovets , chief executive officer of AAR, which represents
BP’s partners, said today in an e-mailed statement. “At a time
of continuing market uncertainty and while corporate governance
at TNK-BP remains strained, we believe that a cautious stance by
shareholders is called for.”  TNK-BP hasn’t paid dividends on any 2012 income as it has
lacked a functioning board since December. Ex-German Chancellor
 Gerhard Schroeder  and  James Leng , a former chairman at Corus
Group Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, quit the board last year amid a
shareholder dispute arising from BP’s failed attempt to form an
alliance with Russian state-run OAO Rosneft.  “AAR may be withholding cash as a way to pressure BP into
solving the shareholders conflict,”  Alexander Nazarov , an oil
and gas analyst at OAO Gazprombank in Moscow, said by e-mail.  TNK-BP can distribute additional dividends with a unanimous
vote from the current directors, while regular dividends can
only be approved by a full board. Russia’s third largest oil
producer has paid BP $19 billion in dividends since 2003 and
accounts for a quarter of the London-based company’s global
output.  Possible Sale  “We are confident that the money will remain in the
company and that we can ensure it is correctly deployed in the
future,”  Toby Odone , a BP spokesman in  London , said by e-mail
about TNK-BP’s cash. Dividends from TNK-BP don’t directly fund
BP’s payouts to its shareholders, he said.  BP could use the cash now as it pays for the cleanup of the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill in 2010, Nazarov said.  BP said June 1 that it will pursue a possible sale of its
half of TNK-BP. Both AAR and Rosneft have since announced that
they would seek to buy shares.  BP is scheduled to report second-quarter results tomorrow.
TNK-BP reported a 63 percent decline in second-quarter net
income to $808 million from a year earlier as  oil prices 
dropped. Net debt at the Moscow-based company fell to $5.57
billion at the end of period from $7.52 billion three months
earlier.  Shares in OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the venture’s traded unit and
holder of most of its assets, fell 1 percent to 76.21 rubles in
Moscow. BP gained 1.3 percent to 444.45 pence in London.  TNK-BP Holding will probably maintain high dividends even
while payouts from its parent company to AAR and BP are blocked,
Troika Dialog said today in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  