-- Brazil’s Olympians May Stay Around for Rio 2016 on Tax Break
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-07-30T16:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/brazil-s-olympians-may-stick-around-for-rio-2016-with-tax-break.html
Forget emulating  Muhammad Ali :
Yamaguchi Falcao says he gets enough public money as an Olympic
boxer to avoid turning professional.  Falcao, who won his first-round bout at the  London  games
today, gets a living allowance from Brazilian state oil company
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)  He said he may also box at the 2016
Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. Ali turned pro after winning gold as
a teenager in Rome in 1960 and went on to become world
heavyweight champion.  “We live better as Olympic athletes than as pros,”
Falcao, 24, said in an interview.  Falcao beat  India ’s Sumit Sangwan 15-14 in the light-
heavyweight round of 32. One of 18 children of a free-style
fighter, he is among athletes benefiting as companies including
Petrobras,  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and Grupo Safra SA divert up to 1
percent of their tax bill to sponsor Olympic athletes under a
2006 Brazilian law to promote sports. In return, their brands
get an image boost.  The backing of  elite sports  may deprive worthier social
projects, according to Carlos Giannazi, a school director turned
deputy in the Sao Paulo state government. He filed an objection
in March after former Formula One champion Emerson Fittipaldi
used the sports incentive law to bankroll the auto racing career
of his 15-year-old grandson Pietro with 1 million reais
($489,000) of his tax bill.  Orange Grove  Fittipaldi’s business interests include limited-edition
helicopters and a plantation of 500,000 orange trees outside  Sao
Paulo . Sueli Gomes, a spokeswoman for Fittipaldi’s group of
companies, didn’t respond to a telephone call and e-mail
requesting comment.  “He’s a rich man,” Giannazi said. “There are a lot of
teenagers in Sao Paulo who don’t have any chance at all to play
sports.”  Bradesco,  Brazil ’s second-biggest bank by market value, is
using more than 3 million reais to back Olympic sports from
synchronized swimming to sailing, according to Brazilian Sports
Ministry data. One beneficiary, Ricardo Winicki, an Olympic
windsurfer from Rio, said it has helped him get access to a
sports psychologist and meteorologist, according to a  federation
news release .  “For the first time in 20 years of career, I have an
entire team by my side,” Winicki, 32, said.  Fencing in Venice  Olympic fencer Guilherme Amaral, a 19-year-old biology
student from the southern city of  Porto Alegre , said by
telephone he traveled to tournaments in Venice and Paris to
prepare for the London games thanks to Petrobras tax money.
Petrobras is bankrolling 196 athletes and coaches in Olympic
sports with 18 million reais this year.  The tax receipts of Safra Vide e Previdencia, an insurance
unit of billionaire Joseph Safra’s banking group, helped fund
triathlete Juraci Moreira’s Olympic training with 100,000 reais
in 2010, according to Sports Ministry data. Moreira failed to
qualify.  The Brazilian Confederation of Ice Sports is seeking more
than 484,000 reais to back a Brazilian Olympic bobsled team, the
data shows.  More companies are using tax money to support Olympic
athletes since 2009, when Rio won the right to host the summer
games after London, Daniel Varsano, a spokesman for the
 Brazilian Olympic Committee , said.  “It’s an easy way for companies to link themselves with
the games” Ferran Brunet, a professor at the Center for Olympic
Studies in Barcelona, said.  Government Bureaucracy  The drawback is dealing with bureaucracy involved with
government agencies, according to Lamartine DaCosta, professor
of sports management at Rio’s  University Gama Filho . Funding has
to be approved by the Sports Ministry and reviewed by state
courts, he said.  Brazil may not boost its medal count until after the Rio
games because it takes years to develop athletes, DaCosta said.
Brazil, which won 15 medals at the 2008 Beijing games, expects
13 to 18 in London, Varsano said.  Falcao, dripping with sweat in a blue singlet and shorts
after his match, said Brazil could get its first boxing medal
since 1968 thanks to Petrobras support. His brother, Esquiva, is
competing in the middleweight division at the games with the  oil
company ’s support.  Promotes Company  To be sure, neither brother is enriching himself with tax
money. Petrobras caps the living allowance of each athlete it
supports to 3,100 reais per month, matching the federal
government’s own maximum grant.  Still, Yamaguchi, named after his father’s Japanese judo
instructor, has a team including a nutritionist and
physiotherapist that’s the envy of some pros. In return, he
helps promote the oil company, appearing on television in June
in a polo shirt bearing its logo.  “In Brazil, pros don’t have any support,” Falcao said.
“Thanks to God, with Petrobras we have all kind of support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  