-- Brazil’s Raw Sugar Premium Seen Rising as Supplies Remain Tight
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-30T17:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/brazil-s-raw-sugar-premium-seen-rising-as-supplies-remain-tight.html
Buyers of sugar from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, are paying a bigger premium for their
sweetener after futures prices fell and supplies for immediate
shipment remain limited, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for loading in August at the port of Santos,
Brazil’s biggest, was offered for sale at a premium of 0.4 cent
a pound to the price of the October contract on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York , the broker said in a report e-mailed today. That
compares with a premium of 0.05 cent to 0.1 cent a pound on July
22, data from the broker showed. At the port of Paranagua, the
second biggest, sweetener was at a premium of 0.25 cent a pound
to the exchange price, according to the report.  Sugar futures traded in New York fell 5.9 percent last week
as output in Brazil’s center south, the country’s main growing
region, climbed 2 percent in the first half of July, according
to data from industry group Unica. Output for the start of the
season through July 15 was down 22 percent as above-average
rainfall in May and June delayed the harvesting and shipments,
creating congestion at ports.  “The market on the prompt sugar remains tight from the
offering side, most likely on tightness created by the July
delivery, combined to the congestion at the ports,” said  Naim
Beydoun , a broker at the Rolle, Switzerland-based company.  Ships are waiting as many as 30 days to load sugar at some
terminals of Brazil’s main ports, Beydoun said. ED&F Man
Holdings Ltd., Cargill Inc. and Copersucar SA took delivery of
about 1.1 million tons of raw sugar when the July contract
expired on ICE Futures U.S., the companies said then.  Egypt , which was expected to buy for shipment in September,
is in “no hurry,” Beydoun said. Some Chinese buyers have been
selling back cargoes they purchased to the market, he said.  “Even though the market is lacking sellers, it is balanced
with scarce buyers too for August and September, leaving a
disparity of values between the offers and the bids if any,”
Beydoun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  