-- British Olympic Sailors Say Bay Currents Provide Home Advantage
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-30T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/british-olympic-sailors-say-bay-currents-provide-home-advantage.html
British sailors say their home-
country experience with Weymouth Bay may help them keep their
spot as the No. 1 team at the London Olympics and propel Ben Ainslie to a record-tying fourth gold medal. Their American
rivals say the English waters may be too challenging even for
the locals to figure out.  The southwesterly winds and counterclockwise currents of
the bay, which is off the  English Channel  on the country’s south
coast, will be easier for British sailors to navigate because of
their experience in the waters, 470 class sailor Stuart Bithell,
25, told reporters last week in Weymouth.  The British sailing team won four golds among its six
Olympic medals in 2008, twice as many medals as nearest rival
 Australia  and three times more than the Americans. Britain’s
returning champions include Ainslie, 35, who’s seeking to tie
the record of four sailing golds set by Denmark’s Paul Elvstrom
with a victory in the Finn class, as well as Star class duo
Andrew Simpson, 35, and Iain Percy, 36, who also won gold in
Beijing.  “Weymouth Bay is a very unique sailing venue, and it’s
very different to a lot of venues with the tide and the cross-
swell,” Bithell said. “There’s absolutely no doubt that having
done that for the last five years, consistently, will bring a
slight home advantage.”  Conditions in Weymouth Bay, which is about 110 miles (177
kilometers) from London, will challenge all competitors. Bill
Barker, chandler manager at the marina in  Portland ,  England ,
said in an interview that the Nothe course, the closest to the
ticketed spectator area, will be especially “shifty.”  Breeze Squeeze  “The breeze tends to get squeezed in the harbor between
the two land masses, which causes a difference in the angle of
the wind from one side of the harbor to the other side,” said
Barker, who’s sailed in the area for 20 years. Tidal currents
tend to run counterclockwise in the bay, he added.  The conditions might be too variable for the British to use
their experience, according to U.S. Finn class sailor and 2008
silver medalist Zach Railey.  “The situation out there is changing constantly,” Railey
said before teams took to the water for the first time two days
ago. “There is current out there that is going every which way,
there’s wind which is sometimes steady, sometimes not. I don’t
think anybody can honestly say that they have this place figured
out.”  U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes rates Britain the 4-7 favorite to
win the Finn class and 11-4 to place first in the women’s 470
event.  Eight of the 10 sailing events have started, including the
Finn and Star classes, in which medals will be awarded Aug. 5.
Denmark’s Jonas Hogh-Christensen won the first two races of the
Finn class raced yesterday, with Ainslie second.  Finn-class boats are one-man dinghys; Star-class vessels
are two-man keelboats.  Racing Series  Olympic sailors in every event other than women’s match
racing compete in a series of races. The first 10 races are
scored by awarding one point for first place and nine for ninth.
The accumulated scores, minus the worst -- or, for some classes,
two worst -- finishes, are used to determine the athletes and
crews for the medal races. Points scored in that race are
doubled and added to previous scores to determine the final
result.  “All of us have put a lot of time and effort into changing
our bodies to get ready for this venue,” said Railey, 28, who
said he’s gained 40 pounds since winning silver at the Beijing
Games to prepare for the stronger wind conditions. “Physically,
we’re ready as a team.” He is listed at 6-foot-4 and 216 pounds
(1.93 meters, 98 kilograms).  Railey’s sister, Paige, 25, will be competing this year as
a first-time Olympian in the Laser Radial class. Anna
Tunnicliffe, the only American sailor to win a gold medal in
2008, is returning to compete with Molly O’Bryan Vandemoer, 33,
and Deborah Capozzi, 31, in the Elliot 6-meter class.
Tunnicliffe, 29, won her gold in a Laser Radial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  