-- British Medal Winner Armitstead Attacks Sexism in Cycling Pay
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-30T02:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/british-medal-winner-armitstead-attacks-sexism-in-cycling-pay.html
Cyclist Lizzie Armitstead wasn’t
entirely happy after becoming Britain’s first medal winner at
the London Olympics, using her success to push for women riders
to get more pay and recognition.  Armitstead, 23, finished just behind gold-medalist Marianne
Vos of the Netherlands in yesterday’s 87-mile women’s road race
to take the silver. Russia’s Olga Zabelinskaya was third.
Britain’s pre-race favorite  Mark Cavendish  had failed to win the
men’s event a day earlier.  Armitstead said there was sexism in the sport and cycling’s
ruling body should require sponsors like  British Sky
Broadcasting Plc (BSY)  -- which employs Cavendish on Team Sky -- to
bankroll an equivalent women’s squad. Cavendish’s teammate
Bradley Wiggins became the first Briton to win the Tour de
 France  on July 22.  “We could get a lot more help from the top,” Armitstead
told a post-race news conference.  Armitstead said she had considered asking Pat McQuaid, the
president of the ruling body  Union Cycliste Internationale , to
“sit down and have a chat” about the matter when he handed her
the silver medal yesterday.  UCI spokesman Enrico Carpani said his organization is doing
“everything we can” to raise the profile of women’s cycling
and has boosted the profile of a women’s  World Cup .  “What we can’t do is to impose on a sponsor to do
something,” Carpani said by telephone. “You can’t force a
private company to do something.”  Sprint Finish  Armitstead formed a breakaway with Vos and Zabelinskaya
with about 30 miles left in driving rain, losing out to the 25-
year-old Dutch rider in a sprint at the end.  Shelley Olds of the U.S. suffered a puncture while with the
three riders about 10 miles from the end, ending her chances of
a medal. She finished 27 seconds behind Vos in seventh place.  Armitstead, who rides for the Moordrecht, Netherlands-based
team AA Drink-Leontien.nl, said that Team Sky is “perhaps
missing an opportunity” by not having a female team as British
women prosper in cycling.  A Team Sky official said he couldn’t immediately provide a
comment.  “It’s the world we live in,” Armitstead said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at The Mall, London at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  