-- Buyouts Top $35 Billion on Boost by Anheuser-Busch InBev
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-07-31T12:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/buyouts-top-35-billion-led-by-anheuser-busch-inbev-deal-retail.html
A race for a dwindling number of
brewing assets in high-growth  emerging markets  is spurring beer
makers to take full control of joint ventures to keep them out
of the hands of competitors.  So far this year, brewers have announced 45 acquisitions
worth $35.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
versus $27.8 billion in all of 2011. That included the second-
largest beer deal in a decade when  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  said
it would purchase the remaining share of Mexican partner Grupo
Modelo SAB for $20.2 billion. This month,  Heineken NV (HEIA)  offered $6
billion to buy out other investors in Singapore-based Asia
Pacific Breweries. And that may not be the end of the takeovers.  “Consolidation has now reached the point where there’s a
limited number of assets that aren’t controlled by big
brewers,” said  Jonathan Fell , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
London. “Joint ventures and associates have to be one of the
areas you’d expect beer companies to explore for acquisition.”  With sales slowing in developed economies, brewers are
seeking to invest where there’s more room for gains. Beer volume
in Asia and  Latin America  is set to increase at a compound
annual rate of 6 percent from 2012 to 2016, investment bank
Nomura estimates, compared with a 1 percent decline in Europe
and no growth in North America.  Largest Collection  “They’re chasing GDP and per-capita consumption growth,”
said Terry Huffine,  executive director  at DC Advisory, who has
worked on acquisitions such as  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s $1.1 billion
purchase of minority interests in Poland’s Kompania Piwowarska.  SABMiller, the world’s second-biggest brewer by volume,
behind Anheuser-Busch InBev, has the largest collection of
joint-venture interests. Its assets include China Resources Snow
Brewery Co.,  Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS (AEFES)  in Turkey,
and the beer operation of France’s Groupe Castel, which brews in
20 African countries.  The Castel unit, of which SABMiller owns 20 percent, may
fetch $12 billion to $14 billion in the event of a buyout,
according to Deutsche Bank. SABMiller also owns half of
MillerCoors LLC in the U.S., which Nomura analysts estimate has
a value of about $8.9 billion.  “SAB’s made no secret of the fact they’d love to acquire
Castel,” said Deutsche Bank analyst Fell. MillerCoors, though,
“is at the bottom of the list” because it operates in the low-
growth, if profitable, North American market.  Protecting Interests  SABMiller spokesman Richard Farnsworth declined to comment
on specific assets, though he said the London-based company is
“always on the lookout for new opportunities.”  Heineken and Danish brewer  Carlsberg (CARLB)  also have interests to
protect in some of the world’s fastest-growing regions.
Carlsberg owns about 30 percent of China’s  Chongqing Brewery
Co., (600132)  while Heineken has 31 percent of  Cia Cervecerias Unidas SA (CCU) 
in Chile and 37.5 percent of India’s United Breweries,
controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya.  The danger of failing to secure control over assets was
illustrated this year when Heineken lost out to AB InBev over
Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana of the Dominican Republic, the
brewer of Presidente beer. Heineken held a 9.3 percent stake in
the company, which AB InBev acquired for about $1.24 billion.  That experience may have played a part in Heineken’s offer
for Asia Pacific Breweries after  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  threatened
its control of the Singapore company, which sells the Dutch
brewer’s brands in south-east Asia and China.  Cash Mountains  The high profits that beermakers enjoy may also be spurring
them to make purchases. AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium ,
generated $12.5 billion from operations last year.  “There are very few interesting independent targets that
are available, said  Gerard Rijk , an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “So brewers’ cash is having to be used in share
buybacks, increased dividends -- and buying out minorities and
joint ventures.”  A scarcity of good emerging-market assets may be driving up
prices. Heineken’s bid values APB at about 17 times last year’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
according to Bloomberg data. AB InBev’s offer for the remaining
Modelo shares represents a multiple of about 16.2 times Ebitda,
according to  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG. The average
for similar deals since 1999 is 12.3 times, UBS estimated.  “The last assets available are expensive, but the funding
is cheap right now,” said Rijk at ING. AB InBev sold bonds to
finance its acquisition of Modelo at the lowest coupons on
record for the maturities.  Still, it’s not just a seller’s market as smaller producers
are likely to need the backing of a multinational brewer just as
much as the global giants need regional partners. Andrew Holland, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in London, estimates
that the Heineken brand accounts for about 30 percent of beer
volume at Asia Pacific Breweries, and a higher share of profit.
Withdrawing such a valuable beer from the APB joint venture
would, he said, “decimate” APB’s profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  