-- Cantor Hires 17 From Canaccord to Start Advisory Unit
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-30T17:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/cantor-hires-17-from-canaccord-to-start-corporate-advisory-unit.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, the investment
bank planning to add 800 employees in coming years, hired 17
people from the capital markets division of  Canaccord Financial
Inc. (CF)  to start a corporate advisory business in  Europe .  The group, based in  London , will be led by Gordon Neilly,
52, who was named head of corporate finance, New York-based
Cantor said today in a statement. Angelo Sofocleous, 45, co-head
of equity trading, will run European sales and trading with Marc Altmann, who was already employed at Cantor. The team will
report to James Rowsell, chief executive officer of Cantor
Fitzgerald Europe, the firm said. The group, which will also
expand brokerage services in Europe, previously worked at
 Canaccord Genuity , according to the statement.  Cantor’s broker-dealer unit, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., plans
to boost its headcount from the current 1,600 in the next few
years, the unit’s CEO Shawn Matthews, 45, said last month. The
firm’s new team will provide financial advisory services for
asset management, wealth management and investment companies and
cover mergers and acquisitions, capital reorganizations and debt
issuance, according to the statement.  “We are in an ideal position to offer financial and
advisory services throughout the European market and to add
further sector specialization,” Rowsell said today in the
statement.  Canaccord CEO  Paul Reynolds , 49, who runs  Canada ’s largest
non-bank brokerage, said earlier this month that the Toronto-
based firm pared 150 U.K. jobs and about 84 U.S. positions as
part of its March takeover of London-based brokerage Collins
Stewart Hawkpoint Plc. The team joining Cantor resigned from
Canaccord following the merger, Rowsell said in an e-mailed
statement.  Scott Davidson, a Canaccord spokesman, declined to comment
on the moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  