-- Cat-Allergy Shot From Circassia May Limit Need for Pills
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-07-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/cat-allergy-shot-from-circassia-may-limit-need-for-pills.html
Circassia Holdings Ltd.  wants to 
offer people who can’t own cats or visit friends and relatives
who do a vaccine that will end the sneezing, coughing, swelling, 
itching and watery eyes they suffer from the animals’ dander.  Mid-stage tests on the shot have shown it’s more than twice
as effective at reducing these symptoms than existing pills and
sprays, Chief Executive Officer  Steven Harris  said. The closely
held Oxford, England-based biotechnology company is awaiting
clearance from U.S. regulators to begin a $33 million final-
stage trial of the vaccine on 1,200 people in September or
October, he said in an interview at Circassia's offices.  About one-third of U.S. households have cats and 13 million
Americans suffer allergies to the animals and might benefit if
Circassia’s vaccine is eventually approved, the company says.
That may threaten sales of treatments such as  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Zirtek, sold over-the-counter
in the U.S. as Zyrtec, and nasal steroid sprays such as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Flonase.  “I do expect the Phase 3 trial will look encouraging,”
said Robert Wood, a professor of pediatrics and director of
allergy and immunology at Johns Hopkins Children’s Center in
Baltimore, who worked on a similar vaccine two decades ago that
failed and isn’t involved in Circassia’s research. “It’s
something that would have a market and would certainly add to
the allergist’s armamentarium.”  $6.8 Billion Market  The global market for prescription antihistamines to combat
allergies is estimated at $6.8 billion, according to  IMS Health , 
a Danbury, Connecticut-based health-care information company. 
There’s a race to offer more effective treatments because,
according to Wood, 20 percent to 40 percent of people in 
developed countries suffer from some type of hypersensitivity and
the number has been rising.  People who have allergies are also at increased risk of
developing asthma, a phenomenon known as the “allergic march,”
the  American Academy  of Allergy Asthma and Immunology says. With
the number of people with asthma in the U.S. having risen 21
percent to 24.6 million from 2001 to 2009, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, demand for new
allergy treatments is increasing.  In addition to its cat-allergy vaccine, Circassia is doing
mid-stage tests on shots for ragweed, grass pollen and house
dust mites, the three other most common allergies that can
interfere with daily activities. It also has different
technologies with potential use in rheumatoid arthritis,
psoriasis and peanut allergy.  Avoiding Triggers  Allergies are best treated by avoiding whatever triggers
them, said Wood. That’s not always practical, he says.  “If you can change your environment, that would be
ideal,” Wood says. “Some of them are easier than others, but
most are not completely avoidable.”  Circassia’s technology is based on research that Mark
Larche and A. Barry Kay, who hold small stakes in the company,
did at  Imperial College London  in the 1990s. The ToleroMune T-
cell vaccine they developed uses short sequences of amino acids,
known as epitopes and drawn from the allergic substance, to try
to build tolerance in the person’s immune system and shut down
its allergic response. Steroid sprays reduce nasal swelling,
congestion and mucus, while antihistamine pills block a protein
called histamine and suppress the swelling, itching and sneezing
that it causes.  ImmuLogic’s Failure  A T-cell epitope vaccine tested by ImmuLogic Pharmaceutical
Corp. in the 1990s failed because it caused some patients to
develop temporary asthma-like symptoms, including chest
tightness and difficulty breathing. ImmuLogic didn’t get U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval and went out of business.  “That was a product that was the beginning of this mode of
thinking,” Wood said.  Circassia’s vaccines are different, Harris said. ImmuLogic
used longer amino acid sequences and very large doses, which are
more likely to cause adverse reactions, he said. Circassia’s
vaccines have had “an excellent safety profile with no evidence
of the reactions seen by ImmuLogic,” he said.  Circassia has tested the cat-allergy vaccine in 450 people
in early- and mid-stage tests. Allergy sufferers received four
doses four weeks apart and were monitored every 30 minutes for
three hours a day over four days in a chamber with cat dander
spread around it. Symptom relief as reported by patients had as
much as a three-fold difference with Circassia’s vaccine than
with existing treatments, said Harris. A year later, “the
treatment effect got stronger,” with a four-fold difference, he
said.  Desensitization Shots  The vaccines are intended for people with moderate to
severe, chronic allergies. If approved, the products could go
head-to-head with desensitization injections that allergists
give in some countries and other treatments that have to be
taken daily, including tablets such as J&J’s Zirtek, now
available generically, and nasal steroid sprays such as Glaxo’s
Flonase or Merck & Co.’s Nasonex.  Flonase, which is available generically, brought London-
based Glaxo 138 million pounds ($216 million) in sales last
year. Merck of Whitehouse Station,  New Jersey , logged sales of
$1.29 billion from Nasonex.  Circassia has gotten scientific advice for a final-stage
trial from the  European Medicines Agency  and is awaiting
feedback from a meeting with the FDA on July 26, Harris said.
The company has a contractor ready to conduct the trial at 100
sites.  FDA Feedback  “We’ve got everything in place to do that,” except for
the feedback from the meeting with the FDA, Harris said.  Circassia’s ToleroMune technology can be adapted for use in
other allergies by swapping in amino acid sequences from those
allergens, Harris said. Early- and mid-stage trials for those
indications are under way and have shown similar results without
raising safety concerns, he said.  The cat allergy shot is probably the easiest to develop of
the four that Circassia is targeting, Wood said. Single proteins
are responsible for the allergies that most people suffer from
cats and from grass pollen, he said, whereas there are multiple
proteins for most other allergies.  “It’s much more complicated for others,” Wood said.
“That doesn’t mean it’s impossible, but something like grass
pollen and cat were targeted for these because they are much
more straightforward in terms of being able to identify a single
allergen you can target.”  Circassia Investors  The company has raised 105 million pounds since it was
founded in 2006, Harris said. Investors include Invesco
Perpetual, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Lansdowne Partners, Fleming
Family & Partners Ltd. and  Imperial Innovations Group Plc (IVO) , the
technology-transfer company that grew out of Imperial College
London.  Circassia is also in a contest with other allergy vaccine
developers.  Biomay AG , a closely held biotechnology company
based in Vienna, is pursuing a vaccine for grass pollen allergy,
or hay fever, that uses a different technology and is in mid-
stage trials.  Biomay Chief Executive Officer Rainer Henning said he
expects its BM32 vaccine, which requires three doses over two
months, to sell for about 2,000 euros ($2,450) if approved.  Harris declined to estimate how much Circassia would charge
for its vaccines.  Circassia has enough cash to complete development of the
cat-allergy vaccine and its planned mid-stage trials, he said.
The company employs about 20 people.  Investors aren’t pressing Circassia to do an initial public
offering or sell itself anytime soon, said Harris, who as CEO of
Zeneus oversaw its 2005 acquisition by Cephalon Inc. for $360
million. Generating more data is a higher priority, he said.  “At the moment we’re keeping all our options open,”
Harris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  