-- CB&I Drops Most in 11 Months on $3 Billion Shaw Purchase
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-30T20:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/cb-i-to-buy-shaw-group-for-3-billion-in-cash-and-stock.html
Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. (CBI)  fell the
most in almost a year after agreeing to buy  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  for
about $3 billion as the energy construction and engineering
company expands its nuclear building services.  The shares tumbled 14 percent to $34.94 at the close in  New
York , the steepest drop since Aug. 8. Shaw’s 55 percent gain to
$41.49 was still short of CB&I’s $46 cash-and-stock offer, 72
percent more than the July 27 closing price.  “This is a big change in strategy” for CB&I, Chase Jacobson, a William Blair & Co. analyst in New York, said in a
telephone interview. He said CB&I, based in  The Hague , had
described its approach to  acquisitions  as being focused on
smaller targets, “not more than doubling or almost tripling the
company’s backlog and diversifying the entire company.”  Buying Shaw will widen CB&I’s role in the building of the
first new nuclear reactors approved in the U.S. since 1978. Long
plagued by cost overruns, regulatory hurdles and environmental
concerns, the industry was dealt a fresh setback when reactors
at  Japan ’s Fukushima plant melted down after a 2011 earthquake.  CB&I’s offer consists of $41 in cash and 0.12883 share for
each share of  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based Shaw. The equity
portion had a value of $5 a share based on the “recent average
price” of $38.81 for CB&I, according to a company statement
that didn’t give the period on which that figure was based.  Deal Valuation  The deal values Shaw at about 26 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The median paid in a survey of more
than 40 similar engineering takeovers over the past decade was
about 8.3 times Ebitda, the data show.  “It’s a pretty healthy price relative to trading values
over the last couple of months,” Michael Dudas, a New York-
based analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “I’m sure that’s something people are trying to get
their arms around as well.”  Shaw had fallen 0.8 percent this year through July 27,
while CB&I, which keeps administrative offices in The Woodlands,
 Texas , had gained 7.7 percent.  Both companies are counting on a nuclear renaissance that
has yet to materialize and, as construction partners of the
first new atomic plants in a generation, risk penalties if the
projects repeat the ballooning costs and extensive rework
suffered by U.S. nuclear construction in the 1970s and 1980s.  ‘Very Satisfied’  “We’re very satisfied, through a very thorough and
comprehensive due diligence, that the nuclear projects are
performing as we’re expecting,” CB&I Chief Executive Officer
Philip K. Asherman told analysts on a conference call. “They
are well on their way to resolving issues on projects they’ve
reported as having cost challenges.”  CB&I said the combined company will be one of the world’s
largest energy-construction and engineering-contracting firms,
with a work backlog of more than $28 billion. The acquisition
will boost 2013 earnings by at least 10 percent, and Asherman
will be CEO of the combined company, CB&I said.  “There’s burgeoning growth in  capital investment  in the
U.S. for energy that CB&I wants to get better exposure to,”
said Dudas, who rates the company as a buy. “That’s one of the
reasons they wanted to do this.”  The deal is the biggest of 79 construction and engineering
acquisitions announced in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium of the deals was 10.6
percent. CB&I said it will use about $1.9 billion in  debt  to
finance the deal, along with cash from each company.  Shaw’s BBB- credit rating, the lowest investment grade, may
be reduced, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said in a
statement.  New Reactors  CB&I and Shaw are part of the group constructing the first
new reactors in the U.S. since the Three Mile Island nuclear
disaster in 1979. Shaw is managing the projects along with
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric Co.  Shaw is “very early in the two big nuclear projects
they’re building,” said William Blair’s Jacobson, who rates the
 stock  as market perform and recommends CB&I as outperform.
“It’s yet to be seen what the future of those projects are, let
alone the nuclear industry in the U.S. in general.”  Shaw is building modules that will form the next-generation
nuclear reactors, while CB&I has a contract to fabricate and
assemble the concrete-and-steel buildings that will house those
units. The Alvin W. Vogtle Electric Generating Plant near
Augusta,  Georgia , and Virgil C. Summer Nuclear Station outside
Columbia,  South Carolina , are months behind schedule because of
federal licensing delays.  Southern’s Complaint  Southern Co., the largest investor in the Vogtle project,
is contesting more than $800 million in new project costs
resulting from the delay, Chairman and CEO Thomas Fanning said
in an interview last week.  Vogtle may face further delays and cost overruns as
Atlanta-based Southern and its construction partners work to
smooth supply-chain kinks, William Jacobs, an independent
construction monitor for that project, said in a May 30 report
to the Georgia Public Service Commission.  Shaw has struggled to meet quality standards and “has not
yet demonstrated the ability to meet the required production
rate of high quality modules needed to support the project
schedule,” according to the report.  CB&I’s purchase is expected to close during the first
quarter of 2013, Shaw said. The transaction requires approval
from shareholders of both companies and regulators.  Shaw Backlog  At the end of May, Shaw had a backlog of $18.2 billion,
with about half coming from its power unit. Shaw had $835
million of total adjusted cash, including restricted short-term
investments, at the end of May, according to a presentation.  “We’ve got a great backlog in front of us on the nuclear
jobs,” Asherman said.  Energy-related construction is a CB&I specialty. CB&I
formed a joint venture in 2011 with  Kentz Corp. (KENZ)  of  London  to
build an LNG facility at the Gorgon project on  Barrow Island ,
 Australia . The contract value is more than $2.5 billion,
according to CB&I’s quarterly report.  The company also has a $2 billion joint venture with  Clough
Ltd. (CLO)  to build pipelines, processing plants and other
infrastructure for an LNG project in Papua, New Guinea.  Shaw received financial advice from Morgan Stanley, while
Vinson & Elkins LLP and Jones Walker Waechter Poitevent Carrere
& Denegre LLP served as legal advisers. Bank of America Corp.
acted as the financial adviser to CB&I, and Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz acted as the company’s legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  