-- Chile’s Peso Rises for Fourth Day on Eased European Debt Concern
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-30T19:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/chile-s-peso-rises-for-fourth-day-on-eased-european-debt-concern.html
Chile ’s peso rallied for a fourth
day as speculation European officials will contain sovereign-
debt turmoil spurred demand for emerging-market assets.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 482.60 per dollar at
the close in Santiago, the strongest level since May 7. The peso
has increased 3.8 percent this month, the best performance among
major Latin American currencies.  “The market is waiting for the announcements from the
 European Central Bank ,” Alejandro Araya, a trader at  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , said in a phone interview from Santiago. “In the
meantime, the peso should trade laterally within a 479 to 484
per dollar band.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  sparked a
global market rally last week by pledging to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro. Draghi is trying to build consensus
among governments and central bankers for a plan to ease
borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy  before the ECB’s policy
decision Aug. 2.  The peso remained higher even as the National Statistics
Institute reported that Chile’s manufacturing index rose 1.1
percent in June, less than the median forecast of 3.2 percent
growth among economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chile’s central bank said today that its board was
unanimous in its decision to keep borrowing costs unchanged this
month, indicating monetary easing will occur only when the
domestic economy shows more signs of weakness.  The central bank has kept the target lending rate unchanged
at 5 percent for six straight months following a surprise
reduction of a quarter-percentage point in January.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps  increased 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 4.66 percent, while one-year swaps
rose 11 basis points to 4.84 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  