-- China Increases Railway Spending Plan for Second Time
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-31T02:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/china-increases-railway-spending-plan-for-second-time.html
China  announced a jump in planned
railway spending and the State Council called for private
investment in utilities and health care as Premier  Wen Jiabao 
tries to reverse an economic slowdown.  The Ministry of Railways, the nation’s largest corporate
debt issuer, plans to spend 470 billion yuan ($74 billion) on
railroads and bridges this year, according to a bond prospectus
issued yesterday. That’s the second increase in July, making a
combined gain of about 14 percent from the previous figure.  The new target exceeds last year’s 461 billion yuan in
spending and follows Wen’s July 10 comments that promoting
investment growth is the key now to stabilizing an  expansion 
that decelerated to 7.6 percent last quarter, a three-year low.
At the same time, Chinese officials are signaling the slowdown
isn’t deep enough to warrant a return to the 700 billion-yuan
level of railway-construction funds in 2010.  “China is selectively upscaling the stimulus,” said  Lu Zhengwei , chief economist with Industrial Bank Co. in  Shanghai .
“Premier Wen Jiabao said China will do something to boost
confidence, and this is fresh evidence.”  Economic growth hit bottom in the second quarter and will
probably rebound to 7.8 percent in the third quarter, Lu said.  Private Investors  China’s State Council, or Cabinet, said it will publish a
list of projects in industries including railways, utilities,
telecommunications and health care for private investors to join.
The Cabinet reiterated that downward pressure on the economy is
intensifying, according to a statement published yesterday after
a meeting at which Wen presided.  Separately, 28 cities in China are building 2,500
kilometers (1,554 miles) of subway lines from 2010 to 2015,
 China Daily  reported today. Construction will cost at least 1
trillion yuan, and experts are concerned that the projects may
strain local resources and boost debt, the newspaper said.
Cities may also be failing to account for long-term operating
and maintenance costs, China Daily said.  The railways ministry, based in Beijing, will sell 22
billion yuan in 10-year bonds and 5 billion yuan in 15-year
bonds, according to the prospectus posted to the Chinese
government’s bond clearinghouse website yesterday.  The 470 billion yuan figure yesterday was 4.8 percent
higher than a ministry figure cited in a July 6 statement by the
Anhui provincial economic planning agency, which indicated a 9
percent increase from a previous number.  The ministry didn’t elaborate on the 470 billion  yuan 
number in the document for railway infrastructure spending. A
prospectus dated July 3 said the spending plan for 2012 was for
406 billion yuan. The railway ministry has not commented on the
Anhui planning agency’s statement.  Growth Gauge  Railway infrastructure spending is a gauge of the Chinese
government’s determination in stimulating growth. Authorities,
in implementing the 4 trillion yuan stimulus package announced
in 2008 during the global financial crisis, directed 601 billion
yuan toward railway infrastructure investment in 2009. That
compares with 338 billion yuan in 2008 and 2007’s 177 billion
yuan, according to ministry data.  Relying on investment to support growth may exacerbate
excess capacity and increase government debt, said Ding Shuang,
a Hong Kong-based senior China economist with Citigroup Inc. At
the same time, recent government initiatives have not “gone
beyond the policy mix set at the beginning of the year” and
instead represent “full utilization of the current budget and
monetary growth target,” Ding said.  Corruption Probe  Railway investment slowed last year from 2010’s 707 billion
yuan with the ousting of former Minister  Liu Zhijun  in a
corruption probe in February 2011 and a high-speed crash that
killed 40 people near the eastern city of Wenzhou in July.  Shares of  China Railway Construction Corp. (601186)  rose 1.3 percent
to 4.61 yuan at 10:05 a.m. in Shanghai, while  the Shanghai
Composite Index  dropped 0.3 percent.  Karen Li and Chapman Deng, infrastructure analysts with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong , said in a note yesterday that
they remain “bullish” on  China Railway Group Ltd. (390)  and  China
Railway Construction. (1186)  They said they view the “recent weakness
as opportunities to buy on dips.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  