-- France’s Agnel Again Outswims Lochte, Chinese Men Win Gymnastics
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-31T01:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/china-wins-olympic-men-s-synchronized-10-meter-platform-dive.html
Yannick Agnel of  France  won his
second swimming gold medal of the London Games, again outracing
American Ryan Lochte. U.S. high school senior Missy Franklin was
among two teenaged women’s Olympic champions in the pool.  China  maintained its lead in the medals standings by
winning in men’s team gymnastics and men’s synchronized 10-meter
platform diving. After three full days of competition, China has
nine golds among its 17 medals. The U.S. also has 17 medals,
five of them gold.  France is in fifth place overall including three golds --
two of which have come from Agnel, 20, who led the entire race
yesterday in the 200-meter freestyle. A night earlier, he passed
Lochte on the last lap of the 400-meter freestyle relay final
for the win.  “It’s pure happiness,” Agnel told reporters. “We’re very
pleased because it’s a reward for several years of very hard
work.”  Twelve medals were awarded yesterday, in weightlifting,
judo, fencing and shooting as well as swimming, diving and
gymnastics. Fifteen medal events are on the schedule for today,
including women’s team gymnastics and four more in swimming. The
London Olympics started July 27 and end Aug. 12.  The U.S. women have won the team silver in gymnastics at
the past two Olympics, and have not won gold since the 1996
Atlanta Games. China is the defending champion, and the Romanian
women are seeking their 10th straight Olympic medal.  Dead Heat  Agnel won the 200 freestyle yesterday in 1 minute, 43.14
seconds. Sun Yang of China and Park Tae-hwan of  South Korea 
finished in a dead heat for the silver medal in 1:44.93. Lochte
was fourth in 1:45.04.  “I guess I took it out a little too fast,” Lochte, 27,
told reporters. “I knew if I wanted to be in the race I had to
go out a little. Next time, I won’t make that same mistake.”  Franklin, a Colorado high school student who shunned
sponsors to retain her amateur status, edged Emily Seebohm of
 Australia  to win the 100-meter backstroke in 58.33, breaking her
own American record.  Seebohm, 20, who set the Olympic record of 58.23 in
qualifying, took silver in 58.68 and Aya Terakawa of  Japan  was
third.  Franklin, who is competing in seven events at the games,
the most by a U.S. female swimmer, was asked by reporters
whether her performance so far had matched her expectations for
the London Games.  Exceeding Expectations  “It is exceeding the expectations one hundred billion
times over,” she said. “I couldn’t be happier.”  Franklin, 17, wasn’t the only teenager to be crowned a
champion in the pool yesterday. Ruta Meilutyte, a 15-year-old
from  Lithuania , won the 100-meter breaststroke final, edging
American Rebecca Soni by eight hundredths of a second. It was
her country’s first Olympic swimming gold.  Also at the Aquatics Center, Matt Grevers, 27, set an
Olympic record in the final of the men’s 100-meter backstroke,
winning gold in 52.16 seconds. American teammate Nick Thoman
took silver and Ryosuke Irie of Japan captured the bronze.  The Chinese men’s gymnasts scored 275.997 points in the
six-part team final at North Greenwich Arena. That beat Japan
with 271.952 and Britain with 271.711, with the Japanese team
winning a protest over pommel horse scores to move up. The U.S.,
the top qualifier, finished fifth.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  attended the diving event
and saw Britain finish fourth, behind China,  Mexico  and the U.S.
The host nation is still waiting for its first gold medal.  The U.S. women’s basketball team beat Angola 90-38 in a
preliminary round game to extend its Olympic winning streak to
35 matches, while France defeated Australia 74-70 in overtime.  Top seed  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  beat Julien Benneteau
of France 6-2, 6-2 in a second-round men’s tennis match on
Centre Court at Wimbledon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane at the Aquatics Centre on  at
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 