-- China Deals Meet Growing Scrutiny as Suntech Spurs Questions
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n ,   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-07-31T14:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/chinese-deals-meet-growing-scrutiny-as-suntech-sparks-questions.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) ’s
admission that it may have failed to verify the existence of
German bonds it accepted as loan collateral adds to growing
concerns about Chinese business practices that are sparking a
wave of lawsuits and regulatory probes.  It’s the third time in a week that internal controls at
Chinese companies have been found lacking. The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission froze assets of traders it accused of
 insider trading  ahead of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion deal to
acquire  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  And fund manager Peter Siris and his
Guerrilla Capital Management agreed yesterday to pay more than
$1.1 million to settle SEC allegations of “wide-ranging
misconduct” related to a Chinese reverse-merger firm.  As Chinese investments in  North America  and Europe rises
and corporate governance standards remain at odds with Western
practice, more such allegations and investigations are likely,
said Andrew Karolyi, a professor of finance at  Cornell
University .  “One of the big concerns is that we cannot impose the
typical scrutiny that we would like, in terms of the audit
function, for a lot of these companies,” said Karolyi, who
researches cross-border capital flows and international
companies that cross-list their shares on Western exchanges.  Fraud Victim?  Suntech, the world’s largest solar manufacturer, discovered
potential irregularities as it sought to sell its stake in
Global Solar Fund S.C.A., Sicar, an  investment company  managed
by a former Suntech sales representative, Javier Romero. Suntech
accepted 560 million euros ($687 million) of German bonds as
collateral when it guaranteed a 554.2 million-euro loan in May
2010 provided by the state-owned lender  China  Development Bank
Corp. for a company that backed Global Solar Fund.  Suntech said yesterday the bonds “may not have existed and
Suntech may have been the victim of fraud.”  The incident raises questions about reporting practices at
Suntech and other Chinese companies, said Ben Kallo, an analyst
at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco . Some report costs
that don’t include depreciation or shipping, for example, or
recognize revenue for power-generating assets before they’re
sold.  “It’s not always apples to apples,” Kallo said. “It
gives you the impression they’re hiding something even if
they’re not.”  Freezing Assets  In the Cnooc deal, the SEC obtained a court order July 27
to freeze assets of traders who allegedly reaped more than $13
million by trading illegally ahead of Cnooc’s July 23
announcement that it would buy Canada’s Nexen.  Hong Kong-based Well Advantage Limited, controlled by Zhang Zhi Rong and other unidentified traders, stockpiled shares of
Nexen based on confidential information about the deal, the SEC
said. The court order froze about $38 million in assets, the
agency said.  “This may be the tip of an iceberg suggesting that the
government in China has to be more careful about their business
and business partners,” Joseph Fan, co-director of the
Institute of Economics and Finance at the  Chinese University  of
 Hong Kong , said in an interview yesterday.  Other Chinese companies are facing U.S. regulatory
scrutiny.  The SEC sharpened its focus on shell companies about two
years ago amid complaints that issuers, many from China, were
using them to enter U.S. markets through so-called reverse
mergers. In a reverse merger, closely held firms buy shells that
let them sell shares on exchanges without the scrutiny that
would surround a public offering.  Guerrilla Settlement  The agency announced yesterday a settlement with Guerrilla
Capital, which had sold unregistered securities and engaged in
unregistered broker-dealer activity and illegal insider trading
linked to China Yingxia International Inc., a reverse-merger
company, according to a complaint filed in Manhattan Federal
Court.  The SEC said in May it had halted trading in 379 shell
companies, and several reverse-merger companies have seen their
share prices plummet amid allegations that their financial
statements were inaccurate. The agency has sued companies
including  Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA) , SinoTech Energy Ltd. and Longtop
Financial Technologies over claims they engaged in fraud.  Investigations have been hampered by Chinese law, which
prohibits auditors from turning over information to U.S.
regulators. The legal impasse has prompted several rounds of
dialogue between the SEC and Chinese regulators and is also
being played out in U.S. court.  SEC Lawsuit  The SEC sued Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. for failing
to produce documents related to the agency’s investigation of
Longtop Financial, a former client of the Shanghai-based audit
firm. The company also audited Suntech’s 2011 annual  report, 
which describes its relationship with GSF. Wilfred Lee, a
spokesman based in Hong Kong, said the company couldn’t comment
on Suntech’s situation today, citing confidentiality agreements
with its client.  “Many of these firms came from the state-owned enterprise
system, where the people who manage corporate assets are not
necessarily business leaders, but government officials,” said
Nicholas C. Howson, a professor at the  University of Michigan
Law School  who researches Chinese corporate and security law.  “The people in charge aren’t that used to running up
against fiduciary duties or the obligations of directors or
officers as fiduciaries, much less the idea of a public
prosecutor who will come onto the horizon and say, ‘You’ve let
down your shareholders,’” Howson said in an interview
yesterday.  Romero Claim  Suntech said it’s filed lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions
against Romero, the former sales representative. The company has
filed claims “against relevant parties in multiple
jurisdictions” to assert control of Romero’s company and its
assets, which include solar projects with 145 megawatts of
capacity in  Italy , the solar company said.  Romero couldn’t be located for comment, and e-mail sent to
an address located on the GSF website wasn’t returned yesterday.  “Access to U.S. markets is not a one-way street. It comes
with duties and responsibilities,” U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from  New York , said in an e-mail yesterday.
“If China wants to invest here, it needs to get serious about
its standards for corporate governance and about providing
reciprocal treatment for U.S. companies looking to do business
over there.”  Chinese companies are beginning to improve their governance
practices, Cornell’s Karolyi said. In the meantime, the cultural
friction has created “an ongoing tension as to what these firms
are and what their intentions are,” he said.  Even when the conflicts are from miscommunication, “the
intensity is high because the stakes are more elevated than ever
before, not only for investors but for the companies
themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  