-- China’s Stocks Decline to March 2009 Low on Earnings Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-30T07:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/china-stock-futures-gain-on-speculation-europe-crisis-will-ease.html
China ’s stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index down to the lowest level since March 2009, as
concern earnings growth is slowing overshadowed speculation
European policy makers will take action to ease the debt crisis.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (601919) , the nation’s largest publicly
traded shipping company, slumped to a record low after saying it
expects its first-half loss to widen from a year ago. China Life
Insurance Co. sank to the lowest in four weeks on speculation
flood claims in Beijing will hurt profits. A gauge of B shares
slid to a two-year low on concern more companies face delisting.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.9 percent to 2,109.91
at the close. The CSI 300 Index lost 0.6 percent to 2,335.79.
The  Shanghai B-Share Stock Price Index (SHBSHR) , which tracks foreign
currency-denominated shares listed in China, slid 5.6 percent.  “Second-quarter earnings for companies are really quite
bad and are dragging on the market,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst
for Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu. “People have accepted that
fact now, and eyes are on whether they will improve next
quarter. Europe leaders’ pledge to protect the euro will boost
confidence but we need to see concrete measures before the
market can stabilize.”  The  Shanghai  Composite has dropped 5.2 percent in July,
poised for the third month of  declines . It has fallen 14 percent
from this year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic
slowdown is deepening and Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Earnings Concerns  China Cosco slumped 4.6 percent to 4.20  yuan , its lowest
close on record. The company estimates its first-half loss will
widen by 50 percent or more from the same period a year ago,
according to a statement to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  on July
27.  Angang Steel Co. (000898)  dropped 0.8 percent to 3.68 yuan. Large-and
medium-sized steelmakers’ combined first-half profit fell 96
percent from a year ago to 2.39 billion yuan, the Economic
Information Daily reported.  Net income for China’s 117 central government-run companies
fell 16 percent in the first half from a year earlier, the
nation’s state assets supervision agency said July 20 on its
 website .  Thirty-day  volatility  on the Shanghai Composite was at 14.
About 5.2 billion of the gauge’s shares changed hands on July
27, 31 percent lower than this year’s average. The index is
valued at 9.5 times estimated profit, compared with the three-
year average of 14.7.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is trying to
build consensus among governments and central bankers for a plan
to ease borrowing costs in Spain and Italy before ECB policy
makers convene on Aug. 2. He meets with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  in  Frankfurt  today and is also attempting to
win over Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a critic of ECB
bond purchases.  B Shares  Europe is China’s largest export market, making up 18
percent of the nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co.  The Shanghai B-Share Stock Price Index slid to the the
lowest close since June 1, 2010.  Tsann Kuen (China) Enterprise
Co. (200512)  tumbled 9.8 percent to HK$0.55 in Shenzhen trading. The
stock closed below its face value of 1 yuan for 15 straight days
to July 27, which may lead to the stock being delisted,
according to a statement to the exchange.  “Investors are afraid there will be more companies
delisting” if Tsann Kuen’s stock is removed from trading, said
Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  China’s securities regulator and its two  stock exchanges 
have tightened scrutiny this year on companies facing delisting
as part of efforts to restore confidence in  capital markets .  Insurers Fall  China Life dropped 2.7 percent to 18.39 yuan. Ping An
retreated 2 percent to 43.61 yuan. Chinese insurers in Beijing
received insurance claims totaling more than 500 million yuan
for damage to vehicles and other property during July 21 floods,
the Xinhua News Agency reported July 26. Investors are concerned
claims will impact earnings for insurers next quarter, said Xie
Jiyong, an analyst at Capital Securities Corp. in Shanghai.  Options dealers are charging the biggest premium in four
months to protect against losses in Chinese companies amid
increasing concern the world’s second-biggest economy is
slowing. The AlphaShares Chinese Volatility Index, derived from
options on companies trading in  Hong Kong , climbed to 23.13 on
July 26, 32 percent higher than the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, near the widest gap since March.  ‘Extremely Bearish’  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc., a Beijing-based developer of
telecommunication software that is listed in the U.S., may
report today a 35 percent decline in adjusted profit for the
second quarter, the average estimate of six analysts compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Ctrip.com International Inc. (CTRP)  said last week
second-quarter net income fell 55 percent from a year ago.  AsiaInfo, which sells to China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.,
China Mobile Ltd. and China Telecom Corp., may say sales rose 15
percent from a year ago to $127 million, analysts predicted.  “American investors are extremely bearish toward China. If
there’s any slightly bad news about a company, the stock would
fall like a stone,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the China
Region Fund at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which oversees $2.2
billion, said in a telephone interview from  San Antonio ,  Texas 
on July 27. “In this macro trend of economic growth slowdown,
corporate revenue and earnings will slow down in general, and
that will be reflected in weak stock prices.”  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-
traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, climbed by the most in a
month on July 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  