-- China Opens Biggest Bond Market to More Overseas Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-30T09:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/china-opens-biggest-bond-market-to-more-international-investors.html
China  allowed more international
investors to buy bonds on the nation’s largest debt market and
purchase higher-yielding notes for the first time, as the
world’s second-biggest economy develops its  capital markets .  Participants in the Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investor program are now allowed to buy bonds on the  interbank
market , the China Securities Regulatory Commission said in a
July 27 statement on its  website . Previously, they were
restricted to exchange-listed debt, which is less than 2 percent
of the interbank equivalent.  International investors will also now be permitted to buy
bonds of small- and medium-sized companies through private
placements, the regulator said. Such securities typically yield
more than their counterparts listed on China’s stock exchanges.  The changes to the so-called QFII scheme, which allocates
quotas to non-Chinese investors and was introduced in 2002, come
after the government almost tripled allotments under the program
in April to $80 billion from $30 billion.  “This is a very significant step,” Becky Liu, a Hong
Kong-based credit strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc said in a
phone interview. “The demand is likely to be for the top-tier
names as they have the highest yield pick-up over offshore
peers.”  The amount of money invested through the QFII is still too
small to have an impact on China’s total bond market and half of
the QFII quota has to be allocated into equities, Liu said.  The move builds on steps to open China’s fixed-income
market to investment from outside the country. Authorities
announced a program in 2010 to allow foreign central banks,
clearing banks for cross-border  yuan  settlement in  Hong Kong  and
Macau and other international lenders involved in trade
settlement to invest in the interbank bond market.  There were 20.8 trillion yuan ($3.26 trillion) of the
securities, which are traded over-the-counter among commercial
lenders and other financial companies, outstanding as of the end
of June, according to Chinabond. The figure includes debt issued
by the central government, banks and companies, and compares
with 379.5 billion yuan on the exchange-listed market.  China started sales of private placement bonds by small and
medium-sized companies in June. Suzhou Huadong Coating Glass Co.
sold 50 million yuan of two-year notes priced to yield 9.5
percent. Two-year  government securities  yield 2.36 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  