-- Chivalry on Sinking Ships Only a Myth, Researchers Find
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-30T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/chivalry-on-sinking-ships-only-a-myth-researchers-find.html
“Women and children first” was
never the social norm on sinking ships, nor was the self-
sacrificing captain who gives the order before going down with
his vessel, a study of maritime disasters shows.  Crew members had the highest survival rates in shipwrecks,
followed by captains and male passengers, according to the
report today in the journal  Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences . The research found that women’s survival rate on 16
maritime disasters from 1852 to 2011 was half that of men’s, and
children had the worst chance of getting off the boat alive.  Men in general have better survival prospects, unless they
engage in self-sacrificing, helping behavior, the authors said.
The exception is the sinking of the RMS Titanic, in which the
survival rate of women and children was three times higher than
men’s. In that instance, the captain ordered a women-and-
children-first evacuation, and officers reportedly shot men who
disobeyed, according to the study.  “That women fare worse than men has also been documented
for natural disasters,” wrote study authors Mikael Elinder, an
economist at Uppsala University, and Oscar Erixon, an economist
at the Research Institute of Industrial Economics, in  Sweden .
“It seems as if it is the policy of the captain, rather than
the moral sentiments of men, that determines whether women are
given preferential treatment in shipwrecks.”  The survival rate aboard the Titanic, which sank on her
maiden voyage on April 15, 1912, after hitting an iceberg,
shaped a perception that women and children first was the
unwritten law of the sea, the authors wrote. While 1,496 people
died in the disaster, 712 survived, including 70 percent of the
women and children on board, according to the study. What likely
spurred the survival of women and children in that disaster was
captain’s policy, which also helped women to survive in four
other disasters, the authors said.  Sinking Captains  The research also found that nine of 16 captains sank with
their ships.  On average, 60 percent of crew members survived ship
disasters such as collisions, groundings, and on-board fires.
That may also be because crew members are more familiar with the
ships and emergency procedures, and are likelier to know how to
swim, the authors said.  About 35 percent of male passengers survived, compared with
about 18 percent of female passengers. Whether the ship sank
slowly or quickly, women fared worse, according to documents
describing the outcome of more than 15,000 people in shipwrecks.  A draft of the authors’ report was initially posted online
in April this year. Today’s published data has now been reviewed
by other people in the field.  The gap in survival rates between men and women began to
decrease after World War I, suggesting that women’s higher
status in society improved their survival rate, according to the
study authors.  “On the basis of our analysis, it becomes evident that the
sinking of the Titanic was exceptional in many dimensions,” the
authors wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 