-- Citigroup, Comcast, NBC, Union Jacks, Melanie Oudin, D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-30T15:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/citigroup-comcast-nbc-union-jacks-melanie-oudin-d-c-.html
The crowd cheered when the queen
came on screen as waiters passed quail egg and onion tart
appetizers.  It wasn’t the Olympics in London, but the next best thing,
British Ambassador Peter Westmacott’s opening-night party Friday
at his residence.  Westmacott said the Brits have earned the right to gloat
because an estimated 4 billion people are expected to tune into
the London games, about 2 billion more than watched last year’s
royal wedding. This was welcome news for broadcaster  NBC
Universal  and its parent, Comcast Corp., who had executives on
hand.  Also among the 400 guests were British expats, American
Olympians, Washington Mayor Vincent Gray, Comcast’s executive
vice president, David L. Cohen and senior director of external
affairs,  Mike Rose , and Congressman Ed Markey, Massachusetts
Democrat.  Celebrants sported Union Jack lapel pins and sat in Union
Jack lounge chairs. Raffle prizes included a sport coat from
Savile Row.  Guests huddled around large television screens inside
ornate gold frames, reminiscent of the kind seen on museum
paintings.  Dave Stephens, an American javelin thrower, brought the
1996 torch and let Gray hold it. Tony Culley-Foster, president
of CFCO International Washington Consultant Services, posed for
a photograph with Westmacott and the torch that lit the Olympic
Flame in London, which he carried in his home country of
 Northern Ireland  last month.  Quiet Moment  As the sun set, Henry Filter, a financial adviser with
Merrill Lynch & Co., enjoyed a quiet moment on a garden bench
with his wife, Liz, a member of the 2004 American Olympic
sailing team.  Mark Tuohey, a partner at Brown Rudnick LLP, said he’s
watching the women’s soccer with great interest because of a
family connection to U.S. team captain Abby Wambach.  Citi Open  International tennis stars gathered last night on the roof
of the  W Hotel  for a party celebrating the Citi Open.  Melanie Oudin  of the U.S., wearing a nose stud, said she’s
looking forward to her tour of the White House this week.  Paul-Henri Mathieu of  France ,  Kevin Anderson  of  South
Africa , and Frantisek Cermak of the  Czech Republic  were among
the players who sipped cocktails while enjoying the W’s
panoramic view of the Washington landmarks.  Cermak, in a fitted red polo shirt, said he’ll spend his
free time off the court watching movies in his room.  The Citi Open, part of the 2012 ATP World Tour, runs
through Aug. 5 in Washington. This is Citigroup Inc.’s first
time hosting the event, known for almost 18 years as the Legg
Mason Tennis Classic.  Tournament chairman and co-founder Donald Dell said
 Citigroup (C)  was instrumental in the tournament’s inclusion of
women players for the first time this year.  Dell chatted with former Washington Redskin Darrell Green,
an avid tennis player, who reflected on the similarities between
football and tennis.  It’s all about “covering and making a play,” Green said
between bites of a chicken samosa.  Among the other guests were Christopher Browne, vice
president of the Greater Washington Sports Alliance, and Jamey
Sunshine, senior vice president of corporate partnerships at
Lagardere Unlimited SAS.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 