-- Colorado Shooting Suspect Charged with 24 Murder Counts
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-30T20:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/colorado-shooting-suspect-charged-with-24-murder-counts.html
James Holmes, the suspect in a mass
shooting at a Colorado movie theater this month, was charged
with 24 counts of first-degree murder, a capital crime, and
116 counts of attempted first-degree murder.  Prosecutors from the office of Carol Chambers, the  district
attorney  for Arapahoe County, Colorado, presented the charges
today at a 44-minute hearing in state court in Centennial, a
Denver suburb. Twelve people died and at least 58 were injured
during the attack July 20 during a midnight showing of the
Batman movie “The Dark Knight Rises.”  First-degree murder is punishable by death or life in
prison under Colorado law, and multiple counts can be tied to
individual murders. Holmes was also charged with one count of
possessing an explosive device and a sentence-enhancing count
for unlawful use of a firearm in a crime.  “What they have charged are two different ways as to each
victim that they believe a jury could find him guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt,” said Karen Steinhauser, an ex-prosecutor in
Denver now an adjunct professor at the University of Denver’s
Sturm College of Law. “It’s not uncommon for prosecutors, at
least at the initial filing, to charge all the ways a crime can
be committed under the facts they’re aware of.”  Deadliest Since Columbine  The shooting in the Aurora movie theater was the deadliest
in Colorado since the Columbine High School massacre in April
1999 and the worst mass shooting in the U.S. since November
2009, when 13 people were killed at Fort Hood,  Texas .  During an initial court appearance July 23, Holmes appeared
at times lethargic and at others distracted. Dressed in red
prison clothing and with his hair dyed orange, he didn’t speak.  Today he appeared calmer, conferring with his lawyers and
responding “yes” when asked if he wanted to waive a 35-day
deadline for a preliminary hearing. He didn’t enter a plea. The
116-seat courtroom, half of it reserved for the families of
victims and victims’ advocates, was full.  Seemed Aware  “I got a sense that he was very aware of what was going
on,” MaryEllen Hansen, the aunt of injured shooting victim
Ashley Moser, said outside the courthouse after the hearing.
“He seemed very coherent.”  Hansen said she attended Holmes’s hearing to “see him as
who he was” and watch his gestures.  “I felt anger and resentment that anybody could take away
someone’s life” for going to the movies, Hansen said of seeing
Holmes.  Moser’s daughter, 6-year-old Veronica Moser-Sullivan, was
the youngest killed in the shooting, and Moser had a
miscarriage, the family announced July 28.  Victim’s Paralysis  Moser is going to be paralyzed, Hansen said, although there
is hope she will have the use of her arms. Yesterday, she
underwent an operation to remove a lobe of her lung, Hansen
said. The family is waiting on funeral plans for Veronica until
Moser is healthy enough to attend.  Don Lader, 27, an Aurora resident who was in the theater on
July 20 but not injured, said victims’ families are now in a
position of power as the judicial process begins. There was no
apprehension about seeing Holmes, said Lader who was dressed in
a “Dark Knight Rises” Batman shirt.  “I’ve seen him once before,” Lader said. “I can see him
again.”  Request for Secrecy  Tamara Brady, one of Holmes’s attorneys from the state
public defender’s office, asked that the case file remain sealed
because the defense doesn’t yet know what’s in the police
reports. Prosecutors said there are already thousands of pages
of such documents.  Prosecutors said they will supply the defense with
surveillance video from the  University of Colorado  mailroom of a
package Holmes allegedly sent to a psychiatrist, identified in
court filings as Lynne Fenton.  Brady told Judge William Sylvester that she expected Fenton
to be subpoenaed.  Sylvester ordered the criminal complaint unsealed and set a
hearing for Aug. 9 on efforts to have the rest of the record
opened. The judge also scheduled a four-day preliminary hearing
to begin on Nov. 13. He will decide on which charges Holmes can
be bound over to district court.  ‘Universal Malice’  Each death is covered by two separate counts, one for
premeditated murder, the other for murder “under circumstances
evidencing an attitude of universal malice manifesting extreme
indifference to the value of human life generally.” The
attempted murder charges are likewise doubled for each of the
injured.  The practice of doubling charges isn’t unique to  Colorado ,
Steinhauser said.  “We see this type of charge in cases where someone shoots
into a crowd maybe not intending to kill a specific person but
their attitude in doing so shows they’re indifferent to human
life,” Steinhauser, who is now in private practice, said in a
phone interview.  Narrative of Crime  Holmes bought a ticket for the film, entered the theater
and watched for a while before propping open an exit door and
leaving, according to police. He went to a white Hyundai parked
outside, put on a helmet and ballistic vest, armed himself and
returned to the theater, police said.  Police apprehended him behind the building, located in a
shopping mall, after the first 911 call at 12:39 a.m. Three
weapons were retrieved at the scene. A fourth, a .40 caliber
Glock handgun, was found in Holmes’s car.  Holmes allegedly referred to himself as “the Joker,” a
Batman villain, as he was being arrested. A former graduate
student in neuroscience at the University of Colorado, Denver,
he didn’t have a criminal record, police said. Holmes attended
high school in  San Diego , where his parents and other relatives
still live.  Buying Weapons  He began buying weapons in May at stores in the Aurora
region, said Dan Oates, the city’s police chief. Authorities
found a surveillance video of Holmes picking up 150 pounds of
ammunition at a Federal Express outlet in Colorado, said a law
enforcement official who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly and
requested anonymity.  Investigators interviewed a United Parcel Service Inc.
driver who said Holmes had 90 packages delivered to his
workplace on the University of Colorado medical campus, the
official said.  The basic defense tactic when faced with the death penalty
is to delay, according to Craig Silverman, a former Denver
prosecutor now in private practice as a criminal defense
attorney who was at the courthouse today.  “The longer the case goes on, the longer your client stays
alive,” he said.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial
at  kassj@msn.com ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  