-- Colombia Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Rate Statement (Text)
-- B y   D o m i n i c   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-30T15:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/colombia-central-bank-s-monetary-policy-rate-statement-text-.html
Following is the text from
 Colombia ’s  Central Bank  statement on the benchmark interest
rate decision. The translation to English was provided by the
Central Bank on its website.  Banco de la Republica (the Central Bank of Colombia) lowers by
25 basis points its intervention interest rate  At its meeting today, the Board of Directors of Banco de la
Republica, the Central Bank of Colombia, has decided to lower
its intervention interest rate by 25 basis points. In this
manner, the  base rate  for expansion auctions will be 5%. This
decision was based on the following factors taken into account:  Growth continues to weaken more than expected worldwide
Information suggests a slower growth rate in he  United States ,
while it keeps contracting in  Europe . In  China  and other
emerging economies, growth slowdown is higher than predicted,
thus mirroring a weakening world demand and previous political
actions.  Excess global capacity and lower commodity prices (with the
exception of some agricultural goods) have moderated
inflationary pressures while permitting the presence of
expansionary monetary policies in a significant number of
countries. For instance, in the emerging economies, the Central
Banks of  Brazil , China and  South Korea  have recently lowered
their interest rate in an attempt to counteract the effects of
deceleration in demand.  The weakening of economy worldwide is restricting Colombian
economic growth through lower external demand and lower
international prices for major export products.  These factors are likely to prevail in the same direction in
the next few months. Although consumption and investment will
be the main source of GDP growth in 2012, these domestic demand
components will grow less than in the previous year and are
likely to reduce, even eliminate, the current production
capacity pressures.  Generally, with the new information available, a GDP growth
between 3% and 5% has been projected. This range width is due
to uncertainty around the size of global deceleration and its
impact on the Colombian economy, as well as on the recovery of
civil works and the overcoming of some negative supply shocks
currently affecting the industry and mining sectors. For 2013,
a growth similar to 2012’ is projected.  As it should be
expected, the level of uncertainty increases as the forecast
horizon grows.  The annual growth of the commercial portfolio continues to
slowdown, while consumption credit - though moderate - is still
high, and the mortgage portfolio grows at a good pace along
with a new-house price index that remains at historically high
levels.  In June, annual inflation was 3.2%, below the figure projected
by the Bank’s technical team.  All core inflation measures
dropped and their average stood close to 3.0%.  Inflation
expectations did also go down: 3.1% is expected for December
2012 and about 3.3% for July 2013, while those deriving from
the treasury ‘TES’ bonds at horizons between two and five years
are at 2.5%.  According to the evaluation of the current balance of risk, all
the members of the Board of Directors deemed it appropriate to
reduce the intervention  interest rate .  Some members had
proposed an even higher reduction than the one eventually
adopted. The new information will enable the Bank to establish
new monetary policy actions concerning both the development of
events in the advanced countries, their impact on confidence,
global demand and international commodity prices, and internal
dynamics.  The Board restates that Banco de la Republica has both the
proper tools and sufficient resources to meet local and foreign
currency liquidity needs regularly required by the economy as
well as those likely to occur in an environment of
international financial turmoil.  The Board will continue to keep close watch on the
international situation as well as on the behavior and
projections of inflation, growth, and the asset markets, while
reiterating that monetary policy will depend upon the new
information available.  SOURCE: Banco de la Republica
 http://www.banrep.gov.co/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dominic Carey in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dcarey5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  