-- Columbia University to Create Data Sciences Institute in NYC
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-30T14:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/columbia-university-to-create-data-sciences-institute-in-nyc.html
Columbia University  will start an
Institute for Data Sciences and Engineering in  New York  City.  The program, which will be housed at the school’s existing
campuses in Morningside Heights and Washington Heights, is
expected to employ 75 new faculty members over the next 15
years, according to a news release from the city announcing the
plan. The agreement includes the creation of 44,000 square feet
of applied-science and engineering space by 2016.  New York City will provide $15 million in financial
assistance, including discounted-energy transmission costs and
partial debt forgiveness, according to the release.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has made developing the city’s
technology industry a major initiative.  Cornell University  in
Ithaca, New York, and its partner Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology, last year won a city contest to build an engineering
campus with a grant of land on Roosevelt Island and $100 million
for infrastructure improvements. Columbia’s plan is another
advance, the mayor said.  “This historic partnership is the newest element in the
applied-sciences initiative that is, by far, the largest and
most far-reaching economic development effort city government
has undertaken in modern memory,” Bloomberg said in the
release. “It will create tens of thousands of jobs and billions
of dollars in economic activity, and it will encourage the
growth of the tech sector in  New York City  and solidify our
leadership in the innovation economy for decades to come.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  