-- Communists Expand China Youth Outreach as Leadership Shift Looms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/communists-expand-china-youth-outreach-as-leadership-shift-looms.html
When China’s Communist Youth League
celebrated its 90th birthday, it employed a tactic unavailable
to President  Hu Jintao  when he used the organization to propel
his career: a microblog promotion.  Kids were urged to post “micro-stories” online in May,
sharing cherished moments in the Communist Youth League, with
the best submissions to be compiled in a book. “The little
badge I got still looks so shiny to me now,” one entry read.  The promotion was part of an outreach to the country’s 538
million Internet users that’s seen the youth wing take stakes in
online gaming companies. Underlying the campaign: angst in
China’s Communist Party months before a once-in-a-decade
leadership handover that it’s increasingly out of step with the
nation’s status as the world’s No. 2 economy.  “One of the critical weaknesses of the party is that today
it attracts people who are unlikely to make the party stronger
as a political organization,” said Minxin Pei, a government
professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in  California . “They
want to take advantage of the party without actually
contributing to the party’s well-being.”  The youth wing decades ago fueled the careers of Hu, 69,
who is forecast to start handing over his titles to Vice
President  Xi Jinping , 59, later this year, and of Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang , who turns 57 this month and is targeted as the next
premier.  Online Gaming  Now, the Communist Youth League is an investor in online
entertainment. It  partnered with  Chinese gaming firm PowerNet
Technology in 2005 to develop a game in which players repel
Japanese invaders during World War II, harking back to one of
the most celebrated chapters in party history.  The Youth League’s investment arm owns a stake in PowerNet
subsidiary  Shenzhen Zhongqingbaowang Network Technology Co. (300052) ,
known as Shenzhen ZQ, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rather than as a source of ideological inspiration, China’s
young have flocked to the party as a networking tool and resume
builder in an economy dominated by state-owned enterprises.  “The reality here is we have to focus on our own career
path,” said Brook, a 23-year-old party member who refused to
give her Chinese name for fear of punishment from the
government. “Ten to 20 years ago people really wanted to join.
Now it’s not ‘We want to,’ but ‘We have to.’”  Membership Rising  Membership numbers bear out Brook’s impression: in 2011,
the party expanded 2.9 percent to 82.6 million people. One in
four were under the age of 35, up 0.7 percentage points from
2011, according to data released on state-run Xinhua News Agency
June 30. Demand to get in was high, with an 85 percent rejection
rate, according to the figures.  Numbers aside, the leadership has signaled concern that
ideological commitment among the younger generations is lagging
behind, endangering the long-term prospects of Mao Zedong’s
party.  Looking to blunt western influences, the party outlawed
shows such as the “ American Idol ”-inspired singing competition
“Super Girls” and banned western programs from appearing
between 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in February. At the same time, it’s
produced its own entertainment appealing to kids.  Shenzhen ZQ made “Defend the Diaoyu Islands,” in which
players must defend against invading armies of sumo wrestlers,
ninjas and rifle-toting soldiers. China and  Japan  dispute
sovereignty of the islands, which are known as the Senkaku in
Japanese. Apple Inc.’s  App Store , which bans racist games, has
pulled the item.  Comrade Lei  Other efforts rely on another staple of Chinese propaganda:
Lei Feng, a soldier who died at age 21 in 1962 and is brandished
by older generations as a symbol of selflessness.  In November 2011, the Youth League Central Committee
released a 26-episode cartoon series dubbed  “The Bugle” 
featuring party history, including well-known Chinese slogans
such as “A spark can kindle a great fire” and “Learn From
Comrade Lei Feng.”  Even as government censors block Facebook, Twitter and
other Internet content, party officials have also taken to
blogging. It’s fertile ground: Of  China ’s 538 million Internet
users at the end of June, fifty-seven percent -- about the
population of the entire U.S. -- were under 30 years old.  “They’re trying to do more and going on the offensive and
not let young people sit there passively to receive information
only from the West,” said  Wang Feng , director of the Brookings-
Tsinghua Center for Public Policy in Beijing. “Both the current
outgoing leadership and incoming leadership are keenly aware of
the need to establish political legitimacy.”  Populist Appeal  The second most popular government official on Sina Corp.’s
Weibo microblog service is Wu Hao, a former Xinhua News Agency
journalist who is now a propaganda official in Yunnan Province
and has more than  1.8 million  Weibo followers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wu has posted about 12,000 times since Dec. 1, 2009,
boasting about his frugality and preference for 10-yuan ($1.57)
cigarettes, a contrast to other party members spied wearing
designer clothes at the National People’s Congress in March.  “I never wear big brands, I eat very simple foods, I stay
at home after work and smoke cheap cigarettes,” he wrote. “I
think that’s a normal life.”  Guangdong Province Communist Party Secretary Wang Yang said
in an  online chat  -- itself a sign of change -- that he surfs
Weibo “every day, and I usually see people criticizing me.”  Out of Touch  Employing new methods of publicizing the party’s old
messages may not go far enough to buttress public legitimacy in
a country lacking elections for national office.  “The modernization effort has very limited impacts -- the
games for iPhone and iPad can only lure simple-minded middle
school and college students,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct
professor of history at the Chinese University of  Hong Kong .
“It’s very easy to see that the government is using a new
package to get on with its old propaganda program. It won’t have
any effect on anyone who is capable of independent thinking.”  The state-run  People’s Daily  hinted last year that some
leaders may be getting the message.  “An important project lies in front of the party after 90
years of its founding,” the newspaper said at the time. “That
is, how to make the new generation who grow up in the  Internet
era  with pop music and Hollywood movies to be happy to accept
and learn the ‘red history?’ Obviously, the traditional rigid
propaganda preaching gets nowhere.”  Public Disconnect  The new-media outreach coincides with signs of public
discontent with the outsized wealth and influence of some party
members, exemplified by ousted Politburo member  Bo Xilai , whose
wife has been accused of involvement in the murder of a U.K.
citizen with whom she had business ties.  President Hu, in a speech marking the party’s 90th
anniversary last year, said the party must recruit people of
integrity “on merits without regard to their origins” and make
sure that “those who seek personal gain by acting in a
calculating way and currying favor gain nothing.”  Meantime, other officials trumpet the party’s efforts at
modernity as a success.  “We have made some new breakthroughs in the areas of
Internet radio, animation, games, micro-film-making
productions,” Lu Hao, first secretary of the Youth League
Central Committee, said in March. The party’s youth wing should
use “new media and cultural fashionable means,” he said.  The mix of the historical and the modern is on display at
the museum in  Shanghai  celebrating the 1921 birth of China’s
Communist Party, where visitors admire wax statues of Mao and
his fellow party founders. On stand-up touchscreen displays,
they can check mobile phone ads, browse the online version of
the People’s Daily, and read microblog updates.  “It’s very good the Party is using Weibo and technology to
teach young people about its history,” said Jiang Linlin, 23, a
Shanghai University student who was volunteering at the museum
and said she has pledged to become a member. “I love China and
joining the Party shows your dedication and also helps you to
find a good job.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  