-- Consumer Debt Eroding Canada Banks’ Edge as S&P Cuts Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-30T14:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/consumer-debt-eroding-canadian-banks-edge-as-s-p-cuts-outlook.html
Canadian banks are underperforming
global counterparts by the most in a year as record consumer
debt and a housing market that’s vulnerable to a correction
weakens their earnings prospects and risks a credit downgrade.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook to negative from stable
on seven Canadian banks July 27, including Toronto-based  Royal
Bank of Canada  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , citing a prolonged
increase in housing prices and consumer indebtedness. The debt
of Canadian financial companies is the second-worst performer
this month after Japan among 35 global peers, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  “Were  house prices  to drop materially and over a prolonged
period of time, then households would start to de-lever,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst in Toronto at National Bank Financial,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “We’re not there yet, but that
issue is the elephant in the room.”  Yields on the debt of Canadian financial companies ended
last week at 158 basis points over federal benchmarks, compared
with 257 basis points for global financial firms, according to
Bank of America data. The differential is the tightest on a
weekly closing basis since July 2011, the data show, meaning
Canadian financials are underperforming global counterparts.  “We’re highlighting the potential risks gathering in
intensity,” Tom Connell, lead author of the S&P report, said in
an interview yesterday from Toronto. “The Canadian economy is
exposed to the global economy. Consumer leverage and housing-
price dynamics are really closely linked to prospects for
consumer income growth.”  Greatest Threat  Connell said the rating company is adjusting its systemic
view. “We’re not anticipating a broad deterioration,” he said.
“In no sense do we see ratings in an ongoing downward slope.”  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  has said since April
that higher borrowing costs may become appropriate, even as
global economic conditions deteriorate. He has called Canada’s
rising household debt the greatest domestic threat to the
country’s financial stability, as the country’s banks cut
 mortgage rates  this year to a record low.  Carney has kept the central bank’s benchmark lending rate
at 1 percent since September 2010, the longest period without a
change since the 1950s. The ratio of household debt to
disposable income reached about 154 percent in the first
quarter, higher than the U.S. figure of 141 percent.  “There is currently growing potential for deterioration of
Canadian bank credit profiles associated with scenarios
incorporating consumer sector stress,” S&P said in the report.
The negative outlook recognizes the potential for deterioration
of Canadian banks’ financial performance and capitalization
generally, it added.  Policy Changes  S&P, which said it might lower the ratings on  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY)  and Toronto-Dominion one level, said it “will continue
to consider the impact of recent government and regulatory
policy initiatives to curtail potential systemic risk arising
from the housing sector as well as assess Canada’s relative
performance vis-à-vis its global peers.” Royal Bank of Canada
and Toronto-Dominion are rated AA- by S&P, the fourth-highest
level.  Debt of Canadian financial companies returned 0.5 percent
in July, Bank of America data shows. Only Japanese banks, at 0.4
percent, returned less among the 35 countries’ lenders measured
in the index, which averaged returns of 1.6 percent. Peru was
the highest at 3.5 percent.  Marginal Exposure  S&P would only follow through with ratings downgrades on
the Canadian banks “if the economy weakens to such an extent as
to trigger job losses and income compression, or if the Bank of
Canada carries through with its veiled threat to raise  interest
rates ,”  David Rosenberg , chief economist at Gluskin Sheff &
Associates, said in an e-mail yesterday. “Either of these
scenarios or both would likely impair debt-servicing capacity on
the part of the consumer.”  Rosenberg said the former scenario is more likely, although
it’s “premature to make that call” about what it might mean to
the asset quality on the books of Canada’s banks.  He added Canadian banks have marginal exposure to Europe
and strong capital cushions, making downgrades less likely. The
earnings outlook for Canadian banks is much less cloudy than it
is for U.S. banks because regulatory changes will hit harder
there, Rosenberg said.  Earnings Challenge  National Bank’s Routledge added the impact of any credit
downgrade would be felt on earnings rather than capitalization.
“I do not see the banks’ capitalization in any way threatened
by this, owing to their recurring earnings power and the
prevalence of mortgage insurance,” he said. The scenario
outlined by S&P, “would be an earnings, not a capital,
challenge,” he said.  Canada’s government 10-year bond yields fell last week to
the lowest level since 1950.  Home prices  have climbed 34 percent
since January 2009 to an average of C$369,339 ($362,204),
according to the Canadian Real Estate Association. Consumer debt
has increased to more than 90 percent of gross domestic product,
from 70 percent over the past decade, S&P said.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules at
least three times and put the federal housing agency’s books
under regulatory oversight, as the nation’s booming housing
market drives banks’ profit.  In addition to Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto-Dominion
Bank, S&P cut to negative its outlook on  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
 National Bank of Canada (NA)  and  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB) , based in
Montreal, Vancouver-based Central 1 Credit Union and  Home
Capital Group Inc. (HCG)  of Toronto. It said it was affirming the
credit outlooks for  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  and  Bank
of Montreal (BMO) , among other banks.  Competitive Pressure  The company said one of the risks that might lead to
downgrades is if risk appetite among banks increases amid
growing competitive pressure for loan and deposit market share.  “S&P, like the other raters, have become far more
proactive in their evaluation of the global banking system,”
 Adrian Miller , director of global market strategy at GMP
Securities, LLC, said in an e-mail yesterday. “A negative
outlook does not speak to an imminent downgrade, but just a
warning that should the situation continue to deteriorate a
downgrade could be coming, perhaps in the next six to 12
months.”  RBC clients and investors “can take confidence in the fact
that RBC is one of the strongest banks in the world,” Gillian McArdle, spokeswoman for Royal Bank in Toronto, said by e-mail.  “This is an industry-related change in outlook and does
not reflect an actual ratings downgrade,”  Stephen Knight ,
spokesman for Toronto-Dominion in Toronto, said by e-mail.  Actual Downturn  Joe Konecny, spokesman at Bank of Nova Scotia, wasn’t
immediately able to comment after regular business hours. Claude Breton, spokesman for National Bank and Mary-Claude Tardif,
spokeswoman at Laurentian Bank declined to comment.  Art
Chamberlain , spokesman for Central 1, didn’t return after-hours
telephone and e-mail requests for comment. Gerald Soloway, chief
executive officer at Toronto-based Home Capital Group Inc.
didn’t return a call after normal business hours.  “An actual downturn in the housing market -- by which I
mean a pronounced and prolonged depreciation in house prices
nationwide or in several major markets -- is not yet upon us,”
said National Bank’s Routledge. “However the market is already
discounting a rising probability of this event occurring.”  Ranked Soundest  Routledge said the S&P action “ratifies but does not alter”
market expectations, and he therefore doesn’t see any major
impact on bank valuations in its wake.  Canadian banks, ranked the soundest by the  World Economic
Forum , held four of the top 10 spots in Bloomberg Markets
magazine’s annual ranking of the world’s strongest banks,
released in May. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce placed
third, followed by Toronto-Dominion in fourth, National Bank in
fifth and Royal Bank in sixth.  “These risks have the potential to have an impact over
time, but they are known issues,”  Robert Sedran , an analyst at
CIBC World Markets, said by e-mail. “It’s the outlook for those
issues that remains unknown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  