-- Copper Drops for First Day in Five on Uncertainty Over Europe
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2012-07-30T07:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/copper-drops-for-first-day-in-five-on-uncertainty-over-europe.html
Copper declined for the first time
in five days as investors were still uncertain whether European
Union leaders will be able to contain the debt crisis, reducing
demand prospects for industrial metals.  Three-month copper fell 0.4 percent to $7,537 a metric ton
on the  London  Metal Exchange by 4:05 p.m. in  Tokyo  after gaining
as much as $7,620, the highest price since July 20. The
September-delivery contract dropped 0.3 percent to $3.417 a
pound on the Comex in  New York .  The European Central Bank chief meets with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Frankfurt today and is also
attempting to win over Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a
critic of ECB bond purchases. Federal Reserve policy makers meet
this week ahead of a jobs report to decide whether additional
stimulus is needed to combat a slowdown in the biggest economy.  “People still want to hear what the ECB is actually going
to do,” said Nick Trevethan, senior commodities strategist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “They said their
intentions but haven’t said how.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said July 26 that policy makers
will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro currency bloc.  “While we don’t have these details or we have some
uncertainty over their ability, we could see a little bit of
volatility in the market and I don’t think the market
necessarily will be comfortable going in a single direction,”
Trevethan said.  Copper  inventories  monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange fell for the first time in six weeks, bourse data
showed July 27. Stockpiles declined 4,463 tons to 156,510 tons
last week from 160,973 tons a week earlier, according to a
survey of 10 warehouses in Shanghai, the exchange said.  Copper for November delivery closed little changed at
54,830  yuan  ($8,595) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  Aluminum, zinc, tin and lead in London declined, while
nickel was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  