-- Corn Jumps to Record as Worst Drought in Decades Hurts U.S. Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-07-30T12:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/corn-jumps-to-record-as-worst-drought-in-decades-hurts-u-s-crop.html
Corn rose to a record in  Chicago ,
heading for the biggest monthly gain since 1988, as the worst
drought in at least a generation lingered in the U.S.,
threatening yields in the world’s biggest grower and exporter.  Iowa, Illinois and western  Indiana  had less than half of
the normal amount of rain in the past 30 days, National Weather
Service data show. The Midwest may be mostly dry with only
“scattered light showers” until the weekend, when storms bring
0.5 inch (1.3 centimeters) to some areas, Telvent DTN said.
Analysts including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Macquarie Group
Ltd. have said yields probably will trail government estimates
after heat and dry weather intensified as plants matured.  Crop conditions are “incredibly variable,” Chris Gadd, a
Macquarie analyst who recently concluded a five-day tour of U.S.
fields, said by telephone today from  London . “There are patches
where it’s terrible and patches where it looks very good. The
early-planted corn looked significantly better than anything
that was planted later, because most of it managed to go through
pollination prior to the heat arriving.”  Corn for December delivery climbed 2.9 percent to $8.1625 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 12:43 p.m. in London.
The grain earlier reached an all-time high of $8.1725. The most-
active contract has surged 29 percent in July.  Deteriorating Conditions  Less than a third of U.S. corn and soybean crops were in
good or excellent condition as of July 22, the worst ratings
since 1988, a year when severe drought slashed the U.S. corn
harvest by 31 percent, Department of Agriculture data show. The
agency is scheduled to update its crop ratings today.  At the end of June, moderate to extreme drought covered the
largest area of the contiguous U.S. since 1956, according to the
National Climatic Data Center. The Midwest drought may spark a
rebound in world food costs, the  United Nations  said July 5.  “There isn’t really any meaningful rainfall for parched
areas until the end of the week,” Victor Thianpiriya, an
agricultural analyst at Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group
Ltd., said by phone from  Singapore . “It’s not just a corn story
at the moment. The other thing that’s playing in the grain
market in general is the lack of alternatives.”  U.S. corn yields may be as low as 126 bushels an acre,
Goldman Sachs said July 23. The USDA said July 11 yields would
be 146 bushels an acre, slashing its projection from a record
166 bushels estimated in June. The USDA will update its crop
forecasts on Aug. 10.  Soybean Prices  Soybeans for November delivery gained 2.7 percent to
$16.4475 a bushel. The oilseed, which reached a record $16.915
on July 23, is up 15 percent in July.  Wheat for September delivery rose 2.2 percent to $9.175 a
bushel. The grain, which can replace corn in feed, has surged 21
percent this month. In Paris, November-delivery milling wheat
climbed 2.7 percent to 264.75 euros ($324.56) a metric ton on
NYSE Liffe, bolstered by dry weather in  Russia .  French Agriculture Minister Stephane Le Foll said in an e-
mailed statement July 28 that the surge in grain and soy prices
is a “major preoccupation” worldwide, and agricultural leaders
may need to hold a formal meeting to discuss the issue if
drought worsens in the U.S. and Russia.  “There’s still concerns over the Russian wheat crop,”
Australia & New Zealand’s Thianpiriya said. “The substitutes
for corn are looking tight as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  