-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Policy Makers Seek Crisis Solution
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-30T21:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-policy-makers-seek-crisis-solution.html
A gauge of U.S. company debt risk
rose for the first time in four days on concern that European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may fail to deliver on a
pledge to protect the euro and lower sovereign borrowing costs.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 106.3 basis points as of 4:54
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure rose from the lowest level since May 10.  Investors are looking to European policy makers to control
rising borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy  to halt financial
turmoil that may jeopardize global balance sheets. Draghi, who
said last week he would do whatever it takes to protect the
euro, meets with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in
 Frankfurt  today and is attempting to sell the idea of ECB-backed
government bond purchases to Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann.  “There are concerns as to whether everything Draghi said
is going to actually come to fruition,” Robert Grimm, a trader
at broker-dealer Odeon Capital Group LLC in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “Statements out of
Germany seem to be pointing toward the fact that they’re really
not 100 percent in Draghi’s court.”  Draghi’s Plan  Under Draghi’s proposal,  Europe ’s rescue fund would buy
 government bonds  in the primary market while the ECB purchases
debt in the secondary market to ensure transmission of its
record-low  interest rates , two central bank officials said July
27 on condition of anonymity.  Germany ’s Bundesbank repeated its
opposition to sovereign debt buying last week, saying the
program blurs the line between monetary and fiscal policy.  The ECB shelved its bond-buying program in March amid
opposition from Weidmann and other key council members. A
Bundesbank spokesman declined to say yesterday whether a
discussion has taken place.  The  yield  on Spanish 10-year bonds dropped 13 basis points
to 6.61 percent at 12 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg data show.  “I’m kind of surprised that he would put out that strong
of a statement without actually having previously arranged the
backing of it,” Grimm said of Draghi’s pledge to protect the
euro. “If he doesn’t get anything close to what he told the
markets he was going to get, everything is going to reverse
itself.”  Joint Statement  Geithner met with German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble earlier today, with the two leaders issuing a joint
statement backing European leaders and their efforts to preserve
the currency bloc. An ECB spokeswoman didn’t comment when asked
whether the bank would release a statement after Geithner’s
meeting with Draghi today.  “There was not a lot of meat put on the bones of Draghi’s
comments late last week so until the markets get more
information, the U.S. market at least will likely tread water,”
Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna
International Group LLP, wrote in an e-mail.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, rose 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 566 basis points,
after climbing as much as 9.9 basis points earlier today,
Bloomberg prices show.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 5 basis points to 157.9.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  