-- Gay Marriage Endorsed by Democratic Platform Draft Panel
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/democratic-platform-drafters-prepare-gay-marriage-endorsement.html
The  Democratic Party  took an initial
step toward endorsing gay marriage as party platform drafters
recommended including such a provision among its 2012 positions,
said a spokesman for Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank .  The drafting subcommittee, which met in Minneapolis last
weekend, included the marriage equality plank in its
recommendations to the full platform committee, said Eric Orner,
a spokesman for Frank, a member of the drafting panel. Almost
three months ago President  Barack Obama  said in an ABC News
interview that same-sex couples should be allowed to marry.  The platform committee will meet next month to adopt a
proposed statement of the party’s stand on issues before the
Democratic National Convention starts on Sept. 4 in Charlotte,
North Carolina.  Earlier this month, Frank, 72, became the first member of
Congress to marry a same-sex partner. Frank, who isn’t seeking
re-election, and Jim Ready were wed in a ceremony in Newton,
Massachusetts.  In February, the Obama administration said it would no
longer defend the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage
Act, which bars federal recognition of  same-sex marriages .  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  supports a
constitutional amendment that bans gay marriage and said the
states, not the federal government, should determine benefits
for same-sex couples.  House Democrats  Democrats in the U.S. House, led by Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, have criticized a decision by House
Republican leaders to finance the defense of the federal law
barring same-sex marriage by hiring an outside lawyer to
represent the government’s interest.  Attorney General Eric Holder said the law that denies
federal benefits to same-sex couples married under state laws
violates the constitutional guarantee of equal protection under
the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  