-- Dendreon Cutting More Than 600 Jobs in Cost-Saving Move
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-07-30T22:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/dendreon-cutting-more-than-600-jobs-in-cost-saving-move.html
  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , maker of the
prostate cancer drug Provenge, said it would eliminate more than
600 jobs and reduce costs by $150 million during the next 12
months as it seeks to reach profitability.  Dendreon also will close a manufacturing plant in Morris
Plains,  New Jersey , with the goal of cutting cost of goods sold
to less than 50 percent of product revenue from its current
level of 77 percent, the Seattle-based company said today in a
statement.  “These changes are necessary and essential,” John H. Johnson, chief executive officer, said on a conference call.
“Today we set a new course for Dendreon.”  Provenge was approved in April 2010 as the first therapy in
the U.S. that trains the body’s immune system to attack cancer
cells as if they were a virus. The treatment, which costs
$93,000, was cleared for patients with advanced cases of
prostate cancer after a three-year effort to gain regulatory
backing. Johnson, a former executive with  Savient
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT) , was chosen in February to succeed Mitchell Gold as CEO, putting him in charge of boosting sales of the
drug.  Dendreon’s second-quarter net loss narrowed 17 percent to
$96.1 million, or 65 cents a share, from a loss of $116 million,
or 79 cents, a year earlier, the company said today in a
separate statement. Revenue gained 66 percent to $80 million
from a year earlier, though missed the $85 million estimate of
20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Turnover Problem  Johnson said he wasn’t satisfied with the company’s revenue
for the quarter, blaming turnover among sales representatives
starting last year as part of the problem.  “We found that those territories that experienced turnover
were down 30 percent in quarter-over-quarter sales in Q2, versus
those with a sales rep throughout the quarter,” he said.  The personnel issues also lead to a higher-than-normal
cancellation rate of drug infusions at the end of June, twice
what the company expected, he said.  Dendreon declined 18 percent to $5.04 in extended trading
at 6:20 p.m.  New York  time after closing at $6.18. The company’s
stock has plunged 83 percent in the past 12 months as it said
growth will be “modest” and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s rival medicine
Zytiga helped high-risk prostate cancer patients in a study.  “It’s telling that they’re losing sales personnel,” David Nierengarten, a San Francisco-based analyst with Wedbush
Securities Inc., said in an e-mail. “And that infusion
cancellations coincidentally occurred after J&J released the
pre-chemo data for Zytiga.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  