-- Devices to Prevent Child Heat Deaths Unreliable, NHTSA Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-30T15:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/devices-to-prevent-child-heat-deaths-not-reliable-nhtsa-says.html
Aftermarket devices intended to cut
the number of heat-stroke deaths among children left in cars
aren’t reliable enough to substitute for other measures parents
can take, the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration said.  The technologies, which include sensors to detect children
left in hot cars, are prone to false alarms and are difficult to
install correctly, NHTSA Administrator  David Strickland  said on
a conference call with reporters today.  “While we feel these devices are very well-intended, we
don’t think they can be used as the only countermeasure to make
sure that you don’t forget your child behind in a car,”
Strickland said.  Heat stroke is the leading cause of non-crash vehicle-
related deaths in the U.S. for children under 14. About 500
children died after being left unattended in vehicles between
1998 and 2009, according to San Francisco State University
research. After reaching 49 fatalities in 2010, the number
decreased to 33 last year, Strickland said.  The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia today released the
results of a study on the effectiveness of child-detecting
technology in conjunction with NHTSA. Limitations included
inconsistency in arming sensitivity, potential interference from
cars’ electronic systems, short-circuits that can be caused by
liquid spills, and disarming when children shift out of
position, said Kristy Arbogast, a researcher with the hospital.  Device Defects  Devices on the market include the ChildMinder Smart Pad
System that costs about $70, plus installation. Some of the
devices detect pressure on car seats and can sound an alarm if
the vehicle is locked or the key is removed from the ignition
while the car seat is occupied. Strickland said he wasn’t aware
of an automaker that offers a child-detection system as a
factory-installed option.  Safety technologies, especially those intended to protect
children, have to be virtually free of defects, Strickland said.
The devices available to consumers at this stage don’t meet that
standard, he said.  NHTSA advises  that parents should continue to take children
out of cars if they leave a vehicle, even if the windows are
partially open or the air conditioner is on. Parents can ask
childcare providers to call if children don’t arrive as
expected. Helpful reminders can include placing a mobile phone,
purse or briefcase in the back seat.  The agency is running radio and online advertisements under
the theme: “Where’s baby? Look before you lock.”  Temperatures can rise above 110 degrees inside a closed car
even when it’s in the 60s outside, increasing almost 20 degrees
within the first 10 minutes, according to NHTSA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  