-- Draghi on Offensive as Game Changer Sought in Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-30T08:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/draghi-on-offensive-as-game-changer-sought-in-crisis-battle-1-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  has gone on the offensive as he seeks a game
changer in the battle against the sovereign debt crisis.  Draghi, who sparked a global market rally last week by
pledging to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro, is trying
to build consensus among governments and central bankers for a
plan to ease borrowing costs in Spain and Italy before ECB
policy makers convene on Aug. 2. He meets with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in  Frankfurt  today and is also
attempting to win over Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a
critic of ECB bond purchases.  Berlin, Paris and Rome have already endorsed Draghi’s
approach, echoing his language in saying they will do what’s
needed to protect the 17-nation euro. Draghi must now deliver or
face a renewed selloff on bond markets, where soaring Spanish
and Italian yields have fueled speculation that the monetary
union could fall apart.  Draghi “put his personal credibility on the line” and
“would not have done so without being confident about his key
constituency,”  Erik Nielsen , global chief economist at
UniCredit Bank AG in  London , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “The ECB under Draghi does not like to mess around
in the market, but if it sees a need, it will come with
overwhelming force.”  Draghi’s Proposal  Draghi’s proposal involves  Europe ’s rescue fund buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, buttressed by ECB
purchases on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its
record-low  interest rates , two central bank officials said July
27 on condition of anonymity. Further ECB rate cuts and long-
term loans to banks are also up for discussion, one of the
officials said.  While the ECB’s willingness to act is necessary to buy
time, the central bank can’t solve the debt crisis alone,
Moody’s Investors Service said today.  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2265 at 10:30 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The shared currency gained 1.4 percent in the two
days after Draghi’s July 26 pledge to do whatever is necessary,
ending last week at $1.2322. Spain’s bond market staged its
biggest rally in seven months, sending the 10-year yield down to
6.74 percent from a euro-era record of 7.75 percent reached on
July 25. The rally continued today, with Spain’s 10-year rate
dropping to 6.59 percent and Italy’s falling to 5.92 percent.  ‘Decisive Point’  “We have reached a decisive point,”  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, told
 Germany ’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung in an interview. “The world is
talking about whether there will still be a euro zone in the
next few months. We have to make abundantly clear with all
available resources that we’re completely determined to
guarantee the financial stability of the currency.”  Juncker confirmed that the temporary bailout fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, is working with the ECB
on a plan to reduce borrowing costs, adding “we have no time to
lose,” the newspaper reported yesterday.  The biggest hurdle may be the Bundesbank, which last week
reiterated its opposition to ECB bond buying, saying it blurs
the line between monetary and fiscal policy.  ‘Diverging Views’  “These conflicting remarks illustrate the diverging views
that have dogged the euro-area authorities’ policy development
and significantly contributed to the depth of the crisis,”
Moody’s said in its Credit Outlook today.  The ECB shelved its bond-purchase program in March. Draghi
has scheduled talks with Weidmann, the two central bank
officials said on July 27. A Bundesbank spokesman declined to
say yesterday whether a discussion has taken place. An ECB
spokeswoman reiterated that it’s not unusual for Draghi to speak
with council members and declined to comment further.  “I’m skeptical that Weidmann would be easily convinced,”
said Clemens Fuest, an Oxford University economist who sits on
an advisory panel for the German  finance ministry . “I would
certainly think that Draghi will try to reach some consensus
here rather than go against Weidmann.”  Europe’s political landscape has nevertheless changed since
French President  Francois Hollande  defeated predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  in May, introducing a more confrontational line with
Germany. Draghi has also worked with Juncker, European
Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  and European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  in drafting a blueprint for the
future of the currency union.  Bank Recapitalization  An EU summit agreement at the end of June to allow the
bloc’s bailout funds to directly recapitalize banks sparked
initial relief that leaders may manage to sever the link between
ailing lenders and governments. Markets have since tumbled as it
became clear that it could take many months for a key plank in
the scheme, a euro-wide banking supervisor, to be set up.  Markets are also awaiting the establishment of the bloc’s
permanent rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism. The 500
billion-euro ($616 billion) ESM is on hold pending a decision by
Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court, set for Sept. 12.  As many euro-area leaders embark on their August summer
vacation, a time that would normally see a lull in policy
making, Germany,  France  and Italy have rallied to Draghi’s
cause.  Merkel, Monti  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  agreed by phone on July 28 that the EU’s June summit
decisions must be implemented “as quickly as possible,” the
chancellery said in a statement yesterday. Echoing similar
language after Merkel spoke with France’s Hollande on July 27,
she and Monti agreed that they would “do everything to protect
the euro area.”  Geithner travels to the North Sea island of Sylt to hold
talks with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  today.  Europe is “burning because of deep concerns about
political will” in the region to resolve the crisis, Geithner
said in a July 23 interview on the “Charlie Rose” show
broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television.  A lawmaker in Merkel’s coalition, Hans Michelbach of
Bavaria’s  Christian Social Union , yesterday reiterated his
party’s opposition to ECB bond purchases, saying they take
pressure off governments to enact necessary reforms.  Draghi said on July 26 that when bond yields rise too high,
they hamper the transmission of the ECB’s  interest rates  and
therefore “come within our mandate.”  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” he said. “And believe me, it will
be enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  