-- Dubai Group Lenders Said to Seek Early Exit Option
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-07-30T11:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/dubai-group-lenders-said-to-seek-early-exit-option.html
Dubai Group LLC’s creditors are
seeking an option to be repaid early as the  investment company 
controlled by Dubai’s ruler reorganizes $6 billion of bank debt,
according to three people familiar with the talks.  Under the early exit proposal for the 10-year debt
restructuring, banks can choose to be repaid the market value of
their loans after five years, said two of the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private.  Banks opting for the exit clause are also seeking a
guarantee that Dubai Group will have the cash to repay in case
it can’t raise funds by selling assets, some of which are
considered indivisible, one of the people said. A Dubai Group
spokeswoman, who asked not to be identified because of company
policy, declined to comment.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the emirate reorganizing debt after the
global credit crisis eroded the value of its assets.  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Commerzbank AG and  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. (SBK)  abandoned 18 months of restructuring talks with the
investment company after failing to reach an agreement, two
people familiar with the matter said on July 10.  Dubai Group invests in financial services industry and owns
property in the U.S., according to its website. It holds stakes
in companies including Dubai-based investment bank Shuaa Capital
PSC, Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE and
 BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB)  in Oman, the country’s biggest lender.  Debt Talks  Dubai Group appointed eight banks to represent creditors in
2011 to negotiate the terms on $10 billion of liabilities, of
which it owed $4 billion to shareholders.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest bank
by assets, said July 23 it had set aside 32 percent of the value
of Dubai Group’s loans, or 1.47 billion dirhams ($400 million),
to cover for losses as a result of the debt restructuring.  In April, Dubai Group proposed paying interest of 1 percent
to 2.5 percent in a $6 billion debt restructuring, three people
familiar with the plan. Under the proposal, secured creditors
would be repaid in three years, while partially secured and
unsecured loans will mature in 12 years with additional interest
paid at the end of the term, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  