-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 3-Week High on Europe Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-30T21:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/emerging-stocks-rise-to-3-week-high-on-europe-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to a three-week high, on optimism European
Union policy makers will act to ease the region’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 0.8 percent to
948.97 by 5:10 p.m. in  New York . Brazil’s Bovespa stock index
rose 1.2 percent as steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA  surged after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
rating.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest maker of
televisions and mobile phones, rose to an 11-week high in Seoul
after Daewoo Securities Co. said the company’s profit will
accelerate from the second quarter.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  held talks in Germany today
and backed a commitment by European leaders to do everything
needed to defend the euro area while failing to mention its
weakest link, Greece. Geithner was scheduled to meet European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  later today. In the U.S.,
Federal Reserve policy makers convene this week before a jobs
report to decide whether additional stimulus is needed.  “There’s a lot of optimism that euro officials are taking
proper steps to help mitigate the problems,” said  Dave Lutz ,
head of exchange-traded fund trading and strategy at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. “Also, there’s the possibility that central
bankers would be coordinating more closely, which shows a higher
resolve globally.”  The 21 countries in the MSCI gauge send about 30 percent of
their exports to the European Union on average, data compiled by
the World Trade Organization show.  EM ETF Declines  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, fell for the
first time in four days, losing 0.6 percent to $39.30. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, jumped 3.8 percent, the most in a week, to
26.22.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index rose after losing as much as 0.8
percent in early trading. Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is
known, added 5.7 percent to 7.01 reais. The producer is
Goldman’s new top pick within Latin American steel stocks,
analysts led by  Marcelo Aguiar  in Sao Paulo wrote in a note to
clients today.  The Micex Index advanced 1.6 percent in Moscow, its fourth
consecutive gain. OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest food retailer by
market value, climbed 3.5 percent while OAO Mechel, the
country’s largest coal producer for steelmakers, jumped 6.6
percent.  South Africa, Korea  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  rose 0.8 percent to an
all-time high.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , Africa’s biggest producer of
the mineral, gained 2.7 percent, while  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd., (AGL)  the largest producer of the metal, rose 2.1 percent.  The rand depreciated 0.7 percent against the dollar and the
ruble weakened by 0.4 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 0.8 percent even after
manufacturers’ confidence dropped to the lowest level in more
than three years.  Samsung Electronics gained 3.4 percent. The company’s
operating profit will be 7.5 trillion won ($6.6 billion) in the
third quarter and 8 trillion won in the fourth quarter, Daewoo
Securities said in a report today. Investors’ concerns about
2013 earnings appear to be premature, according to Shinyoung
Securities Co., which said the share price is likely to rebound.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprise Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  gained 1.3 percent.  China Rongsheng (1101)  Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. and
Glorious Property Holdings Ltd. slumped after the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filed a complaint accusing a
company owned by the companies’ chairman Zhang Zhi Rong of
 insider trading .  China Rongsheng  China Rongsheng, the nation’s largest private shipbuilder,
plunged 16 percent in Hong Kong, the steepest decline since it
was listed in November 2010. Real estate developer  Glorious
Property (845)  sank 11 percent, the most since October 2009.  Zhang, who founded both China Rongsheng and Glorious
Property, wasn’t directly charged in the complaint by the SEC,
which also obtained a court order freezing assets of traders it
said were involved in the transactions.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 345, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  