-- Energy Week Ahead: Forecast Calls for Hot Climate-Change Debate
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-30T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/energy-week-ahead-forecast-calls-for-hot-climate-change-debate.html
Oklahoma Senator  James Inhofe  will
get a chance to cross-examine perpetrators of what he dubbed
“ The Greatest Hoax ” this week, as a Senate panel takes on the
science of climate change.  Inhofe, the top Republican on the Senate Environment and
Public Works Committee, published a book by that name this year,
saying the scientific theory of global warming is a conspiracy
to increase government regulation of business and the economy.  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a warming of the earth’s temperature, which
threatens to cause extreme weather, drought and coastal
flooding, according to the  U.S. Global Change Research Program .  In  Washington , at least, such science hasn’t prodded much
action, after Senate negotiators tried and failed in 2010 to
craft a bill to force companies to cut greenhouse-gas emissions.
No measure to curb carbon-dioxide emissions advanced to the
Senate for a vote.  Now, with the last 12 months the warmest on record
worldwide and more than a third of the country declared a
disaster area,  climate change  is inching its way back onto the
agenda on  Capitol Hill , where House Democrats are pushing the
Republican majority to examine the issue.  The Senate environment committee is holding a hearing on
Wednesday with researchers and officials scheduled to discuss
the science behind changing temperatures and local efforts to
adapt to warming weather.  Inhofe is unlikely to change his views. After news stories
linking the recent heat wave and drought to climate change began
appearing, Inhofe went to the Senate floor to rebut the
“mainstream media’s attempt to drum up global-warming
hysteria,” and labeled those scientists warning of warming as
“alarmists.”  “The truth is that even when you ask an alarmist directly,
they won’t specifically link the recent weather events to human
activity,” Inhofe said.  With sentiments like that, the discussion might get pretty
darn hot inside that hearing room.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  OFFSHORE DRILLING:  Michael Bromwich , former head of the Interior
Department’s Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement,
talks about regulating offshore drilling at the  National Press
Club  in Washington on Aug. 3.  BATTLE OVER COAL: A House Energy subcommittee travels to
Clairsville,  Ohio , on Tuesday for a field hearing on the Obama
administration’s regulation of the coal industry. There’s no
secret about the tenor of the hearing, which the Republican-led
panel labels “  The Green Agenda and the War on Coal .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  