-- Merkel’s Coalition Split on ECB Action as Crisis Backing Wanes
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-07-30T12:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/merkel-s-coalition-split-on-ecb-action-as-crisis-backing-wanes.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition partners cast doubt on any European Central Bank plan
to buy government bonds, underscoring her domestic difficulty in
winning support for new measures to quell the financial crisis.  “I’m very, very skeptical,”  Horst Seehofer , the Bavarian
prime minister who heads the  Christian Social Union , sister
party to Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and one of three
coalition partners, said in  an interview  with ZDF television
yesterday. “It’s not the job of the ECB to provide state aid.”  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, who heads the Free
Democratic Party, said the ECB’s central task is  price stability 
and not financing government debt. Supporting the euro by buying
bonds cannot be “a long-term solution,” he said in a weekend
interview with the Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung newspaper posted on
the FDP  website .  The comments by Merkel’s fellow coalition leaders highlight
the balancing act she must maintain between courting domestic
voters to keep her government intact and heeding international
calls for Germany to underwrite the euro-area’s debt-ridden
states. With federal elections due in little more than a year,
public confidence in Merkel’s crisis-fighting response is
declining, a YouGov Plc poll in Bild newspaper showed yesterday.  Geithner Talks  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  interrupted his
vacation today to meet with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said July 26 that he
would do whatever is needed to preserve the euro. Merkel lent
her voice to that sentiment in separate messages with French
President  Francois Hollande  on July 27 and Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  yesterday.  Draghi’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue fund buying
government bonds on the primary market, buttressed by ECB
purchases on the secondary market, two central bank officials
said July 27 on condition of anonymity.  That prompted a rebuke from CSU leader Seehofer, who told
ZDF that the ECB “has to follow a policy of maintaining price
stability, like the Bundesbank did before, and not do what is
the duty of member states.” He said  “it can’t be that the ECB
buys  government bonds  on a large scale.”  One third of Germans say that Merkel is taking “more or
less the right decisions” on the euro crisis, while 48 percent
say her policy is wrong, the YouGov poll found. In a separate
Infratest Dimap poll for ARD television published July 6, 58
percent said Merkel is taking the right decisions in the crisis.  Frank-Walter Steinmeier of the main opposition Social
Democratic Party, whose votes for Merkel’s crisis-fighting
measures including aid for Spain’s banks ensured passage in the
German parliament, said she was shirking responsibility,
according to an interview in Die Welt newspaper published today.  Steinmeier, who served as foreign minister in Merkel’s
first-term government and is a potential candidate to stop her
from winning a third in elections due in the fall of 2013, said
Merkel wants to “palm off” efforts to tame the crisis on to
the ECB, according to Die Welt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  