-- Ethanol Lobby Expects Opponents to Ask EPA to Suspend Law
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-07-30T15:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/ethanol-lobby-expects-opponents-to-ask-epa-to-suspend-law-1-.html
The  Renewable Fuels Association , the
largest U.S. ethanol trade group, said it expects livestock and
poultry industry supporters to ask the Obama administration to
suspend the nation’s ethanol requirement as early as today.  The groups may ask the Environmental Protection Agency to
waive the mandate requiring refiners to use 13.2 billion gallons
of ethanol this year and 13.8 billion in 2013 because of higher
corn prices caused by drought in the grain-rich U.S. Midwest.  Corn prices jumped to a record $8.1225 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade on speculation that U.S. yields may fall
18 percent below the government’s estimate on July 11, according
to a Bloomberg survey. A supply shortage would raise costs for
ethanol producers and food processors.  Livestock and poultry producers have scheduled a conference
call with media members today at 11 a.m.  New York  time to
outline plans to “address a short corn supply.”  Matt Hartwig , a spokesman for the Washington-based
Renewable Fuels Association, said “we are expecting” the
livestock and poultry groups to seek a waiver.  Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe supports the concept of
suspending the mandate, which is formally known as the Renewable
Fuels Standard, Matt DeCample, a spokesman, said today in a
telephone interview.  “We do plan to get word to EPA” that it should suspend
the RFS, DeCample said.  He said the governor may contact the agency on his own or
may join with lawmakers from other states to petition the EPA to
cease the blending requirement because of corn prices.  Ethanol producers have responded to higher feedstock costs
by slashing  output  17 percent to 796,000 barrels a day in the
week ended July 20 from a record 963,000 on Dec. 30.  Poet LLC, is the largest U.S. ethanol producer, followed by
 Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , in Decatur,  Illinois , and  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  