-- European Stocks Rise on Euro Support Pledge
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-07-30T15:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/european-stocks-rise-on-euro-support-pledge.html
European stocks  rose to their
highest level since April amid optimism the  European Central
Bank  will win support from policy makers for a plan to ease the
euro area’s debt crisis.  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  surged 19 percent after it posted a
narrower second-quarter loss.  Evraz (EVR)  Plc and  Fiat SpA (F)  climbed
more than 4.5 percent, leading rallies by gauges of commodity
producers and automakers.  JCDecaux SA (DEC)  plunged 6.9 percent as it
reported a 13 percent drop in first-half profit.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1.6 percent to
263.94 at the close in London, completing a three-day rally of
5.4 percent, the largest since November. The gauge has  risen 13
percent from this year’s low  on June 4 as Greece elected a
coalition government prepared to abide by the terms of its two
European Union-led bailouts.  “We’ve been here before,” George Godber, who helps
oversee $22 billion as a  fund manager  at  Charles Stanley ’s
Matterley division in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We’ve actually got to see if they’re going to act
now and that’s really what matters. It doesn’t have to be
massive steps forward, it just has to be an outlining of a road
map.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  proposes using the euro area’s
temporary rescue fund to buy  government bonds  on the primary
market, while the central bank purchases securities on the
secondary market to ensure the transmission of its  record-low
interest rates , two central bank officials said on July 27 on
condition of anonymity.  Merkel-Hollande  European stocks rose for an eighth consecutive week last
week as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  joined Draghi in promising to do everything to
protect the euro.  Draghi is seeking to build consensus among governments and
central bankers for the plan to ease borrowing costs for Spain
and Italy before Thursday’s interest-rate setting meeting. The
ECB President needs to win over Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a critic of ECB bond purchases.  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said the
region’s temporary rescue fund and the ECB are preparing act
together to reduce borrowing costs, Sueddeutsche Zeitung
reported, citing an interview.  A report from the European Commission showed that its  index
of household sentiment  in the euro area declined to an almost
three-year low of minus 21.5 in July.  Unemployment Rate  The  jobless rate  in the 17-nation currency zone probably
climbed to 11.2 percent in June from an all-time high of 11.1
percent in May,  economists in a separate poll  predicted before
the statistics office releases its report tomorrow.  In the U.S., the Federal Open Market Committee will
announce a policy decision on Aug. 1 after a report last week
showed the economy expanded at a slower pace in the second
quarter, giving the central bank scope to add to stimulus
measures to spur growth.  Air France surged 19 percent to 4.62 euros, its biggest
gain in two decades, after posting a narrower second-quarter
loss as a restructuring program helped to reduce operating
costs.  Europe’s second-largest airline by sales  reported an
operating loss of 66 million euros compared with 145 million
euros a year earlier. That beat the  average estimate  for a 163
million-euro operating loss of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 4.5 percent to 6.5 billion euros.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the parent
company of British Airways Plc, rose 7.2 percent to 162 pence.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s biggest airline by sales, gained
3.2 percent to 10.41 euros.  UniCredit, Intesa  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  led Italian banks
higher, rising 4.6 percent to 2.83 euros and 6.6 percent to 1.06
euros, respectively.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  advanced 4.9 percent to 2.81
euros. Credit Agricole SA surged 7 percent to 3.58 euros. A
gauge of lenders rallied 3.2 percent for the biggest gain of the
19 industry groups in the  Stoxx 600. (SXXP)   National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  soared 10 percent to 1.29 euros.
 Greece’s largest lender  is interested in acquiring the state’s
stake in Hellenic Postbank SA, which the government may sell
before the end of August, Athens-based Imerisia newspaper
reported, without citing anyone.  Evraz, Fiat  Evraz, the steelmaker part-owned by Russian billionaire
 Roman Abramovich , gained 5.7 percent to 241.6 pence.
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  jumped 5.4 percent to 13.25 euros after Chief
Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  told the Sunday Telegraph in an
interview that the world’s biggest steelmaker may close more
plants and make further redundancies.  Fiat led carmakers higher, increasing 4.9 percent to 4.19
euros. PSA Peugeot Citroen advanced 4 percent to 6.25 euros. The
preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest automaker,
added 2.6 percent to 137.60 euros.  JCDecaux plunged 6.9 percent to 17 euros, its biggest slump
since May. The French billboard company’s first-half net income
fell 13 percent to 82.4 million euros as organic growth in the
second quarter was “slightly lower than expected.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in western-European
market except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index and France’s
CAC 40 Index jumped 1.2 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX Index
gained 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  