-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Drops More Than Forecast
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-07-30T10:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/euro-area-july-economic-confidence-drops-more-than-forecast-1-.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
fell more than economists forecast to the lowest in almost three
years in July, suggesting the economy’s slump extended into the
 third quarter  as governments struggled to tame the debt crisis.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in 17-nation
euro area dropped to 87.9 from 89.9 in June, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest since
September 2009. Economists had forecast a drop to 88.9, the
median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  European governments are striving to contain the debt
turmoil, which has undermined confidence and last month forced
Spain and Cyprus to seek external aid. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi , who will meet with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in  Frankfurt  today, said last week
that policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the
euro.  “It appears that the euro zone is headed for further clear
gross-domestic-product contraction in the third quarter,” said
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight,
who estimates the second-quarter contraction at 0.3 percent. The
weakness “piles yet more pressure on the ECB to come up with
concrete measures at its policy meeting” on Aug. 2.  The euro has depreciated 7.4 percent against the dollar
over the past three months as Spain in June asked for as much as
100 billion euros ($123 billion) of bailout loans for its banks.
The European currency is down 0.5 percent against the dollar
today, trading at $1.2277 at 12:05 p.m. in Brussels.  ‘Pull-Your-Hair-Out Market’  Moody’s Investors Service on July 23 cut the outlook on
Germany’s Aaa credit rating to negative and said there is a risk
that Greece could leave the euro and an “increasing
likelihood” countries such as Spain and Italy will require aid.  “There are an awful lot of bumps in the road before we get
home,”  John Taylor , chairman of FX Concepts LLC, told Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s “Money Moves” on July 27 in
New York. “I’m a little nervous that something might happen.
It’s a pull-your-hair-out market.”  With governments seeking ways to plug their budget
deficits, the economy is edging toward its second recession in
four years, defined by two quarters of economic contraction.
German  business confidence  fell more than economists forecast in
July to the lowest in more than two years and euro-area services
and manufacturing output contracted this month.  Growth Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  on July 16 cut its euro-
area growth forecast for next year to 0.7 percent from 0.9
percent and said GDP will drop 0.3 percent in 2012. It also cut
its global growth forecast for 2013.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical maker, said on July
26 that it doesn’t expect demand to pick up in the current half.
 Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, said on the
same day that reaching its full-year earnings goal has become
more difficult after reporting first-quarter earnings that fell
short of analysts’ estimates.  “We see clearly all the macro indicators  pointing south , a
slower environment also in Europe -- the situation is more
difficult,” Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  told
Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” last week.
“We anticipate that we will continue to have a volatile
environment, a recessionary environment.”  ‘Economic Uncertainty’  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers fell to
minus 15 from minus 12.8 in June, the report showed. An
indicator of services confidence dropped to minus 8.5 from minus
7.4, while a gauge of consumer sentiment slipped to minus 21.5
from minus 19.8. Sentiment in the  construction industry  also
worsened from June.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , on July 25 reported a 13 percent drop in second-
quarter profit, with CEO  Dieter Zetsche  saying “economic
uncertainty and risks exist in nearly all regions.”  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG) , Europe’s No. 2 carmaker, which is cutting some 8,000
jobs, said the same day that first-half profit fell.  “The depth and persistence of the crisis impacting our
business in Europe requires the launch of the reorganization of
our French production base and a reduction of our structural
costs,” Peugeot CEO Philippe Varin said. “We have a clear
understanding of how hard this project is for a large number of
our employees.”  A gauge of  euro-zone  manufacturers’ production expectations
dropped to minus 7.6 from minus 5.6 in June, today’s report
showed. An indicator of export order books fell to minus 26.6
from minus 22.5, while an index of employment expectations also
declined from the previous month.  ‘Difficult’ Situation  Economic data in  Asia  today also showed weakness in the
manufacturing industry. Japan’s  industrial output  unexpectedly
declined and South Korean manufacturers’ confidence dropped to a
three-year low, reports showed.  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said the economy
is in a “difficult” situation. “I will do everything I can to
find a solution for the sluggish domestic economy,” Bahk said
today in a speech to government officials in Gwacheon.  In Europe, the ECB will probably keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at  0.75 percent  when council members meet on Aug.
2, according to a Bloomberg survey. The Frankfurt-based central
bank last month reduced borrowing costs to a record low.  Draghi said on July 26 that policy makers are ready “to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro,” adding that “believe
me, it will be enough.” The U.S. Federal Reserve and the  Bank
of England  also meet this week to consider stimulus.  “The ECB is going to find itself under increased pressure
over the summer period,”  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro
Financial Services Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed note
before today’s release. “Even though rates may be near zero,
they are still seen having the greatest power to elicit some
confidence in markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  