-- Euro Rises Versus Most Major Peers Amid ECB Stimulus Bets
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-31T21:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/euro-set-for-monthly-loss-before-jobs-manufacturing-data.html
The euro rose against most of its
major counterparts on speculation the  European Central Bank  will
take steps at a meeting this week to stem the rise of the
region’s sovereign-bond yields.  The shared currency pared gains after the German Finance
Ministry said in an emailed statement it saw no need to give
 Europe ’s rescue fund a banking license. The euro gained last
week after ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever it
takes to preserve the currency. The pound dropped for the first
time in four days against the euro after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered its forecast for U.K. economic growth.  “There are more positive scenarios for the euro than
negative this week,” said  Greg Anderson , North American head of
G-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “The
reactivation of bond buying by the ECB is reasonably likely
because of the hints that Draghi has dropped along that
direction, and the market has clearly reacted in anticipation.”  The euro gained 0.3 percent to 96.12 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time. The shared currency advanced 0.4 percent to $1.2304, and
strengthened as much as 0.6 percent. The dollar was 0.1 percent
weaker at 78.12 yen.  Britain’s pound sank 0.6 percent to 78.48 pence per euro
and declined 0.2 percent to $1.5678. Moody’s, in a credit
opinion in  London , cited “rising challenges in achieving debt
reduction within the timeframe that has been laid out by the
government.”  Sterling fell 0.2 percent against the greenback this month.  Worst Performer  The euro lost 3.1 percent in the past month against nine
developed-market peers monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, the worst performance. The yen gained 2.5
percent, and the dollar rose 0.1 percent.  The greenback remained lower versus the euro today after
data showed U.S. consumer spending stagnated in June, supporting
bets the Fed will expand its balance sheet to stimulate the
economy. Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent
of the economy, were unchanged after a 0.1 percent decrease the
prior month that was previously reported as little changed,
Commerce Department data showed today in  Washington .  “We expect a third round of easing to come in September,
and our economists expect strong language hinting at that
tomorrow,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “Our expectations would be risk
on but it would be slightly muted in the FX world because of the
upcoming ECB.”  Quantitative Easing  While the Fed, which ends a two-day meeting tomorrow,
refrained from introducing a third round of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing at its June meeting, Bernanke
indicated it’s an option. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion
of securities in two rounds from 2008 to 2011 to spur growth,
and it has said its benchmark  interest rate  will stay at
“exceptionally low levels” at least through late 2014.  The euro slid 2.9 percent against the dollar this month. It
touched $1.2043 on July 24, the lowest level since June 2010.  “It will be a continuous grind lower from here,”  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg - The First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “We think it
trades down to and through $1.20, and that’s the story for
several months rather than weeks into the future.”  Hollande Pledge  French President  Francois Hollande  buoyed the shared
currency earlier, saying all will be done to defend and preserve
it. He and Italian President  Mario Monti  issued a joint
statement after meeting in Paris today.  One-month options show that the premium for euro puts,
which grant the right to sell the currency versus the dollar,
over calls, which confer the right to buy, increased today. The
so-called 25-delta risk reversals were at minus 1.1 percent,
from minus 0.4 percent on July 19.  Yields on Spanish government 10-year bonds rose to a euro-
era record of 7.75 percent on July 25 amid speculation the
nation would need a bailout. They traded at 6.75 percent today.
Italian 10-year yields touched 6.71 percent, a seven-month high,
on July 25 and were at 6.08 percent today.  Ewald Nowotny, an ECB council member, said last week there
were arguments in favor of giving Europe’s bailout fund a
banking license. That would allow it to increase its firepower
through access to ECB funds.  Draghi Proposal  Draghi has a proposal that involves the European Financial
Stability Facility buying government debt on the primary market,
buttressed by ECB purchases on the secondary market to ensure
lenders transmit its record-low  interest rates , two central bank
officials said on July 27 on condition of anonymity. Further ECB
 interest-rate  cuts and long-term loans to banks are also up for
discussion, one of the officials said.  “There’s a very high risk for disappointment,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank
AG, by phone from  Frankfurt . “In the foreign-exchange market
there’s a lot of expectations priced in already.”  The ECB meets in Frankfurt on Aug. 2.  Currencies of nations with higher interest rates headed for
monthly advances as speculation that the Fed and the ECB may
extend liquidity operations spurred appetite for higher-risk
currencies.  The Aussie dollar climbed 2.6 percent this month, beating
all of its 16 most-traded counterparts. The currency touched
$1.0538 today, the highest level since March 27, before trading
at $1.0503. It fell 0.4 percent to A$1.1714 per euro.  Canada’s currency gained 1.4 percent in July against the
dollar. It slipped 0.2 percent today to C$1.0031 to the
greenback after data showed the nation’s gross domestic product
grew 0.1 percent in May, less than economists forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  