-- Ex-Citigroup Executive Stoker Was Fraud Key, Jury Is Told
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-30T21:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/ex-citigroup-executive-stoker-was-fraud-key-jury-is-told.html
Brian Stoker, the former  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  executive, was essential to a scheme to defraud investors
in a collateralized debt obligation, a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawyer told jurors at the close of a civil
trial.  Jeffrey Infelise, an attorney for the SEC, said today in
federal court in  Manhattan  that Stoker committed  securities
fraud  that can’t be blamed just on the bank.  “If Citigroup stacked the deck, Mr. Stoker built the
cards,” Infelise said. “He was essential. He was in the middle
of this. They could not have done this without him.”  The SEC accused Stoker, a former head of the Citigroup CDO
structuring group, of negligently violating securities law in
putting together the assets in “Class V Funding III,” a $1
billion CDO. The government claims Citigroup withheld
information from investors about the bank’s interest in the
assets.  Infelise said Citigroup hand-picked assets that the bank
expected to perform poorly, and then bought protection for them
to ensure the bank would make money. Stoker omitted the bank’s
connection to the transaction from packages sent to potential
investors, Infelise said.  “Doing nothing when you’re working on disclosures to
investors in a billion-dollar CDO is not reasonable,” he said.  Stoker’s attorney, John Keker, accused Infelise of acting
like a “rabid dog,” saying the SEC’s case reminded him of the
children’s book series “Where’s Waldo?” U.S. District Judge
Jed S. Rakoff later scolded Keker with the jury out of the
courtroom and said he was in danger of being found in contempt
of court.  Sophisticated Investors  When the jury was present, Keker argued that the investors
were sophisticated enough to understand that sometimes the bank
behind the deal also has a stake in the fund.  “I’m not suggesting for a second that you can lie to
anyone, but these investors were not misled,” Keker said.
“They were given everything they wanted.”  “Most of this trial had nothing to do with Brian Stoker,”
Keker said. “The SEC has created a false world that simply
ignores what the evidence is.”  Rakoff, who kept the lawyers in the courtroom after jurors
went to lunch, said he was “deeply concerned with the tone and
manner of defense counsel’s summation.”  “You’re playing with fire,” Rakoff told Keker, saying the
defense attorney began with “a personalized attack on the SEC
counsel” that “was blatantly untrue in this court’s
observation.”  Contempt Warning  Rakoff added, “There were a bunch of other
improprieties,” and warned Keker he would be held in contempt
of court if he continued to make such arguments. Rakoff cited
the lawyer’s references to the jury-selection process and said
he had made a “blatant appeal to prejudice against the SEC.”  The judge gave the SEC lawyers an additional 15 minutes
this afternoon for rebuttal partly because of the defense’s tone
earlier. He commended Keker for how he presented afternoon
arguments.  Keker emphasized for the jury this afternoon that he saw no
evidence indicating it was common practice to put information
about the bank’s interests in the offering memorandums sent to
potential investors.  “Look at how many people didn’t raise this question,”
Keker said. “No offering memorandum ever in this industry
contains that information.”  Infelise responded in his rebuttal, telling the jury:
“Just because this might be the first time this was ever done
doesn’t mean it’s not a violation of  securities law .”  After being instructed by the judge, jurors deliberated for
about two hours before they were sent home. Deliberations are
scheduled to resume tomorrow.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stoker, 11-cv-7388, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York
at   egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  