-- Ex-UBS Executives Go to Trial in Bond Bid-Rigging Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   M a r t i n   B r a u n
-- 2012-07-30T22:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/ex-ubs-executives-go-to-trial-in-bond-bid-rigging-case.html
Peter Ghavami, former co-head of  UBS
AG (UBSN) ’s municipal-derivatives group, and two former co-workers were
accused by prosecutors of lying and stealing from U.S. cities
and towns by conspiring to rig bids for investing proceeds of
municipal bond sales.  Ghavami and his former colleagues, Gary Heinz and Michael
Welty, went on trial today in federal court, charged in a six-
count indictment with “long-running conspiracies and schemes to
defraud” municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax authorities by
fixing the prices on the investing agreements. Banks have
already paid more than $700 million to settle U.S. claims.  “We are here because cities and towns across America were
cheated out of public money,” Kalina Tulley, a Justice
Department lawyer, told jurors today in the government’s opening
statement. “The evidence will show that these defendants lied
and cheated and that these cities and towns were defrauded.”  The trial, in front of U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in
 Manhattan , stems from a nationwide probe of bid-rigging
involving banks and brokers including CDR Financial Products
Inc. The defendants deny any wrongdoing.  Prosecutors expect to prove “the knowing and active
participation” of UBS,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  in the fraud alleged against the
three former UBS executives, according to a July 6 court filing.  Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, UBS,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
GE Funding Capital Market Services, a former unit, have paid
more than $700 million to settle claims by the government.
 Beverly Hills , California-based CDR and 13 individuals have
pleaded guilty to criminal charges.  Bankers Tried  In May, three former GE bankers, Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and  Peter Grimm , were found guilty by a federal jury in
Manhattan of conspiracy to commit fraud by manipulating auctions
for municipal-bond investment contracts. The government claimed
that from August 1999 to November 2006 the men gave kickbacks to
brokers hired by local governments to solicit bids, seeking to
win auctions and increase their profit.  Carollo, Goldberg and Grimm have asked the trial judge to
throw out the verdict.  At the Ghavami trial, prosecutors said they will present
recordings of conversations between the banker-defendants and
brokers hired by local governments, as they did in the Carollo
case. That evidence will show how they worked together to
manipulate rates on the investment contracts and cheat states,
counties and towns of millions of dollars, prosecutors said.
Some of the profit allegedly was shared with the brokers for
controlling the process.  ‘Business Reasons’  “There were plenty of sound, legitimate, honest business
reasons that you would put a bid in on a deal even if you
weren’t dying to win it,”  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz,
told jurors. Issuers often submitted losing bids to “stay on
the brokers’ radar,” he said.  Competitors talked to gain market information or to bluff
other bidders, according to Mukasey.  The defendants have argued that the rigged bids charged by
the government were “isolated in a sea of hundreds of other
transactions” and were innocent. Wood said she may allow
evidence of the uncharged transactions on a case-by-case basis.  Christiaan Brakman, a UBS spokesman,  Russell Wilkerson , a
spokesman for  GE Capital , and Bank of America spokesman  William Halldin  declined to comment on the trial. JPMorgan Chase
spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  didn’t return a call seeking
comment yesterday.  As many as 200 recordings related to about 40 deals will be
put into evidence, prosecutors told Wood in a July 9 filing.  ‘Last Looks’  The government claims bidders on investment contracts were
often given “last looks” at other bids, intentionally
submitted losing bids and steered investment contracts in
exchange for kickbacks or favorable treatment on future
auctions.  Prosecutors said they will also offer testimony from
witnesses who have pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate. Those
people may include Mark Zaino, a former UBS employee who was a
key witness in the Carollo case. He may play a similar role in
the trial of his former UBS co-workers.  In the Carollo case, Zaino testified that he and others at
UBS helped Grimm, a former banker at a GE subsidiary, win bids
in exchange for kickbacks. UBS gave Grimm information on what
other banks had bid on five deals, allowing him to lower the
rate he was prepared to bid and still win, he said. Following
the bid, the GE subsidiary would enter into a swap with UBS
which served to disguise kickbacks, he testified.  UBS booked profit of more than $1.5 million on three swaps,
Zaino said.  ‘Profitable Rates’  “He and others at UBS helped Grimm not only win, but win
at profitable rates because Grimm paid,” said Kevin Hart, an
antitrust prosecutor, in his closing statement in the Carollo
trial.  Mukasey called Zaino a snake today, and urged jurors to
disbelieve testimony from him and the government’s other
cooperating witnesses.  “One of these guys is more dishonest than the next,” the
defense lawyer said.  The government also played a tape at the Carollo trial in
which Michael Welty, one of the UBS defendants going to trial
today, acted as a broker for a $100 million deal for a Denver-
based hospital system in January 2002.  Grimm told Welty he could bid at 2.46 percent or higher,
according to a tape played at the May trial. Five minutes later,
Welty called Grimm back and told him to bid 2.38 percent. Grimm
won the deal and UBS made $75,000.  The amount of evidence collected in the case is massive,
 Charles Stillman , a lawyer for Ghavami, said in court. The U.S.
has provided more than 600,000 audiotapes and hundreds of
millions of documents, he said.  Both sides estimate the trial may last about four weeks.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  