-- Texas Instruments, Unilever Lead Debt Sales With Record Coupons
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-30T21:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/texas-instruments-unilever-lead-debt-sales-with-record-coupons.html
Corporate issuers from  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  to  Unilever NV (UN)  are exploiting near record-low
 interest rates  in the U.S. by selling bonds with unprecedented
coupons in the busiest start to a week since March.  Texas Instruments, the largest maker of analog chips, and
London- and Rotterdam-based Unilever issued a combined $2.5
billion of debt that each included a record 0.45 percent coupon
on three-year notes. Companies have sold or are planning to
issue at least $10 billion of debt today, the  busiest start  to a
week since March 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowers are tapping U.S. credit markets after yields on
investment-grade bonds dropped to a record 3.049 percent last
week, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Investors are attracted to higher-rated companies such as Texas
Instruments and Unilever, whose debt is deemed safer as European
policy makers struggle to solve the region’s fiscal crisis,
according to Rajeev Sharma of First Investors Management Co.  “Investors have typically tried to buy a little more high
quality in this type of environment, where  Europe  is still a
question mark,” Sharma, whose firm oversees $1.5 billion of
high-grade debt, said in a telephone interview.  The extra yield borrowers demand to own U.S. investment-
grade debt instead of  government securities  narrowed to 195
basis points July 27, from 215 basis points at the end of June,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. High-grade
companies have sold $618 billion of debt in the U.S. this year,
up 7 percent from last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Spreads Narrow  Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods maker,
behind  Procter & Gamble Co ., issued $450 million of three-year
notes and $550 million of five-year debentures. The maker of
Dove soaps and Ben & Jerry’s ice cream last sold dollar debt in
February 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Texas Instruments sold $1.5 billion of debt in the Dallas-
based company’s first offering in more than a year with equal
$750 million portions of three- and seven-year bonds. The sale
was larger than the $1 billion that was marketed earlier in the
day, according to a person familiar with the offering who asked
not to be identified, citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly.  Teck Resources Ltd.,  Canada ’s biggest base-metals producer,
sold $1.75 billion of debt in the day’s biggest offering that
included bonds due in 2018, 2023 and 2043, Bloomberg data show.  Other borrowers include Campbell Soup Co., the world’s
largest soup maker, which issued $1.25 billion in bonds to fund
its acquisition of juicemaker Bolthouse Farms, and Clinique
skin-care maker Estee Lauder Cos., which raised $500 million to
help refinance debt. TransCanada Corp., a Calgary-based natural
gas distributor, sold $1 billion in 10-year notes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  