-- Texas Senate Runoff May Shift Tone of Debate in Congress
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/texas-senate-runoff-may-shift-tone-of-debate-in-congress.html
Texas  Republicans will decide
tomorrow whether to repudiate an established leader by putting a
newcomer backed by Sarah Palin on the road to Congress, a move
that could further polarize debate over taxes and health care.  The primary runoff to replace  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a
Republican who is retiring, pits Ted Cruz, who would be Texas’s
first Latino U.S. senator, against Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, a longtime Austin insider. The winner may have a lock
on the seat, as no Democrat has won a statewide vote since 1994.
The race also highlights a widening intraparty rift.  “If Cruz wins, it will be because grassroots support was
more powerful than money, keeping in mind that money from
external groups helped him,” said  Mark Jones , a politics
professor at  Rice University . “If Dewhurst wins, people will
say he ran a poor campaign but had enough support from Perry and
the establishment,” referring to Governor  Rick Perry .  Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate,
joined Texas Tea Party leaders at a July 27 rally for Cruz, a
Cuban-American lawyer from Houston who has said his opponent is
too willing to compromise with political foes. Dewhurst, backed
by elected state leaders such as Perry, has blasted Cruz, 41, as
a tool of  Washington  insiders.  “ Ted Cruz  is not going to D.C. to make nice with the frou-
frou, chi-chi cocktail crowd,” Palin said at the rally near
Houston, wearing cowboy boots she said were a gift from Perry.
“He is going to do the heavy lifting and rein in our out-of-
control government. Fighters like Ted Cruz can lead the charge
for us.”  Widening Gap  A poll released late yesterday gave Cruz a 52 percent to 42
percent lead, up from a 5 percentage-point advantage in a
similar automated telephone survey released about two weeks
earlier. The July 28-29 poll of 665 likely runoff voters had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.8 percentage points,
according to Public Policy Polling in Raleigh, North Carolina.  Dewhurst, 66, has poured millions of his own fortune into
the campaign, loaning $19.2 million to the effort, according to
Matt Hirsch, a spokesman. The U.S. Air Force veteran and former
Central Intelligence Agency employee made millions as a Houston
entrepreneur before entering politics. As lieutenant governor,
he has controlled the legislative agenda in the Republican-
dominated state Senate for almost a decade.  “There are already serious divisions between Republican
elites and a big part of their grassroots,” said  Jim Henson ,
who directs the Texas Politics Project at the  University of
Texas  at Austin. “Just the fact that Cruz has made such a
powerful run against Dewhurst, regardless of who wins, will have
implications” for their party, he said.  Outside Influence  Outside groups such as the Club for Growth in Washington
have backed Cruz, a former state solicitor general. The club,
which also supported  Richard Mourdock ’s successful senate
primary bid in  Indiana , has spent $5 million on advertising for
Cruz, according to federal reports. Senator  Jim DeMint , a South
Carolina Republican whose political-action committee has
invested almost $2 million in the campaign, has said Cruz would
provide him with “conservative reinforcements” in Washington.  DeMint has supported Washington outsiders such as Mourdock,
the Indiana treasurer who beat six-term Republican Senator
 Richard Lugar  in May, to strengthen his push for spending cuts,
repealing President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul and
enforcing immigration laws. DeMint’s PAC spurn’s “liberal”
Republicans. Widening policy rifts and growing rancor in the
nation’s Capitol prompted three-term Senator  Olympia Snowe , a
Maine Republican, to declare her retirement this year.  $39.4 Million Race  Combined spending by the two campaigns reached $26.5
million through July 11, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington. It
said outside groups have pumped in another $13.6 million.  “The amount of money that Cruz and Dewhurst have poured
into this race dwarfs anything that we’ve seen in Texas” since
the 1990s, when Republicans eclipsed Democrats as the state’s
dominant party, said Rice’s Jones.  The son of a Cuban father who arrived in Austin in 1957 and
an American mother who was the first in her family to attend
college, Cruz graduated from  Princeton University  and  Harvard
Law School . He was Texas’s top appellate lawyer from 2003 to
2008, starting after Perry began his reign as governor.  A resident of Houston, where he is a partner with Morgan
Lewis & Bockius LLP, Cruz began his campaign in January 2011,
when he said very, very few voters knew his name in the
second-largest U.S. state by population. While almost 38 percent
of Texas residents are Hispanic, 75 percent supported Democrats
in 2010, according to Richard Murray, who teaches politics at
the  University of Houston .  Dewhurst Record  Since taking over the state Senate in 2003, Dewhurst has
pushed tax cuts for small businesses and homeowners. Last year,
he helped win passage of a bill backed by Perry to require
sonograms for pregnant women before getting an abortion. He also
supported a law forcing residents to show photo identification
to obtain a ballot, which has been put on hold pending a legal
challenge from the U.S. Justice Department.  While he was the only candidate holding statewide elected
office heading into the party’s May 29 primary election,
Dewhurst failed to win more than half the votes cast, picking up
45 percent in a field of nine candidates. That forced tomorrow’s
runoff with Cruz, the second-place finisher with 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  