-- Mexican Oil Reforms Are Vital on Both Sides of the Border
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-30T22:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/mexican-oil-reforms-are-vital-on-both-sides-of-the-border.html
In recent days a coalition of
Mexican advocacy groups has been  protesting  in front of
Televisa, the country’s largest TV network, to contest the
legitimacy of President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto’s July 1
victory.  These protests are the second in a string of such
demonstrations scheduled before Pena Nieto takes office in
December. They bode ill for  Mexico ’s near-term political future,
pointing to a rocky transition at a time when the challenges
facing the country are anything but modest. Americans might
assume that tackling the drug trade that has resulted in more
than  47,000 deaths since 2006  would top the agenda. But a strong
case can be made that energy reforms are at least as urgent, for
if Mexico can’t stem its sharply deteriorating energy situation,
its ability to tackle other systemic problems will be severely
compromised.  Despite some recent progress in diversifying its economy,
Mexico still relies on oil for 30 percent of its fiscal revenue.
Yet oil production has plummeted from 3.4 million barrels a day
in 2004 to 2.5 million in 2011, with most experts predicting a
 continuing decline  over the next decade. Absent changes, Mexico
could be a net importer of oil by 2020, ceasing exports to the
U.S. altogether.  Oil Reserves  This assessment might sound odd to Americans who are
getting used to the idea that their energy future is brightening
significantly on account of burgeoning resources at home and
among their neighbors. There is no question that Mexico, with
the 12th-largest oil reserves in the world, has the geological
resources to maintain and even improve its ranking as the
eighth-largest oil producer. Equally striking is Mexico’s
recently acknowledged endowment of shale gas. Not surprisingly,
the prolific  formations in Texas  do not end at the border;
Mexico is thought to have the fourth largest deposits of shale
gas in the world, after Argentina, China and the U.S.  But, as is often the case, politics trump natural
endowments in determining the energy profile of a geological
giant. Mexico’s constitution makes it illegal for foreign
companies to develop the country’s natural resources;  Petroleos
Mexicanos , the national oil and gas company known as Pemex,
holds the exclusive ability to explore and bring to market vast
petroleum reserves. Pemex, however, doesn’t have sufficient
capital and technology to do so, and is burdened by a bloated
bureaucracy and persistent interference by the state. Without
significant reform, Pemex won’t be up to the task of reversing
Mexico’s energy decline.  Just one month ago, Mexico’s prospects for energy reform --
though still far from a sure thing -- looked more promising than
at any point since the industry was nationalized in 1938. The
top two presidential contenders -- Pena Nieto of the
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  and Josefina Vazquez Mota of
the  National Action Party  -- were advocating substantial reforms
to Pemex. Both spoke openly about allowing more private sector
participation in Pemex and eventually listing it on the stock
exchange. Pena Nieto declared the need for “audacious steps”
if Mexico was going stabilize its energy sector and reposition
it as the engine of Mexican economic growth.  Pena Nieto’s interest in applying the “Petrobras model”
to Pemex seemed particularly promising.  Brazil  introduced
reforms that allowed private and foreign capital to flow into
its national  oil company ,  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , without the
appearance or reality of selling national assets to foreign
entities. Although there have been some bumps in the road, the
infusion of capital has allowed for more investment in
exploration and production, and has fueled a major research
initiative that led to Petrobras becoming a world leader in
deep-water technology.  Similar reforms could spur positive results in Pemex.
Listing it on the stock exchange could also bring greater
shareholder accountability, improve corporate governance and
give the company the ability to operate more like a corporation
and less like an arm of the state.  Protest Movement  A number of developments since the presidential election,
however, have made such reforms seem more fantasy than reality.
First, the protest movement against Pena Nieto has altered the
president-elect’s priorities from energy reform to transparency
and anti-corruption. This shift may not placate the protesters,
many of whom are students. But stirring up popular sentiment
against private-sector involvement in the  energy industry  will
be an easy target for the new president’s opponents. To
understand the emotion with which many Mexicans regard the
issue, one only need know that, every March 18, the nation
commemorates the day in 1938 when President Lazaro Cardenas del
Rio expropriated all oil reserves.  Second, the composition of the new Congress does not bode
well for major energy reforms, which would probably require
constitutional revisions and thus two-thirds support from
lawmakers. Pena Nieto’s PRI did not win the majority of seats in
the 500-member lower house, the Chamber of Deputies. Thus it can
only reach the critical two-thirds threshold with support from
PAN, whose members are likely to remember the vigor with which
the PRI opposed efforts at reforming Pemex by the outgoing
president, PAN’s  Felipe Calderon .  Despite these additional challenges to an already ambitious
agenda, Pena Nieto should not back away from his statements or
his intentions to reform the oil and gas behemoth. Given the
centrality of Mexico’s energy sector to the country’s future,
his ability to govern over the long run may depend on it. To do
so, he will need to mount a multipronged effort with a flavor of
national unity.  The first step must be a sober education initiative aimed
at getting Mexican voters to appreciate the direness of the
situation and the critical nature of energy reforms to the
vitality of their economy. The government’s new National Energy
Strategy, which blithely assumes that oil production will be 3.3
million barrels a day in 2026, is an indication of how the state
has misled its citizens. Pena Nieto needs to begin by leveling
with Mexicans about the faltering direction of their energy
future.  Reaching Accommodation  Second, the PRI, back in power after 12 years, will need to
reach an accommodation with the  PAN  on the way ahead in energy.
Building a joint front will not be easy, despite the now-common
agenda of both parties on this issue. Winning the PAN’s support
will probably require a negotiation on a larger agenda of items
that produces a recognizable win or two for the PAN on other
fronts.  Short of that grand bargain, Pena Nieto could build on
Calderon’s more modest energy reforms. He could begin by
modifying the new Mexican integrated service agreements -- the
first were issued a year ago -- to allow foreign companies to be
paid in oil. This arrangement would technically give
international  oil companies  no ownership of the resources, but
might enable them to book the reserves -- a critical factor in
attracting foreign, private interest.  The U.S. is not a bystander in this high stakes game. Not
only is Mexico its third-largest source of oil imports, but the
U.S. has an even greater interest in the solvency and stability
of its southern neighbor. When the next U.S. administration
develops a long-overdue and much-needed U.S. energy strategy, it
should look for ways to encourage a Mexican energy recovery, be
it through treaties, private-sector involvement, infrastructure
development or the resolution of disputed claims.  Those on both sides of the border will benefit from success
-- or suffer from failure.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. She is a foreign-policy adviser to the  Mitt Romney  campaign. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this column:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 