-- Exxon Valdez Allowed Entry Into India Shipbreaking Yard
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-30T08:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/exxon-valdez-allowed-entry-into-india-shipbreaking-yard.html
India ’s  Supreme Court  ruled that the
ship that spilt millions of gallons of oil in waters off  Alaska 
in 1989 can be recycled in the nation’s biggest scrapyard in a
defeat for an environmentalist.  A two-judge team headed by Altamas Kabir said the Oriental
Nicety, formerly known as the Exxon Valdez, may enter the yard
in Alang, on India’s western coast, following a May decision by
the Gujarat Pollution Control Board that denied the ship entry.
The judges said the ship’s owner or its agent will be
responsible for disposing any toxic material found in the ship.  Priya Blue Industries Pvt . a Gujarat-based company that
bought the ship for scrapping, plans to bring it into the yard
in two days from the anchorage off the state’s coast, company
founder Sanjay Mehta said in a telephone interview. The ship
will take five months to be broken down, Mehta said.  The verdict is “disappointing,” said Gopal Krishna, the
New Delhi-based activist with ToxicsWatch Alliance who
approached the court in April to bar the ship’s entry. Krishna
had said the ship poses an environmental threat because it had
asbestos and heavy metals aboard.  Hardik Shah, member secretary of the Gujarat Pollution
Control Board, didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone
today.  Alaska Oil Spill  The Exxon Valdez spilt 11 million gallons of oil into
Alaska’s Prince William Sound, devastating wildlife and local
businesses. Victims of the spill sued  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and won
a $5 billion punitive damage award in 1994 that was cut to
$507.5 million in 2008 by a divided U.S. Supreme Court.  In the petition filed in India’s Supreme Court, Krishna had
said the 301 meter-long (988 feet) ship, built in 1986, was
purchased by Best Oasis Ltd., a unit of Priya Blue, for $16
million.  Alang, which opened in 1982, has the capacity to break
ships of about 4 million metric tons a year, according to
 Gujarat Maritime Board  website. The yard directly employs about
25,000 workers, according to the Board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  