-- Fed Weighs Cutting Interest on Banks’ Reserves After ECB Move
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-30T20:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/fed-weighs-cutting-interest-on-banks-reserves-after-ecb-move.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may be taking another look at cutting the  interest rate 
the Fed pays on bank reserves to bring down short-term borrowing
costs and spur the slowing U.S. expansion.  Bernanke testified to Congress on July 17 that reducing the
rate from its current 0.25 percent is one of several easing
steps the Fed might take to reduce unemployment stuck above 8
percent for more than three years. In February, by contrast, the
Fed chairman told Congress that lowering the rate might drive
away investors from short-term money markets.  “They’re reconsidering it,” said  Ward McCarthy , a former
Richmond Fed economist. A July 5 decision by the  European
Central Bank  to cut its deposit rate to zero is prompting
renewed interest in the strategy, said McCarthy, chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. McCarthy said it’s unlikely the Fed
will reduce the rate at a two-day meeting that starts tomorrow.  Policy makers meeting this week are looking for new
monetary tools after the Fed lowered its  benchmark interest rate 
to near zero in December 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion of
securities to spur the economy. A government report on July 27
showed economic growth slowed to a 1.5 percent annual rate in
the second quarter as consumers curbed spending.  “They are at the end of their rope and are probably
searching for every last option for what they can do,” said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 New York  and a former economist for the Fed Board in  Washington .
“You can’t rule anything out because they’re going to flail
around and try every last thing they can.”  Take Action  European  stocks  rose today to their highest level since
April on speculation policy makers will take action to ease the
debt crisis. ECB President  Mario Draghi  meets with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Frankfurt today after leaders in
Berlin, Paris and Rome backed him by saying they will do what’s
needed to protect the 17-nation euro.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 1.6 percent to
263.94 at the close, while the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index
decreased less than 0.1 percent to 1,385.3 at the 4 p.m. close
in New York on concern the 3.6 percent rally over the prior two
days had outpaced the economic outlook.  Economic confidence  in the euro area fell in July more than
economists forecast to the lowest in almost three years,
suggesting the economy’s slump extended into the  third quarter 
as governments struggled to tame the debt crisis. An  index  of
executive and consumer sentiment in 17-nation euro area dropped
to 87.9 from 89.9 in June, the European Commission in Brussels
said today.  Aid Growth  Japan’s  industrial production  unexpectedly declined and
South Korean manufacturers’ confidence dropped to a three-year
low, building the case for extra monetary and fiscal measures to
aid growth. Production fell 0.1 percent in June from May, when
it slid 3.4 percent, Japan’s Trade Ministry said today. The
 South Korean confidence index  for August was at 70 after 81 for
July, the central bank said.  The Fed may extend its time frame for keeping interest
rates low beyond late 2014 at the coming meeting, Feroli said.
Another option mentioned by Bernanke is a new round of large-
scale bond purchases, which McCarthy said is more likely to
occur later this year than in August.  Central banks around the world are digging deeper into
their tool kits in search of innovative ways to unclog bank
lending. The FOMC meeting ends one day before Draghi’s Governing
Council and  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King ’s Monetary
Policy Committee.  Cutting Rate  The institutions’ last meetings ended with the Fed
prolonging its Operation Twist program to extend the maturities
of assets on its balance sheet, the ECB cutting its benchmark
rate to a record low 0.75 percent and the BOE restarting bond
buying.  By reducing the interest it pays on excess reserves, a
central bank gives financial institutions an incentive to shift
their money into lending that yields a higher return. The aim is
to expand the supply of credit and speed economic growth.  Excess reserves have mushroomed as the Fed bought
securities from banks in its bid to lower long-term interest
rates. The amount of such reserves at the Fed was $1.49 trillion
on July 25, up from $991 billion at the end of 2010 and $2.4
billion at the end of 2007, Fed data show.  Traders have speculated the Fed will follow the ECB,
pushing short-term rates lower in the U.S., according to Jim Lee, head of U.S. derivative strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The
fed funds effective rate fell to 14 basis points on July 27 from
17 basis points on July 5. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  No Disruptions  “Part of the reason for the demand this month for short-
term U.S. debt has been due to speculation that the Fed will cut
the IOER following the ECB’s move and given the lack of
disruptions in European money markets,” Lee said in an
interview, referring to the interest rate on excess reserves.  The yield on the  two-year Treasury note  fell to 0.23
percent today, down from 0.29 percent on July 5, while the
implied yield for eurodollar futures that expire in December has
fallen about 12 basis points during the period. The rate is
based on expectations for three-month dollar Libor, or the
London interbank offered rate.  “Clearly the market is purchasing some lottery tickets in
case the Fed does cut the IOER,” Lee said. The Fed has held the
rate at 25 basis points since December 2008.  After the ECB’s cut, deposits at the central bank fell to
321 billion euros ($396 billion) on July 26, the least since
Dec. 21.  Investor Demand  The ECB’s move fueled investor demand for short-term
sovereign debt from the region’s safest nations, including
Germany, Austria, and  Finland , driving rates lower, with some of
them falling below zero for the first time. Investors holding
debt with a negative yield to maturity will receive less than
they paid to buy the securities.  The central bank’s action hasn’t caused significant
disruptions in European markets, said  Alex Roever , head of
short-term fixed-income strategy at JPMorgan in New York.  Market stability following the ECB’s move has probably
prompted Bernanke to reconsider, Feroli said. Rising short-term
borrowing costs may have also made the tool more appealing.  The fed funds effective  rate  -- at 14 basis points on July
27 -- has increased from six basis points at the end of
September. That month the Fed announced its Operation Twist plan
extending the average maturity of bonds in its portfolio by
selling short-term securities and buying longer-term debt.  Increase Leverage  Also, the average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries
for one day through  repurchase agreements , or repos, rose to as
high this year as 0.297 percent on July 2, from minus 0.001
percent at the end of last year, a Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp. index of General Collateral Finance repos  shows . The rate
was 0.172 percent on July 27. Securities dealers use repos to
finance holdings and increase leverage.  If Bernanke decided to lower the deposit rate, he would
probably reduce it by about 10 or 12 basis points, instead of to
zero, Feroli said.  A reduction may pose fewer political disadvantages than
Bernanke’s other stimulus options, including an expansion of the
Fed’s balance sheet. The central bank’s purchase of $2.3
trillion in securities during two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing has drawn fire from lawmakers, including
House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , concerned about
inflation risks.  Stop Paying  In contrast, some lawmakers have urged Bernanke to stop
paying interest on reserves.  “What you’re actually doing by this is sort of
incentivizing the banks” to “keep their excess reserves at the
Fed,” Representative  Scott Garrett , a Republican from New
Jersey, said to Bernanke during Feb. 29 congressional testimony
by the central bank chief. “Isn’t that sort of counter to what
your policy should be?”  Bernanke said the benefits from a rate reduction would be
“pretty small.” Also, a cut would risk triggering some
“financial side effects.”  The Fed’s other stimulus tools include altering the
language on the outlook for interest rates and using the so-
called  discount  window for direct lending to banks, Bernanke
said in July 17 congressional testimony.  “That’s a range of things that we could do,” Bernanke
said. “Each one of them has costs and benefits, and that’s an
important part of the calculation.”  An IOER reduction alone probably wouldn’t buoy economic
growth, said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy in
New York at Nomura Holdings Inc., a primary dealer.  The Fed may make the cut “in combination with a change in
communication policy” extending the Fed’s commitment to hold
the main interest rate close to zero beyond late 2014, or paired
with another round of quantitative easing, Goncalves said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  