-- Firms Facing Federal Cuts Shouldn’t Send Layoff Notices
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-31T01:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/firms-facing-federal-cuts-shouldn-t-sent-layoff-notices.html
The federal law requiring worker
notification of mass layoffs doesn’t apply to defense companies
and other government contractors affected by the possibility of
across-the-board budget cuts beginning early next year, the U.S.
Department of Labor said.  In guidance posted today on its website, the Labor
Department said it would be “inappropriate” for companies to
send 60-day notices to their employees given the uncertainty
about whether the reductions will occur or which jobs will be
cut.  Legal notice “to employees of federal contractors,
including in the defense industry, is not required 60 days in
advance of Jan. 2, 2013, and would be inappropriate, given the
lack of certainty about how the budget cuts will be implemented
and the possibility that the sequester will be avoided before
January,” the department said.  Companies led by Lockheed Martin Corp., the world’s largest
defense contractor, have said federal and state laws may require
them to issue notifications of potential job cuts days before
the Nov. 6 election unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress
act to avert automatic defense reductions of $500 billion over a
decade that would start on Jan. 2.  The department was clarifying requirements under the Worker
Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, also known as the
WARN Act.  Partisan Fight Brewing  The Labor Department guidance, prepared for state agencies
that aid laid-off workers under the law, comes as a partisan
fight is building over the defense reductions, with Democrats
insisting that Republicans agree to some tax increases to avert
the cuts. The cuts stem from last year’s clash over raising the
debt limit, with the automatic cuts employed as a fallback if
both parties couldn’t agree on a broad debt-reduction package.  Companies and industry groups, such as the Aerospace
Industries Association, are also demanding more clarity from the
White House and Pentagon over how the cuts will be implemented.
The defense cuts amount to about a 10 percent reduction.  In a statement, House Armed Services Committee Chairman
Howard P. “Buck” McKeon accused Labor Secretary Hilda Solis of
participating in a political gambit, and said Obama should focus
on ending the budget impasse with Congress.  ‘Politically Motivated’  “As it stands, the only certainty we are dealing with is
that dramatic cuts will force huge job losses,” McKeon said in
a statement. “And as a result of Secretary Solis’ politically
motivated guidance, people will still get laid off because of
the president’s irresponsibility, but they won’t have the notice
to protect themselves and their families.”  Republican Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona ,  Lindsey Graham 
of  South Carolina  and  Kelly Ayotte  of  New Hampshire , in a joint
statement, likewise criticized the Labor Department’s action as
a “deliberate political effort from the White House to skirt
the law” and use national security as “a partisan bargaining
chip.”  Disputing that, Representative  Adam Smith  of Washington,
the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee,
commended the Labor Department for “an important and correct
interpretation of the law” that avoids actions that would
“needlessly alarm hundreds of thousands of workers when there
is no way to know what will happen with sequestration.”  The Labor Department’s move could boost prospects the cuts
will occur,  Byron Callan , a defense industry analyst with
Capital Alpha Partners LLC, said in a note to clients.  “The guidance could marginally increase the probability of
sequestration as an absence of layoff notices might entail less
constituent pressure for Congress to act,” he said.  WARN Act  The federal WARN Act, which became law in 1988, requires
most employers with 100 or more workers to give 60 days’ notice
of plant closings or “mass layoffs” -- labor cutbacks
affecting 500 or more workers, or at least 33 percent of the
workforce for companies with fewer than 500 employees.  Industry trade groups have predicted the automatic cuts may
cost 1 million U.S. jobs, and Robert Stevens, chairman and chief
executive officer of Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, has led
the way in discussing the possibility of mass WARN Act notices.  “It is quite possible that we will need to notify
employees in the September and October time frame that they may
or may not have a job in January depending upon whether
sequestration does or does not take effect,” Stevens said at an
investor’s conference in  New York  on May 31. “Because the level
of planning detail really isn’t available, we may have to notify
every one of our employees, and all of our suppliers and
subcontractors that they may or may not have a subcontract.”  10,000 Jobs  Stevens on July 18 testified before the House Armed
Services Committee that his “back of the envelope” estimate is
that Lockheed would have to cut 10,000 jobs if the spending
reductions go forward.  Other defense firms, including  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , have not indicated they may send
notices widely. Top officials at the aerospace trade group,
which represents them and other firms, have raised the
possibility that member companies may have to send the notices
due to the uncertainty of the so-called sequestration.  Cord Sterling, the top lobbyist for the AIA, said the
guidance appears at odds with a Labor Department fact sheet
about the law stating that the agency can’t provide “specific
advice or guidance with respect to individual situations”
because it doesn’t have enforcement responsibility for the law.
It will be up to each contractor and its lawyers to decide how
to proceed, he said.  Help for States  Elizabeth Alexander, a Labor Department spokeswoman, said
the guidance today didn’t relate to any “individual situation”
but was intended generally to help state workforce agencies.  A spokesman for Lockheed Martin, Christopher Williams, said
the company is “reviewing today’s Department of Labor guidance
to assess its impacts on our obligations with respect to the
WARN Act and potential sequestration.”  In its guidance, the Labor Department said it would be
“inconsistent” with the purpose of the WARN Act to send the
notices as the sequestration looms. The purpose is to help
workers who will lose their jobs get training or find other
jobs, and the notices are very specific about exactly which jobs
and plants are affected, the guidance said. Which contracts
might be affected and where cutbacks might occur is
“speculative and unforeseeable” at this time, it said.  The preamble of the WARN Act regulations state outright
that “it is not appropriate for an employer to provide blanket
notice to workers,” the Labor Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  