-- For-Profit Colleges Shortchange Taxpayers, Senate Study Says
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-07-30T20:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/for-profit-colleges-shortchange-taxpayers-senate-report-finds.html
For-profit college chains including
 Apollo Group Inc. (APOL)  pressured students to enroll while dodging
questions about costs, according to a Senate report that cites a
trove of internal e-mails and training documents.  The schools received $32 billion in tuition aid in 2009-
2010 and aren’t a good investment for taxpayer money, according
to the  study  released yesterday. In its probe, the Senate
Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, led by Iowa
Democrat  Tom Harkin , examined 30 companies over two years.  The report, more than 1,000 pages long, takes aim at
Apollo’s University of Phoenix,  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) ,
 Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan Higher Education and other for-
profit colleges, which as a group spend more on marketing than
instruction. Harkin, the U.S. Justice Department and state
attorneys general are investigating for-profit colleges, which
rely on federal financial-aid money for as much as 90 percent of
their revenue.  “In this report, you will find overwhelming documentation
of exorbitant tuition, aggressive student recruiting and abysmal
student outcomes,” Harkin, who is proposing more regulation of
the industry, said at a news conference today in  Washington .
“These practices are not the exception. They are the norm.”  Apollo, based in Phoenix, fell 4.1 percent to $27.22 at
the close in  New York . Education Management, based in
Pittsburgh, declined 7.8 percent to $3.77, and Washington Post
dropped 1.2 percent to $340.49.  A Bloomberg  index  of 13 for-profit college companies,
slipped 4 percent, and has dropped 46 percent this year.  ‘Political Attacks’  Educational companies have lobbied against new regulations,
which they say will restrict opportunities for working adults
and low-income students.  Steve Gunderson, president of the Association of Private
Sector Colleges and Universities, which represents for-profit
schools, said his members provide education to 3.8 million
students, including working adults and veterans.  “The report twists the facts to fit a narrative, proving
that this is nothing more than continued political attacks on
private sector colleges and universities,” Gunderson in a
statement.  In a  minority report , Senate Republican staff members
criticized the report’s findings, saying that Democrats
repeatedly refused to work in a bipartisan manner and expand the
scope of the investigation to include nonprofit and state
universities, raising “substantial doubt about the accuracy of
the information.”  ‘Create Urgency’  Apollo recruiters are trained not to provide direct answers
about costs when speaking with recruiters, according to
materials cited in the majority report.  “If a prospect says, ‘You’re too expensive,’ the recruiter
could respond, ‘Can you afford not to go?’” or “If you are
going to making more money, wouldn’t these loans be easier to
pay back?,” according to a 2007 training manual cited in the
report.  The manual urges recruiters to “create urgency in your
students” so they don’t wait to sign up. It counsels
recruiters: “Do not tell the student we have classes running
every week unless you can agree on a start date, or rolling
start dates is a selling point.”  The training manual is outdated and doesn’t reflect
Apollo’s approach to enrolling students, Rick Castellano, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Apollo Group in 2009 began offering a mandatory orientation
program that lets students try programs before committing to
taking on debt. The U.S. Education Department and the Harkin
report both praised that program, Castellano said.  Education Management  At Education Management, which runs a chain of Art
Institutes and other programs, the company pushed recruiters to
meet enrollment targets, according to e-mails. “Please everyone
hit the phones!!!,” a manager wrote in a 2008 e-mail. “We are
far behind where we need to be!!!”  Supervisors offered prizes such as company-paid trips,
including to  Hawaii , according to the report. EDMC told
investigators that it never sponsored such a trip.  Jacquelyn P. Muller, an Education Management spokeswoman,
said the company hasn’t had the chance to review the full
report.  At Kaplan, recruiters were told to enroll as many students
as possible, encouraging employees to ask questions that would
“uncover their pain, fears, and dreams” so they would stir up
their emotions and enroll quickly, according to 2009 training
materials. Kaplan called this approach the “artichoke method”
that would result in “peeling back the layers” and “Getting
to the PAIN.”  Marketing Outlay  The report noted, as an example of “significant reforms,”
a Kaplan program that lets students try out classes before
committing to take out loans.  “The bulk of the report repeats prior criticisms and
relies on dated, isolated situations to characterize current
practices,” Kaplan said today in an e-mail.  Students complained in e-mails to  ITT Educational Services
Inc. (ESI)  that recruiters misled them about the cost of programs,
their access to loans, and whether their credits would be able
to transfer to traditional programs.  “We enrolled in good faith, thinking we were working
towards a diploma improving our future, but instead we would
have paid a lot of money for something insignificant,” one
student said in a May 2010 written complaint to the company.  ITT Complaints  In a letter to Harkin, ITT said the complaints in the
report “are not representative of typical student
experiences.”  At today’s news conference, Laura Brozek, a former director
of recruitment who worked for ITT from 2004 through 2011, said
the school would enroll convicted felons into criminal-justice
programs after which they wouldn’t be able to get jobs because
of their records.  “In my opinion, this is unconscionable,” she said.  Lauren Littlefield, a spokeswoman for Carmel, Indiana-based
ITT didn’t immediately comment in response to an e-mail.  For-profit colleges spent $4.1 billion, or 22 percent of
their revenue, on marketing and recruitment, and took $3.6
billion, or 19 percent, in profit, according to the report. They
spent $3.2 billion, or 18 percent of revenue, on instruction.  The schools also devote more staff to recruiting new
students than ensuring the success of their existing ones,
according to the study. In 2010, the 30 for-profit schools
employed 32,496 recruiters compared with 3,512 career services
staff and 12,452 support service workers, the report showed.  As a result, 596,556 students who enrolled in the 2008-2009
school year dropped out by mid-2010, the report said. In two-
year associate’s degree programs, 64 percent dropped out.  More Debt  For-profit college students take on more debt, with 96
percent receiving loans compared with 48 percent at four-year
public schools. They also default at a higher rate than their
counterparts at nonprofit institutions. Almost half of federal
student loan defaults came from students at for-profit schools.  “In the absence of significant reforms,” the report said,
“the sector will continue to turn out hundreds of thousands of
students with debt but no degree, and taxpayers will see little
return on their investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  