-- Geithner, Schaeuble Hail Euro Plan as Greece Gets No Word
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-30T18:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/geithner-schaeuble-discuss-need-for-cooperation-on-growth-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  backed a
commitment by European leaders to do everything needed to defend
the euro area while failing to mention its weakest link,  Greece .  In a joint statement issued after they held talks on the
German North Sea island of Sylt today, Geithner and Schaeuble
“took note” of comments made last week by European leaders to
“take whatever steps are necessary to safeguard financial
stability” in the 17-nation currency area.  The two officials welcomed Ireland’s sale of bonds and
Portugal’s “continued success in meeting program commitments”
and discussed the “considerable efforts” made by  Spain  and
Italy “to pursue far-reaching fiscal and structural reforms.”
They didn’t refer to Greece, where international creditors are
reviewing the government’s progress.  The talks signaled U.S. endorsement for European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  as he seeks a game changer in the
battle against  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis almost three years
after it surfaced in Greece. Geithner is due to conclude his
one-day trip to  Germany  later today by meeting with Draghi in
 Frankfurt . An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment when asked
whether the ECB would release a statement after the Draghi
meeting.  ‘Fundamentally Solvent’  Greece’s absence from the Treasury’s “very carefully
worded” statement reflects the view that the other countries
mentioned are “fundamentally solvent,” while Greece is “a
fundamentally insolvent economy,” Domenico Lombardi, a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington , said in an
interview.  “The main purpose of U.S. strategy at this moment is
pushing the Europeans -- that is, Germany -- toward supporting a
bolder and more aggressive stance by the ECB, which is really
believed to be key at this juncture to avoid a meltdown of the
euro,” Lombardi said. Geithner is trying to reach “ a
consensus among key euro area countries” to support a bolder
ECB approach.  Spanish bonds extended a rally, and  European stocks  rose to
the highest level since April amid speculation that Draghi will
succeed in building consensus among governments and central
bankers for a plan to ease borrowing costs in Spain and Italy
before ECB policy makers convene on Aug. 2. The euro fell
against the dollar for the first time in four days.  Draghi’s Proposal  Draghi’s proposal involves Europe’s rescue fund buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, buttressed by ECB
purchases on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its
record-low  interest rates , two central bank officials said July
27 on condition of anonymity. Further ECB rate cuts and long-
term loans to banks are also up for discussion, one of the
officials said.  Leaders in Berlin, Paris and Rome have already tacitly
endorsed Draghi’s approach, echoing his language in saying they
will do what’s needed to protect the euro. Draghi must now
deliver or face a renewed selloff on bond markets where Spanish
and Italian yields reached euro-era records this month, fueling
speculation the monetary union could fall apart.  “We have reached a decisive point,”  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, told
Germany’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung in an interview. “The world is
talking about whether there will still be a euro zone in the
next few months. We have to make abundantly clear with all
available resources that we’re completely determined to
guarantee the financial stability of the currency.”  Temporary Fund  Juncker confirmed that the temporary bailout fund, the
European Financial Stability Facility, is working with the ECB
on a plan to reduce borrowing costs, adding “we have no time to
lose,” the newspaper reported.  In  Athens , representatives of Greece’s international
creditors -- the ECB, the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- may extend their visit until the
government has completed work on a two-year, 11.5 billion-euro
($14 billion) budget plan, a Greek  Finance Ministry  official
said yesterday.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his coalition partners,
 Evangelos Venizelos  of Pasok and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic
Left, are meeting again today to try and determine the savings
required to receive the funds pledged under Greece’s two rescue
packages totaling 240 billion euros.  Euro Drops  The euro fell 0.6 percent to $1.2258 at 2:40 p.m. in  New
York . The shared currency gained 1.4 percent in the two days
after Draghi’s July 26 pledge to do whatever is necessary,
ending last week at $1.2322.  Spain’s bond market staged its biggest rally in seven
months, sending the 10-year yield down to 6.74 percent from a
euro-era record of 7.75 percent reached on July 25. The rally
continued today, with Spain’s 10-year rate dropping to as low as
6.57 percent and Italy’s to 5.88 percent.  While the ECB’s willingness to act is necessary to buy
time, the central bank can’t solve the debt crisis alone,
Moody’s Investors Service said today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition partners voiced
concern about renewed ECB bond purchases, underscoring the
domestic difficulties she faces to win support for new measures.  “These conflicting remarks illustrate the diverging views
that have dogged the euro-area authorities’ policy development
and significantly contributed to the depth of the crisis,”
Moody’s said in its Credit Outlook today.  Bundesbank Hurdle  The biggest hurdle may be the Bundesbank, which last week
reiterated its opposition to ECB bond buying, saying it blurs
the line between monetary and fiscal policy. The ECB shelved its
bond-purchase program in March.  Draghi has also scheduled talks with Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann, the two central bank officials said on July 27. A
Bundesbank spokesman declined to say yesterday whether a
discussion has taken place. An ECB spokeswoman reiterated that
it’s not unusual for Draghi to speak with council members and
declined to comment further.  Europe is “burning because of deep concerns about
political will” in the region to resolve the crisis, Geithner
said in a July 23 interview on the “Charlie Rose” show
broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television.  In their statement today, Geithner and Schaeuble emphasized
“the need for policy makers to adopt and implement all reform
steps required to deal with the financial crisis and crisis of
confidence,” the  U.S. Treasury  and Germany’s Finance Ministry
said. “Both expressed confidence in euro-area member states’
efforts to reform and move towards greater integration.”  The U.S. and Germany “will continue to cooperate closely
with their partners when advancing the policy agenda in autumn
to further stabilize global and European economies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  