-- German Stocks Advance for Fourth Day on Euro Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-30T16:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/german-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-on-euro-optimism.html
German stocks advanced to a three-
month high amid optimism the  European Central Bank  will win
support from policy makers to ease the euro area’s debt crisis.  K+S AG (SDF)  rallied 2.7 percent after reporting second-quarter
profit that exceeded estimates.  Siemens AG (SIE)  rose 3.4 percent
after a report said ThyssenKrupp AG will not merge with the
company.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  dropped 0.7 percent as a report
said rivals to its T-Mobile Austria division may seek access to
the telecommunications network of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.  The DAX Index gained 1.3 percent to 6,774.06 in Frankfurt,
for the fourth successive day of advance. The measure has
increased percent 13 percent from its 2012 low on June 5 as
euro-area leaders eased repayment terms for Spanish lenders and
central banks took measures to support growth. The broader HDAX
Index added 1.2 percent today.  “This time the markets think the ECB might implement the
measures they have been talking about, co-ordinated action
between the ECB and euro-bailout mechanisms,” said Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and  fund manager  at Clairinvest in Geneva.
“We have an optimistic rally going into Thursday’s ECB meeting,
which will be critical.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi , who sparked a global market
rally last week by pledging to do whatever it takes to preserve
the euro, is trying to build consensus among governments and
central bankers for a plan to ease  borrowing costs  in Spain and
Italy before ECB policy makers convene on Aug. 2.  Draghi meets U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in
Frankfurt today and will also seek the support of Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann, a critic of ECB bond purchases.  K+S Earnings  K+S, Europe’s biggest potash distributor, jumped 2.7
percent to 40.56 euros, the highest since Feb. 7, after
reporting earnings before interest and taxes excluding one-time
items, which the company calls Ebit I, above estimates. Second
quarter operating Ebit I of 219.8 million euros beat estimates
of 199.9 million euros.  Siemens, Europe’s largest engineering company, gained 3.4
percent to 69.14 euros, for the biggest contribution to the
increase in the  DAX Index. (DAX)  ThyssenKrupp won’t merge with
Siemens,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  cited Gerhard Cromme, the chairman
of both companies, as saying.  German media, including the WirtschaftsWoche magazine, had
reported that ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s largest steelmaker, may
seek a merger with Siemens in the long-term as the German steel
manufacturer may not be able to survive on its own.  Banks Rally  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank (CBK)  AG, Germany’s two biggest
lenders, climbed 2 percent to 24.85 euros and 2.4 percent to
1.26 euros respectively. Cross-border lending by German banks to
the weaker parts of the euro area has dropped by nearly a fifth
since January and stands at the lowest level since 2005, the
Financial Times reported citing Morgan Stanley’s analysis of
Bundesbank data.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  rose 3.2 percent to 10.41 euros. Air
France-KLM Group halved its second-quarter loss, beating analyst
estimates, as a 2 billion-euro ($2.5 billion) savings program at
Europe’s biggest airline began to bring down costs.  Deutsche Telekom, Europe’s second-largest telephone
company, dropped 0.7 percent to 9.20 euros. Tele2, a unit of
Tele2 AB, Sweden’s second-largest telephone company, and UPC
Austria, owned by Liberty Global Inc., may seek access to
Hutchison’s network as virtual operators, WirtschaftsBlatt said.  Being able to use Hutchinson’s network as virtual operators
would increase the capacity of Tele2 and UPC to offer mobile
services at a lower cost, and potentially increase competition
for T-Mobile Austria. The newspaper cited unidentified people in
the telecommunications industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  