-- Google, Christie’s, Apple, Samsung: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-30T11:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/google-christie-s-apple-samsung-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked a U.S. court to
dismiss a lawsuit by authors over the digitizing of books,
saying that the company’s book-scanning program is a fair use of
copyrighted material and a benefit to the public and authors.  The lawsuit by the Authors Guild, as well as one filed by
the American Society of Media Photographers, stems from Google’s
plan announced in 2004 to scan millions of books from public and
university libraries to provide snippets of text to people who
use its Internet search engine.  In a motion filed July 27 in federal court in New York, the
company seeks dismissal of the Authors Guild’s case, arguing
that authors benefit from the project because their books can be
more readily found, bought and read, while the public gains
“increased knowledge.” Google also argued that the display of
snippets of text is fair use under copyright law and that the
authors haven’t been harmed by the display.  “ Google Books  furthers the objectives of the copyright
laws because of the public benefits (including benefits to
authors),” the company said in its motion. “Plaintiffs have
adduced no evidence that Google Books has displaced the sale of
even a single book.”  Michael Boni, a lawyer for the authors, said July 27 that
he was planning to file a sealed motion for a judicial ruling in
their favor, by hand rather than electronically, because “it
uses a lot of documents Google marked ‘confidential.’” A
redacted version will be filed at another time, he said in a
phone interview.  Oral arguments on both parties’ motions for summary
judgment are set for Oct. 9.  Last year, a federal judge declined to approve a proposed
$125 million settlement between the plaintiffs and Google,
saying it was “an attempt to use the class action mechanism to
implement forward-looking business arrangements that go far
beyond the dispute before the court.”  Further negotiations between the authors and Google were
unsuccessful. The publishers remain in talks, Google has said.  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136; the
visual artists’ case is American Society of Media Photographers
v. Google, 10-cv-02977, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Copyright  Megaupload Prosecutors Seek to Keep Company as Defendant  Megaupload Ltd. should remain a defendant in the federal
criminal case accusing the  Internet company  and its founder, Kim Dotcom, of running a massive illegal file-sharing service, U.S.
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors seeking to defeat a request for dismissal said
on July 27 that the U.S. has the authority to bring copyright
infringement charges against Megaupload even though the company
has no offices in the country.  “The heart of the issue is whether foreign companies like
Megaupload can commit crimes in the U.S. and in this district
and then never be brought to justice,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Ryan Dickey told U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady during a
hearing in Alexandria, Virginia. “That just can’t be the case,
your honor.”  The dismissal of charges against Megaupload would add to
the challenges prosecutors have faced since shutting down the
company’s file-sharing website and charging Dotcom and six other
individuals in January. A judge in  New Zealand  last month threw
out warrants used to seize the Internet entrepreneur’s property,
delaying Dotcom’s possible extradition by at least seven months.  Investigators executed more than 20 search warrants in the
U.S. and eight other countries and seized about $50 million in
assets in connection with what they said was among the largest
criminal copyright cases ever brought by the U.S.  Megaupload operated in the U.S. for more than six years,
earning more than $175 million in illegal profit since 2005 from
the exchange of pirated films, music, books and software,
according to an indictment. More than 500 servers leased by
Megaupload were in Virginia, giving the U.S. jurisdiction to
prosecute the company, the government argued in court papers.  At the July 27 hearing, lawyers argued over whether federal
rules governing criminal cases bar indictment of foreign
companies that don’t have offices or agents in the U.S. The
rules require prosecutors to issue a summons to an agent or
officer of the company, and mail a copy to the company’s last
known address in the U.S., when bringing criminal charges
against an enterprise.  Megaupload contends prosecutors haven’t tried to serve the
company, which is registered in Hong Kong, and can’t meet the
requirements.  By indicting Megaupload, officials were able to shut down
its operations through criminal forfeiture, seizing domain names
and freezing assets without any review by a judge, William
Burck, a lawyer for the company, told O’Grady.  “The process chosen here illustrates the threat the rule
was designed to prevent,” said Burck, a partner at Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP. “They wiped out a foreign
corporation with no office in the U.S. by bringing a criminal
indictment.”  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  Vekselberg Wins $2.6 Million Fake-Art Case Against Christie’s  Viktor Vekselberg , the billionaire who owns part of a
Russian oil venture with  BP Plc (BP/) , won a claim to recoup losses
from U.K. auctioneer Christie’s International after paying 1.7
million pounds ($2.6 million) for what he thought was a painting
by Russian artist Boris Kustodiev.  Judge Guy Newey in London said that the painting was “the
work of someone other than” Kustodiev. As a result, the judge
said, Vekselberg’s  Aurora Fine Arts Investment Ltd.  had the
right to return the painting “and recover the money it paid.”
Newey cleared Christie’s of negligence in his written judgment.  “It is a matter of huge regret to Aurora that it was
forced to sue Christie’s,” Andrey Shtorkh, Vekselberg’s
spokesman, said by phone from Moscow July 27. “We are pleased
with the ruling, which confirmed that the experts from Russian
museums were correct in asserting that the painting is not the
work of Kustodiev.”  Vekselberg, chairman of Renova Group, has a net worth of
about $14 billion, according to data collected by Bloomberg. In
March, he stepped down as chairman of United Co. Rusal, the
world’s biggest aluminum maker, citing disputes with co-founder
Oleg Deripaska, including the refusal to sell Rusal’s stake in
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel.  “We are surprised and disappointed by his view of the
painting’s attribution,” a spokesman for London-based
Christie’s said in a statement after the ruling. “We maintain
our belief in the attribution to Kustodiev and are considering
our options.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Woman Charged in Guggenheim Name Scam Won’t Serve Jail Time  Lady Catarina Pietra Toumei, one of three charged in a
scheme to use the Guggenheim family name to swindle investors
through phony billion-dollar deals, pleaded guilty to a
misdemeanor and was given two years of probation.  Toumei, 46, admitted on July 27 to helping her two co-
defendants violate a judge’s order, issued in a civil trademark
lawsuit, that barred them from using the Guggenheim name. Toumei
was sentenced by U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott in Manhattan.  Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan charged Toumei, Vladimir Zuravel and David Birnbaum
in January 2011 with a scheme to use the Guggenheim name to lure
investors into fake investments in oil, bank guarantees,
diamonds and gold. Charges against Birnbaum, who allegedly used
the name “David B. Guggenheim,” were dropped in September and
Zuravel was sentenced to a year of probation in April after
pleading guilty.  “I always was surprised that the case was filed,”
Toumei’s lawyer, Jan Ronis, said after the July 27 hearing. “At
all times, she truly thought they were Guggenheims.”  The Guggenheim family is descended from  Meyer Guggenheim , a
Swiss immigrant who made a fortune in mining and smelting in the
19th century. They are known for charitable giving, including
the establishment of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New
York.  Ronis said Toumei, who lives in the San Diego area, met
Zuravel and Birnbaum on the Internet and had never seen them in
person.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, declined
to comment on the case.  The case is U.S. v. Toumei, 11-Mag.-207, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Patent  Apple, Samsung Take Global Smartphone War to First U.S. Jury  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , having waged their
patent battle on four continents, are now on a collision course
in California with little prospect of a settlement before a  jury
trial  set to begin this week.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, who practiced as
an  intellectual-property  litigator in Silicon Valley for eight
years, is scheduled to start jury selection today. Jurors will
decide each company’s claims that its rival infringed patents
covering designs and technology for mobile devices, with
potential damage awards reaching billions of dollars.  The companies have sued each other in the U.K., Australia,
and South Korea, among other countries, in a bid for dominance
of a mobile-device market that Bloomberg Industries said was
$312 billion last year. In San Jose, Apple seeks damages of $2.5
billion based on claims Samsung copied the iPhone and iPad. The
Cupertino, California-based company also wants to make permanent
a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet
computer, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  “Eventually all the parties to the smartphone wars will
have to settle,”  Mark Lemley , a Stanford Law School professor,
said in an e-mail. “But the parties have fought this one long
and hard, and I don’t see why they would settle now, with an
injunction already in place. I expect them to take their chances
at trial.”  Claiming Apple is infringing two patents covering mobile-
technology standards and three utility patents, Samsung is
demanding royalties of as much as 2.4 percent for each device
sold.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more, click here.  U.K. IP Lawsuits Almost Triple on Smartphone Patent Disputes  U.K. courts are a battleground for the global technology
patent wars as intellectual property claims almost tripled last
year, according to a report by law firm EMW Law LLP.  There were 183 new patent and registered design claims
filed in the U.K. in 2011, the most in more than five years, as
firms seek to maintain their advantage over competitors in a
difficult economic climate, EMW said. There were 65 similar
claims filed in 2010.  “Some technology businesses have amassed a huge war chest
of patents, which they can use to swamp the competition with
patent infringement claims,” said Mark Finn, IP law principal
at EMW. “Even if the claim doesn’t stick and is eventually
rejected by the courts, it can still keep rivals’ products off
the market for long enough to gain a competitive advantage.”  Smartphone makers including Apple Inc., Samsung Electronics
Co.,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  have filed dozens of suits against
each other in the U.K. during the past two years as part of a
global litigation strategy in the mobile-device market that
Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last year. The rise
in IP litigation comes as the U.K. economy shrank the most in
three years, forcing companies to fight “for every edge they
can find,” Finn said.  Companies in patent-heavy industries look for “any way”
to maintain their advantage, Finn said.  Finn said companies rush to sue before the disputed product
establishes itself in the country, because U.K. patent courts
may take a year to reach a judgment.  For more patent news, click here.  Internet  Google’s Failure Over Street View Data May Breach U.K. Accord  Google Inc. may have breached an agreement with the U.K.
privacy regulator by failing to delete personal data gathered
through its Street View service.  Google contacted the U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office
on July 27  to say  it still had some data that should have been
deleted in December 2010, the agency said in a statement the
same day. The watchdog said it’s in touch with other data
protection regulators in Europe “to coordinate the response to
this development.”  “The fact that some of this information still exists
appears to breach the undertaking to the ICO signed by Google in
November 2010,” the agency said in the statement. “Our
response, which has already been issued, makes clear that Google
must supply the data to the ICO immediately, so that we can
subject it to forensic analysis before deciding on the necessary
course of action.”  Google was fined $25,000 by the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  this year for impeding its investigation into
improper data gathering. In an agreement ending the U.K. inquiry
into Street View in November 2010,  Mountain View , California-
based Google agreed to further ICO audits of its privacy
practices. One was published in August 2011 and will be reviewed
this year to ensure ICO recommendations were followed.  In June, the U.K. regulator re-opened a probe into the data
collected through Google’s location service. While Street View
cars photograph buildings and homes to provide street-level
mapping to Google users, they went beyond that by using wireless
connections to gather people’s personal communications.  Google still has in its possession “a small portion of
payload data collected” by its Street View cars in the U.K.,
 Peter Fleischer , the company’s global privacy counsel, said in
the letter. “Google apologizes for this error.”  Music  Universal Said to Offer Sale of EMI Classics, Parlophone  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group offered European
regulators to dispose of local assets that may fetch more than
250 million euros ($309 million) to soothe antitrust concerns
over its takeover of EMI Group’s recorded-music business, said
one person familiar with the matter.  Universal offered to sell Parlophone Records, home to
Coldplay and Gorillaz, in the U.K. while keeping the label’s
Beatles songs, the person said, declining to be identified as
the matter is not public. The company would also sell some
labels including EMI Classics and Virgin Classics in Europe and
EMI’s units in France, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Poland,
Portugal, Norway and Sweden to get approval for the 1.2 billion-
pound ($1.9 billion) deal, the person said.  Universal Music, the world’s largest record company, on
July 27 said it submitted a package of concessions to European
Union regulators. Universal has a list of about 20 entities,
ranging from independent music labels to major rivals such as
Sony Music Entertainment and Bertelsmann AG’s BMG Rights
Management LLC, which have indicated interest for assets
potentially up for sale, according to two people familiar with
the process.  “We believe the package fully addresses the commission’s
concerns and follows our constructive discussions with
regulators, independent labels and competitors,” Universal said
in an e-mailed statement, adding that it’s “confident of
receiving clearance.”  The offer will now be circulated to third-party record
labels and customers for so-called market testing.  A Universal representative declined to comment on details
of the concessions. A representative for BMG declined to comment
and Sony’s representatives couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  Universal on July 27 also offered to sell the Virgin
Classics label in Europe and the British catalog of Pink Floyd.
A sale of Chrysalis Records wouldn’t include songs by  Robbie Williams , the person said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  