-- Google-Backed 23andMe Asks FDA to Clear DNA Evaluation Service
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-30T18:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/google-backed-23andme-asks-fda-to-clear-dna-evaluation-service.html
23andMe Inc., the Google Inc.-backed
DNA analysis company co-founded by Anne Wojcicki, sought U.S.
regulatory approval for a genetic testing service that may help
people assess their risk for developing cancer and Alzheimer’s.  The submission with the  Food and Drug Administration  will
cover seven tests, which 23andMe isn’t specifying, Ashley Gould,
the  Mountain View , California-based company’s chief legal
officer, said today in a phone interview. The tests are part of
a service that tells users whether they carry a disease, are at
risk of a disease and would respond to a drug, she said.  “The result that you get when you review a report, the FDA
wants to ensure that’s a valid result,” Gould said.  Wojcicki, the wife of Google co-founder  Sergey Brin ,
started 23andMe about six years ago, and her husband used the
saliva kit to determine he had a gene that makes him susceptible
to developing Parkinson’s. The FDA decided in 2010 that services
claiming to evaluate a customer’s risk of disease must be
cleared by regulators if the companies sell directly to
consumers.  “23andMe is working proactively with the FDA to ensure the
industry delivers high quality information that consumers can
trust,” Wojcicki said in a statement on the company’s website.  Such types of genetic tests may become a $25 billion annual
market in the U.S. within a decade, highlighting the need to
identify which work best,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. health insurer, has said. While
UnitedHealth said such tests hold great promise, the insurer in
a March report raised concern about accuracy and affordability.  FDA Application  23andMe said it submitted the FDA application today for the
least stringent of two types of medical device reviews. The
company plans to submit “several” more applications by the end
of this year, Gould said.  DNA Genotek Inc. (OSUR) , a company bought last year by OraSure
Technologies Inc., makes the FDA-approved saliva kit. Gould said
23andMe is seeking approval of the process for analyzing and
interpreting DNA results for patients.  “The FDA’s role and oversight of direct-to-consumer
genetic tests are designed to ensure that manufacturers are
delivering on their medical claims and providing the public with
safe and effective medical devices,” Erica Jefferson, a
spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail  Most FDA-cleared genetic tests are for a single disease
while 23andMe’s would be the first to test for multiple
conditions, Gould said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  