-- Grain Cargoes Seen Slowing Most in 19 Years on Drought: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-07-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/grain-cargoes-seen-slowing-most-in-19-years-on-drought-freight.html
The worst U.S. drought in more than
a half century and dry weather from  Europe  to  Australia  will
mean the biggest contraction in grain cargoes for 19 years and
unprofitable rates for owners of Supramax commodity carriers.  Global trade in grains will drop 4.9 percent in the 2012-13
marketing year, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
Forward freight agreements, handled by brokers and used to bet
on future costs, anticipate a fourth-quarter rate of $9,117 a
day, 17 percent less than now, Baltic Exchange data show. Shares
of  Eagle Bulk Shipping Inc. (EGLE) , the largest U.S. operator of the
vessels, will slump 30 percent in the next 12 months, according
to the average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Corn and soybean prices rose to records this month as U.S.
farmers plowed under ruined fields and heat waves across Europe
wilted crops from  Italy  to  Russia . The fourth quarter is usually
the most important for Supramaxes hauling grain as it coincides
with the Northern Hemisphere’s harvests. The period generated
the best average returns in four of the past six years.  “Those droughts are very bad news for the shipping
industry,” said Marc Pauchet, an analyst at London-based ACM
Shipping Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest publicly traded
shipbroker. “It seems grain production is going to be worse
than even we had anticipated.”  Baltic Exchange  Earnings for Supramaxes, each carrying as much as 60,000
metric tons of grain, fell 11 percent to $10,945 a day this
year, according to the  Baltic Exchange , whose data are used as
benchmarks for about 75 percent of all commodity cargoes. Rates
averaged $10,324 since the start of January, the lowest in data
going back to 2005, as owners contended with a capacity glut.  The 600-foot-long ships need $5,000 to $6,000 to cover
operating expenses and $12,000 to $14,000 once financing costs
are included, according to RS Platou Markets AS, the investment-
banking unit of  Norway ’s largest shipbroker.  Shares of Eagle Bulk plunged 23 percent to $2.92 this year
in  New York  trading and will retreat to $2.04 in 12 months, the
analyst predictions show. The 13-member Bloomberg Dry Bulk
Shipping Pureplay Index declined 13 percent. The New York-based
company will report a net loss of $54 million for this year,
widening from $14.8 million in 2011, the mean of six estimates
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Grain Inspections  Supramax rates for cargoes from the  Gulf of Mexico  fell
more than 10 percent in the past month after the drought curbed
exports, Eagle Bulk Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sophocles Zoullas said in an e-mailed response to questions July
24. The amount of corn inspected for loading at U.S. ports so
far in the current marketing year fell 14 percent in annual
terms and wheat dropped 21 percent, government data show.
Soybeans, sorghum and barley also retreated.  While the USDA cut its estimate for global grain exports by
2.7 percent on July 11, the forecast of 295.8 million tons would
still be the second-largest in data going back five decades. The
projected decline from the previous marketing year would be the
biggest drop since 1993-94. Oilseed cargoes will help compensate
for smaller corn and wheat shipments, with soybean volumes
poised to expand 6 percent.  Supramaxes are still earning more than other types of
carriers. Rates for Capesizes, about four times larger and
mostly hauling  iron ore , tumbled 83 percent to $4,642 a day this
year because of a capacity glut, Baltic Exchange data show.
Those for Panamaxes, carrying as much as 80,000 tons, slumped 39
percent to $8,054. Supramaxes are doing better because they are
more flexible on the types of cargo they can carry, according to
Martin Korsvold, an analyst at Pareto Securities AS in Oslo.  Five Analysts  Eagle Bulk is less reliant on grain exports than it used to
be, with the cargoes making up less than 10 percent of total
volume in the first quarter. They accounted for 14 percent of
last year’s total and 18 percent in 2010, data on the company’s
website show. The annual loss will narrow to $46.5 million in
2013, according to the mean of five analyst estimates.  Eleven of the 12 members of the Bloomberg Dry Bulk Shipping
Pureplay Index with analyst estimates tracked by Bloomberg are
expected to report losses or declining profit for this year. The
biggest Supramax operators are China Cosco Holdings Co., the
nation’s largest publicly traded shipping company, and Nippon
Yusen K.K., the biggest in  Japan .  The worst drought since 1956 probably will mean the U.S.
will have to cut output and export estimates again, said Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank International in  London .  Western Australia  Temperatures from eastern Italy across the  Black Sea region 
into Ukraine reached 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit)
or more this month, about 5 degrees above normal. Most of
Western Australia, the main national wheat-growing region, had
below-average rainfall from April to June and was exceptionally
dry in July, according to the country’s Bureau of Meteorology.  The International Grains Council cut its global grain
production estimate by 3.1 percent to 1.81 billion tons on July
26. The 27-nation European Union and seven other major exporting
countries will ship 17 percent less grain than previously
expected, the London-based group said.  The global fleet of Supramaxes more than tripled to 1,605
vessels since the end of 2006, according to data from IHS Inc.,
an Englewood, Colorado-based research company. Owners
accelerated orders for new vessels in 2007 and 2008 as rates
rose as high as $72,729. Outstanding contracts at ship yards are
equal to 22 percent of existing capacity, IHS data show.  While coal and iron ore, export markets each exceeding 1
billion tons a year, account for a greater proportion of
Supramax cargoes, grains are the biggest influence on rates in
the fourth quarter, said Pauchet of ACM Shipping.  “Supramax demand has suffered from the problems the U.S.
has had with drought,” said  Peter Norfolk , an analyst at
Freight Investor Services Ltd., a broker of forward freight
agreement in London. “There’s potential for crop yield
estimates to go down further, and that’s clearly a negative
development and not beneficial for Supramax demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  