-- Green Mountain CEO Faces Percolating Issue of Who’s Boss
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-07-30T22:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/green-mountain-ceo-faces-percolating-issue-of-who-s-boss.html
With  Green Mountain  Coffee Roasters
Inc. poised to report its slowest quarterly sales growth since
2005, Chief Executive Officer Lawrence J. Blanford faces
pressure to prove the company is a sustainable business.  The question for investors is whether Blanford, hired five
years ago to help Green Mountain transcend its startup culture,
can shake off the influence of founder Robert P. Stiller. While
Stiller was removed as chairman in May after violating company
policy when he sold stock to meet a margin call, he is the
fourth-largest shareholder, sits on the board and plays an
active role. Amid the challenges facing the company, the shares
have slid 60 percent this year, after more than doubling between
March and September last year.  Since Blanford, 57, became CEO, analysts and investors have
called Stiller following quarterly earnings reports, showing
they perceived the founder, not Blanford, was calling the shots,
according to  Paul Hodgson , senior research associate at GMI
Ratings, a New York-based corporate governance consulting firm.  “If they’re still doing that, then there’s a perception
that he’s still running the company,” Hodgson said in an
interview. “That’s not healthy when you have a CEO.”  In an e-mailed statement, Stiller said he has not had
conversations with analysts and investors after earnings calls
since relinquishing the CEO post in 2007, when he handed over
all investor-relations duties to Blanford.  Losing Customers  In its 31-year history, Green Mountain has never confronted
so many challenges. The company, which dominates the single-
serve coffee market with its Keurig brewers and K-Cup pods, is
losing customers to  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and  Kroger Co. (KR) , which are
making their own versions of K-Cups. After more than doubling
sales in the third quarter of 2011, Green Mountain will on Aug.
1 report sales growth of 22 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Net  income  excluding certain items will advance 14
percent to $77.5 million, for the smallest gain in more than
three years, according to analysts’  estimates .  Meanwhile, Green Mountain faces questions about how it
accounted for a tripling of  revenue  in the past two years. The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating, and
hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  has hammered the company for a
perceived lack of transparency. In May, Blanford told analysts
his team was struggling to forecast demand for K-Cups, which in
fiscal 2011 generated about 64 percent of sales.  While Stiller led Green Mountain capably for many years,
it’s time for Blanford to show that he’s credible, according to
Rick Munarriz, a Miami-based analyst at the Motley Fool.  Prove Itself  Green Mountain “needs to prove itself now more than
ever,” Munarriz said in an interview. “Stiller took the
company as far as he could.”  Suzanne DuLong, a spokeswoman for Green Mountain, declined
to comment citing a quiet period before earnings.  People who have known Stiller since the 1970s and 1980s say
they aren’t surprised Green Mountain sometimes seems more like a
startup than a company with a market capitalization of about
$2.8 billion. Stiller wasn’t the most professional manager or
business partner, said Burton Rubin, who with Stiller started
the E-Z Wider cigarette-rolling papers business in 1972.  Rubin said he was blindsided in 1979 upon discovering that
Stiller was trying to sell E-Z Wider without consulting him.
Rolling paper maker Rizla, now owned by  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMT) , bought their business for $6.2 million in 1980.  “All of a sudden, one month, I get a notice” that someone
wanted to buy the business, he said in a telephone interview.
“The split-up of our company was not gracious.”  Led Astray  “He was very ambitious and that sometimes led him
astray,” said Rubin, who now makes ergonomic pens in  New York .  In the e-mailed statement, Stiller said: “I tried to buy
out his interest. We ultimately agreed to auction the company
off to the highest bidder.”  At Green Mountain in the early 1980s Stiller declined to
press charges against an accountant and partner who was
embezzling money, according to Doug Balne, who co-founded the
company. Stiller bought out Balne after the two men disagreed
over the incident, Balne said in a phone interview.  “I was just flabbergasted,” Balne said. “I immediately
started losing interest in being in the business.”  Removing the partner was “the most practical approach” at
the time, Stiller said in the statement.  Keurig Acquisition  Green Mountain wouldn’t be what it is today without
Stiller’s entrepreneurial skills. No decision was more
transformative than his move in 2006 to  spend  $104.3 million to
buy the part of Keurig Green Mountain didn’t already own.
Stiller alone saw what other executives missed: an up-and-comer
with the single-serve technology to upend an entire industry and
turn Green Mountain from a niche player into a contender that
rivals would end up copying.  Stiller, described by former associates as something of a
hippie, instilled a crunchy ethos at Green Mountain. He pushed
environmental projects such as biodegradable coffee bags, set up
meditation rooms at the Waterbury, Vermont headquarters and paid
employees to take a week off each year and volunteer.  “Stiller was the inspiration behind the scene,” said
Daniel Cox, who says he worked in sales at Green Mountain from
1981 to 1992, when Stiller was still CEO. “His job was making
sure the company ran smoothly and my job was just to keep
bringing in more sales.”  Aviation Business  However, some of Stiller’s actions raised a red flag,
according to a May report from GMI Ratings, the corporate
governance consulting firm. It listed Heritage Aviation, a
business that flies executives around the U.S. that was acquired
by Stiller in 2002, as a “related-party” transaction in its
governance section. Last year, Heritage charged Green Mountain
$700,000, according to a proxy statement. Green Mountain
director, Jules del Vecchio, is Stiller’s brother-in-law, the
report notes.  GMI Ratings gave Green Mountain’s board a “D” grade,
which is shared by about 20 percent of North American public
companies, according to Hodgson. The firm said the board was
“entrenched,” meaning its directors have been members for too
long and are insufficiently independent.  Blanford was brought in so Stiller could focus on board and
governance issues -- the very things that ultimately would lead
to his ouster. “Separating the roles of Chairman and CEO will
have the important benefit of strengthening Green Mountain
Coffee’s corporate governance practices,” the company said in a
statement on May 3, 2007. After Stiller’s ouster, the company
named Michael J. Mardy chairman.  Improve Governance  “I am actively serving as a director of the board, working
on issues with other board members to improve governance and
operations of the board,” Stiller said in the statement.  Before joining Green Mountain, Blanford ran Royal Group
Technologies Ltd., a Canadian maker of plastic building
components, and before that was CEO of Philips Consumer
Electronics North America. Since joining Green Mountain,
Blanford has created new ways for consumers to get single-serve
beverages, including licensing  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Dunkin’
Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) ’s  Dunkin’ Donuts  names to boost K-Cup revenue.
Single-cup capsule sales jumped 59 percent to $655 million in
the quarter ended March 24 compared to a year ago. He also
created the more-expensive Vue brewer that makes milk-based
drinks to compete with espresso makers.  Expiring Patents  With the main K-Cup patents expiring in September, analysts
such as  Mark Astrachan  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York have
said more competition will hurt the company’s market share.  It will be up to Blanford to allay shareholder concerns
with improved sales forecasting and consistent earnings growth,
according to  Mitchell Pinheiro , an analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott in Philadelphia.  As Green Mountain struggles to forecast demand for the
single-cup capsules, Blanford continues to unveil new iterations
of the K-Cup, such as Eight O’Clock coffee and Tetley tea. He
also has said that the company has done nothing to warrant an
SEC inquiry.  “It’s extremely difficult to estimate a business that’s
been growing at a compound annual growth rate of 75 percent,”
Blanford said in an interview on May 2. “We think we have
significant opportunity to continue to create  shareholder value 
-- we believe we have a long runway.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  