-- Greek Talks on Two-Year Budget, Longer-Term Strategy to Continue
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-07-30T19:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/greek-talks-on-two-year-budget-longer-term-strategy-to-continue.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
and his two coalition partners talked about longer-term strategy
measures today, rather than deciding on the details of a two-
year 11.5 billion-euro ($14 billion) budget plan.  “We discussed a strategic plan to deal with  Greece ’s
commitments,” Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said after
the meeting in Athens. “We are faced with specific issues but
also with a Greek society that can’t bear more weight.”  Talks on both topics will continue, Kouvelis said.  Samaras and his coalition partners, Kouvelis and Pasok
leader  Evangelos Venizelos , must outline budget cuts for 2013
and 2014 to keep funds flowing from two European Union and
International Monetary Fund bailouts totaling 240 billion euros.  The two-year “packet of measures is one of the three
parameters that ensures the sustainability of Greece’s public
debt,” Venizelos told reporters. “The other two parameters are
of equal weight. One is to have stable growth rates and the
second is to keep the nominal value of the debt consistent.”  Greece’s reform program was derailed after it held
consecutive elections in May and June as public opposition to
spending cuts grew. Representatives from the EU and IMF,
originally due to leave at the end of July, will extend their
visit until the government has completed work on the two-year
plan, Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said.  “It’s important not to cancel our ability to negotiate and
Greece’s ability to stay in the euro,” said Stournaras, who
also attended the meeting. “We are trying to find the right mix
of measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in  Athens  at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  