-- Singh’s $400 Billion Power Plan Gains Urgency as Grid Collapses
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-07-30T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/grid-collapse-in-india-leaves-360-million-people-without-power.html
India’s worst  power-grid  failure in
a decade exposed the urgency behind Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s bid to attract $400 billion in investment and ease an
electricity deficit that is holding back economic growth.  Seven states that are home to more than 360 million people
were plunged into darkness early yesterday as power networks
collapsed, possibly after too many provinces simultaneously
purchased electricity beyond their scheduled allowance,  Power
Grid Corp. (PWGR)  of India Chairman R.N. Nayak told reporters. It took
about 15 hours for 80 percent of services to be resumed.  The blackout “was a fairly large breakdown that exposed
major technical faults in India’s grid system,” Subhranshu
Patnaik, a Gurgaon-based senior director at Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu India Pvt., said yesterday. “If this were a simple
demand-supply problem, the grid operator would have intervened
to strike a balance. Something went terribly wrong which caused
the backup safety systems to fail.”  Businesses and households across much of Delhi, Haryana,
Punjab,  Himachal Pradesh , Uttar Pradesh,  Jammu and Kashmir , and
Rajasthan states had to turn to generators, while services on
New Delhi’s metro and Indian railways were suspended for several
hours. Traffic signals failed, jamming roads for morning
commuters.  “Power supply has been restored to all states and the
situation is near normal now,” Power Grid’s projects director,
I.S. Jha, said by phone yesterday. “We will have complete
normalcy once thermal plants resume complete generation.” Jha
said Power Grid, the world’s largest transmission utility by
capacity, had brought electricity from the eastern and western
regions to reconnect services.  $400 Billion  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is seeking to secure $400
billion of investment in the power industry in the next five
years as he targets an additional 76,000 megawatts in generation
by 2017.  India  has missed every annual target to add electricity
production capacity since 1951.  Power cuts are common across swathes of India as the
country battles an average 9 percent shortfall in meeting peak
power demand that the government says shaves about 1.2
percentage points off annual economic growth. The affected
states are responsible for about 37 percent of electricity
consumption, according to the Central Electricity Authority.  “This again highlights how poor infrastructure remains the
biggest drag on the Indian economy,” said D.H. Pai Panandiker,
president of RPG Foundation, an economic policy group based in
New Delhi. “The power sector remains too over-regulated. Unless
private companies are allowed greater involvement, the problems
are going to remain.”  Inflation Driver  Improving infrastructure, which the  World Economic Forum 
says is a major obstacle to doing business in India, is among
the toughest challenges facing Singh as he bids to revive
expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy that slid to a nine-
year low of 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  Tussles over policy making with allies in the ruling
coalition, corruption allegations and defeats in regional
elections have weakened Singh’s government since late 2010.  The  Reserve Bank of India  has blamed infrastructure
bottlenecks for contributing to the nation’s price pressures.
Most analysts forecast the central bank will refrain from
cutting rates in today’s monetary policy decision. Indian
consumer-price inflation was 10.02 percent in June, the fastest
among the Group of 20 major economies, while the  benchmark 
wholesale-price measure is more than 7 percent.  The grid failure occurred at 2:32 a.m. local time
yesterday, Nayak told reporters. Nayak will lead a government
committee to investigate the cause of the disruption and will
report in 15 days, Power Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said.  Trains Halted  The failure is “a prime example of India’s infrastructure
not being up to the mark,” said Mumbai-based analyst Rohit Singh at IDBI Capital Markets Services Ltd. “India needs to get
to the point where one failure to the grid doesn’t take down an
entire region. That should be the goal.”  About 150 trains were delayed across northern India,
according to Neeraj Sharma, spokesman for the region.  New
Delhi ’s airport didn’t have to cancel any flights as it switched
to back-up power supplies, spokesman Kapil Sabharwal said.  Yesterday’s outage was India’s biggest power failure since
2001 when the same northern grid collapsed leaving homes and
businesses without electricity for 12 hours. The Confederation
of Indian Industry, the country’s largest association of
companies, estimated that blackout cost companies $107.5
million.  Indian Oil Corp. Ltd. (IOCL) ’s refineries in north India were
unaffected by the outage as they have their own power stations
and distribution lines, refineries director R.K. Ghosh said by
telephone. Indian Oil, the nation’s biggest refiner, has crude
processing plants in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh states in north
India.  Reactors Trip  Nuclear Power Corp. of India Ltd.’s five units in Rajasthan
tripped this morning after the outage, G. Nageswara Rao,
director of operations, said.  It will take up to 36 hours to restore the units, Rao said
in a phone interview from Gujarat, adding that the company’s two
units in Narora in  Uttar Pradesh  were working after they faced
some disturbance earlier.  “We need to find out exactly what happened so that we can
make India’s grid safer and more secure,” Gopal Saxena, chief
executive officer at BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd., a unit of
 Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI)  that supplies western and southern
parts of the capital with electricity, said in an interview.  “When one or two states draw too much power at the same
time, the grid breaches its transaction frequency, which is what
may have happened,” said Power Grid’s Nayak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  