-- Libor Rigging Can Be Prosecuted Under U.K. Law, SFO Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-30T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/libor-manipulation-covered-by-u-k-law-fraud-prosecutors-say.html
U.K. fraud prosecutors will
investigate the manipulation of Libor and other  interest rates 
after deciding that existing British criminal law covers the
conduct involved.  U.K. law provides the basis to bring charges,  David Green ,
the director of the  Serious Fraud Office , said today in a
statement. The U.K. joins the U.S. in criminally investigating
how derivatives traders and rate submitters colluded to rig the
London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor.  The SFO probe began after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record
290 million pounds ($455 million) by U.K. and U.S. authorities,
and British politicians called for a criminal investigation. The
U.K. Financial Services Authority, which levied the fine along
with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the
 Justice Department , didn’t have the power to file criminal
interest-rate manipulation charges.  The SFO won’t be starting the case from scratch. The agency
has received regular briefings from the FSA on its civil
investigation and a compilation of findings from the U.S. The
SFO was told by the U.K. Treasury it would be given additional
funds to take on the case after Barclays admitted its employees
tried to manipulate rates for profit.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide. In the U.S., the Justice Department is preparing to
file charges this fall against traders from several banks in its
investigation.  Osborne, Miliband  Green said on July 2 that the agency was considering
whether it was possible to bring a prosecution after U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Ed Miliband ,
leader of the opposition  Labour Party , called for a criminal
probe. The agency, which declined to get involved for more than
a year under its previous director, hired  Mukul Chawla  to be its
lead external lawyer on the issue.  Osborne also called for a review of the functioning of
Libor, and asked whether the FSA should have more extensive
criminal powers that would allow it to prosecute market abuse
relating to the rate and similar equivalents. Martin Wheatley,
designated to become chief executive officer when the FSA
becomes the Financial Conduct Authority, is handling the
inquiry.  He will also consider whether the benchmark should be based
on actual traded rates rather than ones submitted by the banks,
and whether it should be regulated, the Treasury said today.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $500 trillion worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’s
admission that it submitted false rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  