-- Microsoft Debuts Mice, Keyboards for Windows 8 Software
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-30T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/microsoft-debuts-mice-keyboards-for-windows-8-software.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, unveiled mice and keyboards to work with its
Windows 8 software for tablets and personal computers as it
prepares its own device to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The wireless Wedge Mobile Keyboard, which costs $79.95,
features a protective cover that doubles as a stand for a
tablet, Microsoft said in a statement. The company will also
sell a pocket-size wireless Wedge Touch Mouse for $69.95. Both
use Bluetooth to connect to a computer or tablet.  Microsoft is releasing Windows 8, the next update of its
flagship software, in October to run on PCs and tablets,
including its own machine, Surface. The latest software, mice
and keyboards are designed to combat Apple’s lead in the tablet
market and boost sales of Surface when it goes on sale later
this year.  The Redmond, Washington-based company also said it will
sell a Sculpt Touch Mouse for $49.95 and full-size Sculpt Mobile
Keyboard for the same price. Both products use a Bluetooth
connection.  Revenue in the Windows division fell 13 percent to $4.15
billion in the three months ended June 30, falling short of the
$4.44 billion average analyst  estimate , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the fifth time in seven quarters
that the unit has fallen short.  Apple’s iPad will to remain the global tablet leader
through at least 2016, even as it loses some market share,
according to researcher Gartner Inc. The iPad will account for
an estimated 46 percent of shipments in 2016, down from a
projected 61 percent this year, Gartner said. Tablets running
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software may have 37 percent by 2016, a
gain from 32 percent.  Microsoft, which had zero percent of the tablet market last
year, is expected to nab 12 percent by 2016. That number may
increase because the Gartner report was issued before Microsoft
unveiled its Windows-based tablet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  