-- High School Student Missy Franklin Wins 100-Meter Backstroke
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-30T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/high-school-student-missy-franklin-wins-100-meter-backstroke.html
Missy Franklin, a U.S. high school
student who shunned sponsors to retain her amateur status, came
from behind to take the 100-meter backstroke swimming gold medal
at the  London  Games.  Franklin, 17, finished in an American record of 58.33
seconds, ahead of Emily Seebohm of  Australia  in 58.68 and Aya
Terakawa of  Japan  in 58.83.  “I knew it was going to be difficult,” said Franklin, a
first-time Olympic champion. “I had a blast out there
tonight.”  Franklin, who surged ahead in the second leg, cried as she
sang the U.S. national anthem at the medal ceremony. She waved
an American flag at the crowd before throwing her medal-podium
flowers to her friends and family.  Franklin won only a few minutes after she’d competed in the
200-meter freestyle semifinals, where she scraped into the final
in eighth place.  “I got so much advice from the team,” Franklin told
reporters. “One coach told me to take it one event at a time
and one coach told me to relax.”  Seebohm, 20, who made the final with a games-record 58.23
in qualifying, reached the Olympics despite catching swine flu
last year, which led to her collapsing after competing in the
100-meter backstroke final at the Australian championships. She
also was treated for tonsillitis, bronchitis and pancreatitis in
2011.  ‘Great Achievement’  “It’s definitely a great achievement, but I would have
like to have finished it off,” Seebohm said.  Nicknamed ’’Missy the Missile,’’ Franklin, from Centennial,
 Colorado , is competing in seven events at the games, the most
attempted by a U.S. female swimmer. She won five medals,
including three golds, at last year’s world championships in
 Shanghai  and set a national record in the 100-meter backstroke
of 58.85 seconds at last month’s U.S. swimming trials. Franklin
was part of the U.S. 400-meter freestyle squad that took bronze
on the opening day of the swimming.  Franklin started swimming in classes with her mother when
she was 6 months old, and still competes for her high school.
She has declined offers of sponsorship in order to maintain her
amateur status and eligibility to compete in college.  Phelps Help  The 6-foot-1 (1.85-meter) swimmer said at a news conference
last week that she was so excited about her Olympic debut that
she was “literally bouncing off the walls.” She said she had
asked  Michael Phelps , her U.S. teammate and record 14-time gold
medalist, for advice about going to college after the games.  France ’s Yannick Agnel cruised to his second gold medal of
the Olympic swimming competition, leading his rivals including
the U.S.’s  Ryan Lochte  from start to finish in the 200-meter
freestyle.  The 20-year-old who overhauled Lochte in the final leg of
the 400-meter freestyle relay yesterday stormed to victory at
London’s Aquatics Center in 1 minute, 43.14 seconds.  Lochte, who took Phelps’s 400-meter individual medley crown
on the first day of the meet, finished fourth.  China ’s Sun Yang
and  South Korea ’s Park Tae Hwan were in a dead heat for the
silver medal, finishing in 1:44.93. No bronze medal was awarded.  Matt Grevers of the U.S. set an Olympic record in the final
of the men’s 100-meter backstroke. The 27-year-old won in 52.16
seconds, while Nick Thoman claimed the silver as the U.S. went
one-two for the ninth time in Olympic history. Ryosuke Irie of
Japan won the bronze.  Losing Leisel  Leisel Jones of Australia lost her 100-meter breaststroke
crown as she finished fifth. Lithuania’s Ruta Meilutyte, 15, won
the gold medal in a time of 1:05:47. Rebecca Soni of the U.S.
got the silver, while Japan’s Satomi Suzuki took bronze. Jones,
27, had been trying to become the only swimmer to have won a
medal at four straight  Olympic Games .  Three world records have been broken in the first two days
of the swimming at the Aquatics Centre designed by  Zaha Hadid ,
where the roof leaked last night during heavy rain. Four years
ago in Beijing, Phelps won a record eight gold medals in a swim
meet that produced 25 world records.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Aquatics Centre at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at the Aquatics Centre at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  