-- IMF Predicts Euro Crisis Resolution Will Be Prolonged
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-07-30T22:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/imf-predicts-euro-crisis-resolution-will-be-prolonged.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
today that the euro-area debt crisis has exacerbated global
financial instability and an orderly adjustment process is
likely to be prolonged and costly.  The Washington-based IMF’s assessment came today in a pilot
report intended to make external monitoring more effective. The
IMF announced changes to its surveillance of members’ economies
to better account for the effects of their domestic and
financial policies on other countries.  “Unsustainably large intra-euro area imbalances were part
of the global boom-bust cycle, and the failure to resolve the
euro-area crisis is causing heightened stresses that are
spilling over to other countries,” the IMF said.  The IMF, which is participating in bailouts of  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland, has been criticized for missing signs of
fragility that led to the 2008 global financial crisis. A report
last year showed it also faced “dissatisfaction” about how it
assesses exchange rates, prompting a pledge to include data such
as capital flows when reviewing member nations’ external
stability.  The IMF’s new report discusses the range of spillovers from
a country’s policies on global stability and adds guidance on
domestic policies. The fund will now focus on both exchange
rates and domestic policies when assessing a country’s economy.  External Imbalances  “Despite having narrowed through crisis, external
imbalances are unlikely to be resolved by themselves but will
require decisive policy actions across a wide range of
countries,” Tamim Bayoumi, IMF assistant director for
surveillance, said in a conference call. “In many evolved
countries medium-term fiscal consolidation is needed.”  The IMF is allowing six months for the adoption of the new
monitoring to allow time for both staff and member countries to
become familiar with it. The IMF will be taking public comment
on the monitoring addition.  The lender said the new report is needed because the
existing “framework for bilateral surveillance does not
adequately capture economic realities, suffers from an exchange
rate bias, and hampers the discussion of policy spillovers
across countries.”  It also said bank flows are being displaced from the U.K.
and euro area to the rest of the world. This bank capital flow
“creates the potential for future instability if euro area
banks repatriate funds” as they did in 2011.  Economic Confidence  Economic confidence in the euro area fell more than
economists forecast to the lowest in almost three years in July,
suggesting a slump extended into the third quarter as
governments struggled to tame the debt crisis. An index of
executive and consumer sentiment in 17-nation euro area dropped
to 87.9 from 89.9 in June, the European Commission in Brussels
said today.  For the U.S., the IMF said monetary policy is reducing the
risks of a prolonged economic slump. With the U.S. and other
major advanced economies likely to maintain and possibly expand
monetary easing, “financial conditions are likely to remain
choppy for the rest of the world.”  “Expansionary monetary policy in the  United States  and
elsewhere is central to reducing the scale of the domestic
credit crunch and risks of a prolonged global slump,” the IMF
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  