-- Rupee Falls Most in a Week as Importers Boost Dollar Purchases
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-07-30T11:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/india-s-rupee-near-one-week-high-on-europe-stimulus-speculation.html
India ’s rupee fell the most in a
week on speculation importers stepped up dollar purchases to pay
month-end bills.  The currency snapped a two-day advance as economists
predict the central bank will hold back pro-growth policy
measures to cool inflation. The  Reserve Bank  of India will hold
its benchmark  repurchase rate  at 8 percent at a review tomorrow,
according to 31 of 34 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey, even
after  China ,  South Korea  and the Philippines lowered borrowing
costs this month. The rupee rose earlier on optimism Europe’s
leaders will boost efforts to contain the region’s debt turmoil.  “We are seeing dollar purchases, possibly for month-end
payments,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a trader at  Development
Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “Also, traders will be wary of
adding heavy positions ahead of the RBI review tomorrow.”  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 55.5850 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
55.1975 earlier, the strongest level since July 20. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, fell 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage point,
to 11.20 percent.  Inflation risks in Asia’s third-largest economy remain
significant even as threats to economic growth have risen, the
central bank said in a statement today. RBI Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said on July 16 that the pace of price gains, which
measured 7.25 percent in June, is “way above” the central
bank’s threshold of around 5 percent.  Weak Monsoon  The rupee is also under pressure to weaken on concern
inadequate seasonal rainfall will spur inflation by boosting
food prices, Mitul Kotecha, head of global currency strategy at
Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note to clients
today.  India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
annual rainfall, is likely to be 21 percent below normal in the
two months ending July 31, Agriculture Secretary Ashish Bahuguna
told reporters in  New Delhi  on July 27.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.41 per
dollar, unchanged from July 27, and offshore non-deliverable
contracts were at 56.36 from 56.28. Forwards are agreements to
buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  