-- Industry Funds Hiring Bankers for European Infrastructure
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-07-30T03:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/industry-funds-hiring-bankers-for-european-infrastructure.html
Industry Funds Management Pty Ltd.,
which oversees A$35 billion ($37 billion) of assets, plans to
boost investment in European infrastructure shed by governments
and companies struck by the region’s economic crisis.  IFM, whose clients include Australian pension funds, is
adding to a team of 16 staff in London by hiring investment
bankers focused on infrastructure debt, said Robin Miller, head
of debt investments, in an interview. The Melbourne-based  fund
manager  is hiring a senior investment director to run the team,
Miller said.  “We think there will be more opportunities to invest in
both infrastructure debt and equity assets in the U.K. and
 Europe  because of the pressure that both governments and the
banking system are under,” Miller said. “We expect to hire
some people out of the banking industry.”  Investment banks in Europe are preparing for a second wave
of job cuts in less than a year after Europe’s debt crisis
slashed fee income from deals. Investors including Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan
are pursuing infrastructure assets in Europe to diversify beyond
stocks and bonds.  British Columbia Investment Management Corp., manager of
about $86 billion in pension assets, was among a consortium of
investors which in May bought  EON AG (EOAN) ’s natural-gas pipelines in
 Germany  for 3.2 billion euros ($3.9 billion).  Industry Funds Management owns stakes in assets including
airports in Melbourne, Perth and Darwin; the port of  Brisbane ;
toll roads in New South Wales state and power generation in
Victoria, according to a company presentation. It lost out on
bidding for the lease to operate Sydney’s desalination plant to
Ontario Teachers’ and Hastings Funds Management Pty for A$2.3
billion, people familiar with the matter said in May.  Firms including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and UBS AG have shed
staff in Europe as banks face pressure to boost efficiency ahead
of tougher capital and liquidity rules designed to curtail risk-
taking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  