-- Investment Grade May Worsen Turkey Current-Account, RenCap Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-07-30T11:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/investment-grade-may-worsen-turkey-current-account-rencap-says.html
An upgrade of  Turkey ’s sovereign
debt rating to investment grade may worsen its current-account
deficit unless the central bank intervenes to slow lending and
prevent the lira from appreciating,  Renaissance Capital  said.  “Without policy intervention, a rating upgrade could even
be negative for Turkey in the medium term,” Mert Yildiz, an
economist, said in an e-mailed report from Moscow today. “In
the absence of policy intervention, we would expect, as a first
impact, for the Turkish lira to appreciate but foreign borrowing
costs to come down significantly. Higher borrowing would lead to
higher gross domestic product growth, higher consumption, a
higher current-account deficit and higher external debt.”  Turkey’s upgrade to investment grade “soon” is
“inevitable,” with  Fitch Ratings  possibly making the move this
year, Yildiz said. Turkey is rated one level below investment
grade at both Fitch and Moody’s Investors Service, and two
levels below at  Standard & Poor’s . The current-account shortfall
has narrowed for seven months and inflation slowed to 8.9
percent in June, down from a 3 1/2-year high of 11.1 percent two
months earlier.  Turkish equities would probably rally on the news “but
then fall one quarter after the rating upgrade,” Yildiz said,
based on a study of market reactions after other countries were
upgraded. “Our results suggest that it really is not that big
of a deal,” he said.  The lira would probably strengthen as portfolio inflows
into Turkey increased, while  interest rates  “could be lowered
by a few percentage points over time,” the report said.  Even as cheaper borrowing combined with a stronger currency
would worsen Turkey’s external deficit, “if the central bank
can contain the likely appreciation in the Turkish lira and curb
expected domestic lending growth, then we think a rating upgrade
could make Turkey a much more stable economy,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  