-- IPhone’s Russian Carrier Blames ‘Dictatorship’ for $1,000 Price
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-07-30T22:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/iphone-s-russian-carrier-blames-dictatorship-for-1-000-price.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MTSS) , the iPhone’s
biggest wireless carrier in  Russia , criticized  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for
not cutting the device’s $1,000-plus price in the country and
being too strict about how it’s sold.  The phone’s cost makes it a hard sell in a market where
rival models go for as little as $120, executives from the
Moscow-based company said at an event yesterday in New York.
Apple also requires that the carrier’s retail locations meet
its standards, imposing additional burdens, MTS said.  “They’re more in a dictatorship mode where they say, ‘This
is what you have to do or you don’t get the iPhone,’” Vasyl
Latsanych, the Russian company’s vice president of marketing,
said at the event. “Being arrogant with your partners in big
markets doesn’t pay off.”  The remarks exposed a rift for Apple in one of the largest
emerging mobile-phone markets and added to concern that the
iPhone maker is charging too much in developing economies. Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  faced questions after last week’s
earnings report over whether the iPhone’s pricing was going to
limit growth overseas. He responded that Apple’s focus on
product quality trumped other considerations.  “I firmly believe that people in the  emerging markets  want
great products like they do in developed markets,” Cook said
during the call on July 24. The goal “is to make the very best
product, and that’s more important and overshadows all other
things.”  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Smartphone Demand  Apple would get a larger share of the Russian market by
cutting the iPhone’s price or helping subsidize it, Michael Hecker, MTS’s vice president for strategy and corporate
development, said at the New York event.  Unlike in the U.S., Russian consumers typically don’t sign
up for long-term mobile-phone contracts. So it’s less practical
for carriers to subsidize the phone’s cost themselves the way
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless  do. The iPhone 4S, Apple’s latest
model, costs $199.99 in the U.S. with a two-year commitment.  “If Apple showed more flexibility then they would have a
higher penetration in our markets,” Hecker said.  Russians have a growing appetite for smartphones, he said.
MTS -- the region’s largest carrier, with more than 100 million
subscribers in Russia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Armenia and  Belarus 
-- expects smartphones to have 60 percent penetration at the end
of 2014, compared with 15.4 percent in the first quarter of
2012.  After making the remarks about Apple, MTS softened its
criticism later in the day.  “While we have differences with Apple, we have a
constructive relationship,” Joshua Tulgan, an MTS spokesman,
said in a statement. “Smartphones like the iPhone are important
to our customers and our economy and we want to get them into
the hands of as many people as possible.”  In total,  Apple sold  26 million iPhones last quarter, shy
of the 28.4 million predicted by analysts. The shortfall caused
Apple sales and profit to miss Wall Street estimates for only
the second time since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  