-- Lira Advances to Highest in Four Weeks on Central Bank Support
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-07-30T14:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/lira-advances-to-highest-in-four-weeks-on-central-bank-support.html
The lira gained for a fourth day to
the highest in almost four weeks as investors see the central
bank maintaining its support by offering minimal funding.  The Turkish lira appreciated 0.6 percent to 1.8018 per
dollar at 5:25 p.m. in Istanbul, the strongest level on a
closing basis since July 3. Yields on  two-year  benchmark debt
fell 0.01 percentage point to 7.77 percent, two basis points
above the lowest in ten months.  The average cost of funding by the central bank is 8.1
percent on average in July, compared with 9.15 percent in June,
according to data complied by Bloomberg. Trade balance data
scheduled for release tomorrow is expected to show the shortfall
fell for an eighth month. Inflation slowed to 8.9 percent in
June, down from a 3 1/2-year high of 11.1 percent two months
earlier.  “Continuously tight monetary policy is still supportive,”
Thu Lan Nguyen, a foreign exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail. “A lot of people had expected a
much more dovish tone from the last central bank meeting, which
has not been the case. So the central bank keeping up its
hawkishness is positive for the lira.”  Governor Erdem Basci is sending a “clear signal” by
offering minimal amounts of funding to banks at the lowest rate
in his so-called interest-rate corridor, Nguyen said. The bank
today lent 1 billion liras ($550 million) in funding at its
lowest 5.75 rate today. Basci alternates rates between 5.75
percent and the top end of his corridor of 11.5 percent.  Expectations of a ratings upgrade are also boosting the
lira relative to other currencies, according to Fatih Keresteci,
a strategist at HSBC Bank AS in Istanbul.  “I think  Turkey ’s outlook is positive and the market is
pricing in an expected rating upgrade,” Keresteci said by e-
mail today. Turkey is rated one level below investment grade at
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service, and two levels
below at  Standard & Poor’s .  The lira has gained 5 percent against the dollar this year,
trailing only the pesos of Colombia, Chile and  Mexico , and
 Hungary ’s forint among major currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  