-- Israeli Cabinet Approves Higher Taxes, Cuts in Spending
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-07-30T16:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/israeli-cabinet-approves-higher-taxes-cuts-in-spending-2-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Cabinet approved today a plan to increase taxes and
cut spending in an effort to contain the deficit.  Under the plan, approved by a vote of 20 to 9, value-added
tax will be increased by one percentage point to 17 percent from
Aug. 1. Income tax will rise in 2013 by one percentage point for
most tax brackets, and by two for those who earn 67,000 shekels
($16,594) or more a month. Last week, Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz raised taxes on beer and cigarettes.  “This is a brave and important step that will prevent a
deterioration in  Israel ’s economy,” Steinitz said following the
vote.  The finance minister’s plan was submitted to the Cabinet
just days after the  Bank of Israel ’s monetary policy committee,
led by Governor  Stanley Fischer , kept the benchmark interest
 rate  at 2.25 percent, in part citing “uncertainty in fiscal
policy.”  Steinitz said following the rate decision that the
government was drafting plans to meet its new deficit target.
The steps approved by the Cabinet include across-the-board cuts
in spending this year and next. Parts of the tax and spending
package require parliamentary approval.  ‘Fiscal Credibility’  “There is no doubt that the government’s recent measures
are improving fiscal credibility,” Modi Shafrir, chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd., said in an e-
mailed report. “The government’s actions are providing some
opportunity for the Bank of Israel governor to continue lowering
the interest rate.”  The rate decision was the second time in as many months
that Fischer publicly criticized the government. He said on June
28 that the government’s increased budget deficit target for
next year isn’t reasonable and  interest rates  are unlikely to
stay low unless fiscal policy is put on a “sustainable” path.  The Cabinet voted on July 1 to double the deficit target
for next year to 3 percent of gross domestic product as the
economic growth rate fell to its lowest in almost three years.
Fischer had recommended 2.5 percent.  Economic growth  is expected to decelerate to 3.1 percent
this year from 4.8 percent in 2011, the central bank said on
June 25. The slowdown has reduced  tax revenue , creating a 2.9
billion-shekel shortfall in the first six months of the year,
the  Finance Ministry  said on July 4.  “Governments that didn’t act on time, didn’t act
decisively, and didn’t act responsibly, caused tremendous damage
to their citizens,” Netanyahu said at the Cabinet meeting
today, according to an e-mailed statement.  In the first quarter, the economy grew an annualized 2.7
percent, the least since 2009. In the second quarter, the
economy is expected to expand 2.8 percent, the bank said in the
rate decision. Inflation eased to 1 percent in June, the slowest
since August 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  