-- Israel Bank Valuations Lowest Outside Europe on Bad Debts
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l ,   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-07-30T14:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/israel-bank-valuations-lowest-outside-europe-on-bad-debts-2-.html
Israeli bank  valuations  are falling
to levels that preceded a surge in loan losses three years ago,
just as 20 billion shekels ($4.9 billion) of company debt comes
due and  economic growth  slows to the weakest pace since 2009.  The  Tel Aviv  Banking Index trades for 0.58 times net assets
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Israel , less than every financial-
stock gauge outside  Europe , after dropping 38 percent in the
past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The last time
valuations sank to this level was in November 2008, four months
before  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  and  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI) , the
nation’s biggest lenders, posted loan losses that cut industry
profits to record lows.  More than 30 Israeli companies sought debt forgiveness
since 2011 as refinancing costs rose and growth slowed, the
Israel Securities Authority said in a July 1  report .
Nonperforming loans may increase to 5 percent of the total by
mid-2013 from 3.8 percent in September, according to Moody’s
Investors Service Inc., amid the biggest wave of restructurings
in three years.  “Valuations of the banks haven’t reached the bottom yet,”
Yossi Efrati, who oversees $1.5 billion as the head of
investments at Hachshara Insurance Co. in Tel Aviv, said in a
July 26 interview. “We may see more downside and in the long-
run we don’t expect historical upside to return.”  ‘Rising Risks’  Bank Leumi, whose Chief Executive Officer Rakefet Russak- Aminoach took over on May 1, is down 44 percent in the past year
compared with a 9.9 percent drop in the nation’s  benchmark TA-25
stock index . Bank Hapoalim, where Zion Kenan became CEO almost
three years ago, has lost 33 percent, while  Israel Discount Bank
Ltd. (DSCT) , led by Reuven Avraham Spiegel, dropped 45 percent in the
same period. All three lenders are based in Tel Aviv.  Ramat Gan ,
Israel-based  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. (MZTF) , run by Eliezer Younes,
slid 18 percent.  The Tel Aviv banking index has fallen 13 percent this year,
compared with a 2.3 percent gain for the TA-25.  Bank Leumi and Bank Hapoalim both said on May 31 that
first-quarter profit fell more than 20 percent as they posted a
combined 528 million shekels of provisions.  Loan-loss provisions at Bank Leumi will probably jump 63
percent this year to 1.2 billion shekels while those at Bank
Hapoalim may rise 17 percent to 1.4 billion shekels, a three-
year high, according to Yaniv Pagot, the chief strategist at
Ramat Gan-based Ayalon Group Ltd., an investment firm with 13
billion shekels under management. The combined 2012 estimate of
2.6 billion shekels compares with about 3.7 billion shekels to
cover bad loans reported by the lenders in 2008.  Struggle Ahead  Israeli companies will struggle to issue new debt and roll
over maturing liabilities to pay obligations coming due in 12
months, Moody’s said in a report on May 8, the same day it cut
the outlook on the nation’s banks to negative from stable.
Government efforts to increase competition and curb fees may
drag on growth, reducing pretax profits by as much as 9 percent,
according to a July 23 report from the ratings company.  Citigroup Inc. reduced the 12-month price estimates for
Leumi and Israel Discount Bank by about 50 percent on July 24 to
9 shekels and 4 shekels, respectively, while lowering ratings on
both to neutral from buy. Leumi shares closed at 8.95 shekels on
July 26 and Discount last traded at 3.7 shekels in Tel Aviv.  The  Tel Aviv Banking Index (TABANK)  tumbled to 0.47 times net assets
during the depths of the global financial crisis in March 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Lenders in the index reported
2.5 billion shekels of provisions for loan losses that month,
contributing to a drop in their combined annual net income to
205 million shekels, the lowest level since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 1996.  Accumulated Debt  While banks’ share prices and earnings rebounded from March
2009 through 2010 as the economy recovered from a recession, the
expansion has weakened every quarter since then as exports to
Europe waned. Gross domestic product growth fell to 2.7 percent
in the first quarter from 7.6 percent at the end of 2010,
according to government data.  Companies from  Delek Real Estate Ltd. (DLKR)  to  Tao Tsuot Ltd. (TAO) 
took on obligations when the economy was expanding twice as
fast. The nation’s 10 biggest conglomerates now have about 140
billion shekels of accumulated debt, equivalent to 16 percent of
GDP, according to Moody’s.  The Tel Aviv banking index’s price-to-book ratio dropped to
39 percent below that of the  MSCI All-Country World Financials
Index (MXWOOFN)  last week, the widest gap since December 2004, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge’s valuation is lower
than 33 of 41 industry indexes in developed and emerging
countries, the data show.  ‘Not Buying’  While Israel banks are cheap, “we are not buying, as there
is uncertainty regarding provisions and economic growth,” said
Ronen Elgali, the head of research at Tel Aviv-based Sphera
Funds Management Ltd., which oversees about $450 million.  Yields on bank bonds suggest that investors are confident
that falling profits won’t erode lenders’ financial strength and
the government will stand behind them, according to Ayalon’s
Pagot.  The yield on Bank Hapoalim’s inflation-linked notes due
March 2021 dropped 119 basis points, or 1.19 percentage points,
during the past year to 2.17 percent, according to exchange data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on  Bank Leumi ’s bonds maturing
November 2017 fell 102 basis points to 1.75 percent. The Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market Financial Index dropped 57 basis
points to 3.37 percent for the past 12 months through last week.  “The Bank of Israel’s banking supervision department will
do everything in its power to maintain the stability of the
banking system,” Governor  Stanley Fischer  said in a  speech  at
an economic conference at the  Dead Sea  on June 28.  New Guidelines  The Supervisor of Banks said in a  report  last week that
borrower concentration continues to be a focus of risk and is
“liable to have a marked effect on the banking corporations’
capital.” Regulators issued draft guidelines for improving risk
management in the financial system last month. Yoav Soffer, a
Bank of Israel spokesman, declined to comment.  Ofra Preuss, a spokeswoman at Bank Hapoalim, declined to
comment when contacted by phone on July 11. The office of the
spokesman of Bank Leumi said in an e-mailed response on July 16,
the lender doesn’t have a comment.  “We have shown improvement in our loan book over the past
year and our exposure to large borrower groups is among the
lowest compared to our peers,” Barry Simon, the head of
 investor relations  at Israel Discount Bank, the country’s third-
largest lender by assets, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on July 12.  ‘Quality Characteristics’  Investors recognize Mizrahi Bank’s “quality
characteristics,” Benny Shoukron, a company spokesman, wrote in
an e-mailed statement on July 11, citing its price-to-book ratio
relative to peers. The 0.84 ratio is the highest in the Tel Aviv
banking index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At least 34 companies started debt settlement talks with
bondholders last year, up from 20 in 2010, according to the
latest data from the Israel Securities Authority on July 1.  Restructurings are under way for about 7 billion shekels of
debt, Moody’s Midroog said in a  report  in June. Refinancing
costs have increased, with 41 percent of corporate bonds trading
at yields above 8 percent at the end of June, compared with 29
percent in April, according to a July 4  Standard & Poor’s Maalot
report .  Debt Settlement  Delek Real Estate, the Ramat Gan-based property company
controlled by Israeli tycoon Isaac Tshuva that owes 2.1 billion
shekels in unsecured debt to bondholders, reached an initial
agreement in July for a 1.5 billion-shekel settlement.  A court-appointed trustee is negotiating a debt settlement
of more than 330 million shekels between Tao, the  investment
company  controlled by Israeli entrepreneur Ilan Ben Dov, and
bondholders, according to a Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange filing on
June 28.  Bank Leumi took 4.9 million shekels from Tao’s account for
immediate repayment of debt. The Petach Tikva-based company owes
79 million shekels to the lender, according to the stock
exchange filing.  “I wouldn’t recommend investing in the banking sector in
Israel,”  Joseph Wolf , an analyst at Barclays Plc in Tel Aviv
who rates Hapoalim a buy, said by phone on July 27. “The
combination of a slowing economy and a more stringent regulatory
environment means that banks will have a hard time growing and
producing good returns in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  