-- Italy Yields Drop at Auction on Prospect of ECB Bond Buying
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-07-30T09:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/italy-yields-drop-at-auction-on-prospect-of-ecb-bond-buying.html
Italy’s borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of 5-year and 10-year debt on speculation the
 European Central Bank  may buy euro nations’ bonds to stabilize
their economies.  Italy sold 4.73 billion euros ($5.8 billion) of 5- and 10-
year bonds. The Rome-based Treasury priced the 10-year debt to
yield 5.96 percent, down from 6.19 percent on June 28. The
Treasury priced its 5-year bond to yield 5.29 percent, compared
with 5.84 percent last month.  Italy also sold 750 million euros of a 3% 2015 bond to
yield 4.49, bringing the total amount sold to 5.48 billion-
euros, near the 5.5 billion euros that was the maximum target
for the auction.  “Expectations that the ECB will contribute to more
forceful policy action to bring down Spanish and Italian yields
are running high,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy Ltd., a London consulting firm specializing
in sovereign-credit risk, said in an e-mailed note. The Italian
Treasury couldn’t have issued longer-dated paper at a better
time, he said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  is trying to persuade policy
makers to agree on a multi-pronged approach to reduce bond
yields in countries such as Spain and Italy, two central bank
officials said July 27, asking not to be identified because the
talks are private.  Italy’s 10-year yield was up 6 basis points at 6 percent at
11:34 a.m. in  Rome , pushing the difference with German Bunds to
464 basis points.  ’Under Pressure’  The ECB is under pressure to lower borrowing costs after
three interest-rate cuts since November failed to stop bond
yields soaring in Spain and Italy, threatening the survival of
the euro.  Draghi, who meets with U.S Treasury Secretary General
Timothy Geithner in  Frankfurt  today, sparked a global market
rally last week by pledging to do whatever it takes to preserve
the euro. His proposal involves Europe’s rescue fund buying
 government bonds  on the primary market, buttressed by ECB
purchases on the secondary market to ensure transmission of its
record-low  interest rates , the two central bank officials said.  The ECB, which holds its next meeting on Aug. 2, has
disbursed more than 1 trillion euros to European lenders through
its longer-term refinancing operation, or LTRO, since December.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Francois
Hollande  and Prime Minister  Mario Monti  have already endorsed
Draghi’s approach, echoing his language in saying they will do
what’s needed to protect the 17-nation euro.  Merkel and Monti agreed by phone on July 28 that the EU’s
June summit decisions “must be implemented without delay,”
according to a statement by the Italian premier’s office. Monti
agreed to travel to Berlin for talks with Merkel in the second
half of August, and will meet with Hollande tomorrow in Paris,
according to his agenda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  