-- Titans’ Murdock Found Dead of Gunshot as Police Suspect Suicide
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-30T16:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/titans-murdock-found-dead-of-gunshot-as-police-suspect-suicide.html
O.J. Murdock, a wide receiver for
the  Tennessee Titans  who failed to report to training camp last
week, died of what appears to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound,
police said. He was 25.  Tampa, Florida, police officers discovered Murdock’s body
in his car outside Middleton High School at around 8:30 a.m.
local time today, according to the City of Tampa’s  website .
Murdock, who graduated from the school in 2005, was transported
to Tampa General Hospital in critical condition and died at
10:43 a.m.  Murdock was signed by the Titans as an undrafted free agent
in July 2011. He spent last season on injured reserve after
injuring his right Achilles tendon early in training camp.  “We are shocked and saddened to hear of O.J. Murdock’s
death this morning,” the Titans said in an e-mailed statement.
“In his brief time here, a number of our players, coaches and
staff had grown close to O.J., and this is a difficult time for
them. He spent the last year battling back from an Achilles
injury as he prepared for this year’s training camp. Our
thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends as they try
to cope with this tragedy.”  Orenthal James Murdock was born on Feb. 15, 1987. He spent
two seasons at Fort Hays State University after beginning his
college career at the University of  South Carolina  and then
Pearl River Community College. At Fort Hays State, he had 95
catches for 1,987 yards and 20 touchdowns in 21 games.  Murdock had been recovering from the Achilles injury and
was excused from July 28 practice for “personal reasons,”  CBS
Sports  said, citing Titans coach Mike Munchak. Murdock was
listed on the team’s Reserve/Did Not Report list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 