-- Livestock Groups Ask Obama to Suspend Ethanol Law on Drought
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-07-30T17:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/livestock-groups-ask-obama-to-suspend-ethanol-law-on-drought-1-.html
Livestock and poultry producers
formally asked the Obama administration today to suspend the
nation’s renewable fuels standard because it is causing “severe
economic harm” as corn prices surged to a record.  A coalition including the  National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association  and National Pork Producers Council, sent a  petition 
to the Environmental Protection Agency today asking for a waiver
“in whole or in substantial part” the output requirements
under the Renewable Fuels Standard for 12 months.  “An unsustainable situation has been created by the
drought combined with the lack of cushion in corn supply due to
the tremendous demand from ethanol producers,” Tom Super, a
spokesman for the National Chicken Council, part of the
coalition, said today on a conference call with reporters. “We
believe that the RFS is causing severe economic harm during this
crisis.”  The drought that sent corn prices to a record is
devastating meat producers, and the demand for grain used to
make ethanol is reducing available supplies to make food, the
livestock groups said. The current mandate requires refiners to
use 13.2 billion gallons of the biofuel this year and 13.8
billion in 2013. It’s “time to wean” the ethanol industry off
government mandates, J.D. Alexander, the president of the
National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, said on today’s call.  Higher Prices  “The higher-priced corn, the higher-priced cost of
production, and higher cost of eventual products is going to
be” passed along “to the consumer,” said Alexander, a
Nebraska rancher who said he’s never seen anything like this
drought in his 40 years in the business and added that he’s
having trouble finding corn to feed his cattle.  The price of corn, the main ingredient in livestock feed,
is up 61 percent since June 15 and reached a record $8.1775 a
bushel today in  Chicago  as the drought erodes yield prospects
for the crop that, last month, the government had forecast would
be a record. About 64 percent of the contiguous U.S. is in
moderate to severe  drought  as of July 24, according to the U.S.
Drought Monitor.  Consumers may buy less meat as prices rise, John Burkel,
the vice chairman of the National Turkey Federation and a
Minnesota turkey grower, said on a media conference call. Stores
are less likely to offer cheap turkeys during Thanksgiving this
year, he said. While grocers typically advertise turkey at below
cost to attract consumers for the entire holiday meal, retailers
“can’t possibly continue doing that at these  price levels ,” he
said.  Ethanol Industry  Bob Dinneen, the president of the Washington-based
 Renewable Fuels Association , the largest U.S. ethanol trade
group, said in an e-mail that he expects the government to deny
the waiver request.  “This summer’s hot, dry weather conditions have caused
significant challenges for all users of grain,” including
ethanol refiners, Dinneen said. “However, waiving the RFS won’t
bring the type of relief the livestock groups are seeking, nor
will it result in significantly lower feed prices.”  Ethanol producers have responded to higher costs by cutting
 output  17 percent to 796,000 barrels a day in the week ended
July 20 from a record 963,000 on Dec. 30. Poet LLC, is the
largest U.S. ethanol producer, followed by  Archer Daniels
Midland Co. (ADM) , in Decatur,  Illinois , and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)   Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe supports the concept of
suspending the mandate, Matt DeCample, a spokesman, said today
in a telephone interview.  The purpose of the livestock group’s petition is “short-
term relief,” Thomas Elam, the president of consultant FarmEcon
LLC in Carmel,  Indiana , said on the call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  