-- James Holmes's Indirect NRA Donation
-- B y   Z a r a   K e s s l e r
-- 2012-07-30T18:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/james-holmes-indirect-nra-donation.html
James Holmes was not a member of the  National Rifle Association , according to
a (rejected)   gun range application  released by  Fox News . So he did not enjoy
the benefits that come with a $35 one-year  membership  to the Fairfax, Virginia-
based association, ranging from an "official NRA members-only Shooter's cap" to
"24/7 defense of your Second Amendment freedoms" and "insurance for you and your
guns." Yet the man charged this morning with killing 12 people at an Aurora,
Colorado, movie theater nevertheless helped bolster the NRA's bottom line. Three guns  were used in the shooting: an assault rifle, a 12-gauge shotgun
and a .40-caliber handgun. A second .40-caliber handgun was found in Holmes'
car. The manufacturers of all four weapons contribute to NRA coffers. Law enforcement officials  said  the assault rifle was an M&P15; made by
Massachusetts-based Smith & Wesson. In May 2012, the NRA  celebrated  Smith &
Wesson's entry into the association's "Golden Ring of Freedom," which comes with
a hefty price tag: $1 million in cash or assets. According to the NRA release,
Smith & Wesson's support "far exceeds one million dollars in cash" distributed
to various NRA programs, including the NRA Foundation, the association’s
affiliated charity. In January, Bloomberg News  reported  that from 2004 to 2010, the NRA's revenue
from fundraising grew twice as fast as income from membership dues. Much of that
fundraising -- at least $14.8 million since 2005 -- came from firearms companies
and related industries. These include Glock, the manufacturer that made Holmes's two handguns. In
 April 2012 , Glock donated $115,000 to the association and its affiliated
programs and provided 30 pistols to its law enforcement division. Of that total,
$15,000 went to an affiliated "adventure camp" where children  learn  "the
fundamentals of pistol, rifle, muzzle loading, and shotgun shooting skills with
safety always foremost in mind;" in effect, the camp fosters the next generation
of Glock owners. The NRA store at this year’s annual meeting in April was  sponsored  by
Remington Arms, the North Carolina-based company that manufactured Holmes'
shotgun. Remington has also  contributed  to the NRA Foundation through its
"Friends of NRA" grass-roots fundraising program. In an e-mail statement on the day of the Aurora shooting, NRA spokesman
Andrew Arulanandam  said : "Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their
families and the community. NRA will not have any further comment until all the
facts are known." In a state court hearing today in Centennial,  Colorado , the facts seemed
pretty well established. Holmes was  charged  with 24 counts of first degree
murder and 116 counts of attempted first degree murder. He could face the death
penalty. Holmes's guns were made by companies that help to bankroll NRA lobbying and
political communications, the purpose of which is to make it easier to buy and
carry more -- and more high-powered -- guns. The NRA's efforts have been so
successful that Holmes appears to have amassed his deadly arsenal without
breaking  the law . As it it turns out, Holmes did not have to pay the NRA a $35 fee to advance
his interest in acquiring weapons. The gun manufacturers covered it. (Zara Kessler is on the staff of Bloomberg View.  Follow her  on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and editors at
 the Ticker .  