-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Little Changed Before Fed
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-30T23:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/japan-australian-stock-futures-little-changed-before-fed.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  were little changed as investors await policy
announcements by the Federal Reserve and the  European Central
Bank  amid signs of a global economic slowdown.  American depositary receipts of  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the Australia’s third-largest lender, rose
0.4 percent from the closing share price in Sydney. Those of
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest carmaker by market value,
fell 0.3 percent. Shares of  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101)  may be active as
Japan’s No. 1 shipping line by sales is scheduled to report
earnings today.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,620 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,610 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,620
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index added 0.1 percent today.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index
was little changed in Wellington.  “At the moment, the markets are really focused on central
bank actions rather than the economic environment,” said
Matthew Sherwood, Perpetual Investments’ head of investment
markets research in Sydney. Perpetual manages about $25 billion.
“We may get a little bit of sell-down in Asian equities after
pretty good rises.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  added 0.1
percent today. The index fell less than 0.1 percent in New York
yesterday, snapping a two-day rally, ahead of an Aug. 3 report
that may show the pace of hiring in July failed to reduce the
U.S. jobless rate.  Fed, ECB  The Federal Open Market Committee will announce a policy
decision tomorrow, and the European Central Bank will convene on
Aug. 2. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  backed a commitment by
European leaders to do everything needed to defend the euro area
while failing to mention its weakest link, Greece.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 9 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will worsen and China’s economy is
slowing. The regional benchmark index traded at 11.9 times
 estimated earnings , compared with 13.5 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 11.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 1,007 companies listed on the Asian benchmark gauge,
264 firms are scheduled to post earnings this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 166 companies to have
reported so far and for which Bloomberg had earnings estimates,
more than half failed to meet the projection, the data show.
Earnings per share at companies on the index are expected to
grow 20 percent this fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 