-- Japan Industrial Output Falls as Korea Confidence Sinks: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-07-30T02:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/japan-s-june-industrial-output-falls-as-recovery-loses-momentum.html
Japan ’s  industrial production 
unexpectedly declined and South Korean manufacturers’ confidence
dropped to a three-year low, building the case for extra
monetary and fiscal measures to aid growth.  Production fell 0.1 percent in June from May, when it slid
3.4 percent, Japan’s Trade Ministry said today. The median
estimate of 29 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a
1.5 percent gain. The  South Korean confidence index  for August
was at 70 after 81 for July, the central bank said.  The signs of weakness kick off a week that UBS AG says will
be among the year’s most important for financial markets, with
the U.S. Federal Reserve and central banks in the U.K. and the
euro region meeting to consider fresh stimulus efforts. The
 Reserve Bank  of  India  will release its monetary policy decision
tomorrow as it weighs inflation risks against the weakest
economic growth since 2003.  “It’s increasingly likely that the Fed and  European
Central Bank  will ease further by September,” said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at JPMorgan Securities in Tokyo and a
former central bank official. In Japan, the government may
implement a supplementary budget by September, with the central
bank expanding asset purchases, Adachi said.  Today’s Korean data followed a slide in a measure of the
nation’s  consumer confidence .  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said the economy
is in a “difficult” situation. “I will do everything I can to
find a solution for the sluggish domestic economy,” Bahk said
today in a speech to government officials in Gwacheon.  Labor Figures  Besides the central-bank policy meetings, U.S. jobs data
due Aug. 3 will be key, said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, managing
director of foreign-exchange strategy for UBS in  Singapore . Fed
officials meet on July 31 and Aug. 1 after already pledging to
keep the benchmark  interest rate  low until late 2014.  Asian stocks rose for a third day, with the regional
benchmark index extending the biggest gain in a month, on
optimism that ECB President  Mario Draghi  will make headway. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.8 percent as of 11:07 a.m. in
Tokyo.  Draghi, who triggered a global equity rally by pledging to
preserve the euro, is trying to build consensus among
governments and central bankers for a plan to ease borrowing
costs in  Spain  and Italy before ECB policy makers convene on Aug.
2. He meets with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in
Frankfurt today and is also attempting to win over Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann, a critic of ECB bond purchases.  Spanish GDP  Spain, which is being pushed closer to a full sovereign
bailout, releases second-quarter gross-domestic-product data
today. The Spanish central bank said July 23 that the recession
probably deepened in the period, estimating that GDP fell 0.4
percent. A measure of euro-area confidence is also due.  In Japan, the yen’s strength is undermining a recovery that
has been supported by  government spending  on earthquake
reconstruction and incentives to purchase fuel-efficient cars.
The currency rose more than 6 percent against the dollar since
mid-March, hurting exporters such as  Canon Inc. (7751)  and Nintendo Co.
The yen was at 78.41 per dollar as of 11:08 a.m. in Tokyo, and
last week reached an 11-year high against the euro.  Indian policy makers are trying to preserve an expansion
that cooled to a 5.3 percent pace in the first quarter of this
year. Most analysts forecast no change to interest rates
tomorrow. The central bank will release a report on the economy
today.  Production Trend  In Japan, the government downgraded its assessment of
industrial production for the first time since September, saying
output is in “a flat trend.” Production of cars for overseas
fell in June, it said. Last week, government reports showed that
consumer prices unexpectedly declined and retail sales rose less
than economists forecast.  While government subsidies for purchases of fuel-efficient
cars have bolstered consumer spending and production, those
gains may fade in the coming months. Mizuho Securities Co. sees
the program expiring by mid-August.  Japan’s economic growth probably slowed to an annual pace
of 1.6 percent in the three months ended June 30 from a 4.7
percent expansion in the first quarter, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  