-- Japan Anti-Nuclear Candidate Loses Governor Race, Changes Debate
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-07-30T04:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/japan-anti-nuclear-candidate-loses-governor-race-changes-debate.html
Renewable energy advocate Tetsunari Iida lost the race for Yamaguchi governor yesterday though his
office said he forced a change in the debate that made his
opponent come out against building a nuclear plant in the area.  The new governor -- Shigetaro Yamamoto, a former bureaucrat
at the land and transport ministry -- said he would suspend
plans by Chugoku Electric Power Co. to build the Kaminoseki
atomic plant. Iida ran on scrapping the plan.  “Yamamoto changed his opinion on the Kaminoseki project
after Iida entered the election,” Kaoru Matsuda, a spokesman
for Iida’s election office, said by phone today. “Calling for a
suspension is convenient” as he can lift it later, Matsuda
said. An official at Yamamoto’s election office who declined to
be named denied he shifted views during the campaign.  The election took place as tens of thousands of people in
Tokyo surrounded the Diet building to protest Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s decision to restart two reactors closed for
safety checks after the Fukushima disaster. Months of anti-
nuclear rallies and marches in the capital have yet to translate
into political change in rural regions that depend on the  power
plants  for investment and jobs.  Second Loss  Iida’s loss is the second this month for governor
candidates running on an anti-nuclear ticket. On July 8,
Yuichiro Ito, 64, won re-election as governor in the south-
western prefecture of Kagoshima against a challenger who opposed
restarting Kyushu Electric Power Co.’s atomic plant.  Ito, who won almost two-thirds of the votes cast, supports
the restart of two reactors at the company’s Sendai station and
a freeze on plans to build a third one. His election was the
first since Noda authorized the restart of two Kansai Electric
Power Co. reactors northeast of  Osaka .  Japan  is in the midst of drawing up a new energy policy and
is polling the public’s views on atomic power after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami last year caused meltdowns and radiation
leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi station.
Around 160,000 people were forced to evacuate in Fukushima,
areas of which will be uninhabitable for decades due to
radiation poisoning.  The country is presenting three scenarios to the public of
proposed future  energy supply : No nuclear, 15 percent nuclear
and 20 percent to 25 percent nuclear. Before Fukushima, Japan
got about 30 percent of its electricity from atomic power.  Newspaper surveys and other polls indicate conflicted views
among the public as reflected in the anti-nuclear rallies versus
voting patterns.  Poll Patterns  The Nikkei business newspaper today said 49 percent of
respondents support the restart of nuclear plants at the
“minimum level.” The newspaper didn’t define what that level
is. Another 27 percent said all of Japan’s 50 operational
reactors should be shut down, according to the poll that had 926
responses from 1,437 households with voters, according to the
newspaper.  At hearings by the government to gauge opinion on Japan’s
 energy policy , around 70 percent support ending nuclear-power
generation by 2030, according to Asahi newspaper calculation.  The government held meetings in Hiroshima and Naha
yesterday, the seventh and eight hearings in which members of
the public debate what proportion of the nation’s energy should
be nuclear-generated.  Eleven percent of the 1,253 people to take part in the
meetings so far said atomic power should make up 15 percent of
the nation’s energy mix, with 17 percent of people favoring
20-25 percent, according to the Asahi.  The government will take results of the hearings into
account in compiling its energy policy. Final hearings will take
place in Fukushima on Aug. 1, and Takamatsu and Fukuoka on Aug.
4, the report said.  In the Yamaguchi governor race yesterday, Yamamoto received
252,461 votes, Iida 185,654, according to the prefecture’s
election administration commission. The other two candidates
Tsutomu Takamura and Shigeyuki Miwa received 55,418 and 37,150
votes respectively, the commission said on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  