-- China, South Korea Slam Japan’s Claims Over Disputed Islands
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-07-31T08:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/japan-sees-debate-over-china-military-s-role-in-security-policy.html
China and  South Korea  slammed
 Japan ’s claims to territorial rights over disputed Pacific Ocean
islands, as rising tensions add to the risk of clashes over
energy and fishing rights.  South Korea expressed “deep regret” that Japan chose to
assert its claim to disputed islets for an eighth year in an
annual defense white paper released today, and China said
Japanese officials had made irresponsible and erroneous comments
on a separate group of islands claimed by both nations.  The war of words underscores growing unease over China’s
assertiveness in disputed waters, as countries try to use their
territorial claims to support a push for undersea gas, oil and
fishing rights. The tensions have led to skirmishes: The
 Philippines  this month denounced “intimidation” from China and
warned of possible “physical hostilities” at a regional
security meeting following a two-month standoff with Chinese
vessels over a disputed reef in the  South China Sea .  “Recently we have noticed the irresponsible remarks made
by some officials in Japan about the Diaoyu islands,” China’s
Defense Ministry Spokesman Geng Yansheng said at a media
briefing today in Beijing. “Such erroneous remarks will be met
with the opposition of the Chinese people.”  Japan’s focus on China’s growing military strength has
sharpened this year with a dispute erupting over rights to a
group of uninhabited islands in the  East China Sea  after Tokyo
Governor Shintaro Ishihara unveiled plans to buy them. In May,
China canceled a visit to Japan by a top general, Guo Boxiong.  Island Purchase  Japan’s central government has offered to buy three of the
disputed islands for 2 billion yen ($25.6 million), the Sankei
newspaper reported today. The private Japanese owner refused the
offer, saying he prefers to sell the land to the  Tokyo 
metropolitan government, the newspaper said. Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters today that the report
was incorrect, and declined to comment on the status of talks
with the owner.  “The Senkaku dispute matters for its capacity to transform
Japanese thinking about Chinese intentions,” Brad Glosserman,
executive director of Pacific Forum CSIS, a Honolulu-based
research institute, wrote in an e-mail. “Japan remains the
third-largest economy in the world, and while it is deeply
pacifist -- or defensive -- in security orientation, a change in
its thinking would ripple throughout the region and could truly
transform the region.”  Angry Rebuke  An editorial in the China Daily newspaper today said
Japan’s territorial claims “do not hold water.” Japan’s claim
over a separate group of islets controlled by South Korea
sparked an angry rebuke from  Seoul , with South Korea’s  defense
ministry  demanding a correction and summoning Japan’s Seoul-
based military attache, according to a statement on the foreign
ministry’s website.  While China had the ability to safeguard its territorial
integrity and maritime rights, much of its military technology
is still outmoded, Geng said. The PLA has “a lot of old
equipment” that “still lags far behind,” Colonel Lin Bai, an
officer in the People’s Liberation Army’s General Armament
Department, said at the same briefing.  China is making “smooth progress” in its development of
an  aircraft carrier , and tests and sea trials of the carrier
will continue, Lin said. “The Great Wall was not built in a
day,” he said.  More Difficult  The relationship between China’s  People’s Liberation Army 
and the Communist Party is becoming more complicated as the
military modernizes, becomes more professional and undertakes a
wider variety of duties, Japan’s Defense Ministry said in the
white paper. A more professional military could be tougher for
civilians to control, Toshinori Tanaka, director of the
Strategic Intelligence Analysis Office, told Bloomberg News.  “The decision-making process has become less clear and
that makes it more difficult to deal with,” Tanaka said.  Senior Colonel Wang Yongsheng, vice director of the
People’s Liberation Army Political Research Office, told
reporters in Beijing that the Chinese military was firmly under
the control of the Communist Party.  “Some people hold the wrong view, calling for making the
military less political-party oriented, less nationalized,”
Wang said. “Some are even calling for the military to be
separated from the leadership of the party. This is something we
are firmly opposed to.”  Lack of Transparency  Japan reiterated its concern about the lack of transparency
in  China ’s defense spending, which it said has grown 30-fold
over the past 24 years. China is also expanding its ocean-based
military presence, while intelligence-gathering missions have
been observed in waters close to Japan, the report said.  The report reiterated Japan’s plans to beef up the defense
of remote islands and surrounding waters where no military
personnel are currently stationed. It also highlighted plans by
Japan’s ally the U.S. to step up focus on  Asia .  “Recognizing that many of its security and economic
interests are closely linked to development in Asia, the U.S. is
placing more importance on the Asia-Pacific and strengthening
ties with its allies in the region,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  