-- Japan’s $1.45 Trillion Whale May Crush Yen Bulls
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-30T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/japan-s-1-45-trillion-whale-may-crush-yen-bulls-william-pesek.html
As havens go,  Japan  sure is an odd
case. You would think that having the developed world’s largest
public debt, an aging and shrinking population, deflation, few
natural resources and the ever-present risk of a giant
earthquake might give investors pause.  Since the global crash of 2008, though, they can’t get
enough of the place. As a recession takes hold in  Europe  and the
U.S. limps along, demand for yen assets has exploded. This is
giving Finance Minister Jun Azumi and  Bank of Japan  Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa fits as they confront pressure to halt the
yen’s 33 percent surge since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Try as they might, there is little they can do. The yen is
in vogue because the dollar and euro look uglier, and its rise
is beyond the control of the government or central bank. Yet
something is afoot that might reverse the yen’s climb in ways
Japan might not like, thanks to the world’s largest pension
fund.  Demographic trends are prompting Japan’s  Government Pension
Investment Fund  to trim its debt holdings. That’s huge news in
bondland. The fund oversees $1.45 trillion of assets, an amount
greater than  China ’s holdings of  U.S. Treasuries  and more than
most sovereign-wealth funds have to invest. This bond whale
makes the $263 billion Total Return Fund run by  Bill Gross  of
Pacific Investment Management Co. look like a minnow.  Dumping Debt  The pension fund’s move may signal a weaker yen in three
ways. First, as Japan ages, huge pension funds will have to
invest more abroad for higher-yielding assets. Second, the Bank
of Japan will have to add more liquidity to the financial system
to absorb large bond sales, which is essentially another
quantitative easing. Third, it means the big money will be
bidding less on government debt auctions. All of this may have
other major debt holders, Japanese or otherwise, considering
sales of their own. And selling debt today might lock in much
richer gains than a year from now.  Does this mean the day of reckoning that bears have warned
of for so long is upon us? Is what’s arguably the world’s
biggest bond bubble bursting? It’s a question worth asking. More
than $10 trillion of savings in Japan needs a home somewhere,
and public debt, negligible yields aside, will still have ample
support. Yet 10-year Japanese yields, now at a nine-year low of
0.77 percent, are likely to rise at some point.  The most immediate issue is fresh volatility in  currency
markets . In a stable and rational financial world, higher yields
might make the yen more attractive as investors seek fatter
returns. But worries about Japan’s  bond market  could damage the
nation’s refuge status. That would pressure hedge funds,
portfolio managers, banks and individual investors to find
alternatives.  The trouble is, where? Probably not the euro or even the
 U.S. dollar . Maybe commodity currencies such as  Australia ’s or
 Canada ’s, though their dependence on China and its slowing
economy is unnerving. One could opt for gold, but at more than
$1,600 an ounce that could be a dicey proposition.  The risk is that a sudden drop in the yen leads to an
uncontrollable unraveling. True, some yen weakening would be
welcome in  Tokyo , where business executives are demanding
action. A quick look at the earnings trajectory of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Sharp Corp. tells you all you need to know about the
hollowing out that’s now taking place.  In reality, hollowing out in one form or another has been
Japan’s lot since the mid-1990s, after the economic bubble
imploded. High wages, overcapacity and bloated corporate
structures led to painful downsizing. Factories closed, jobs
went overseas, the  lifetime employment  that formed the core of
Japan’s postwar boom went away, deflation deepened, rust-belt
cities such as Osaka and Shizuoka lost their buzz, homeless
shelters swelled and the  interest rates  were cut to zero.  China Effect  A decade later, China overtook Japan as the region’s
dominant economic power. On the bright side, that scared Japan’s
bank executives into disposing of the bad loans that had
crippled the financial system for more than a decade. Economists
credited then-Prime Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  and his financial
guru Heizo Takenaka for cleaning up the banks. In reality, the
credit belongs to China. Even so, Japan still hasn’t grasped the
significance of China’s ascent, and is still struggling to
adapt.  A third setback came with the yen’s post-2008 surge, which
has been accelerating in tandem with Europe’s meltdown. Japan’s
export industry, the lifeblood of the economy, is reeling.
Profits are down and so is market share amid competition from
 South Korea (KOSPI)  and China. Disruptions after a giant earthquake in
March 2011 further dented Japan’s standing as a manufacturing
center and as a reliable link in the global supply chain. Calls
for radical action on the yen are getting louder by the day.  So is the speculation about why Japan is tolerating an
 exchange rate  that so many think imperils its growth and
sovereign  credit rating . One of the most intriguing theories is
that it’s a generational phenomenon. A stronger yen mostly
benefits the elderly, who are by far the largest voting bloc. It
exacerbates deflation, enabling retirees to stretch their
pensions and savings. Politicians may be loath to risk electoral
support with a weaker yen.  Another theory is that Japan wants to encourage mergers and
acquisitions to wring out inefficiencies, boost competitiveness
and gain new markets. This month’s move by Dentsu Inc., the 111-
year-old advertising company, to buy the U.K.’s Aegis Group Plc
supports this idea.  The truth is, the yen’s strength is beyond control of
Japanese officials. Currency intervention won’t work, and
neither will flooding world markets with yen. The wild card is
how yen-bond sales by big investors affect Japanese yields and
global markets. Such sales may deprive the world of one of the
few havens left. They also may introduce more chaos into markets
that really don’t need it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  housing as a campaign issue 
and on why Italians should deepen Monti’s reforms and  reject
Berlusconi ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Mexico’s energy reforms ;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on why Republicans will  win the tax debate ;
 Alexander Friedman  and Kiran Ganesh on the  butterfly effects  of
central banks; Carrie Lingo on the excitement of  women’s field
hockey .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 