-- Japan Jobless Rate Falling May Fail to End Recovery Concerns
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-07-31T03:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/japan-s-unexpected-drop-in-unemployment-helps-to-sustain-growth.html
Japan ’s jobless rate unexpectedly
declined in June, a positive sign for an economy struggling with
gains in the yen and weakness in export demand because of
Europe’s debt crisis.  The  rate  fell to 4.3 percent from 4.4 percent the previous
month, the statistics bureau said today in  Tokyo . The median
estimate of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for the
rate to stay at 4.4 percent.  The yen rose more than 6 percent against the dollar since
mid-March, hurting profits of exporters such as  Canon Inc. (7751)  and
Nintendo Co., and reached an 11-year high against the euro last
week. The improvement in the  unemployment rate  may not be enough
to dispel concerns that a recovery is losing steam after
industrial output declined for a third month in June. Job gains
were in services, while manufacturing shed workers.  “Activity could drop more sharply once the full impact of
the crisis in Europe and the strong yen hit home,”  Julian Jessop , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London said
before today’s release.  The yen traded at 78.17 per dollar as of 11:29 a.m. in
Tokyo compared with yesterday’s close of 78.18.  The government yesterday downgraded its assessment of
industrial production for the first time since September, saying
output is in “a flat trend.” Production of cars for overseas
fell in June, it said. Last week, government reports showed that
consumer prices unexpectedly declined and retail sales rose less
than economists forecast.  Medical and welfare services added 310,000 jobs from a year
earlier to a total of 7.03 million, while the manufacturing
industry shed 90,000 to 10.4 million, according to the
statistics bureau.  “The non-manufacturing sector is relatively solid, which
is an underlying reason for the improvement in June,” said
 Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “But, it’s
obvious that the manufacturing sector isn’t getting better as
overseas demand is slowing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  