-- JPMorgan Bankers Are Said to Depart for Evercore, Centerview
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-07-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/jpmorgan-bankers-are-said-to-depart-for-evercore-centerview.html
Three  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
investment bankers are leaving for  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and
Centerview Partners LP, the latest dealmakers to depart a global
lender for a merger advisory boutique.  Barrett “Brett” Pickett and Lowell Strug, who advised
restaurant and other consumer companies at New York-based
JPMorgan, are joining Evercore in the coming weeks, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter. Adam Beshara, 38, who
worked with manufacturers such as ITT Corp., starts at
Centerview today, firm co-founder Blair Effron said.  Evercore and Centerview, both based in  New York  and started
by veterans of some of Wall Street’s biggest banks, focus on
advising large corporate clients on mergers and capital
structure rather than trading or lending. They’ve been hiring
amid pay cuts and firings at the bigger firms.  “When you sell intellectual capital versus other kinds of
capital -- financial capital and the like -- it attracts a
certain type of individual,” Effron said in an interview
yesterday.  Pickett, at JPMorgan since 1998 and the firm’s former co-
head of consumer and retail investment banking, will start with
Evercore next month, said the three people, who asked not to be
identified because the changes haven’t been announced. He will
help run the consumer group at Evercore.  Strug, with JPMorgan since 2000, will join Pickett at
Evercore in September, the people said. Strug was a managing
director in mergers and acquisitions at JPMorgan, focusing on
food and beverage companies and  restaurant chains .  Previous Deals  Pickett and Strug together in 2008 advised Wendy’s
International Inc. on its $2.4 billion sale to  Nelson Peltz ’s
Triarc Cos. They also advised 3G Capital Inc., the investment
firm backed by a group of Brazilian industrialists, on its
purchase of Burger King Holdings Inc. for $3.3 billion in 2010.  Beshara, who joins Centerview as a partner, was a managing
director in JPMorgan’s industrials investment-banking group. He
advised ITT on its 2011 breakup into three separate companies
and the same year helped Stanley Black & Decker Inc. prevail in
a bidding war for Swedish surveillance-systems maker Niscayah
AB. He joined JPMorgan in 1998.  Evercore, founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Roger Altman , said July 26 that second-quarter profit rose 19
percent on higher investment-banking revenue. On a subsequent
conference call, Altman said Evercore plans to disclose three
new managing directors before next quarter’s results.  Pickett and Strug are two of those hires, said one of the
people familiar with the matter. Spokesmen for Evercore and
JPMorgan declined to comment.  Evercore’s Mark Vander Ploeg, hired in 2007 to focus on
advising retail and consumer companies, retired last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  Detroit  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  