-- July Cargoes on Panamax Ships Slump as China Coal Demand Falls
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-07-30T14:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/july-cargoes-on-panamax-ships-slump-as-china-coal-demand-falls.html
The number of cargoes booked on
Panamax bulk carriers, the largest to transit the Panama Canal,
slumped 33 percent in July amid slowing Chinese imports of
thermal coal, used for power stations, Morgan Stanley said.  There were 151 new cargoes reported for Panamax ships in
July, compared with 224 for the same period 12 months ago and
174 in each of the previous two months, according to an e-mailed
report today from Morgan Stanley analysts including  New York- 
based Fotis Giannakoulis. Monthly bookings, known as fixtures in
the industry, gained for the larger Capesize vessels in July
compared with the previous two months, even as rates to hire the
ships slumped.  “Panamax fixtures continue to decline as  China ’s thermal
coal demand is softening,” the U.S. investment bank said in the
report, citing a slowing economy and growing hydropower output.
“The weakness of the freight market is rapidly moving towards
the smaller vessels that until recently seemed decoupled.”  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity freight costs
for four vessel sizes, dropped 1.9 percent to 915, the lowest
since June 14, according to the  Baltic Exchange . The London-
based exchange assesses freight costs on more than 50
international maritime routes.  Average Panamax hire costs slid 2.1 percent to $8,054 and
are 42 percent lower than 2012’s high on April 27, data show.  U.S. grain and soybean  exports , which usually begin to
surge in October, will be reduced due to an ongoing drought,
extending weakening demand for smaller bulk carriers, according
to the report.  “The dry bulk market will benefit much less, if at all,
from the traditional surge in U.S. soybean cargoes that normally
come flooding to the market,” Giannakoulis said, citing
information from New York-based Commodore Research &
Consultancy. About 349 million metric tons of grain is estimated
to be shipped globally this year, according to Morgan Stanley.  Hire Costs  Supramax hire costs declined 2.1 percent to $10,945 daily,
while Handysize vessels, the smallest tracked, slid 1.5 percent
to $8,603, according to the exchange.  Ore-shipping voyage costs for Capesize ships on the biggest
dry-bulk route from  Australia  to China extended a 17-month low,
falling to $6.41 per ton. Average hire rates for the vessels
slid to $4,642 daily. Capesize hire costs have been below
operating costs, excluding fuel, of $7,437 daily since July 11,
according to the exchange and the most recent data available
from Moore Stephens International Ltd., a London-based
accountant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  