-- Kontogiannis Nephew Gets Year Term in $92 Million Fraud
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-30T23:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/kontogiannis-nephew-gets-year-term-in-92-million-fraud.html
A nephew of Thomas Kontogiannis, a
 New York  developer who pleaded guilty to laundering bribes for
former U.S. Representative Randy “Duke” Cunningham, was
sentenced to a year in prison for his involvement in his uncle’s
$92 million real estate scheme.  John Michael, who cooperated with the government in the
case, was sentenced today in  Brooklyn , New York, by U.S.
District Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto, according to  Robert Nardoza , a
spokesman for the U.S. Attorney in Brooklyn. Michael
participated in his uncle’s scheme to defraud lenders including
Washington Mutual Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG’s DLJ Mortgage
Capital by faking home sales, prosecutors alleged.  “Information provided by Michael was crucial in helping
the government focus its investigation on certain targets in the
early stages,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Shannon Jones said in a
memorandum to the court.  As a “family insider,” Michael provided information to
the government about Kontogiannis’s criminal activity, business
empire and the roles different individuals played in his
organization, Jones said.  Kontogiannis is serving a sentence of eight years and one
month stemming from previous case in  California  charging he
helped Cunningham launder bribe money and buy a $2.4 million
mansion by using fraudulent mortgages. Michael also faced
charges in that case and received a sentence of five years of
probation, according to court filings.  In October, Kontogiannis was sentenced in Brooklyn federal
court to 12 years and 10 months in the mortgage-fraud case. A
lawyer for Michael, Raymond Granger, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  The case is U.S. v. Kontogiannis, 09-cr-360, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net  