-- Krone Falls Against Krona as Sweden Resists Slump: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-07-30T14:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/krone-falls-against-krona-as-sweden-resists-slump-oslo-mover.html
Norway ’s krone fell to the lowest
level in 17 months against its Swedish counterpart after traders
reduced bets on a widening interest rate differential
between the two countries.  The krone fell as much 1.32 percent against the krona to
1.1208, the lowest level since February 2011, and was down 0.9
percent as of 3:54 p.m. in Oslo.  Sweden ’s krona surged after a
report today showed the largest Nordic economy grew seven times
faster last quarter than estimated in a Bloomberg survey.  The market “had priced much more expected easing in Sweden
than in Norway and that is partly being reversed now,” Kasper Kirkegaard, senior foreign-exchange strategist at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE) , said by phone from Copenhagen.  Policy makers in Norway,  Europe ’s second-largest oil and
gas exporter,  were seen keeping their benchmark rate unchanged
this year while traders had bet on rate cuts from the central
bank in Sweden. Sweden’s gross domestic product unexpectedly
grew 1.4 percent through June, after advancing a revised 0.9
percent the previous quarter, today’s report showed. The
expansion was estimated to be 0.2 percent in the quarter,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The krone and the krona have strengthened as the two AAA
rated Nordic economies emerged as havens amid Europe’s crisis.  “If you go back just six months the focus was mainly on
Norway, the strong credit quality of the Norwegian government
and the strong Norwegian economy,” said Kirkegaard. Long krone
positions from then “are being unwound and that has likely
meant that the sell-off has been sharper than it otherwise would
have been,” he said.  ‘Strong Support’  Norges Bank, which cut its benchmark rate by 0.75
percentage point over two meetings in December and March to 1.5
percent, has since signaled it may raise rates as soon as at the
end of this year. Policy moves will respond more to the risk of
domestic overheating amid rising credit and house prices, the
bank indicated at its last meeting in June.  Sweden’s Riksbank signaled earlier this month it may cut
 interest rates  before the end of the year.  “For now there’s definitely strong support for the Swedish
krona so given today’s GDP report we would not be surprised to”
see it gain even more against the krone, said Kirkegaard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  