-- N.Z. Dollar May Climb Further, JPMorgan Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-30T19:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/n-z-dollar-may-climb-further-jpmorgan-says-technical-analysis.html
New Zealand’s dollar may rise
further against its U.S. counterpart after breaking through a
key technical range, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The South Pacific currency, nicknamed the kiwi, may
strengthen to 82.40 U.S. cents, Niall O’Connor, a technical
analyst at the firm, wrote in a note to clients today. That
level hasn’t been reached since April 30. The kiwi exceeded the
range of 80.55 to 80.90 cents on July 27.  “What the market’s done over the last few days does
suggest there is still potential for the pro-risk rally to push
higher,” New York-based O’Connor said in a telephone interview.  New Zealand’s currency rose as much as 0.2 percent to 81.13
U.S. cents today, the highest since May 2, before trading at
80.88 cents in New York, down 0.1 percent. It advanced 1.3
percent last week.  The  European Central Bank  will announce its next policy
decision Aug. 2. ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week to
do whatever it takes to preserve the euro, suggesting policy
makers may intervene in bond markets. The  Federal Reserve  starts
a two-day meeting tomorrow amid speculation it may signal
additional stimulus.  “That’s clearly going to be a huge factor for whether
market can sustain this pro-risk rally,” O’Connor said. “Even
if we get some disappointment, I would look for levels where
these high-beta currencies would try to hold.” High-beta
currencies tend to have the greatest volatility.  Resistance is a level on a chart where sell orders may be
clustered. In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study
charts of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  