-- Nabucco to Raise $22 Million From Shareholders for Pipe
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-30T13:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/nabucco-to-raise-22-million-from-shareholders-for-pipe.html
Nabucco Gas Pipeline International
GmbH, which plans to ship Caspian fuel to Europe, seeks to raise
as much as 18 million euros ($22 million) from its shareholders,
a Romanian company official said.  The natural-gas link wants to raise 3 million euros from
each of its six owners and may fall short of that goal if
Hungary’s Mol Nyrt. sticks to its plan to suspend financing for
the project, said Sorin Keszeg, who heads international
relations at Nabucco’s Romania partner company  Transgaz SA. (TGN)  Mol
decided to stop injecting funds into the pipe because of a
delayed answer from the partners in Azerbaijan’s Shah Deniz
field on gas supplies, he said in a telephone interview today.  “Nabucco’s board of directors will meet in Vienna next
week to decide on the capital increase, aimed at securing the
financing needed to go ahead with the project,” Keszeg, who is
also an official representative of Nabucco company, said. “Mol
may reconsider its position on the planned capital increase,
since Shah Deniz partners said they favor Nabucco. If Mol
doesn’t, its stake will be diluted.”  Nabucco West, a 1,300-kilometer (810-mile) gas-transport
link backed by the European Union, is competing with the Trans-
Adriatic Pipeline, known as TAP, for rights to export gas from
the Shah Deniz field, which may hold 1.2 trillion cubic meters
of fuel in Azerbaijan’s part of the  Caspian Sea . The EU is
seeking to diversify supplies away from Russia, which provides a
quarter of its natural gas.  Increased Stake  Trangaz said on July 3 its stake in Nabucco may increase to
about 17.1 percent from about 16.7 percent if Mol doesn’t
participate in the capital increase.  The Shah Deniz partners, who include  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Total
SA (FP) , selected in June the Nabucco West pipeline as a potential
export route to Europe and aim to make the final choice between
it and TAP before an  investment decision  on expanding the field
is due in mid-2013.  Nabucco West would transport gas from the Turkey-Bulgaria
border to the Baumgarten gas hub in Austria via Bulgaria,
Romania and Hungary. It’s a shorter version of a pipeline that
initially would also have crossed  Turkey . Turkey and Azerbaijan
signed another deal to build the $7 billion Trans-Anatolia
Pipeline pipeline, known as Tanap, across Turkish territory.  Nabucco joint venture also includes Germany’s  RWE AG (RWE) ,
Vienna-based  OMV AG (OMV) , Bulgargaz EAD and Istanbul-based Boru
Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  