-- News Corp. Asks to Keep Allegations in Phone-Hacking Case Secret
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-30T14:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/news-corp-asks-to-keep-allegations-in-phone-hacking-case-secret.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing unit
asked a judge to keep secret a series of new claims being made
by victims of phone hacking at its News of the World tabloid in
preparation for a group trial scheduled for February.  The details of the allegations, which could be used to seek
punitive damages, should be kept from the public unless they are
approved at a Sept. 7 hearing and added to the victims’ so-
called generic claims, Judge Geoffrey Vos said today in  London .  The claims outline “generalized activities which we think
are unsustainable” if challenged, Michael Silverleaf, the
lawyer for the News International unit, said at the hearing.
“They may change the approach we are taking” to the case.  News Corp., the New York-based company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , is trying to move on from the scandal after the civil
case and a parallel criminal probe that began last year revealed
a cover up and led to the closure of the tabloid and the arrests
of more than 60 people, including another journalist today.  The amended allegations reveal “a need for a proper debate
about the scope of the case,” said  Jeremy Reed , a lawyer for at
least 50 victims. Reed has said the number of claimants may
double before the trial.  Lawyers for the company and its victims said at a hearing
on July 18 that News Corp. failed for months to disclose in
civil litigation an executive’s e-mail with instructions on
hacking the mobile-phone voice mail of a “well-known person.”  Vos approved a request by London’s  Metropolitan Police
Service  today to see a witness statement containing details of
phone hacking filed July 20 by  Glenn Mulcaire , the tabloid’s
former private investigator. Mulcaire lost a U.K. Supreme Court
appeal this month to avoid filing the document in the case.  Mulcaire, who was jailed for six months for phone hacking
in 2007 after a narrower police probe of the offense, was
charged again earlier this month as part the new investigation.
Vos disagreed with Muclaire’s claim the document could
incriminate him if police saw it, saying the Met shouldn’t be
“kept in the dark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  