-- LNG Spot Prices Decline in Japan Along With Shipments in June
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2012-07-30T21:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/lng-spot-prices-decline-in-japan-along-with-shipments-in-june.html
Spot prices for liquefied-natural-
gas supplies to  Japan  dropped 2.2 percent in June from the
previous month on lower demand and declining crude costs.  The cost of spot and short-term supply fell to 71,811 yen
($916) a metric ton for the month, according to data on the
 website  of Japan’s Ministry of Finance. That’s equivalent to
$18.85 per million British thermal units, 28 percent higher than
last year’s average. Total  shipments  declined to 6.65 million
tons in June from 6.9 million tons in May.  Prices of LNG imported into Japan are falling from a 41-
month high in April because of a decline in  oil prices  and a
gradual restart of shuttered nuclear facilities, reducing the
need for LNG. Overall prices, including both short-term supplies
and long-term contracts, rose to 70,944 yen ($906) a ton in June,
up 17 percent from a year earlier.  “Brent peaked at $128 on March 13, and therefore I’d
expect that to work through to high-priced June cargoes and then
a decline in July and August,” said Tony Regan, a consultant
with Singapore-based Tri-Zen International Ltd. He forecasts
further declines until August.  The Japan Crude Cocktail, a basket of prices for oil
imported into the country and used to calculate LNG prices, fell
to $115.36 a barrel in June from $126.96 in April, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fewer LNG Cargoes  Japan may reduce purchases of spot cargoes in July,
according to initial estimates from ship-tracking data. The
country may bring in at least six vessels carrying fuel from the
Atlantic Ocean region and Yemen, down from nine a year earlier,
according to the data from  IHS Inc. (IHS)  and the Ministry of Finance.  Japan shut all 50 of its nuclear reactors for safety tests
after last year’s earthquake and tsunami. Kansai Electric Power
Co.’s Ohi No. 3 and No. 4 reactors were restarted this
month after government approvals.  Utilities increased thermal power output by 18 percent in
June to compensate for a drop in nuclear generation, according
to data released July 13 by the Federation of Electric Power
Companies of Japan. The average utilization rate for atomic
plants was 2 percent in the month, down from 37 percent a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  