-- NRG Bondholders Reject Ratings Firms on GenOn: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-07-30T17:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/nrg-bondholders-reject-ratings-firms-on-genon-corporate-finance.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  debt investors are
rejecting the assertions of ratings firms that the largest
independent U.S. electricity generator’s $1.7 billion all-stock
takeover of  GenOn Energy Inc. (GEN)  may diminish its credit quality.  Bonds of NRG rose to records and returned 1.5 percent last
week, exceeding the 1.24 percent return of speculative-grade
peers, after the Princeton, New Jersey-based utility said it
would buy its second-largest competitor. Moody’s Investors
Service maintained a “negative” outlook for NRG as Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said NRG risked a downgrade.  While GenOn has lower ratings and  $2.53 billion of bonds 
that investors can redeem at a premium in a takeover, NRG said
it expects to boost free cash flow by $300 million and trim debt
by at least $1 billion. The addition of Houston-based GenOn’s
assets and cash will add protection for NRG’s creditors.  Bondholders “are picking up a whole bunch more asset
coverage and they’re picking up a lot more asset diversity, and
there’s no financing requirement, so you’re not adding any more
net debt,”  Andy DeVries , a New York-based analyst at
CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview. “By making
this acquisition, you improve your financials.”  Lori Neuman, a spokeswoman at NRG, said Chief Financial
Officer Kirk Andrews wasn’t available to comment on plans for
the new company’s capital structure.  NRG Bonds  NRG’s most actively traded note, its 7.875 percent bond due
in 2021, rose 3.1 cents on the dollar last week to 106.25 cents,
pushing its yield down to 6.71 percent, the least since the
company issued the $1.2 billion debenture in January, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  The senior unsecured debt is rated B1 by Moody’s; BB-, one
step higher, at S&P; and a level above that, BB, by Fitch.  NRG bonds rose today, with the company’s 7.625 percent
notes maturing in 2019 gaining 0.6 cent on the dollar at 9:33
a.m. in  New York  to 104.8 to yield 6.18 percent. Its equal-
coupon debt due in 2018 increased 1.5 cents to 106.25 to yield
6.25 percent.  Bonds of the power producer are outperforming the average
of its junk-rated industry peers that included an 8.5 percent
surge for GenOn debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s high-yield electric utility index.  By combining with GenOn, which has about $1.7 billion of
cash, NRG said it expects to cut operating costs by $200 million
and save $100 million per year with lower interest expenses and
collateral requirements, Andrews said on a July 23 conference
call. GenOn is rated B2 by Moody’s, B by Fitch and B- by S&P.  ‘Real Plus’  “That would be a real plus, and it wouldn’t involve any
additional levering up,” Margie Patel, a  money manager  at  Wells
Fargo & Co . in  Boston  who oversees about $1 billion and holds
NRG debt, said in a telephone interview. Rising bond prices may
signal that investors are “giving the company the benefit of
the doubt that the synergies will be realized,” she said.  Cutting borrowings by $1 billion would also decrease the
merged company’s ratio of total debt to estimated 2014 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to about
5.15, lower than each firm’s 2011 leverage levels, based on
Andrews’s Ebitda estimate of at least $2.6 billion in two years.  While GenOn assets won’t guarantee the debts of NRG in a
restructuring, the boost to free  cash flow  improves the credit
of both companies’ obligations, DeVries of CreditSights said.  Swaps Fall  Credit-default swaps linked to NRG bonds fell to 519 basis
points today, the lowest level since August, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Protection on GenOn debt plunged 3.6
percentage points last week, to 607.4 on July 27, the lowest
since 2010, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  “The part that people are excited about is the synergies
and the cost efficiencies that are going to come from the
combination,” Anthony Canale, an analyst at Covenant Review
LLC, a New York research firm, said in a telephone interview.
Bondholders “are thinking to themselves, ‘What did we give up?
No cash left our system. The company issued common equity, which
in a liquidation is behind me, and they took in this whole new
business,’” he said.  Taking over a lower-rated GenOn, which has lost money for
eight of the past 10 years, probably won’t help NRG’s credit
rating, and management’s estimated savings aren’t guaranteed,
according to S&P’s Aneesh Prabhu. About 70 percent of mergers
overstate the expected cost savings, he said.  ‘We’re Cynical’  Independent producers, which sell power in competitive
markets where rates aren’t set by local regulators, have been
hurt by a more than  30 percent drop  in electricity prices since
2008 while also facing higher costs to comply with new
environmental rules.  GenOn had lost about 30 percent of its market value this
year before its takeover was announced as slumping natural gas
dragged down the price of electricity. Natural gas, used to
generate power, touched a 10-year low in April and has fallen
about 63 percent since the start of 2008.  “If the bondholders of NRG like this deal, they’re
basically suggesting that the synergies are realistic,” S&P’s
Prabhu said in a telephone interview. “We’re cynical about it.
We’ll look at it and see what is really possible. Eventually, a
rating agency is relatively more conservative than the market.”  Creditors face an additional risk that NRG’s finances may
be stressed if GenOn bondholders decide to redeem as much as
$2.5 billion of senior unsecured notes that can be sold back at
101 cents on the dollar in the event of a takeover, according to
Shalini Mahajan, a New York-based analyst at Fitch.  ‘Weaker Entity’  By using equity to finance the deal, NRG also boosts the
potential size of share buybacks and dividends that deplete
cash, she said.  “We do see, overall, despite the $1 billion debt
reduction, and giving them full benefit of all the synergies and
costs savings that they’ve projected, that by 2015 it would be a
slightly weaker entity than on a standalone basis,” Mahajan
said in a telephone interview.  NRG said July 22 it would pay its first-ever  quarterly
dividend  of 9 cents a share to holders as of Aug. 1. GenOn’s
subordinated debt is trading above the put price, reducing the
chance that NRG will need to tap surplus cash and a $1.6 billion
bridge loan that Andrews called “ample and sufficient” to
cover any redeemed debt.  While the purchase may have financial benefits such as the
annual savings and reduced debt, it doesn’t outweigh the
economic obstacles for power companies such as low electricity
prices that contributed to Moody’s putting NRG’s debt on
“negative” outlook May 11, according to William Hunter, an
analyst at the New York-based firm.  ‘Good Fit’  “The deal does not cure the forces that were already in
place that caused us to have a negative outlook,” Hunter said
in a telephone interview. GenOn’s $4.2 billion in total debt
doesn’t include about $2 billion of other obligations such as
leases that increase the company’s leverage, he said.  Though the deal gives NRG creditors a less pronounced
benefit than debt holders of GenOn and probably won’t lead to an
upgrade for the merged company, its increased size, improved
access to capital and cost savings boost  credit quality ,
according to Peter Thornton, an analyst at KDP Investment
Advisors Inc.  “It’s a really good fit,” Thornton said in a telephone
interview. “Over time, as we work through the trough that we’re
in right now, this is going to be a really powerful company.”  NRG was formed in 1989 to invest in independent power
projects as a unit of Northern States Power Co., which merged
with New Century Energies Inc. to become Xcel Energy Inc. in
2000. NRG filed for bankruptcy as a unit of Xcel in 2003 after
Enron Corp.’s collapse two years earlier caused losses for
energy generators and traders.  GenOn equity holders will receive 0.1216 share of NRG for
each of their common shares under the takeover agreement, a 21
percent premium to the July 20 closing price. GenOn has gained
31 percent to $2.39 and NRG climbed 9.9 percent to $19.84.  “The deal’s positive for NRG,” said Robert Gephardt, a
bond analyst at Chicago-based asset manager Neuberger Berman
Group LLC, which oversees about $89 billion of fixed-income
assets including NRG debt as of May. “This is an industry where
greater scale really does provide benefits. You have more
resources and more cash flows supporting” the company’s
obligations, he said.  -- With assistance from Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  and  Jim
Polson  in New York. Editors: Mitchell Martin, Faris Khan
