-- TNT Express Profit Beats Estimates as Cost-Savings Kick In
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-30T07:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/tnt-express-profit-beats-estimates-as-cost-savings-kick-in.html
TNT Express NV (TNTE) , the Dutch express-
delivery company that  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is bidding to
buy, reported second-quarter profit that was double analyst
estimates as cost-saving measures took effect and sales rose.  Net income surged 10-fold to 40 million euros ($49 million)
from 4 million euros a year earlier, Hoofddorp, Netherlands-
based TNT said in a statement today. The average  estimate  of
three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 20.3 million euros.
Revenue increased 1.7 percent to 1.83 billion euros.  “Results are much better than expected, especially in
Europe, but also in Asia-Pacific,” Andre Mulder, an Amsterdam-
based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who  recommends  buying
TNT shares, said by phone. “I had expected them to be a bit
distracted due to the takeover process, but that happened not to
be the case.”  European Union antitrust regulators are reviewing UPS’s
$6.8 billion offer for TNT and will rule by Dec. 12. The
combined company will about match the size in  Europe  of Deutsche
Post AG’s DHL, the regional market leader. Atlanta-based UPS,
the world’s  biggest  package-delivery company, reiterated on July
27 that it expects the purchase to be completed in the fourth
quarter.  TNT rose as much as 0.9 percent to 8.89 euros and was
trading up 0.4 percent at 9:02 a.m. in Amsterdam. The stock has
gained 53 percent this year.  Volume Growth  “In Europe, good volume growth underscores the strength of
our diversified product portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer
Marie-Christine Lombard said in the statement. “Cost savings
and revenue-enhancement initiatives also supported profits.
Performance in Asia-Pacific and Americas continued to improve as
a result of business development and restructuring measures.”  TNT has a target of reducing fixed costs by 150 million
euros by the end of 2013, the Dutch company said in February.
The program, focused on contracting out some air-shipment
capacity and group administration, will include reorganization
costs and write-offs of 150 million euros. The timing of some
reorganization projects has been “temporarily adjusted”
because of the UPS bid, TNT said today, without giving details.  Earnings before interest and taxes in Europe, the  Middle
East  and Africa fell 14 percent to 88 million euros. The Asia-
Pacific division posted a 16 million-euro operating profit
compared with a year-earlier loss of 8 million euro. The
Americas unit’s loss narrowed to 23 million euros from 45
million euros.  Global air-freight prices fell to at $3.60 per kilogram in
the second quarter, their lowest in at least two years,
according to the Drewry Air Freight  Price Index , which analyzes
average prices along major trade routes.  European air-freight volume declined the most since 2009 in
the second quarter, while in Asia it fell for a sixth
consecutive quarter, according to the  International Air
Transport Association . Declines in trade volume between the two
regions prompted TNT Express to say in May that it would
consider further reductions of air-freight capacity on those
routes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  