-- Obama and Romney Should Say What They’ll Do About Housing
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/obama-and-romney-should-say-what-they-ll-do-about-housing.html
For an economy that’s growing at an
anemic rate of 1.5 percent, you would think there would be more
discussion of the U.S. housing market on the campaign trail. The
sector has powered past recoveries and is responsible for as
much as one-fifth of gross domestic product.  Yet President  Barack Obama  has made little more than a
passing  reference  to housing in his campaign, calling it a drag
on the economy and recommending an expanded mortgage-refinancing
program. Presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  has  said  the
government should avoid intervening and allow the housing market
to “run its course,” wherever that may lead.  In an election viewed as a referendum on the economy, this
verges on political malpractice. Voters deserve a substantive
conversation about whether housing can be  revived , to what
extent mortgage credit should be restored and what, if anything,
the government can do to achieve these goals.  Housing has been largely absent from the current recovery,
as a glut of distressed properties and tight mortgage credit
weigh on the sector. Residential investment is up only 8 percent
since the economy hit bottom in mid-2009, compared with an
average of 43 percent in the first three years of the previous
three recoveries. House prices and construction have recently
shown some signs of life, but home sales fell in June, mortgage
delinquencies ticked up and banks are making little progress in
getting rid of their vast inventories of foreclosed homes.  The Obama administration’s  efforts  to help struggling
homeowners through various loan modification programs could
charitably be termed timid, incremental and largely ineffectual.
One in five mortgage borrowers owe more than their homes are
worth, the same level as when Obama came into office. Many still
pay high  interest rates  because they can’t refinance. Three
taxpayer-subsidized mortgage juggernauts --  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie
Mac  and the  Federal Housing Administration  -- account for more
than 90 percent of the financing that does occur, helping keep
private capital on the sidelines.  Romney says the best thing for the housing market is a
growing economy, and he seems to eschew any type of government
assistance for troubled borrowers. In February he  told  a Nevada
TV station that “if people are looking for someone to promise
that they’ll write them a check, that the government will give
them money, they should vote for President Obama.” Whether this
means he would roll back the government’s current efforts is a
mystery.  Romney isn’t all wrong: Economic growth will help lift the
housing market, as wage increases and lower unemployment give
people the money and confidence to buy homes. But this is a
chicken and egg issue. The economy isn’t going to achieve the
lift it needs absent a real recovery in housing. The question is
how to restart the housing market without resorting to the
shoddy practices that fueled the last crisis and creating
another housing bubble.  One responsible place to start is by forgiving portions of
mortgage principal for borrowers who owe more than their homes
are worth. By lopping as much as 50 percent off borrowers’ loan
balances, Fannie, Freddie and other lenders can restore the
equity that gives people an incentive to maintain their homes
and stem the losses associated with drawn-out foreclosure
proceedings. To ensure debt forgiveness doesn’t simply reward
irresponsible behavior and encourage defaults, borrowers should
have to give up at least 25 percent of any future appreciation
in the home’s value, allowing lenders to share in a piece of the
upside.  Obama should do more than simply encourage debt forgiveness
at Fannie and Freddie -- he should demand that Edward DeMarco,
the acting director of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , allow
such a move. Romney, too, should come out in support of
writedowns -- after all, debt relief really amounts to letting
the market do what’s in its best interests. The candidates also
need to spell out their visions for how the housing market
should operate, including whether the government guarantees
mortgages, what should happen with Fannie and Freddie (which
threaten to become permanent wards of the state if they remain
in conservatorship too long) and how they’ll encourage private
capital to resume financing mortgages.  The U.S. won’t unlock its economy until it unlocks housing,
and that’s not going to happen if the candidates aren’t
outlining solid steps they plan to take should they get the keys
to the Oval Office.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why Italians should deepen
Monti’s reforms and  reject Berlusconi ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on
 Mexico’s energy reforms ; William Pesek on  Japan ’s attempts to
 weaken the yen ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why Republicans will  win the
tax debate ;  Alexander Friedman  and Kiran Ganesh on the  butterfly
effects  of central banks; Carrie Lingo on the excitement of
 women’s field hockey .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 