-- Oil Falls First Time in Five Days as Dollar Gains on Euro
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-07-30T20:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/oil-falls-as-dollar-gains-on-weaker-european-confidence.html
Oil fell for the first time in five
days as the dollar advanced against the euro and amid concern
that central bankers will take insufficient action this week to
bolster economic growth.  Futures dropped 0.4 percent after the dollar strengthened
from a three-week low versus the euro and European economic
confidence worsened. U.S.  Federal Reserve ,  European Central Bank 
and  Bank of England  policy makers are scheduled to meet this
week. ECB President  Mario Draghi  and U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  are holding talks today in Frankfurt.  “The dollar is up quite a bit, which is weighing on the
oil market,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “Doubts about what kind of stimulus will be
announced this week are beginning to creep into the market.
There’s been a buildup of expectations that there will be
enormous monetary stimulus, setting us up for disappointment.”  Crude oil for September delivery fell 35 cents to settle at
$89.78 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are
down 9.2 percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement declined 27 cents, or
0.3 percent, to end the session at $106.20 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
grade traded at a $16.42 premium to West Texas Intermediate
crude traded in  New York . It was the widest spread since May 22.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area dropped to 87.9 this month from 89.9 in June,
the European Commission said in Brussels. That’s the lowest
level since September 2009.  Spanish Recession  Spain ’s gross domestic product  shrank  0.4 percent last
quarter from the previous three months when it declined 0.3
percent, the National Statistics Institute said today in Madrid.
Spain is the fourth-biggest economy in the euro region, after
Germany, France and Italy.  The dollar advanced 0.5 percent to $1.2257 per euro at 4:18
p.m. A weaker euro and stronger U.S. currency reduce the appeal
of dollar-denominated raw materials as an investment
alternative.  “Oil is down a bit today because of modestly bearish
economic data and the dollar being a little stronger,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts.  Geithner and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
discussed the need for global cooperation to “achieve
sustainable public finances, cut global macroeconomic imbalances
and restore growth,” the Treasury said in a statement. Geithner
and Schaeuble held talks on the German island of Sylt.  Policy Meetings  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets for two days
starting tomorrow. The ECB’s Governing Council and the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee will convene Aug. 2.  Policy makers meeting this week are looking for new
monetary tools after the Fed lowered its  benchmark interest rate 
to near zero in December 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion of
securities to spur the economy. A government report on July 27
showed U.S. economic growth slowed to a 1.5 percent annual rate
in the second quarter as consumers curbed spending.  “Prices will probably not move a great deal in either
direction before the release of economic data later this week,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
Chicago. “There are a lot of important figures coming out.”  The pace of hiring in July probably failed to reduce the
U.S. jobless rate, which has been stuck above 8 percent for more
than three years, economists said before a report this week.
Other data this week may show  manufacturing  stagnated in July
and  consumer confidence  fell for a fifth month.  Japanese Manufacturing  Japan’s  industrial production  unexpectedly declined and
South Korean manufacturers’ confidence dropped to a three-year
low in reports today. Output fell 0.1 percent in June from May,
Japan’s Trade Ministry said. The median estimate of 29
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for a 1.5 percent gain. The
 South Korean confidence index  for August was at 70, down from 81
for July, the country’s central bank said.  Japan was the third-biggest oil consuming country last
year, after the U.S. and China, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  South Korea  was the 10th largest.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 357,395
contracts as of 4:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 416,190
contracts July 27 and 25 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  