-- Oil-Tanker Losses Widen as Ship Bookings From Middle East Slump
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-07-30T16:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/oil-tanker-losses-widen-as-ship-bookings-from-middle-east-slump.html
Losses widened for  oil tankers 
hauling 2 million-barrel crude cargoes on the industry’s
benchmark route to Asia from the  Persian Gulf  as the number of
bookings slumped.  Very large crude carriers on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan
voyage are  losing  $5,529 a day, according to data today from the
 Baltic Exchange  in London. Returns have been negative for 18
sessions in a row and were at minus $5,130 on July 27. The ships
were earning $41,093 on April 2, the highest level this year.  Earnings fell as the number of vessels hired declined and
ship-fuel prices advanced,  Omar Nokta , a New York-based analyst
at investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co., said today in a report.
The cost of fuel rose 11 percent in July, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide. The VLCC fleet is
set to expand 6.9 percent this year, exceeding 4.7 percent
demand growth, according to data from the research unit of
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  “The crude tanker market remains under severe pressure,”
Morgan Stanley analyst Fotis Giannakoulis in New York said in an
e-mailed report today. Charters to Asia declined to 82 this
month compared with 107 in May, he said.  The Baltic Exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts
aimed at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense.
VLCC rates to Asia from the  Middle East  are about $8,000 a day,
Nokta said. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, advanced 1
percent to $625.39 a metric ton, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Charter  costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage rose 0.6
percent to 34.34 industry-standard Worldscale points, exchange
figures showed. They reached this year’s low on July 19.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 34.34 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, added
0.3 percent to 645, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  