-- Oil Set for First Monthly Gain in 3; Central Banks Meet
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-31T07:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-before-central-banks-meet-on-economy.html
Oil in  New York  headed for the first
monthly increase since April before meetings of central bank
policy makers to discuss the economy and a report tomorrow that
may show U.S. stockpiles declined.  Futures swung between gains and losses today. The  European
Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal Reserve hold meetings this
week, with ECB President  Mario Draghi  having pledged on July 26
to preserve the euro. U.S. crude inventories probably dropped
 1.1 million barrels  last week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before Energy Department data tomorrow.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
said it won’t resume an oil pipeline to Midwest refineries that
leaked, until at least tomorrow.  “Oil, like a lot of markets, is parked, waiting for the
outcome of the ECB meeting,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The market has taken quite a
leap of faith and run up based on Draghi’s statements of intent
so we’ll be looking for some detail which confirms that.”  Crude for September delivery was at $89.64 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 14
cents, or 0.2 percent, at 3:01 p.m. Singapore time. The contract
yesterday slid 0.4 percent to $89.78, the lowest close since
July 26. Prices have climbed 5.5 percent this month and have
dropped 9.3 percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange traded at $105.75 a barrel, down 45
cents. The European benchmark crude was at a $16.19 premium to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was
$16.42 yesterday, the widest in almost 10 weeks.  Moving Average  Oil in New York has long-term technical support along its
50-month moving average at $84.25 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures settled above this indicator at
the end of May and June. Buy orders tend to be clustered near
chart-support levels.  Crude fell for the first time in five days yesterday as
economic confidence in the euro area decreased. An index of
executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area slid
to 87.9 in July from 89.9 in June, the European Commission in
Brussels said. That’s the lowest since September 2009.  The European Union accounted for 16 percent of global oil
demand last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual Statistical
Review of World Energy.  The U.S. Federal Reserve Open Market Committee meets for
two days starting today. The ECB’s Governing Council and the
Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will convene Aug. 2.  Fuel Supplies  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, were probably unchanged in the seven days ended July
27 after rising to 210 million barrels, according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Refineries are expected to have kept operating rates near a
five-year high, the survey showed. Crude runs probably averaged
92.5 percent of capacity last week, from 93 percent in the prior
period. Rates dropped to as low as 81.8 percent in January.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  will release
separate inventory data today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  Enbridge shut its Line 14, which runs from Superior,
 Wisconsin , to Griffith/Hartsdale in  Indiana , after the 317,600
barrel-a-day pipe leaked on July 27. The line could return to
service Aug. 1 at the earliest after repairs, Ed Culhane, a
spokesman for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources,
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  