-- Noma Serves Live Ants in $306 Lunch at Claridge’s
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-07-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/london-cocktail-marathon-awaits-olympics-drinkers-review.html
The live ants served by chef Rene Redzepi with creme fraiche were the stars of the show when Noma
-- voted World’s Best Restaurant for three years in a row --
reinvented itself as a pop-up at  Claridge’s  over the weekend.  It’s disconcerting to watch the main ingredient making its
way across a cabbage leaf as you prepare to pop it into your
mouth. Claridge’s says the ants are chilled, so anesthetized;
I’m not so sure about the suggestion that the 22,000 who have
traveled here from Denmark stay in a suite at the  London  hotel,
which has many guests for the Olympics.  When you bite into the ants, they release the flavor of
lemongrass; what you taste is light and citrusy, in contrast to
the edible soil you have just consumed. That dish contains
radishes buried in a mix of hazelnuts, rye, malt, beer and
butter atop a layer of creme fraiche, all in a plant pot.  In Copenhagen, there is sometimes a waiting list of more
than 1,000 people for a single meal since Noma topped the
World’s 50 Best Restaurants list in 2010. (I head the U.K. and
Ireland panel for the awards.) Noma receives as many as 100,000
reservation inquiries a month, and during that time it serves a
total of just 450 tables, according to Redzepi.  The restaurant is closed for refurbishment and there was
much excitement when the hotel announced “A Taste of Noma at
Claridge’s” in April. Redzepi, who brought over his team from
Copenhagen, is serving lunch and dinner through Aug. 6. All 20
sittings -- each costing 195 pounds ($306) a person -- sold out
in less than two hours once booking opened.  Celeb Chefs  This is the third celebrity pop-up in London, following
Pierre Koffmann at Selfridges and  Thomas Keller  at Harrods.
Claridge’s has done a good job (the best of the three) in
transforming the ballroom, which looks less like a function
space than you might expect. Staffers have adopted an informal
style that suits Noma’s Nordic ethos. There are no tablecloths,
and cutlery doesn’t appear for the first hour or so.  A meal is nine courses, or 10 if you include the Laurent-
Perrier Champagne. After the soil and the ants, things settle
down with caviar on scones and more creme fraiche, accompanied
by crushed-raspberry tea with verbena and rose hibiscus.  That’s followed by tartar of Scottish beef on rye bread
with horseradish, mustard-seed oil, crushed juniper and
tarragon; then a large oyster lightly poached in buttermilk with
samphire. The taste of the sea is as strong as in Heston Blumenthal’s dish Sound of the Sea, only here you don’t need to
wear headphones and listen to the roar of crashing waves.  Lamb’s Neck  Next is celeriac roasted in goat’s butter in a truffle
sauce with rapeseed oil and wild sorrel. This earthy dish is
followed by lamb’s neck rubbed in fermented pea. It’s cooked for
48 hours and served family style for sharing. The meat is so
tender, it falls apart and you eat it with lamb broth and fresh
curd. The flavors are big and beautiful.  Dessert consists of walnut ice cream with frozen berries
and walnut dust, followed by chocolate crisps with anise.  The physicist Stephen Hawking was among diners on Saturday
night. I wonder what he made of it. Redzepi posted on Twitter:
“First day at Claridge’s went well! Room filled with friendly,
sparkling Londoners & Stephen Hawking smiled at me twice.”
After lunch that day, the chef was surrounded by diners asking
for autographs and to have their photographs taken with him.  (“It’s like everyone wants to stay on and party,” Redzepi
said to me. He seems shy and uncomfortable with such attention.)  Going Local  There’s no point pretending this is like eating in Noma.
That’s a small waterside restaurant in a commercial district and
this is a posh hotel in Mayfair where the cloakroom is almost as
large as Noma’s kitchen. About 170 diners taste the same menu.  The name of the pop-up -- A Taste of Noma -- reflects what
you get. Although Redzepi is a champion of new Nordic cuisine,
his philosophy is broader: taking local ingredients and getting
creative. He’s done that here with British produce. Little is
from overseas, apart from oysters, truffles -- and ants.  Is it worth 195 pounds? Probably not if you are on a budget
or if you are able to get a table at Noma, where the longer menu
is the equivalent of $250. It’s a luxury like a beautiful
handbag or a bottle of fine wine. Redzepi is one of the world’s
finest chefs and this is a snapshot of what he can do.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on music and  Amanda
Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in London, at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 