-- Londoners Go With Flow as Olympic Tide Meets Monday Commute
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-07-30T14:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/londoners-go-with-the-flow-as-olympic-tide-meets-monday-commute.html
London  commuters mixed with hundreds
of thousands of people headed to the Olympics in the biggest
test of the city’s infrastructure so far during the 2012 games.  Rail, bus and subway networks survived the initial rush
largely unscathed as people left home early or switched travel
plans to avoid well-publicized hotspots on the first working day
of the Olympics,  Transport for London  said in a statement.  London Bridge station, from which trains serve the Olympic
complex at Stratford, the equestrian site at Greenwich and the
City financial district, was projected to have its busiest day
of the games, with 50,000 people travelling to Greenwich alone.
Bank Underground station was “exceptionally busy,” TfL said.  “I couldn’t even get a seat,” said Sarah Hills, 50, a
cardiologist catching a Tube train at  London Bridge  station. “I
left home 40 minutes earlier but there were no delays, just a
lot more people. I didn’t expect it to be so crowded.” Hills was
making her way from Croydon, south London, to Newham University
Hospital, located in the same borough as the Olympic Park.  Architect James Strachan, 45, who spoke outside Bank
station after taking the Tube there from London Waterloo, the
city’s busiest railway station, said his journey was unaffected.  Evening Rush  “It all comes down to the attitude of people,” he said.
“If you’re expecting it to be terrible, then it might be.”  The  Docklands Light Railway , linking Bank station -- named
after the  Bank of England , which it adjoins -- is also likely to
have its busiest day of the games, TfL said. The DLR carried a
record 736,000 passengers over the weekend.  The next travel surge will come between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m.,
according to TfL, with six railway platforms at London Bridge
restricted to arrivals only as people return from Greenwich.
Commuters headed home to Kent have been told to use Charing
Cross, Cannon Street, Victoria or Blackfriars stations instead.  “We’re expecting high volumes of people today, so we’ll see
how this evening goes, but we haven’t got any problems reported
on our network,” said Chantelle Warner, a TfL spokeswoman.  Stephen Jedrzejlzak, 49, who was waiting for a Jubilee line
subway train to Stratford after traveling by surface rail from
Peckham, said that while the city was “a little bit busier than
usual,” trains were arriving at twice the usual frequency.  As many as 1 million extra visitors are expected each day
during the games, making 3 million journeys on public transport
in addition to the usual 12 million. Events are taking place at
the Olympic Park, ExCeL center, North Greenwich Arena, Greenwich
Park, Royal Artillery Barracks, Horse Guards Parade, Earls
Court, Lord’s Cricket Ground, Wimbledon and Wembley stadium.  Roads Closed  Access to London’s streets is also limited, with 30 miles
of so-called  Games Lanes  limited to athletes, officials and the
media between 6 a.m. and midnight unless otherwise stipulated.  Roads across southwest London were closed for hours over
the weekend for cycle races that attracted more than 1 million
onlookers. Cycling time trials, marathon and walking events will
shut more streets later in the games.  London Heathrow ,  Europe ’s busiest airport, estimates its
most frenetic period will come on Aug. 13, the day after the
closing ceremony, with 130,000 people departing and 108,000
arriving for a total of 238,000, 5,000 more than the record.  People should check the  Get Ahead of the Games  website to
avoid travel disruption during the Olympics, according to TfL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at   rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  