-- Hong Kong Will Post China Educational Materials After Protests
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-07-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/hong-kong-will-post-china-educational-materials-after-protests.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said the government will post Chinese national
education teaching materials for public viewing, a day after
thousands marched across the city to denounce the curriculum.  Tens of thousands of parents, students and social activists
on July 29 protested government plans to introduce the
curriculum in government-run primary schools in the city
starting in September. The authorities intend to extend the
classes, which aim to foster Chinese identity, to secondary
schools from 2013 and phase in the lessons over three years.  The textbooks in the program will give a pro-Communist
Party account of  China ’s history and political system, according
to Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the
 Chinese University of Hong Kong .  Hong Kong won’t force the introduction of the lessons in
September, Leung said in a government statement yesterday.
Introducing moral and national education is not a political task
for the new government, said Leung, who was inaugurated as the
city’s chief executive less than a month ago.  Posting the educational materials “can allay the fears of
parents and the education sector that the subject will brainwash
students,” according to the statement.  Government talks with opponents to delay the new curriculum
collapsed this past weekend, the  South China Morning Post 
reported in its July 29 edition.  One textbook explains how the Communist Party is a
progressive, united and effective ruler, comparing it with the
U.S. where a two-party system leads to eternal debates and
gridlock, said Lam of the Chinese University of Hong Kong. There
is no mention of the Cultural Revolution or the 1989 massacre in
 Tiananmen Square , according to Lam.  “The level of crudity is even worse than that of the
textbooks you find in China,” Lam said by phone on July 29
before the rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  