-- Hong Kong Builders Unload Properties to Raise Cash for Land Rush
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-07-30T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/hong-kong-builders-unload-properties-to-raise-cash-for-land-rush.html
Hong Kong  developers , exploiting a
surge in prices since 2009, are selling shopping malls, offices
and parking garages at the fastest pace in at least seven years
to raise cash ahead of an increase in government land sales.  Sino Land Co. (83)  and  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)  are among
builders divesting commercial property in the past six months.
The value of such deals, excluding residential and land sales,
more than doubled in the first half from a year earlier to HK$53
billion ($6.8 billion), the highest six-month tally since at
least the first half of 2005, according to CBRE Group Inc.  Hong Kong’s new chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, pledged
to put more land on the market in a bid to rein in  home prices 
that jumped more than 80 percent since the start of 2009 and are
now the world’s highest. The city’s developers, already among
the world’s most cash-rich, are offloading assets that have
risen in value to prepare for the land rush.  “This is something developers have rarely or never done in
the past,” said Dominic Chung, an  executive director  in  Hong
Kong  at the investment-properties unit of Los Angeles-based
CBRE, the world’s biggest commercial broker. “Developers are
gathering ammunition because there’ll be more sites available.
At the same time, they don’t like what they see in the loan
market.”  The three-month Hong Kong-dollar interbank lending rate, a
benchmark for lending in the currency, has  risen  14 basis points
in the past year to 0.40214 percentage points, the highest level
in more than two years.  Earnings Gap  Hong Kong developers are seeking to replenish precious land
reserves as the government, the city’s biggest supplier of
unoccupied residential sites, resumed regular sales last year
after a seven-year hiatus. Sales had been sporadic since 2004,
when the government stopped regular auctions after  home prices 
plunged 70 percent from their 1997 peak amid the Asian financial
crisis and the SARS epidemic.  Home sales at developers including  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest, and Sino Land have been dented by
government measures such as extra transaction taxes and higher
mortgage down-payment requirements.  “Developers have to use the disposal of these noncore
assets to bridge their earnings gap,” said  Nicole Wong , an
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Hong Kong. “Many
developers are concerned about earnings stability. They may also
see the current level as peak pricing.”  The average price of Hong Kong offices rose 3.6 percent in
the second quarter from the previous three months to HK$23,700 a
square foot, CBRE said. The value of prime-street shops rose
more than 10 percent to almost HK$218,000 per square foot.  Cash-Rich  Prices for offices and retail properties will remain flat
in the second half of this year because of uncertainties over
the global economy, said Marcos Chan, regional head of research
at Chicago-based broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  The  average debt-to-common-equity ratio  among the city’s 51
biggest listed builders is 58 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to 135 percent for
developers in other parts of  China  and 66 percent for those in
 Singapore .  Hang Lung, Hong Kong’s third-biggest developer by value, in
May sold a building in the city’s northwestern Kwai Chung
district for HK$528 million and a carpark in the Tin Hau
district, in the east of  Hong Kong Island , for HK$220 million.
It was the first time Hang Lung sold noncore commercial assets
in Hong Kong since 1998, according to spokesman Kwan Chuk-fai.  China Malls  “We’ve been saying we wanted to do this for a while,”
Hang Lung Chairman Ronnie Chan said in an interview last month.
The developer, which is investing at least $8.5 billion building
shopping malls in other parts of China, will continue to sell
assets in Hong Kong “if the prices are right,” Chan said.  Hang Lung, which derives almost half its rental income from
other parts of China, is seeking to build up more cash reserves
as it awaits a pullback in land prices, Chan said in the
company’s annual report in January.  The developer is in talks to sell its Laguna Plaza, in Hong
Kong’s northeastern Kwun Tong district, an area of largely
industrial complexes and lower-middle class housing, to an
unidentified investment fund for more than HK$1.8 billion, the
Hong Kong Economic Journal newspaper reported July 5, citing
people it didn’t name. Kwan declined to comment on the report.  Sino Land and its parent in March sold an office building
in the city’s eastern Kowloon Bay district to a unit of  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  for HK$2.5 billion, booking a net gain
of HK$390 million.  Riviera Plaza  That came after the developer, controlled by the family of
Singapore’s richest man, Robert Ng, in December sold a shopping
mall in the northeastern Tsueng Kwan O district to  Link REIT (823) ,
 Asia ’s biggest property trust, for HK$588.4 million.  New World Development Co., controlled by Hong Kong’s third-
richest man,  Cheng Yu-tung , is offering to sell Riviera Plaza in
the northern Tsuen Wan district for HK$1.2 billion, the Hong
Kong Economic Times newspaper reported June 28. Fiona Wan,
spokeswoman for New World, declined to comment on the report.  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972) , the biggest landlord in eastern Hong
Kong Island, booked an HK$8.6 billion profit from the sale of
the Festival Walk shopping mall in the Kowloon Tong area in July
last year to Singapore-based Mapletree Investments Pte.  Stable Returns  Buyers of such properties, mainly professional investors,
pensions, private-equity funds and wealthy families, are seeking
out the assets for their stable returns, said CBRE’s Chung. The
average yield on commercial properties in Hong Kong is 2 percent
to 4 percent, according to Wong Leung-sing, a research director
at Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely
held realtor.  The 49 stocks in Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index have
an average estimated dividend yield of 3.81 percent for 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on  government
bonds  are close to zero as the city’s  interest rates  are tied to
the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Retail rents in the city, now the world’s second highest
behind  New York ’s Fifth Avenue, will probably increase 12
percent this year even as the number of tourists to the city is
expected to slow following a pullback in the Chinese and global
economies, according to Colliers International, a Seattle-based
broker.  Donald Tsang , Leung’s predecessor, tried to rein in home
prices by last year resuming regular land sales halted in 2004
as part of measures to revive the real estate market after the
dot-com bubble, the Sept. 11 terrorist attack in the U.S. and
the Severe Acute Respiratory System outbreak in 2003.  Land Auctions  Since 2004, the city only held land auctions after a
developer promised to pay a minimum price for sites on a list
prepared by the government each year.  The  government  will sell as many as 47 sites in the fiscal
year ending March 2013, it said in February. That compares with
the 40 sites it sold at auction and through tender in the
previous 12 months for HK$66.9 billion, according to the Lands
Department website.  Hang Lung, which hasn’t bought land in Hong Kong in at
least a decade, and Sino Land were among builders that earlier
this month took part in a tender for a government site that was
won by Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. for HK$6.91 billion.  The government may boost housing supply about 40 percent
annually, according to CLSA.  Hong Kong home prices may fall as much as 20 percent in the
next 12 months on increased supply and the global economic
slowdown, according to a report last month by Deutsche Bank AG.  Slowing Revenue  Developers in Hong Kong have enjoyed record revenue as home
prices were underpinned by record-low interest rates and demand
for the city’s apartments from buyers from other parts of China.
Those earnings may not be sustained as economic growth slows
both in the city and in China.  Hong Kong may lower its 2012 economic forecast next month
as the outlook for global growth deteriorates, Financial
Secretary  John Tsang  said July 8. China’s economic growth may
cool to 7.4 percent this quarter after slowing to 7.6 percent in
the three months ended June, the weakest pace in three years.  Sun Hung Kai will report a 7 percent decline in revenue for
the six months to June 30 from a record HK$67 billion in the
previous half year, according to the average estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Sino Land, which makes
almost all of its earnings in Hong Kong, may post a 3.4 percent
drop in sales in the period, according to a survey of 14
analysts.  “Some of these properties were built a while ago and their
values have gone up so much since then,” said Antonio Wu,
deputy managing director in Hong Kong for Colliers.  “Maybe
they aren’t seeing that much upside anymore.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  