-- Top U.S. Solar Company Profits Amid Red: Energy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-02T15:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/top-u-s-solar-company-profits-amid-red-for-industry-energy.html
(Corrects currency in earnings estimate in 17th paragraph
of story published July 31.)  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  Chairman  Mike Ahearn  has found the best way to make money from photovoltaics
is to sell whole power plants to  Warren Buffett  and  NextEra
Energy Inc. (NEE)  instead of competing with  China  on panel sales.  The biggest U.S. solar company is forecast to report the
only profit in the second quarter among the 17 companies in the
BI Global Large Solar index, according to estimates collected by
Bloomberg. The rest, led by  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  of China,
are predicted to have losses.  Suntech and the other Chinese manufacturers that dominate
the industry have focused almost exclusively on panel sales,
exposing themselves to the brunt of a 47 percent plunge in
prices in the past year. Ahearn has insulated First Solar by
cutting production and expanding sales of the PV power plants,
said  Sanjay Shrestha , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets.
Buffett and NextEra are among the company’s best customers.  “Their strong project pipeline is helping them weather the
storm that everyone else is caught in,” Shrestha said in an
interview. “That’s buying them time while the rest of the
industry scrambles for the next panel sale.”  First Solar will report  net income  of 60.1 cents a share in
the second quarter, according to the average estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It’s due to report earnings
after trading finishes tomorrow in  New York . Suntech and its
rivals, mainly Chinese companies listed in New York, are due to
report later in August. Yesterday, Suntech said it may delay its
earnings due to a suspected fraud.  Shares Underperform  Investors aren’t giving Ahearn credit for the shift yet.
First Solar’s shares have fallen 88 percent in the past year
through yesterday, sharper than the 75 percent decline in the
Large Solar index. Ted Meyer, a First Solar spokesman, declined
to comment, citing a quiet period before its results. They
gained 9.4 percent to $15.54 at the close in New York.  “The big risk is that they won’t be able to replace the
pipeline as existing projects are completed,” said Rob Stone,
an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York who has a neutral rating
on the stock. Many of First Solar’s projects relied on
government backing to make them profitable, and those programs
have expired. “How much longer can their profitability last?”  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , agreed on Dec. 7 to buy the Topaz Solar
Farm in  California  developed by First Solar. The project’s
development budget is $2.5 billion and may generate 550
megawatts of power starting in 2015, making it one of the
world’s largest PV plants.  NextEra Deal  NextEra, the biggest U.S. generator of power from solar and
wind plants, joined a unit of  General Electric Co. (GE)  to buy the
550-megawatt Desert Sunlight project in California and in March
completed the purchase of 40 megawatts of in Ontario.  First Solar typically sells its projects to an energy
company once it’s received permits, arranged financing and
completed a deal with a utility to buy the electricity. It
receives an upfront payment for the sale that’s usually
confidential and is typically a small fraction of the total
development budget. Then it continues to receive revenue during
construction, for labor and for supplying the panels.  Ahearn accelerated First Solar’s transition to project
development in October, when he replaced Rob Gillette after a
two-year break from leading the company. By the end of 2011,
Ahearn had delayed completion of a factory in  Vietnam  and shut a
California R&D unit.  Ahearn’s Strategy  In April, he announced measures to cut 30 percent of the
workforce, idle four production lines in  Malaysia  and shut a
flagship plant in  Frankfurt  an der Oder,  Germany .  The moves were part of First Solar’s “strategy to pursue
utility-scale solar opportunities in sustainable markets,”
Chief Financial Officer Mark Widmar said on a conference call to
discuss the restructuring on April 17.  The goal “is to align our business to a demand profile
that is highly reliable and predictable, which largely is our
captive pipeline” of solar farms the company is developing, he
said. “Our pipeline is a competitive advantage.”  About 53 percent of First Solar’s $497 million in first
quarter sales came from developing and selling solar farms. That
was up from 30 percent the prior quarter, and it was the first
time panel sales weren’t the top driver for results.  Competitors Suntech,  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  and  Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  get at least 90 percent of their
revenue from selling solar panels, either directly or through
distributors. All will probably lose money every quarter this
year, according to Bloomberg data based on analyst forecasts.
They’re all listed in New York and report later in August.  China’s Losses  Jinko is expected to lose 7.51  yuan  ($1.18) an American
depositary receipt this quarter. Suntech, the world’s biggest
panel maker, may lose as much as 45 cents an ADR and isn’t
expected to report a profit until 2014. Analysts expect Yingli
to lose 28 cents.  Solar panel prices fell by half last year, which has
“killed profitability in module manufacturing,” said  Mark
Bachman , an analyst at Boston-based Avian Securities. “First
Solar puts up more profit over the next year than all the other
companies combined.”  Ahearn’s plan to build up project development dates to
2007, when First Solar bought the construction and engineering
company Turner Renewable Energy LLC for $34 million. That was
followed by 2009 purchase of the closely held developer
OptiSolar Inc. for $400 million in stock, and the 2010
acquisition of NextLight Renewable Power LLC for $285 million.  ‘Logical Step’  “Adding these resources, along with their development
team, to First Solar, is our next logical step,” Ahearn said
when announcing the OptiSolar deal on March 2, 2009.  Those acquisitions came with several utility-scale solar
farms already under development. OptiSolar brought the 550-
megawatt Desert Sunlight project, which First Solar sold to
NextEra Energy Inc. in September and is scheduled to be complete
in 2015. Also in the purchase was the 550-megawatt Topaz plant
that MidAmerican Energy Holdings bought in December, expected to
be finished in 2014.  First Solar had cash and cash equivalents of $610 million
at the end of the first quarter, up 72 percent from a year
earlier. Their current ratio, which measures the ability to
repay short-term debt, was 2.48, or 51 percent higher than the
average for the 17 companies in the Bloomberg Industry Large
Solar Energy index.  Contracts Ahead  First Solar had contracts to build 2.7 gigawatts of  power
plants  as of May 23, according to slides executives showed to
analysts along with the first-quarter earnings.  First Solar’s anticipated profit this quarter will be
followed by earnings of $1.34 a share for the current quarter
and $1.69 in the final three months of 2012, analysts predict.
That won’t be enough to counter a $5.20 loss in the first
quarter, largely due to a $413 million restructuring charge that
came along with Ahearn’s strategy shift. For the whole of 2012,
analysts expect loss of $1.46, according to the median of 24
forecasts collected by Bloomberg.  Even if First Solar arranges as much as 600 megawatts of
new contracts annually, its factory utilization will drop to
about 70 percent by the end of 2014, Stone said. That may force
additional charges and closures that would cut profitability.  “They’ve got some nice projects and nice prices right now,
but any new projects they win will come at much lower margins,”
Stone said. He has a neutral rating on the stock.  First Solar’s production cost averaged 69 cents a watt in
the first quarter. Prices for standard, polysilicon based panels
were 76 cents a watt at the start of July, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “For anyone following First Solar it’s always been a game
of ‘What’s the next negative to hit?’” said Lazard’s Shrestha.
“But they keep forgetting about the strong project pipeline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  