-- Most-Accurate Gold Forecasters Splitting After Rout: Commodities
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-07-31T20:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/most-accurate-gold-forecasters-splitting-after-rout-commodities.html
The only three analysts to correctly
predict gold’s biggest quarterly slump in four years are now
split, reflecting investors’ diverging views on the probability
of central banks doing more to shore up growth.  Justin Smirk of Westpac Banking Corp., the most accurate of
20 analysts tracked by Bloomberg in the second quarter, says
prices will keep dropping. Eugen Weinberg of Commerzbank AG and
Nick Trevethan at ANZ Banking Group Ltd. predict a record within
a year.  Hedge funds  and other speculators are the least bullish
since 2008, even with investor holdings of  physical bullion  in
exchange-traded products close to an all-time high, government
data and figures compiled by Bloomberg show.  While gold has rallied since tumbling to within 1 percent
of a  bear market  in May, it’s still 16 percent below the record
$1,923.70 an ounce reached on Sept. 6. Investors have favored
sovereign debt and the dollar to protect their wealth as
economic growth slows, driving yields to record lows and the
U.S. currency to a two-year high. Central banks from  Europe  to
 China  cut interest rates this month, and the Federal Reserve
said it was prepared to act to boost the recovery.  “There is not much interest in gold right now given the
fears of economic slowdown globally,” said  Michael Cuggino , who
manages $17 billion of assets at Permanent Portfolio Funds in
 San Francisco , with about 20 percent of his investments in gold.
“The velocity of the money has not yet entered the system, but
one has to buy gold as it is a long-term play and will keep
rising as you need insurance against future inflation.”  Broad Market  Futures fell 4 percent from April to June on the Comex in
 New York , the most since the third quarter of 2008. The U.S.
Dollar Index advanced 3.3 percent and bonds of all types
returned an average of 1.6 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Gold is now 3.1 percent higher for the year at $1,614.60.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities fell 1.4
percent, the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities added 5.5
percent, and the Dollar Index, a measure against six trading
partners, advanced 3.1 percent. Treasuries returned 2.7 percent,
a Bank of America gauge shows. The  yield  on the benchmark 10-
year security fell to a record low of 1.379 percent on July 25,
Bloomberg Trader data show.  Bullion has appreciated for 11 consecutive years, with
prices surging sevenfold as investors sought a hedge against
everything from accelerating inflation to Europe’s debt crisis
to slumping equities. The metal rose about 70 percent as the
 Federal Reserve  bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 through June
2011. Gold’s year-to-date gain is the smallest for the period
since 2005, a sign that investor demand may be waning.  Quantitative Easing  “It is not the ultimate safe-haven, and the steep fall
last year and the performance this year showed that people
preferred the dollar,” said Smirk, a Sydney-based commodity
analyst with Westpac. “While quantitative easing may bring in
some buying, it’s unlikely to go back to earlier highs.”  Hedge funds cut their  net-long  position, or bets on higher
prices, by 72 percent from a record in August. Their holdings
fell to a 43-month low of 71,129 futures and options on July 24,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
number of outstanding contracts on the Comex slumped 18 percent
in the past year, exchange data show.  While holdings in ETPs rose fourfold in the past five years
and now exceed the reserves of all but four of the world’s
central banks, they have gained just 1.4 percent to 2,390.6
metric tons this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trade Federation  Demand in  India , the biggest buyer, is poised to contract
for a second year, the World Gold Council said July 16. The All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation predicted in May that
purchases will drop 30 percent this year, in part because of a
strike by jewelers in March and April. The London-based council
cut its 2012 forecast for Chinese demand this month to 870 tons
from a May estimate of as much as 1,000 tons. The difference is
equal to more than two weeks of global mine production.  Treasuries held in  custody  by the Federal Reserve for other
central banks rose $138.5 billion to a record $2.83 trillion
this year, government data show. The increase of 5.1 percent
compares with a 2.8 percent expansion in 2011. Germany, the U.K.
and  France  sold debt at the lowest yields ever in July.  Global Growth  Some investors are still betting on a gold rally because
central banks will have to do more to bolster growth, increasing
the threat of inflation. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its
2013 global growth forecast to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent on
July 16, saying that Europe’s debt crisis is slowing  emerging
markets  from China to India. It also predicted that year-end
consumer prices in advanced economies would increase by 1.65
percent next year, from 1.81 percent in 2012.  “People are waiting for signals for higher inflation,”
 Mihir Worah , who manages Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $22
billion Commodity Real Return Strategy Fund from Newport Beach,
 California , said on July 23. “There is a decent possibility
that some form of easing will be announced in the next few
months, and then prices will start rising.”  Gold will average $1,669 this quarter, up from $1,612 in
the previous three months, according to the median of 20
analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Four now expect prices
to keep dropping. Smirk predicts $1,490, Alexandra Knight of
National Australia Bank Ltd. $1,550,  David Wilson  of Citigroup
Inc. $1,610 and Arne Lohmann Rasmussen of Danske Bank A/S
$1,600.  Central Banks  Bullion rose to a five-week high of $1,633.30 on July 27.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said a day earlier
that policy makers will do whatever is needed to save the euro.
There is a 90 percent chance of  Greece  leaving the euro in the
next 12 to 18 months, Citigroup Inc. said on July 25.  “The low  interest-rate  regime, central-bank demand and
further stimulus should create a fertile ground for gold
bulls,” said ANZ’s Trevethan, a Singapore-based senior
commodities strategist. Gold generally earns investors returns
only through price gains, making it more attractive as borrowing
costs decline.  The ECB cut its benchmark interest rate on July 5 to a
record 0.75 percent. Fed officials are scheduled to announce an
interest-rate decision at the end of a two-day meeting tomorrow.
The central bank has kept borrowing costs at the  lowest  ever
since 2008. China reduced interest rates in June and July.  “We will see strong hands entering the market via more
central-bank buying, physically-backed exchange-traded products
and purchases of bars” of bullion, said Weinberg, the head of
commodity research at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt .  Bank Reserves  Central banks and the IMF are the largest bullion owners
with 29,500 tons at the end of last year, or 17 percent of all
mined metal, World Gold Council data show. Central banks have
been net buyers for two straight years, the council said.
Purchases this year will probably exceed the 456 tons added in
2011, the WGC estimates.  “Gold has been trapped in a range for several months,”
said  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, which oversees more than $2 billion of
assets. “It has not shown much of a response to the promise of
easing by the ECB, but yet you can’t call it weak because it
finds some support every time there is a huge sell-off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  