-- Tottenham, Real Agree $56 Million Fee for Modric: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-30T06:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/tottenham-real-agree-56-million-fee-for-modric-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Modric Fee Agreed  Tottenham Hotspur and Real  Madrid  have agreed on a fee of
36 million pounds ($56.5 million) for Spurs playmaker Luka Modric, the  Sun reported .  The Croatian midfielder had already said he would join the
Spanish champion and was waiting for the clubs to reach a deal
that will bring an end to a transfer saga that began when he
demanded a move to Chelsea last year, the newspaper added.  Agger Bid  Manchester City  made a 13 million-pound bid for Liverpool
defender  Daniel Agger , who is also wanted by Real Madrid and
Barcelona, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Danish center-back has already told Liverpool manager
 Brendan Rodgers  that he wants to leave and is expected to
confirm in the next two weeks whether he will opt for City or
one of the two Spanish clubs, the Mirror added.  Cowardly Act  Tottenham’s Gareth Bale labeled  Charlie Adam  a “coward”
and claimed that the Liverpool midfielder deliberately tried to
injure him during an exhibition match in the U.S., the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  The Spurs winger left the stadium wearing a protective boot
over his left ankle following Adam’s tackle during the 0-0 draw
in Baltimore two days ago, the newspaper said.  “I would have understood if it had it been a slightly
mistimed tackle, even though it was just a friendly,” the
Telegraph cited Bale as saying. “But the ball was 10 yards past
him already and was nowhere near him when he came through my
ankle.”  Spending Spree  Chelsea chief executive officer Ron Gourlay said the
European champion hasn’t stopped spending this off-season even
after outlaying 60 million pounds on Oscar, Eden Hazard and
Marko Marin, the  Daily Mail reported .  “If the right players become available at the right time
we will sign them,” the Mail cited Gourlay as saying. “We’ve
done that and we are still continuing to look at one or two
positions and we will see how that develops over the next couple
of weeks.”  ‘Have to Buy’  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  said the Premier
League champion needs to buy three of four players to have a
chance of winning Europe’s  Champions League , the  Daily Mirror
reported .  “I don’t think we can play for the Champions League with
this squad,” the Mirror cited Mancini as saying. “That is my
opinion, so for this reason we have to buy. The market has
another three weeks and I hope we can do something.”  Transfer Funds  Liverpool is poised to boost its transfer funds by selling
midfielder  Alberto Aquilani  to Fiorentina for 7 million pounds
and offloading back-up goalkeeper  Brad Jones  to Norwich, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The Reds may step up their attempts to sign Swansea’s  Joe
Allen  if a deal can be completed for Aquilani, who has an annual
salary of 6 million pounds and has spent the past two seasons on
loan at Juventus and AC Milan, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  