-- Housing Slump Not Over, Mortgage-Bond Investors Say in Survey
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-30T15:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/housing-slump-not-over-mortgage-bond-investors-say-in-survey.html
Mortgage-bond investors aren’t
convinced that the U.S. housing bust is over, according to a
survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Only 34 percent of respondents in a poll last week agreed
that “ home prices  have bottomed nationally,” with 11 percent
expecting values to fall an additional 5 percent or more,
according to a July 27 report by the bank’s analysts. A total of
56 percent said prices will decline less than 5 percent.  A rally in the $1 trillion market for home-loan securities
without government backing has been accelerating as investors
seek higher returns amid benchmark  interest rates  that reached
record lows this month. Bond buyers’ relative pessimism on the
real-estate market adds to signs further gains may be possible,
according to JPMorgan analysts led by John Sim in New York  “Our survey indicates that home price stabilization may
not yet be priced in,” the analysts wrote in the report.  The investors’ views contrast with comments by  Warren Buffett , Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s billionaire chairman, who
told CNBC on July 12 that “we’re seeing a pickup, and it’s
noticeable” in residential housing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts said July 23 that the market has started a “strong”
recovery that will benefit builders, while Bank of America Corp.
economist  Michelle Meyer  said “we think home prices have indeed
bottomed” in a July 25 interview with Bloomberg Television.  Home Values  Values in 20 large U.S. metropolitan areas  rose  1.3 percent
in April from the previous month, after a 35 percent plunge from
a July 2006 peak, according to S&P/Case-Shiller index data. May
figures will be released tomorrow. Prices nationwide rose 1.8
percent in May, the third straight monthly gain,  according  to
real-estate data firm CoreLogic Inc. in  Santa Ana ,  California .  Still, sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly fell to
an eight-month low in June, slumping 5.4 percent to a 4.37
million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors said
July 19. The group’s index of pending sales unexpectedly
decreased 1.4 percent after a 5.4 percent gain in May that was
less than initially reported, figures released July 26 showed.  Slower job growth that’s holding down confidence and strict
lending standards are restraining housing even with cheaper
properties and mortgage rates at all-time lows. While down from
a peak of 8.79 million units in 2010, so-called shadow inventory
remains at 5.65 million, Morgan Stanley said July 26. The figure
represents loans likely to default, in foreclosure or already
turned into seized homes, and poised to add to distressed sales.  ‘Yield Grab’  Asset managers including D.E. Shaw & Co., Cerberus Capital
Management LP, Canyon Partners LLC and Goldman Sachs started
funds during the past year that target home-loan debt without
government backing, spurred by its 2011 collapse, bullishness on
housing or predictions of forced selling by European banks.  Subprime-mortgage securities from 2005 through 2007, the
years that produced the most defaulted loans, have rallied more
than 25 percent this year, according to Barclays Plc index data.
Losses averaged 5.5 percent last year, after some bonds slumped
as much as 30 percent from early 2011 peaks.  “Investors have been taking profits after the rally pushed
returns higher than 15 percent on many distressed assets,” the
JPMorgan analysts wrote. “Still, the yield grab continues and
we expect further tightening from here as positive economic news
and headlines in  Europe  buoy risky assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  