-- How to Rent Out Your Vacation Home
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-07-30T16:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/how-to-rent-out-your-vacation-home.html
     When Danielle Marquis began renting out her family’s
vacation home on Tupper Lake in upstate New York last
year, she didn’t bargain that the one-bathroom house would
become wedding party central for eight recent college grads.
“They left lots of garbage under the couch, scratched our
newly painted dining room table and left a big gouge in our
brand-new hardwood floors,” says Marquis. “Everything was
fixable, just annoying.”  Marquis subsequently reduced the occupancy limit to four
adults and added a clause to the rental agreement that failure
to notify the homeowners of any damage would trigger a
$20-per-incident penalty fee. “We haven’t had any problems
since,” she says.  Home Sweet Rental  More vacation home owners are experiencing that learning
curve. T.J. Mahony, founder of FlipKey, an online vacation
home rental site featured on TripAdvisor, estimates about 15
percent of vacation home owners now rent out their
homes, compared with 10 percent a year earlier. HomeAway, an
amalgamation of online vacation rental sites, including the
big daddy of ’em all, VRBO.com (vacation rental by owner), saw
revenue from listings jump 30 percent last year to nearly $200
million. In 2012’s first quarter, listing revenue was up 20
percent from the same period a year earlier.  The itch to rent out vacation homes is hitting all price
points. Laura Clark, senior underwriting manager at Chubb
insurance, which caters to affluent homeowners, is seeing a
lot more rental activity of luxury homes in markets such as
Las Vegas and Scottsdale, Arizona, where owners can’t unload
property. “We much prefer they don’t leave the home completely
vacant,” says Clark.  Cash Flow Fixer  Financial concerns pushed Heather Zorzini, a retired
flight attendant, to rent out her three-bed, one-bath
farmhouse in Milford, Connecticut. “Renovation costs on a
house built in 1835 are astronomical, and my postretirement
plans didn’t include the 2008 stock market meltdown,” she
says.  For Mary Russell of Highland Falls, New York, the housing
market meltdown spelled buying opportunity. Last year she and
her husband purchased a three-bedroom, 1,700-square-foot town
home in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, that they rent out in
addition to using it for family vacations. Their rental income
this year will be more than double their mortgage cost. That
said, “every rental is the reward for hard work,” says
Russell.  If you want to wring income out of your vacation
home, here’s how to get started:  PREPARE FOR YOUR SECOND JOB. If you go with a
full-service management company, the fee can be 20 percent or
more of rental income. If you handle booking and marketing on
your own, and hire people for specific needs such as
housekeeping, be prepared to devote a lot of time to the
endeavor. If you’re not willing to handle e-mail inquiries
promptly -- checking e-mail at least once a day -- you’re
bound to lose out to more proactive homeowners.  BE THE HOST WITH THE MOST. “It’s a mistake to think of
yourself as the landlord and the renter as your tenant,” says
Emily Glossbrenner, who with her husband, Alfred, runs
fullybookedrentals.com. A one-bedroom cottage on the couple’s
Bucks County, New Jersey, property generates $35,000 a year in
rental income. “You are the host and they are your guests” is
a better mindset, she says. “Guests behave more like
friends, who will treat your home well and tell you if they
broke anything.”  FOCUS ON MARKETING. Glossbrenner says if you’re in a
competitive rental market, plan on spending up to $1,500 a
year to get your home online visibility. The big websites are
VRBO.com and its parent HomeAway.com. FlipKey also attracts
significant traffic given its exclusive arrangement as
TripAdvisor’s vacation-home rental engine. (TripAdvisor is a
majority shareholder.) If there’s a strong local website that
caters to vacationers, add that to your budget.  The VRBO.com site has tiered pricing that ranges from
$349 to $679 a year. In competitive markets, paying for the
top tier assures you more prominent positioning in searches.  ACCEPT THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST. Accidents happen even when
it’s just you at home, so expect renters to cause some dings
and problems from time to time. Find out if your insurance
policy covers renters. If not, you may need to amend it or
shop for a new one.  In any case, your policy is for big-ticket protection.
For smaller problems, the traditional arrangement is to ask
for a refundable security deposit. A new trend offered through
major online rental sites is damage protection provided by a
third-party insurance company. The policy offered through
VRBO.com (CSA Travel Protection is the provider) charges a
one-time fee of $39 to $59 for $1,500 to $5,000 in coverage.
Owners can insist on this policy as a condition of rental.  Mahony says half of owners using FlipKey no longer use
security deposits. “I’d rather have the renter pay a one-time
fee that gives me $5,000 in coverage than have to deal with
handling a small security deposit that gives me less
protection and requires me to collect and return the money.”  BE SPECIFIC. Think through your nightmare scenario as a
guide for what you want to stipulate in your contract. Not
interested in renting to a frat? OK, put a low minimum on the
number of adults allowed and stipulate a minimum age. You
might also spell out your policy on parties. For example, you
may be thrilled with the lovely couple who want to rent your
lakeside home. But the 40 nearest and dearest they intend to
invite for a blowout celebration? Not so much.  Also spell out your policy on smoking, as well as pets.
Marquis says allowing a dog has helped distinguish her home
from other Tupper Lake rentals. To deal with extra wear and
tear, she charges a $50 fee for a dog vacationer and ups the
$400 security deposit to $500.  Once you have a prospective renter, take time for a chat.
“There’s plenty you can hear in a phone conversation that can
help you vet a client,” says FlipKey’s Mahony. If
possible, meet your clients when they arrive, or hire someone
to serve as your meeter-and-greeter.  Zorzini, who lives a few hours from her Milford vacation
home, has a property management company be the point person
for renters. She has just one gripe: “The house is so
popular, if I want to stay there, I have to book in advance.”
 