-- Pennsylvania ID Law May Affect Million Voters, State Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D r e w   G i n g r i c h
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/pennsylvania-id-law-may-affect-million-voters-state-says.html
More than 1 million people may be
stopped from casting ballots because of a  Pennsylvania  law
requiring voters to present photo identification at the polls, a
state official said at a trial challenging the measure.  About 1.5 million prospective voters lack the type of
identification needed to cast ballots in November’s election,
David Burgess, deputy secretary for planning and service
delivery at Pennsylvania’s Department of State, testified
yesterday in state court in Harrisburg.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the state’s
law requires voters to have a driver’s license, state ID or an
acceptable alternative such as a military ID, to cast a ballot
in the presidential election. The law was enacted in March as
similar measures in Republican-led states drew criticism from
Democrats, who say they disenfranchise minority, poor and young
voters.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  filed a lawsuit in May
with 10 Pennsylvania voters as plaintiffs. The group is asking
Commonwealth Court Judge Robert E. Simpson to block the law
pending a final court decision. Pennsylvania is one of nine
states that passed strict laws requiring a photo ID to vote. A
weeklong hearing in the case began July 25.  More than 889,000 names on voter registration lists
couldn’t be matched to records of the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation, which issues photo IDs. Another 574,630 voters
had expired PennDOT identification, Burgess said.  The case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 330
MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gingrich in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, at  dag5225@psu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  