-- Peter Jackson Adds Third ‘Hobbit’ Film for Warner, MGM
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-30T17:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/peter-jackson-adds-third-hobbit-film-for-warner-bros-mgm.html
Director  Peter Jackson  plans to make
a third film from his adaptation of the J.R.R. Tolkien story
“The Hobbit,” creating a trilogy from the book and related
material.  The plans were announced today by  Warner Bros . and New Line
Cinema, both part of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer
Studios. Its parent,  MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB) , announced a proposed
initial public offering last week.  “We recognized that the richness of the story of ‘The
Hobbit,’ as well as some of the related material in the
appendices of ‘The Lord of the Rings,’ gave rise to a simple
question: Do we tell more of the tale?” Jackson said in a
statement. “And the answer from our perspective as filmmakers
and fans was an unreserved ‘Yes.’”  The addition of a third picture gives MGM, which emerged
from bankruptcy in December 2010, another potential blockbuster
as it prepares to go public. The studio holds rights to “The
Hobbit” and the James Bond films, and has been working with
other studios to make and distribute pictures.  The first film in the trilogy, “The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey,” will be released Dec. 14; the second arrives a year
later. The third is set for summer 2014, the studios said.
Jackson, who won Academy Awards for best picture, director and
screenplay for 2003’s “The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the
King,” recently finished principal photography on what was
first planned to be a two-film adaption of Tolkien’s 1937 novel.  MGM hired investment banks JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to manage an initial public offering, according
to two people familiar with the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  