-- Pierpont Bond-Trading Firm to Merge With Warburg’s Cortview
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-07-30T14:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/pierpont-bond-trading-firm-to-merge-with-warburg-s-cortview.html
Pierpont Securities Holdings LLC and
Cortview Capital Holdings Inc., two bond traders created to fill
a void after the global financial crisis, agreed to merge.  Stone Point Capital LLC and General Atlantic LLC, the
private-equity firms that started Pierpont with $200 million in
2009, will remain investors in the combined company, the
brokerages said in a statement today.  Warburg Pincus  LLC, which
created Cortview with a $125 million commitment in 2010, isn’t
named as an ongoing shareholder. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed.  The dealers were among dozens that started after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, betting that
market turmoil and consolidation among the biggest brokerages
created an opportunity. Some firms that introduced such
operations, including BTIG LLC, Chapdelaine & Co., and LaBranche
& Co., were forced to shrink or shut them as the bigger
competitors recovered and trading volume leveled off.  Pierpont Chief Executive Officer Mark Werner will run the
combined organization, which will be known as Pierpont-Cortview
Securities. It will be based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and have
about 160 people, the companies said. Kelley Millet, Cortview’s
CEO, will be co-president along with Pierpont’s Thomas C. Connor.  Millet replaced co-founder Michael Lacovara as Richmond,
Virginia-based Cortview’s CEO last year, and two months later
Warburg Pincus said it contributed an unspecified amount of
additional capital to the firm. The same month, the firm
jettisoned a team it had hired earlier in the year to trade
mortgage-backed securities.  Perceived Void  Cortview was founded to fill a perceived void as regional
banks around the country pared their brokerage operations to
focus on lending, co-founder Ted Luse said in a September 2010
interview. He said the company expected to expand its balance
sheet to as much as $2 billion within a year.  The company’s broker-dealer subsidiary had assets of $405
million as of Dec. 31, according to a  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. That included about $36
million of member’s capital, the filing shows.  An average of about $11.4 billion of investment-grade bonds
changed hands per day this year, according to Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority  statistics . That’s up from $8.6 billion in
2008 and about the same as in 2010 and 2011.  Pierpont’s Focus  Pierpont focuses on trading in Treasuries and agency
securities. Its co-founders told Investment Dealers’ Digest in
2010 that they expected the  U.S. government debt  to rise, while
the number of the Federal Reserve Board’s primary dealers in
Treasuries had shrunk during the financial crisis. They told IDD
that Pierpont planned to apply to become a primary dealer, a
designation it hasn’t yet received.  Co-founders Werner, Connor and Joseph Blauvelt worked
together at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and later at Bank of America
Corp., where Warner was head of global markets before departing
in 2007. “Pierpont” is the middle name of the financier who
gave his name to JPMorgan.  Pierpont’s broker-dealer unit had $13.1 billion of assets
as of Sept. 30, according to an  SEC filing,  and about $186
million of member’s equity.  Other private-equity firms have placed bets on bond
dealers. Aquiline Capital Partners LLC agreed in 2010 to invest
$225 million in CRT Capital Group LLC, a Stamford-based bond
broker, to fund expansion. Arsenal Capital Partners LP led the
group that backed a startup, KGS-Alpha Capital Markets LP, with
$100 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 Jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  