-- Progenics Plummets on Rejection of New Use of Relistor Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-30T14:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/progenics-salix-fall-on-rejection-of-new-use-of-relistor-drug.html
Progenics Pharmaceuticals Inc. (PGNX)  fell
the most in more than four years after failing to gain U.S.
approval to expand use of its constipation medicine Relistor
licensed to  Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (SLXP)   Progenics plunged 44 percent to $6.09 at 9:51 a.m., after
declining to $5.94 in its biggest intraday drop since March
2008. Salix decreased 12 percent to $46.87. The U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  asked for more data about the treatment for
opioid-induced constipation in adult patients with chronic, non-
cancer pain, the companies said in a statement July 27.  Relistor was approved in 2008 for opioid-induced
constipation in patients with advanced illnesses who haven’t
responded to laxative therapy. Progenics, based in Tarrytown,
 New York , licensed Relistor to Raleigh, North Carolina-based
Salix worldwide except for  Japan  in February 2011.  The companies intend to request a meeting with the FDA to
better understand why wider use of Relistor was rejected. The
meeting may be scheduled in 45 to 60 days, Michael Freeman, a
spokesman for Salix, said in an e-mail today.  Salix will no longer add an additional 160 primary-care
sales representatives later this year and plans to update its
2012 earnings forecast when it releases second-quarter results
on Aug. 8, Freeman said.  The FDA in April extended its review of the application for
wider use of Relistor. The agency didn’t ask for new studies at
the time, the companies said in a statement at the time.  Opioids relieve pain by working with receptors in the brain
and spinal cord and also interact with receptors in the
gastrointestinal tract and can cause debilitating constipation,
according to Salix. Subcutaneous Relistor injections decrease
opioids’ constipating effects without affecting their ability to
relieve pain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  