-- Punk Girls Sorry Anti-Putin Act Hurt Devout as Trial Starts
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-30T13:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/punk-girls-sorry-anti-putin-prayer-hurt-faithful-as-trial-opens.html
Three members of a Russian all-
female punk group facing seven years in jail for a political
protest act inside Moscow’s Christ the Savior  cathedral 
apologized for offending religious sensibilities.  While pleading not guilty to charges of hooliganism, the
defendants said the performance in February carried political
and cultural aims and didn’t intend to insult anyone, according
to a statement read out by their counsel at the start of their
trial in Moscow’s  Khamovniki  District Court today.  “Perhaps we had no right to introduce these aims into a
ritual space,” the band members said in the statement read out
by lawyer Violetta Volkova during proceedings broadcast live on
the Internet.  Masked young women wearing skimpy dresses performed what
they called a “punk prayer” in front of the altar at the
country’s main Christian Orthodox place of worship, targeting
 Vladimir Putin , who was elected to a new six-year presidential
term in March. “Holy Mother, Blessed Virgin, expel Putin,” the
Pussy Riot band sang.  The young women rejected criminal charges of hooliganism,
arguing that their case should be treated as an administrative
violation. Top Russian cultural figures, including Putin
supporters, have rallied to their defense. Visiting bands Red
Hot Chili Peppers and Franz Ferdinand have expressed support for
Pussy Riot while performing in  Russia  this month. The three
defendants have been ordered to be kept in pre-trial detention
until January.  Humiliate, Undermine  Prosecutors argued at the trial today that the young women
had carried out a premeditated act designed to humiliate the
feelings of Christian believers and undermine the spiritual life
of the country, Interfax reported.  Speaking in an interview with the Times of  London , Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said the trial should proceed and
establish the guilt or innocence of the band members, according
to a transcript released today by the government. A protest act
of this type inside a church in some countries may be punished
more severely or even “end badly” for the participants, he
said.  ‘Disgusting’ Stunt  The crackdown on the group’s Feb. 21 cathedral stunt, which
was described as “disgusting” by Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , reflects efforts to contain the worst political unrest
since the Russian leader came to power 12 years ago. The
authorities are prosecuting protesters detained during clashes
between police and anti-Putin activists on the eve of his May 7
inauguration and opposition leaders face potential charges of
inciting violence against officials carrying a maximum sentence
of 10 years in jail.  One of the opposition leaders, Alexey Navalny, said he
expects to be charged tomorrow on separate counts of causing
material damage to a state timber company in 2009, punishable by
as much as five years in prison. Navalny, who was summoned today
by the Investigative Committee, said on his Twitter Inc. account
that he’s been told to return tomorrow morning.  The jailed former billionaire owner of Yukos Oil Co.,
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who is serving 13 years in prison on
charges of  tax evasion , fraud and money-laundering, received his
second conviction in December 2010 in the same courthouse where
the Pussy Riot trial is taking place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  