-- RBI Says India Inflation Risks Significant Even as Growth Slows
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-07-30T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/rbi-says-india-inflation-risks-significant-even-as-growth-slows.html
Indian inflation is a major
challenge for  monetary policy  even as economic expansion remains
weak, the  Reserve Bank of India  said.  Threats to the economy “have been amplified by
decelerating global trade and domestic supply constraints,” the
central bank  said  yesterday ahead of its rate decision in Mumbai
today. At the same time, “persistent inflation limits the space
for monetary policy to revive growth.”  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  faces inflation above 7 percent
even with expansion at a nine-year low, curbing his scope to
join a stimulus drive extending from  China  to  Europe . Nearly all
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey predict he will leave
borrowing costs unchanged as a drop in the rupee, a scanty
monsoon and infrastructure gaps, underscored yesterday by
 India ’s worst power-grid failure in a decade, stoke price
pressures.  “The Reserve Bank has rightly pointed out significant
risks to inflation,” said Brinda Jagirdar, an economist at
 State Bank of India (SBIN)  in Mumbai. “That leaves it with little
headroom to cut rates to support growth.  New Delhi  has to act on
fiscal tightening and accelerating reforms.”  The rupee has plunged more than 20 percent against the
dollar in the past year as Europe’s debt crisis and India’s
trade deficit hurt demand for the currency. It slipped 0.4
percent to 55.585 per dollar at the close in Mumbai yesterday.
The BSE India Sensitive Index, down about 6 percent in the past
12 months, climbed 1.8 percent.  Remain Guarded  “Monetary policy has to continue to remain guarded against
a build-up of inflationary risks as well as to sustain the
growth potential,” the  Reserve Bank  said. “Monetary policy
space needs to be created through fiscal adjustment and
structural measures to improve supply conditions and boost the
investment climate, so that the revival is supported in a non-
inflationary manner.”  The impact of deficient rains on crops, the slide in the
rupee and energy costs are among the risks that may fan price
increases, the central bank said.  Subbarao raised  rates  a record 3.75 percentage points from
March 2010 to October last year to damp inflation. He lowered
the repurchase rate by 0.5 percentage point in April to 8
percent, the first reduction since 2009, before deeming
inflation too high for another cut in June.  Uncomfortable Inflation  Monetary and liquidity conditions have eased in the current
fiscal year that began April 1, the central bank said. It added
that inflation remains “above the comfort level,” complicating
policy choices. Subbarao said earlier this month that the
threshold level for inflation may be about 5 percent.  The monetary authority has previously said that April’s
reduction “frontloaded” a cut on the assumption the government
will restrain the  budget deficit  and take steps to ease supply
bottlenecks.  The economy may expand 6.5 percent in the year through
March 2013, based on a compilation of forecasts from other
organizations, yesterday’s report showed. April’s survey
projected 7.2 percent growth. Inflation may average 7.3 percent,
the survey said, compared with an earlier 6.9 percent estimate.  Gross domestic product  climbed 5.3 percent in the three
months through March, the least since 2003, hurt by a moderation
in investment and a global slowdown as the impact of Europe’s
turmoil fanned through the world economy.  Benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  was 7.25 percent in
June, the fastest pace in the BRIC group of largest  emerging
markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  Monsoon Blackout  Fiscal and trade deficits and gridlock in the ruling
coalition over proposed steps to liberalize the economy have set
back Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s development agenda.  The monsoon is adding to challenges. The rains, pivotal for
the incomes of about 235 million farmers as well as  food supply ,
may be 15 percent to 20 percent below average in August,
according to government estimates.  More than two-thirds of India’s 1.2 billion people still
live on less than $2 per day. The nation suffered its worst
electricity grid failure in a decade yesterday, cutting supplies
to about 360 million people and underscoring gaps in
infrastructure from power to roads.  The government forecasts record borrowing of 5.69 trillion
rupees ($102 billion) to plug a targeted budget gap of 5.1
percent of GDP in 2012-2013. The goal is at risk of being missed
due to spending on subsidies and a shortfall in revenues, the
Reserve Bank said yesterday.  Singh took charge of the  finance ministry  in June, vowing
to revive growth after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said
they may demote India’s credit rating to junk.  All but three of 34 economists in the Bloomberg News survey
said Subbarao will keep the repurchase rate unchanged at 8
percent for a second meeting today. The others forecast a
reduction to 7.75 percent.  “The Reserve Bank is facing a dilemma on policy action in
the current stagflation-type environment,” said  Chetan Ahya , an
economist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong . “The inflation
outlook is far from being comfortable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  