-- Recession Stalks Germany as Breakeven Rates Drop: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-07-30T07:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/recession-stalks-germany-as-breakeven-rates-drop-euro-credit.html
The falling cost of protecting
against inflation in the German  bond market  portends a deeper
slowdown in Europe’s largest economy, signalling the effects of
the continent’s debt crisis are edging closer to the core.  The two-year breakeven  rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations, dropped to minus 0.45 percentage point for  Germany 
from 1.04 percentage point a year ago, and has remained negative
since the end of May. The rate reflects investors selling index-
linked bonds in favor of regular securities because they reckon
 consumer prices  will start declining.  “Germany is most probably heading for a recession,” said
Humayun Shahryar, chief executive officer of Auvest Capital
Management Ltd., a fund company in Nicosia, Cyprus, overseeing
$100 million. “We are going through a debt crisis in  Europe ,
and massive global economic slowdown. I’m not sure how Germany
will be able to escape that.”  As the biggest contributor to bailouts for indebted euro
partners, the risk is that economic travails at home make it
even harder to convince German voters to loosen their purse
strings just as yields on Spanish bonds suggest the country will
be next in line for a rescue.  German exporters Puma SE, Europe’s second-largest sporting-
goods maker, and Siemens AG, the region’s largest engineering
company, both said this month they are suffering from the debt
crisis as sales and orders fail to meet expectations. Eight of
the 17 euro nations are in recession.  Already Slowing  The year-on-year  growth rate  for the German economy, which
accounts for 27 percent of the euro region’s gross domestic
product, has fallen for four consecutive quarters. It expanded
an annual 1.2 percent in the first quarter, the Federal
Statistics Office reported in May. That compared with a rate of
4.7 percent during the same period of 2011.  While the Bundesbank, the country’s central bank, said last
week that the German economy probably grew moderately in the
second quarter, aided by domestic demand, latest data show that
the manufacturing and service industries are contracting.  The country’s inflation rate held at 2 percent this month
after dropping to the lowest in 17 months in June, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said on July 27. The rate stayed
the same because more expensive vacation packages and higher
motor fuel costs made up for falling food and clothing prices,
the office said in its  statement .  Seeking Safety  Breakeven rates are derived from the yield difference
between nominal and index-linked bonds.  The yield on the 3.5 percent German note maturing in 2013,
used for a two-year breakeven-rate calculation, has dropped to
minus 0.08 percent today from 0.07 percent at the start of the
year. The comparable index-linked bond yields rose to 0.40
percent from minus 0.80 percent, reflecting investors’
preference for nominal bonds which offer no protection against
inflation, according to  John Wraith , fixed income strategist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “On the one hand, they are indicative of huge safe-haven
demand regardless of returns,” said London-based Wraith. “But
there is also a strong fundamental argument here. A sell-off in
index-linked bonds and negative breakeven rates make sense if
investors are expecting deflation.”  The cost of buying a derivative that pays out should the
price of a basket of goods in the euro region cost less in a
decade than it does today climbed 41 percent from the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Feeling Recession  German business confidence fell to the lowest in more than
two years as the debt crisis damped the outlook for economic
growth and company earnings. The Ifo institute in Munich said
July 25 that its business climate index, based on a survey of
7,000 executives, dropped to 103.3 from 105.2 in June, the
lowest reading since March 2010.  Puma cut its 2012 sales and profit forecasts on July 18 and
said it will close some stores and may also eliminate jobs after
sales slowed in the first half. The slowdown was particularly
noticeable in Europe, the Herzogenaurch, Germany-based company
said in its statement.  Siemens said its solar-energy business struggled because of
cancellations as countries with high solar-radiation such as
 Spain  find themselves strapped for cash.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered the outlook on Germany’s
AAA credit rating to negative on July 23, citing the risk that
 Greece  could leave the euro and an “increasing likelihood”
that countries such as Spain and  Italy  will require support.  Yields on Spain’s two-, five-, 10- and 30-year  government
securities  climbed to euro-era highs last week amid speculation
the nation will need a bailout to backstop its regions and
banks. Italian 10-year yields rose to 6.71 percent on July 25,
the highest since January.  Relative Underperformance  German bonds underperformed their U.S. and U.K.
counterparts since Moody’s changed its outlook, losing investors
0.7 percent while Treasuries and gilts gained 0.1 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Germany is increasingly risky because of its status as the
lynchpin of the euro, said  Josh Rosner , a managing director at
consultancy firm Graham Fisher & Co in  New York .  He likened the situation to collateralized debt obligations
that package bonds or loans into a pool of assets that are
divided into tranches of varying risk and return.  “Germany is the super senior tranche in the  euro zone 
CDO,” said Rosner. “Losses have now moved into that tranche.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson in London at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  