-- Reckitt Benckiser Profit Edges Higher Amid European Slowdown
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-30T09:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/reckitt-benckiser-profit-edges-higher-amid-european-slowdown-1-.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the
maker of French’s mustard and Nurofen painkillers, reported a 2
percent gain in first-half profit as deteriorating business in
southern  Europe  largely eclipsed growth in emerging markets.  Adjusted net income rose to 818 million pounds ($1.29
billion), the Slough, England-based company said today, compared
with the 810 million-pound median analyst estimate.  Conditions in European nations such as Spain and Italy are
“significantly worse” than elsewhere, Chief Executive Officer
Rakesh Kapoor said on a conference call today. Reckitt Benckiser
gets 55 percent of revenue from Europe and  North America , where
weakening economies are crimping consumption, offsetting gains
in regions such as  Russia , the  Middle East  and  Africa .  “Southern Europe has been very weak for them for a while
now,” said  Graham Jones , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in
 London . “That’s why we prefer  Unilever (UNA)  over Reckitt, because
Unilever has a higher percentage of sales in emerging markets.”  Unilever, the maker of Persil laundry detergent, gets about
56 percent of revenue from the developing regions.  Reckitt Benckiser  fell  as much as 1.9 percent to 3,475
pence in London trading and was down 1.3 percent at 10 a.m., the
second-biggest decline in the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  Unchanged Forecast  The company reiterated its February  forecast  for growth of
3 percent to 4 percent in non-pharmaceutical revenue this year
at constant exchange rates, and unchanged operating profit
margins, on an adjusted basis. In the first half, adjusted
operating margin widened to 24 percent of sales. Excluding an
unexpected 30 million-pound gain from the sale of businesses,
margins would have narrowed, Jones said.  “Their headline says margins were up, but they are not,”
Jones said. “It does make their commitment to maintaining
margins this year a weaker one.”  Non-pharmaceutical revenue in the second quarter rose 4
percent on a so-called like-for-like basis, maintaining the
first quarter’s pace of growth and meeting the average estimate
of seven  analysts . Shipments of products rose about 2 percent in
the quarter, Reckitt Benckiser said.  First-half like-for-like revenue fell 1 percent in the
Europe and North America region, according to the maker of Lysol
cleaners. Unilever said July 25 that underlying European sales
rose 1.1 percent in its first half.  Procter & Gamble (PG) , the
world’s biggest consumer-products company, cut its profit
forecast last month in part on declining prospects in Europe.  Latin America, Asia  Kapoor said conditions in southern Europe had “flattened”
out during the second quarter. Profit margins in the Europe and
North American unit narrowed to 20.4 percent from 21.4 percent
in last year’s first six months, due mostly to rising costs for
ingredients, the company said.  Reckitt Benckiser’s sales rose 12 percent in  Latin America 
and  Asia  at constant exchange rates, fueled by brands such as
Durex condoms and Dettol cleaners. Revenue increased 9 percent
in Russia, the Middle East and Africa, helped by consumers
buying more Nurofen painkillers and Air Wick air sanitizers.  “Europe and North America was weaker than expected, and in
 emerging markets , growth was mixed,” Darren Shirley, an analyst
at Shore Capital, said in a note to clients today.  Revenue at the pharmaceuticals division, which Reckitt
Benckiser considers a “non-core” activity, rose 6 percent. The
company has said it could lose as much as 90 percent of U.S.
tablet revenue as generic drugs enter the market to compete with
the Suboxone heroin-dependency treatment. Analysts at Panmure
Gordon and Bernstein & Co. have recently pushed back from July
to January their estimated arrival of a generic competitor, of
which Reckitt Benckiser expects there to be at least three.  Suboxone Strip  The company said a film-strip version of Suboxone that
dissolves under the tongue has now captured a 56 percent volume
share in the U.S., up from 48 percent at the end of 2011.  Total sales rose 3 percent to 2.31 billion pounds in the
quarter, excluding the impact of currency fluctuations. To lift
sales, Reckitt Benckiser is investing an additional 100 million
pounds in main brands such as Harpic cleaners, and shifting more
of its marketing spending from television ads to digital media
and consumer education campaigns.  “In the scheme of beats at other consumer staples
companies, the Reckitt Benckiser numbers may seem disappointing
even though they are in line with annual targets,”  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum Capital , said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  