-- Red Sox Beat Yankees 3-2 on Rookie Ciriaco’s 10th-Inning Single
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-30T05:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/red-sox-beat-yankees-3-2-on-rookie-ciriaco-s-10th-inning-single.html
Rookie shortstop Pedro Ciriaco
lifted the  Boston Red Sox  to a second straight win over the  New
York Yankees  as his 10th-inning bloop single drove in the go-
ahead run in a 3-2 victory.  The Red Sox won the final two games in the three-game
series at Yankee Stadium thanks to Ciriaco’s late heroics.  Ciriaco, 26, delivered a tie-breaking, run-scoring triple
in the ninth inning of Boston’s 8-6 win on July 28. That came
after the Yankees’ 10-3 win in the opening game of the series,
the first between the Major League Baseball division rivals at
Yankee Stadium this season.  Last night, the Yankees erased a 2-0 deficit by scoring
single runs in the seventh and eighth inning before the  Red Sox 
regained the lead in the top of the 10th against reliever  David Robertson . After Robertson allowed a walk and a single to start
the inning, Ciriaco looped a soft single into short right field
with one out to score the winning run.  “He got beat on a good pitch,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said at a news conference. “That’s going to happen.”  New York fell to 60-41 with the back-to-back losses and now
trails the Washington Nationals and Cincinnati Reds -- both
61-40 -- for MLB’s best record. The Yankees still lead the
American League East Division by 7 1/2 games over the Tampa Bay
Rays and  Baltimore Orioles . The Red Sox, who evened their record
at 51-51, are 9 1/2 games behind.  The Nationals beat the Milwaukee Brewers 11-10 yesterday as
Michael Morse hit a winning two-run double in the 11th inning
after tying the game with a two-run home run in the ninth. The
Nationals have won eight of their past nine games, while the
Brewers have lost nine of 10.  Braves Sweep Phillies  Washington leads the National League Eastern Division by
four games over the Atlanta Braves, who yesterday beat the
Philadelphia Phillies and Roy Halladay 6-2 to complete a three-
game series sweep on the road.  The Reds ran their winning streak to 10 games -- their
longest in 10 years -- as Mat Latos allowed two runs over eight
innings in a 7-2 win over the  Colorado Rockies .  Cincinnati pushed its lead atop the NL Central to three
games over the Pittsburgh Pirates, who lost 9-5 to a Houston
Astros team that snapped a 12-game losing skid.  The San Francisco Giants and  Los Angeles Dodgers  are tied
for first place in the NL West after the Dodgers shut out the
Giants 4-0 yesterday behind  Clayton Kershaw ’s five-hitter.  In a matchup of American League division leaders, the  Texas
Rangers  beat the Chicago White Sox 2-0 as Scott Feldman pitched
eight scoreless innings.  The Rangers (59-41) lead the AL West by 4 1/2 games over
Oakland, which lost to Baltimore 6-1. The Los Angeles Angels are
five games back after a 2-0 loss to Tampa Bay in which Zack Greinke was outpitched in his Angels’ debut.  The White Sox (55-46) are 1 1/2 games up on Detroit in the
AL Central after the Tigers defeated the Toronto Blue Jays 4-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at Yankee Stadium in  New York  at
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  