-- Refinancing Anxiety Pushes Protection Costs to Record: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-30T13:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/refinancing-anxiety-pushes-protection-costs-to-record-mortgages.html
A retiring couple in Hebron,
 Connecticut , that recently considered  refinancing  their roughly
$70,000 home loan has never been more attractive to the $5.3
trillion market for government-backed mortgage bonds.  The homeowners, who were leaving jobs in insurance and as a
municipal worker, contacted Norcom Mortgage after seeing new
 loan rates  had fallen a percentage point below what they’re
paying, according to Greg Radding, a manager of retail
production at the firm. After Radding ran through the math of
how little they would save each month and closing costs of about
$3,000, they opted to keep their current loan.  Borrowers with small loans frequently make that decision,
said Radding. “They often just don’t feel like they’re getting
much bang for their buck; What’s 50 bucks? It’s just not worth
it to them.”  Mortgage investors, anxious over the record prices of
government-backed securities, are paying unprecedented extra
amounts for the types of bonds considered the least likely to
prepay quickly, such as those backed by loans of less than
$85,000. Bondholders paying more than face value risk losses if
enough homeowners take out new mortgages to repay their existing
debt. The securities have risen even as refinancing soars,
driven by expanded government programs and  loan rates  that have
set all-time lows for six straight weeks.  Protection Costs  Average values for agency mortgage bonds reached almost 109
cents on the dollar this month, bolstered by a jump in so-called
pay-ups. That’s the extra amount investors pay for specific
bonds above prices in trading where they don’t know exactly
which securities they’re buying. FTN Financial says the cost of
the refinancing protection, which in some cases now exceeds 5
cents on the dollar, has “skyrocketed.”  “With just how high MBS prices are, it’s very, very
difficult to buy generic pools because you’re so at risk,” said
John Anzalone, head of structured securities portfolio
management at Atlanta-based Invesco Ltd., which oversees about
$650 billion. “The higher the premium at risk is, the more you
should be willing to pay for protection.”  Bonds guaranteed by taxpayer-supported  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae averaged 108.65 cents on
the dollar on July 20, the peak since at least 1986, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The debt, which has fallen to 108.48, is up from 107.59 at
the start of this year. Gains amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may expand its bond purchases to
bolster the economy drove down the  average rate  on a typical 30-
year mortgage to 3.49 percent last week, from 3.95 percent at
the end of 2011, according to Freddie Mac data.  Refinancing Boom  The rally partly reflects bond buyers’ belief that the
refinancing boom will be limited by obstacles ranging from
lenders’ constrained capacity and tight standards to consumers’
frustrations with banks and weakened finances, with even generic
securities reaching records.  Two-thirds of investors surveyed last week by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are “overweight” mortgage securities, or holding
more than found in benchmark bond indexes. Almost 80 percent
expect the Fed to buy more of the debt, with 57 percent
forecasting an announcement at or before its September meeting,
according to a July 27 report by the bank’s analysts.  Refinancing applications climbed to a three-year high last
week that was more than 57 percent greater than this year’s low
in March, according to a Mortgage Bankers Association index.
Still, the pace remained 46 percent below a 2003 peak.  More Options  Karen Mayfield, the mortgage banking national sales manager
at BNP Paribas SA’s San Francisco-based Bank of the West unit,
says part of the reason more homeowners aren’t replacing their
loans is they mistakenly think they can’t qualify amid depressed
home prices and stories of lenders demanding more paperwork.  “There are more options available than people realize,”
she said. “This may be an inconvenient experience compared to
what it used to be in the past, but it’s going to be even more
worth it, based on where rates are.”  Mortgage-bond investors are willing to pay the price for
protection against homeowners joining the wave.  Securities carrying premiums include those only filled with
the smallest loans, as well as debt taken out more than seven
years ago or less than three months. Also in demand are ones
tied to rental properties and loans made under a program for
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  borrowers with little or no home
equity known as the Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP.  Boost Margins  Originators set aside these types of mortgages for specific
bonds to boost their margins on sales. That’s something they’ve
done much more in recent years as a result of the higher pay-ups
being offered, sometimes selling 30 different flavors of bonds
at the same time, said Walt Schmidt, a mortgage strategist in
Chicago at FTN Financial, the brokerage unit of First Horizon
National Corp.  Loans with low balances are considered less likely to be
refinanced because the potential monthly savings are smaller and
closing costs relatively higher, limiting the homeowner’s
incentive.  While lenders can help make some borrowers interested in
refinancing by rolling such costs as for appraisals, attorney
fees, title work and credit reports into loan rates or balances,
or find homeowners interested in  shorter terms  rather than lower
payments, they’re exceptions to the rule, Radding of Avon,
Connecticut-based Norcom said.  ‘Policy Risk’  That kind of prepayment protection is especially valued in
a world where investors face “policy risk,” or the threat of
rule changes, said Qumber Hassan, a Credit Suisse Group AG
analyst. After HARP adjustments this year urged by the Obama
administration, lawmakers including Democratic Senators  Robert
Menendez  of  New Jersey  and  California ’s  Barbara Boxer  are
seeking legislation to further expand it. The government, which
failed to address refinancing challenges created by Federal
Housing Administration insurance-rate hikes when tweaking HARP,
then targeted them with changes that took effect last month.  Pay-ups on Fannie Mae’s 4.5 percent bonds with 30-year
mortgages of less than $85,000 have soared to a record 4.8 cents
on the dollar from about 3.5 cents in early June and about 0.7
cent a year ago, according to Credit Suisse data.  That’s come as prices in the so-called To Be Announced, or
TBA, market for similar generic mortgage securities rose to
roughly 108 cents from about 107 cents early last month and less
than 104 cents a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. TBA sales contracts can be filled with debt matching
a range of characteristics.  Rates on loans backing Fannie Mae 4.5 securities average
about 5 percent.  Prepayment Speeds  Recent prepayments show why investors are paying more.  Loans underlying a 4.5 percent Fannie Mae bond from 2009
with low balances prepaid at a rate that would erase 4 percent
of the debt in a year over the past three months, Bloomberg data
show. Aggregate speeds for 4.5 percent debt were 25.5 percent,
and a TBA trade means risking something worse than the average.  “The difference between the best pools and worst pools are
just massive,” with some borrowers locked out of the boom by a
variety of issues and others quick to jump in, Invesco’s
Anzalone said. At some point pay-ups for different types of
bonds can become “too rich, and they’re richer than they’ve
been, but certainly a lot of it makes sense.”  Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at TCW Group Inc.,
which manages about $130 billion, agreed, saying that “as a
general theme it’s still too early to take the trade off.”  The rise in pay-ups has been the most notable among debt
with the lowest rates, said Brad Scott, Bank of America Corp.’s
head trader of pass-through agency mortgage securities.  Pay-Up Costs  Investors had been assuming that while those borrowers are
among the most sophisticated and most likely to qualify easily,
they’d only recently taken out their mortgages and didn’t have
enough incentive to pick up the phone to refinance again soon,
he said.  “All of a sudden” that’s changing with rates moving even
lower and poised to potentially fall further, he said. Pay-ups
on the types of highest-rate bonds that offer protection against
borrowers  tapping HARP  aren’t gaining as much because many
investors estimate the program’s use may be peaking, he added.  Fannie Mae’s 3.5 percent securities filled with loans
exceeding borrowers’ property values by 25 percent or more carry
pay-ups of about 1.4 cents, up from about 0.3 cent at the start
of this month, according to Credit Suisse data. While borrowers
with those loans qualified under HARP, it’s available only on
loans from before May 2009, meaning they need a jump in  property
prices  or rule changes to refinance again.  ‘Momentum Trade’  While a “wide variance between the fast and slow payers”
in the current environment means specified pools should be more
in demand, the size of pay-ups has gotten too large for
investors to get higher returns with them, FTN’s Schmidt said.  “It’s a momentum trade at this point,” he said, adding
that bond buyers would be better off switching to securities
backed by 20-year loans from 30-year debt.  Investors paying for prepayment protection risk
underperforming if bond prices decline and rates increase,
leaving even the most dangerous homeowners in certain cohorts
with no reason to refinance, according to Credit Suisse’s
Hassan.  “If we sell-off from here, the fall could be very steep,”
he said.  Still, the greater demand for slow paying bonds may feed
upon itself by increasing the odds of receiving bad securities
as those become a greater share of what’s being traded,
according to Schmidt and Anzalone.  “Your worst-to-deliver right now is pretty horrendous,”
said Anzalone, referring to the bonds investors must assume
they’ll get via generic, TBA trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  