-- Repsol Follows BP Into Namibia on Prospects for First Oil
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-30T16:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/repsol-follows-bp-into-namibia-on-prospects-for-first-oil-find.html
Repsol SA (REP) , Spain’s biggest oil
producer, is following  BP Plc (BP/)  into  Namibia , a West African
nation with no proven oil reserves.  Repsol will take a 44 percent working interest in offshore
license 0010 and become operator of the block that may contain
as much as 9.3 billion barrels of oil,  Tower Resources Plc (TRP) , a
partner in the prospect, said in a statement in London.  “It’s an enormous validation to have one of the majors
coming in,” Graeme Thomson, chief executive officer of Tower,
said today in a telephone interview. “We hope to start drilling
next year.”  Namibia’s coastal shelf may mirror that of Brazil across
the ocean, where the Tupi field discovery in 2007 was the
biggest offshore find in the Americas in three decades. The
waters running along the west coast of  Africa  may hold 75
billion barrels of resources, according to U.S. Geological
Survey research from 2010 and 2011, which didn’t cover Namibia.  “This acquisition is part of our extensive efforts to
explore West Africa, which we think offers significant
geological similarities to very large hydrocarbons formations on
the other side of the Atlantic,” Kristian Rix, a spokesman for
Repsol, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  BP became the largest shareholder in the Nimrod block
earlier this year, where  Chariot Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR)  is now drilling
a well targeting about 5 billion barrels of crude. Chariot’s
Tapir South exploration well failed to find hydrocarbons in May.  Tower rose 10 percent in London, the most since January, to
3.23 pence. The company also raised 5.9 million pounds ($9.3
million) in a placing today in which it sold shares to existing
owners at a 2.5 percent premium to the closing price on July 27.  Tower added to its ownership of the 0010 license to bring
its holding to 30 percent. Repsol will own 44 percent after the
deal, and Arcadia Petroleum Ltd.’s share will drop to 26 percent
from 85 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  