-- Trina Solar Cuts Shipment Outlook, Reaches Three-Year Low
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-07-30T21:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/trina-solar-cuts-shipments-forecast-on-china-delays-u-s-tariff.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  fell to its lowest
in more than three years after cutting its forecast for second-
quarter shipments by about a fifth on project delays in  China 
and the effect of U.S. anti-dumping duties.  Trina, the third-biggest solar cell maker and fourth-
biggest solar panel maker, fell 10.5 percent to $4.84 at the
close in  New York .  Trina will take a second-quarter charge of as much as $71
million on late payments and foreign-exchange losses, the
Changzhou, China-based company said today in a statement.  Sales may continue to slow this year for Trina and its
peers as European demand slackens and increasing production
capacity in the industry exacerbates a global oversupply,
according to  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom Capital
Management in New York.  “We’ve been predicting Armageddon for some time,” Johnson
said in an interview today. Solar booms in countries including
Germany and  Italy  are winding down, and he doesn’t expect
similar solar surges in new regions. “There are no countries
left to bubble. There needs to be a massive reduction in
capacity.”  Deliveries of solar panels will total 390 megawatts to 420
megawatts, down from previous guidance of 500 megawatts to 520
megawatts, Trina said. The gross margin for the quarter will
probably be 7 percent to 9 percent, down from an earlier
prediction of about 10 percent, it said.  “Shipment volume fell short of our targets as U.S. market
uncertainty on the preliminary impact of the tariff resulted in
stagnant demand in  North America  and the timing of several large
projects in China was pushed to the second half,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jifan Gao said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  