-- Triunfo Auction Win Turns Stock Into Loser: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-07-30T18:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/triunfo-auction-win-turns-stock-into-loser-corporate-brazil.html
TPI - Triunfo Participacoes &
Investimentos (TPIS3) , the only publicly traded infrastructure operator
to win contracts in Brazil’s $12 billion airport auction this
year, is trailing its peers on investor concern the company is
diversifying too much.  Triunfo teamed up with Paris-based Egis Avia to win the
Feb. 6 contract to expand and operate the Campinas airport in
Sao Paulo state. Since then, it has  plunged 5.9 percent .  CCR SA (CCRO3) 
and EcoRodovias Infraestrutura & Logistica SA, Brazil’s two
biggest publicly traded transport infrastructure companies, have
gained 34 percent and 24 percent, respectively.  Sao Paulo-based Triunfo, which also has contracts for toll
roads, ports and railroads, bid 3.8 billion reais ($1.9 billion)
for the Campinas contract, making it the third-most expensive
concession since  Brazil  opened up its airports to private
operators last year. Investors are concerned that Triunfo’s
expansion into areas where it has little experience, such as
airports, may hurt profit margins.  “There certainly are uncertainties related to the airport
investment, because there’s nothing out there to compare their
performance with,” Jacqueline Lison, an analyst at Banco Fator
SA, said in phone interview from Sao Paulo on July 23. “There’s
concern in the market that Triunfo’s excess diversification
might be harmful to the company.”  World Cup, Olympics  Brazil’s government is auctioning off concessions for
airports, roads and other infrastructure ahead of the 2014  World
Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games . For the February auction, Brazilian
contractors teamed up with companies in Argentina, France and
 South Africa  to bid 24.5 billion reais for leases for three
facilities. President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government was seeking to
raise a minimum of 5.5 billion reais from the auction for the
rights to operate the airports that last year accounted for
about a third of Brazil’s 179 million passengers and 57 percent
of its air cargo.  Before today, CCR posted a total return of 34 percent this
year, ranking it as the second-best performance in the sector,
while Triunfo’s 21 percent drop makes it the worst.
Infrastructure company  Obrascon Huarte Lain Brasil SA (OHLB3)  had the
best total return with a 37 percent gain.  Diversification  “Diversification surely is one of the reasons for
Triunfo’s recent performance,” Sandro Lima, the company’s chief
financial officer and investor relations director, said in a
telephone interview. “Our task now is to demonstrate this is
not a problem, but what sets us apart.”  Fitch Ratings  withdrew its negative outlook for Triunfo
last month after the ratings company concluded that investments
in the next three years won’t hurt its  credit quality .  The airport in Campinas, known as Viracopos, “has
reasonable chances to be profitable and deliver growing
margins,” Fitch said in its report on June 28.  CCR and EcoRodovias’s press officers declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News.  CCR, EcoRodovias  Shareholders may look more favorably on EcoRodovias and CCR
because the companies are sticking to their core businesses of
toll-road operations and diversifying more slowly, said Felipe
Vinagre, an analyst at Barclays Plc. EcoRodovias bid and lost in
the February auction, while CCR’s offer was disqualified because
it was considered too small.  Triunfo fell 0.6 percent to 7.95 reais at 3:08 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo  trading, while the Bovespa index rose 0.3 percent. CCR and
EcoRodovias lost 0.5 percent and 0.7 percent, respectively.  “CCR diversified a bit, but in a more restricted fashion,
as did EcoRodovias,” Vinagre said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “For these companies, which are big, it’s easier
than for smaller company. Both have very mature concessions and
their investments in other business were well received.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net . 