-- Romanian Leu Rebounds From Record Low as Basescu Survives Ouster
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-30T10:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/romanian-leu-rebounds-from-record-low-as-basescu-survives-ouster.html
Romania ’s leu rebounded from a
record low after suspended President Traian Basescu survived an
attempt by the ruling coalition to oust him.  The eastern European country’s currency, which fell to an
intraday record low of 4.6509 per euro on July 24, gained as
much as 1 percent today and traded at 4.5572 per euro at 1:05
p.m. in Bucharest. The leu has dropped 2.6 percent against the
euro this month, the world’s second-worst performer after the
Sudanese pound, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Basescu, who has been fighting his political rival Prime
Minister Victor Ponta over policy, survived a second attempt to
oust him in five years as a voter boycott invalidated an
impeachment referendum setting the stage or further political
turmoil as the  International Monetary Fund  starts a planned
quarterly review of precautionary accord.  “The market may view positively such a reversal of a
brutal political battle,” Vlad Muscalu, an economist at ING
Bank Romania SA, wrote in a note to clients today. “While the
leu may gain some ground, it will probably be short-lived as
political tension is likely to pick up once again. There is
likely increasing pressure on the coalition to recover the
possibly lost ground after the apparently failed attempt to
impeach the president.”  Muscalu also said the Romanian central bank, which has a
managed floating policy for the leu, “may find the current
calmer market conditions more favorable for intervening,” to
prop up the currency.  Romania is scheduled to hold parliamentary elections in
November or December. The invalidation of the referendum needs
to be endorsed by the  Constitutional Court .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net  or
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  