-- Romney Praise of Poland Clouded by Aide’s Reporter Row
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-31T18:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/romney-remark-on-strength-of-israeli-economy-irks-palestinians.html
Mitt Romney ’s six-day international
trip ended as it began, with the candidate’s attempt at a show
of statesmanship clouded, this time by an aide’s confrontation
with reporters at a war memorial in the Polish capital.  Romney was in Warsaw today to praise “free enterprise” as
a model for  Europe  to solve its debt crisis. “As some wonder
about the way forward out of economic recession and fiscal
crisis, the answer is to look to Poland,” he said in a speech
at the University of Warsaw.  When reporters shouted questions to Romney at the war
memorial before his speech, an aide asked reporters to “show
some respect here.” As the media pressed on, aide  Rick Gorka 
said, “Kiss my ass” and “shove it.”  The Romney campaign sought to change the subject,
announcing a new mobile application it will use to announce his
vice presidential pick. The “Mitt’s VP” news didn’t distract
from the trip and Romney acknowledged the critical news coverage
in an interview with  Fox News .  “There will be some in the fourth estate” who “are far
more interested in finding something to write about that is
unrelated to the economy,” he said. He suggested the media will
“try to find anything else to divert from the fact that these
last four years have been tough years for our country.”  Aide Apology  The episode -- for which the Romney aide later apologized
to reporters -- generated a new series of cable news headlines
back home near the close of a three-nation tour that started
with Romney questioning security preparations for the Olympics
in  London  and included a stop in  Jerusalem  where the Republican
presidential candidate spoke of the Jewish people’s “culture”
as a reason for their economic success relative to Palestinians.  “We’ve now seen  Governor Romney  on the world stage,” said
 Robert Gibbs , a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election campaign. “He set the lowest expectations imaginable
for the foreign trip. He both offended our closest ally and
triggered a troubling reaction in the most sensitive region in
the world.”  Romney’s Warsaw address, an opportunity to refocus his
message in the final hours of his tour, cited Poland’s
opposition to “the false promise of a government-dominated
economy” as an inspiration to Americans. The country’s economy
expanded 4.3 percent in 2011, among the fastest in the European
Union.  Romney, who has refused to publicly discuss the criticism
of his trip, has struggled to overcome the distractions that
have undermined his foreign policy message. Even as he gave his
speech today, television reporters were on camera live from
Warsaw describing the gaffes and tensions with press.  Little Impact  Romney aides said the trip will have little impact on
voters at home. While foreign travels are a good way to help
candidates bulk up their resumes in preparation for the
presidential debates this fall, U.S. voters are far more
concerned about the country’s slow economic growth, said
strategist Stuart Stevens.  “People understand that big elections are about big
things,” he said.  Yesterday, the former Massachusetts governor and private-
equity executive was criticized by Palestinian officials for
comments he made suggesting cultural reasons for Israel’s
economy outpacing that of the West Bank.  That followed another episode at the start of his trip,
when Romney’s questioning of the U.K’s readiness to manage the
 Olympic Games  riled his hosts in London. He later clarified his
remarks, explaining that it was hard to hold a mistake-free
Olympics and that he was confident this year’s would be a
success.  Poland Visit  Today, Romney didn’t try to explain his remarks. Instead,
he focused on his visit to Poland -- the final stop of his tour,
and the leg where he received the warmest reception.  “Our friendship spans the centuries and is built by our
common values and love of freedom,” he told reporters after a
morning meeting with Polish Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski.  In his speech today, he subtly tried to link the Polish
economy to the election at home.  “The world should pay close attention to the
transformation of Poland’s economy,” Romney said. “A march
toward economic liberty and smaller government has meant a march
toward higher  living standards , a strong military that defends
liberty at home and abroad, and an important and growing role on
the international stage.”  Though he has vowed not to criticize the president while
abroad, Romney frequently attacks Obama for mismanaging the
economy.  Solidarity Movement  Hundreds of cheering Poles greeted Romney yesterday when he
arrived at the old town hall in Gdansk, a port town that was the
birthplace of the Solidarity movement.  “This is like a rally in the U.S.,” said Romney’s wife,
Ann.  Several hours later, Romney received an endorsement from
former President  Lech Walesa , praise that could resonate with
Polish-American voters in swing states like  Ohio .  “I wish you to be successful,” Walesa said through a
translator. “Governor Romney -- be successful!”  The Solidarity movement issued a statement after those
remarks, disavowing Walesa’s personal endorsement and
criticizing Romney’s business career as marked by anti-union,
anti-worker actions. Andrzey Adamczyk, head of Solidarity’s
International Department, said in a statement that the group was
“in no way involved” in the Walesa-Romney meeting.  Missile Defense  Romney has called  Russia , Poland’s historic enemy,
America’s “No. 1 geopolitical foe” and accused Obama of a
“sudden abandonment” of Poland because the president delayed -
- and then revived -- plans for a missile-defense system in
Eastern Europe.  In his speech today, Romney criticized Russian leaders,
saying their “once-promising advances toward a free and open
society have faltered.”  Poles, who see missile defense as a bulwark against a
possible return of Russian aggression, had invested great effort
in agreeing to the plan proposed by President  George W. Bush .
The White House announcement that it wouldn’t move forward with
the plan came on Sept. 17, 2009, 70 years to the day after the
 Soviet Union  invaded eastern Poland two weeks after  Nazi Germany 
attacked from the west.  Walesa told Poland’s news station TVN24 that he was deeply
disappointed.  “The Americans have always only taken care of their own
interests, and they have used everyone else,” Walesa said,
according to  Der Spiegel .  A month later, Vice President  Joe Biden  said the U.S. would
proceed with a smaller project in a new format, called the
Phased Adaptive Approach, on the same basic schedule. There is
lingering concern about the missile system because of
uncertainty about U.S. defense budget cuts, said Fran Burwell,
director of the Program on Transatlantic Relations at the
 Atlantic Council , a Washington policy group.  Romney is trying to capitalize on those strains, as well as
on concerns that a U.S. defense tilt toward  Asia  would reduce
Eastern Europe’s importance to Washington decision makers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  