-- Rongsheng Faces Order Slump as SEC Probe May Deter Buyers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-31T09:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/rongsheng-faces-order-slump-as-sec-probes-chairman-s-company.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , which hasn’t announced any 2012 ship
orders, may find winning deals even harder as a company owned by
its billionaire chairman faces an insider-trading probe.  China ’s biggest shipbuilder outside state control tumbled
16 percent yesterday in Hong Kong after the  U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  said traders including Chairman Zhang Zhi Rong’s Well Advantage Ltd. made more than $13 million of illegal
profits buying shares of Nexen Inc. ahead of a takeover
announcement by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  The SEC also won a court order
freezing about $38 million of the traders’ assets.  The investigation may deter customers from placing orders,
 Jon Windham , an analyst at Barclays Plc., said yesterday by
phone. “It’s obviously very bad for the overall image of the
company.” He downgraded the stock to underweight from
equalweight and cut its target price to HK$1.06 from HK$2.40.  Rongsheng, based in  Shanghai , has tumbled 87 percent since
a November 2010 initial public offering because of concerns
about delivery delays and a global slump in ship orders caused
by a glut of vessels. The shipbuilder, which operates facilities
in Jiangsu and Anhui provinces, also said yesterday that first-
half profit probably dropped “significantly” because of
falling prices and slowing orders.  The demand slump has pushed new-ship prices to an eight-
year low, according to shipbroker Clarkson Plc. Chinese shipyard
orders plunged 49 percent in the first half.  Shares Slump  Rongsheng dropped 8.6 percent to HK$1.07 as of the close in
Hong Kong trading today. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
rose 1.1 percent.  Kevin Chong, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, lowered his
target price to HK$0.7 from HK$1.6 and maintained a sell rating.  The probe won’t affect day-to-day operations run by Chief
Executive Officer Chen Qiang, as Chairman Zhang only has a non-
executive role, Rongsheng said in a statement yesterday. Zhang
wasn’t available for comment yesterday, according to Doris
Chung, public relations manager at  Glorious Property Holdings
Ltd. (845) , a developer he controls.  Chen isn’t aware of Zhang’s personal business dealings and
he has no plans to leave Rongsheng, he said yesterday by text
message in reply to Bloomberg News questions. The CEO may help
reassure potential customers as he is well-known among
shipowners, said Lawrence Li, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd.  Good Reputation  “They know that Chen Qiang is quite good,” he said.
“Still, in the short term, shipowners may have some concerns
about the chairman’s case.”  Zhang owns 46 percent of Rongsheng and 64 percent of
Glorious Property, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
developer dropped 1.7 percent to close at HK$1.16 in  Hong Kong 
today after falling 11 percent yesterday. Zhang’s listed
holdings are worth about $1.2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Zhang, who holds a Master’s of Business Administration
degree from Asia Macau International Open University, started in
building materials and construction subcontracting before
getting into real estate. Construction of his first project, in
Shanghai, began in 1996, according to Glorious Property’s IPO
prospectus. He got into shipbuilding after discussing the idea
with Chen at a Shanghai Young Entrepreneurs’ Association event
in 2001, according to Rongsheng’s sale document. He formed the
company that grew into Rongsheng three years later.  ‘Legend’ of Zhang  “People in his hometown think Zhang is a legend as he
expanded two companies in different sectors so quickly,” said
Ji Fenghua, chairman of Nantong Mingde Group, a shipyard located
next to Rongsheng’s facility in Nantong city, Jiangsu province.
The billionaire maintains a low profile, said Ji, who has never
seen him at meetings organized by the local government.  Rongsheng raised HK$14 billion in its 2010 IPO, selling
shares at HK$8 each. The company’s  market value  has fallen by
about $6.1 billion to $1 billion, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The shipbuilder has had delays as it builds 16 of the
world’s biggest commodity ships for  Vale SA (VALE5)  and Oman Shipping
Co. It was supposed to hand over eight of the ships last year,
according to its IPO prospectus. Instead, it only delivered one.
It had handed over two more to Vale by May 20. The same month,
it christened two for Oman Shipping, Xinhua reported.  The company’s  cash reserves  have also declined. It had 6.3
billion  yuan  of cash and cash equivalents at the end of December
down from 10.4 billion yuan a year earlier. Its short-term
borrowings rose to 18.2 billion yuan from 10.1 billion yuan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Orders Outstanding  Rongsheng, which also makes engines and excavators, had
outstanding orders for 98 ships as of June 2012, according to
Clarkson. It employed 7,046 people at the end of last year,
according to its annual report. The shipbuilder has built a
pipe-laying vessel for Cnooc and it has a strategic cooperation
agreement with the energy company.  Well Advantage and other unknown traders stockpiled shares
of Nexen before Cnooc announced plans to buy the Calgary-based
energy company for $15.1 billion, according to the SEC. The
regulator acted to freeze accounts less than 24 hours after Well
Advantage placed an order to liquidate its position, it said.
The investigation continues, it said July 27.  The traders may have to pay multiples of the profit they
made from illegal deals to settle the case, based on previous
incidents, said  David Webb , the founder of corporate-governance
website  Webb-site.com . The frozen accounts may make a settlement
more probable as the traders won’t be able to access cash, he
said. Still, there may be a long-term impact on reputations.  “Cases such as this bring the integrity of the persons
involved into question,” Webb said. “And, if they are running
a bank or a listed company, then it tends to tarnish the firm
too.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  