-- Rupiah Reaches One-Week High on Europe Optimism; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-07-30T09:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/rupiah-reaches-one-week-high-on-europe-optimism-bonds-advance.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah reached a one-
week high and  government bonds  advanced after overseas investors
purchased the nation’s assets amid optimism European leaders
will be able to resolve their debt crisis.  Global funds bought $107 million more local stocks than
they sold last week and added  1.57 trillion rupiah  ($164
million) to their sovereign debt holdings, data from the
exchange and finance ministry show. Germany and Italy agreed to
“do everything to protect the euro area,” according to an e-
mailed statement yesterday, echoing European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge last week. Indonesia posted
trade deficits in April and May, official data show, and is due
to release economic reports for June this week.  “Asian currencies and markets in general reacted
positively to comments from European policy makers last week,
however the rupiah has lagged,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a regional
economist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “The underperformance
is driven by continued concerns regarding a deteriorating
current-account position.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent to 9,455 per dollar as
of 4:21 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached 9,445, the highest
level since July 18. One-month implied volatility, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 8 percent.  Consumer prices rose 4.64 percent in July, compared with
4.53 percent in June, according to the median estimate of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before data due Aug. 1.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.73
percent, the lowest level since March 6, according to closing
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  