-- Russia to Start Euroclear Trade of Corporate Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2012-07-30T14:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/russia-to-start-euroclear-trade-of-corporate-bonds-in-two-months.html
Russia  will allow Euroclear Bank SA
and Clearstream International SA direct access to domestic
corporate debt when a central depositary begins working in about
two months, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  “The first stage is to allow Euroclear and Clearstream
into our domestic market for bonds, whether they’re state or
private,” Siluanov told reporters in Moscow today. Transactions
can begin “as soon as the depositary starts working,” he said.  The world’s largest energy exporter is seeking to lower its
borrowing costs by allowing foreign investors direct access to
debt auctions. Holdings of the Russian sovereign ruble bonds
known as OFZs by non-residents may rise to 30 percent of the 3.1
trillion-ruble ($97 billion) total from about 6 percent now,
once Euroclear, which runs the largest bond-settlement system,
and Clearstream gain access, according to VTB Capital.  “We’re expecting positive implications,” Siluanov said.
“It’s important for us that there was greater access and
greater possibilities for foreign investors to buy our state
bonds without all of the associated obstacles.”  ‘More Convenient’  Wider access for investors will most benefit the ruble-
denominated notes of state-backed companies including  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) , OAO Russian Railways and Federal Grid Co., according to
Roman Dmitriev, who oversees about $150 million in Russian bonds
at OOO Spectr Invest in Moscow. The yield on the rail monopoly’s
15 billion rubles of bonds due March 2014 dropped 18 basis
points to 7.6 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since May
12.  “Some guys probably will prefer to hold a position in the
corporate debt of state companies, as most reliable state
issuers offer higher yields than OFZs,” Dmitriev said by e-
mail.  The yield on the Russian Railways notes is 76 basis points
higher than similar-maturity government ruble bonds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Siluanov last month said talks were continuing on the
timing for granting Euroclear and Clearstream access to the
corporate debt market. Martin Gregson, a Brussels-based
spokesman for Euroclear, said earlier today that the company
hadn’t been given any new guidance on the timing for access to
companies’ ruble bonds.  Lagging Behind  Russian ruble bonds have returned 6.4 percent so far this
year, compared with a 16.3 percent gain for local Brazilian
debt, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  EMBIG indexes. Russia
plans to sell another 850 billion to 900 billion rubles of debt
this year to reach the planned target of 1.3 trillion rubles in
gross sales, Siluanov said.  Russian companies sold a record 924.3 billion rubles in
bonds on the domestic market last year, the central bank said in
a report in May. The amount of corporate bonds on the market
rose 16 percent in the year to 3.4 trillion rubles, the
regulator said in an annual report on the banking sector.  Plans to open Russia’s securities market fully to
international clearing systems stalled after objections from
local competitors worried about losing business to global
platforms.  “We think it shouldn’t be a question of competitive
advantages,” Siluanov said. “If we want to talk about
competition on the market, then it should be clear, transparent
and most important -- it should be more convenient for the
investor.”  Allowing foreign depositaries like Euroclear access to the
domestic  debt market  may lead to investors outside Russia
increasing their holdings to about 40 percent of the government
ruble bond market “over the years,” Philippe Laurensy,
Euroclear’s head of sales for central and northern  Europe  in
Brussels, said in a June 29 phone interview. The company expects
to start processing OFZ trades as early as September, Laurensy
said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  