-- Ryanair Seeking 25% Stake in London Stansted Airport Bid Group
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-07-30T13:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/ryanair-seeking-25-stake-in-london-stansted-airport-bid-group.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount carrier, said it’s keen to take a 25 percent
equity stake in  London ’s Stansted airport by participating in
one of a number of groups that may bid for the  BAA Ltd. (FER)  asset.  Ryanair, Stansted’s biggest customer, is prepared to make
“a modest commitment” as “anchor tenant” at the airport and has
been examining proposals from five or six groups, from which one
or two serious bids are likely to emerge, Chief Financial
Officer Howard Millar said at a press conference in London.  “Stansted is the only place in London where another runway
can be built,” Millar said, “It makes more sense to have it at
Heathrow, but Stansted is the only place with capacity and we
want a 25 percent stake.”  Britain’s fourth-busiest airport moved closer to an auction
last week when the Court of Appeal in London dismissed BAA’s
appeal against a sale ordered by the U.K. Competition
Commission. The unit of Spanish builder Ferrovial said July 26
it’s likely to take the issue to Britain’s  Supreme Court .  South Korea ’s Incheon International Airport Corp. may be
among bidders for Stansted should BAA be forced to sell,
aviation marketing director Tae-Soo Yuh said in London on June
25. It could face competition from Manchester Airports Group,
owner of Britain’s busiest airport outside London, which has
been seeking outside investment to fund purchases, Chief
Executive Officer Charlie Cornish said last month.  Guaranteed Growth  Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hong Kong-based Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. is interested in buying a stake in Manchester Airports,
Managing Director Canning Fok said in Vienna yesterday.  Bid groups would welcome Ryanair because its involvement
would bring security and a guarantee of future airport growth,
according to the Dublin-based carrier, which has clashed with
BAA over access fees.  “Stansted has doubled their airport charges, prompting
EasyJet to move to Southend, but we want them to reduce charges
in order to increase traffic,” Millar said.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  this year began flights from Southend, 54 miles
(87 kilometers) east of London, after saying it would
“rationalize” its operations at Stansted.  Bids for Stansted are likely to comprise 50 percent equity
and 50 percent debt, so that Ryanair’s contribution would amount
to one-eighth of the total cost, the executive said.  Stansted is BAA’s busiest airport after Heathrow, Europe’s
top hub, following the forced disposal of  London Gatwick  to
Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd. for 1.51 billion pounds
($2.37 billion) in 2009.  BAA also agreed to sell Edinburgh airport to GIP for 807.2
million pounds in April in order to comply with a requirement to
unload a Scottish terminal. New York-based GIP’s purchases mean
it wouldn’t be able to bid for Stansted.  Stansted attracted 18 million passengers last year, versus
69 million at Heathrow and almost 34 million at Gatwick. It also
ranked behind Manchester’s 19 million, but placed ahead of
London Luton and Edinburgh, each with about 9.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  