-- Ryanair First-Quarter Profit Falls 29% on Fuel Costs, Fares
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-30T07:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/ryanair-first-quarter-profit-falls-29-on-fuel-costs-fares-2-.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, said fiscal first-quarter profit fell
29 percent as fuel costs rose and a sluggish economy limited its
ability to increase fares.  Net income  for the three months ended June 30 fell to 98.8
million euros ($121 million) from 139.3 million euros a year
earlier, Ryanair said today. Analysts had expected a profit of
106 million euros, based on the average of six estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Sales rose 11 percent to 1.28 billion euros.  Ryanair said its fuel bill jumped by 117 million euros or
27 percent in the quarter, wiping out the positive impact of a 6
percent increase in passenger numbers and 4 percent boost in
fares. The Dublin-based carrier is seeking to sustain growth by
adding bases in Eastern Europe and making a 694 million-euro
takeover bid for Irish rival  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   “There’s austerity right across piece, it’s everywhere,”
Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar said in a telephone
interview, reiterating that full year earnings will shrink to
between 400 million euros and 440 million euros after rising 25
percent to 502.6 million euros in the 12 months to March 31.  Shares Slump  Ryanair fell as much as 5.4 percent and was trading 3.9
percent lower at 3.75 euros as of 8:07 a.m. in the Irish
capital. The  stock  has gained 2 percent so far this year, giving
a value of 5.33 billion euros.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-
biggest discount carrier, has advanced 44 percent.  The deepening European slump means it’s tougher to increase
prices this year after Ryanair idled 80 aircraft last winter,
curbing capacity and helping to boost average fares 16 percent.  Pricing may improve slightly this quarter, generally the
busiest for the  airline industry , with fares up as much as 7
percent, Millar said. For the 12 months, passenger numbers
should increase by about 5 percent or 4 million to 79 million.  The full-year fuel bill is likely to be about 1.95 billion
euros, up 320 million euros, the CFO said, and while Ryanair is
hedged at $94 a barrel on 50 percent of its requirement for the
first half of fiscal 2014, versus $100 this year, that will be
more than offset by the euro’s lower value versus the dollar.  “Our outlook remains cautious for the year,” Chief
Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in the statement.  Genuine Bid  Millar said Ryanair’s bid for shares of Aer Lingus that it
doesn’t already own has too many cost implications for it not to
be meant as a serious offer, even though EU regulators blocked
two previous approaches.  Dublin-based Aer Lingus on July 18 urged investors to
reject O’Leary’s 1.30 euros-a-share offer, saying it was too low
and probably incapable of completion under antitrust rules.  Ryanair last week asked an English court to block a U.K.
Competition Commission probe into its existing 29.8 percent Aer
Lingus stake, added six years ago, arguing that it violates the
jurisdiction of the EU, which is considering the latest bid.  The 2012 Olympics, being held in  London , are having little
impact on Ryanair, Millar said, even though the U.K. is its
biggest market. EasyJet said last week that the games have hurt
demand as Britons avoid travel and business visitors stay away.  Ryanair has no interest in buying more planes at the prices
currently on offer from  Boeing Co. (BA) , Millar said, adding that the
company has “sold lots of aircraft to people who have no money.”  The Irish carrier is continuing to work with Commercial
Aircraft Corp. of  China , which is developing the C919 jet,
though there’s no prospect of an order soon, the executive said.  “We’re helping them out,” he said. “But it’s a long way
off. You are talking towards the end of this decade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  