-- MTS Says Expansion Plan Won’t Require New Debt
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-07-30T22:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/mts-says-expansion-plan-won-t-require-new-debt-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s
biggest mobile phone company, will be able to expand its
operations at home and in central Asia without taking on more
debt, said Vasyl Latsanych, the vice president of marketing.  “We are very comfortable about our debt level and there is
no reason for us to increase it,” Latsanych said in an
interview in  New York  yesterday. “Russia and the former Soviet
states remain our focus because of strong growth there.”  MTS, as the mobile operator is known, reduced its  debt  to
$8.1 billion at the end of the first quarter from $8.7 billion
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Russian
company will restart operations in  Turkmenistan  by October after
its permit was revoked there last year and is trying to
reinstate its license in Uzbekistan, Michael Hecker, the vice
president of strategy at  MTS (MTSS) , said in an interview.  American depositary receipts of MTS have increased 30
percent this year, leading gains on the  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies in New York.
The measure fell 0.7 percent to 91.95 yesterday, while  RTS
stock-index futures  expiring in September retreated 0.3 percent
to 138,705.  MTS, which received 85 percent of its sales from customers
in Russia last year, will continue to benefit from higher
 consumer spending  as the company expects the $1.5 trillion
economy to expand as much as 4 percent in 2012, Hecker said.  Russia, the world’s largest oil producer outside of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, received about
half of its 2011 budget revenue from sales of oil and natural
gas last year. The economy grew 4.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the fastest pace since the three months
ended September 2011.  ‘Strategically Right’  The euro area’s economy is expected to shrink this year for
the first time since 2009, contracting 0.4 percent, according to
the median forecast of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “It would be strategically right for MTS to get an
exposure to central or eastern  Europe  one day,” Latsanych said.
“ Poland , Slovakia,  Czech Republic  and  Bulgaria  are among the
most interesting countries” in the region, he said.  Yields on MTS 2020 dollar notes fell seven basis points to
6.12 percent yesterday, the lowest since July 20. The company
still borrows to refinance some of its existing debt, Latsanych
said.  “MTS’s debt is at a very healthy level,” Iouli Matevossov, a senior analyst at  Alfa Bank , said by phone
yesterday from Moscow. “It would make sense for them to
increase the debt level only if they were to purchase some
European telecom company.”  ‘Outlook Is Uncertain’  First-quarter net income climbed to $512 million from $322
million a year earlier, the company said in a May 21 statement.
That beat the average estimate of $395 million of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.                      In Central  Asia , Uzbekistan prolonged a suspension of MTS’s
local unit’s license for three months from July 30, according to
an e-mailed statement yesterday. Uzbekistan hasn’t given the
company a chance to defend its interests in accordance with the
central Asian country’s laws, MTS said in the statement.  Uzbekistan arrested last month the interim director general
of MTS and four other employees of the company. The government
froze the company’s license on July 17, saying MTS violated its
permit and didn’t pay enough taxes.  MTS is trying to get its five employees out of detention in
Uzbekistan, Hecker said. “The outlook is uncertain,” Hecker
said.  In Turkmenistan, where MTS’s permit was halted last year,
the company expects to restart its network in September or
October, Hecker said.  ETF Declines  American depositary receipts of MTS lost 0.1 percent to
$19.14 in U.S. trading yesterday, dropping for the first time in
three days. MTS rose 0.9 percent to 245.42 rubles in Moscow, or
the equivalent of $7.63. One ADR is equal to two ordinary
shares.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, sank 1.1 percent
to $26.92 yesterday, declining for the first time in four days
after oil retreated. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, rose 2.2 percent to 33.24.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , the owner of Russia’s most-used search engine,
rose 3 percent to $20.83, the highest since May 29. The company
reports its second-quarter financial results in Moscow today.  Oil for September delivery retreated 0.4 percent to $89.78
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, falling
for the first time in five days. Prices have fallen 9.2 percent
this year.  Brent for September settlement dropped 0.3 percent to
$106.20 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Urals crude ,  Russia ’s main export blend, declined 0.3
percent to $106.14 per barrel, falling for the first day in
five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  