-- Saudi Arabia Shortlists Four Groups for Riyadh Subway
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-07-30T07:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/saudi-arabia-shortlists-four-groups-for-riyadh-subway-project.html
Saudi Arabia , which is trying to
curb domestic fuel consumption, said it shortlisted four groups
to submit bids to build the first electrical subway train
network linking major areas of its capital city, Riyadh.  The four groups should present their financial and
technical bids for the project within four months, the  Saudi
Press Agency  said today, citing Prince Sattam bin Abdulaziz, the
head of  ArRiyadh Development Authority .  The first group, led by France’s  Vinci SA (DG) , includes  Siemens
AG (SIE)  and Saudi Arabia’s Almabani General Contractors Co., the
state-owned  news agency  said. The second is headed by Canada’s
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and includes Saudi Arabia’s  Al Rajhi Holding
Group  and South Korea’s  GS Engineering & Construction Corp. (006360)  The
third group includes  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830) , while the fourth is led
by  Strabag SE (STR) , central Europe’s biggest construction company.  The winner of the tender will build an underground network,
provide electric trains, construct bridges and subway tunnels
and provide all the engineering and design for the project, the
news agency said.  The 175-kilometer (109-mile) electrical rail link will
connect Riyadh’s airport with other parts of the city, including
the new King Abdullah Financial Center, according to the
authority’s  website .  City planners are also reviewing requests by 16 groups
interested in bidding for a public transportation network
project that involves operating buses and building bus stations
and parking spaces. The planners will soon select the initial
qualified bidders to submit their bids, SPA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  