-- HSBC Apologizes for Compliance Failures
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-07-30T22:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/hsbc-profit-beats-estimates-on-income-from-asset-sales.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the British bank
accused of helping drug lords in Mexico launder money,
apologized to investors for compliance failings and set aside $2
billion more to cover the costs of fines and redress.  The lender made a $1.3 billion provision in the first half
to compensate British clients wrongly sold payment-protection
insurance and derivatives, London-based HSBC said in a statement
yesterday as it posted an 8.3 percent drop in net income. It
also made a $700 million provision for U.S. fines after a Senate
committee found the bank gave terrorists, drug cartels and
criminals access to the U.S. financial system. That sum may
increase, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said.  “Regulatory and compliance events in the first six months
of the year overshadowed financial performance,” Chairman
 Douglas Flint  said in a statement yesterday. “HSBC has made
mistakes in the past, and for them I am very sorry.”  HSBC is trying to estimate the costs of four scandals to
hit the bank in the past year: the mis-selling of loan insurance
as well as derivatives to individual customers; allegations that
traders tried to rig Libor; and a Senate report that found the
bank worked with firms linked to terrorism and hid transactions
that bypassed sanctions against  Iran .  Enforcement action “is completely at the discretion of the
 Department of Justice ,” Gulliver told reporters yesterday. The
provision is “a best estimate based on the information we have
today. The actual number could be materially higher.”  Net Falls  HSBC rose  2.3 percent to 543.1 pence in London trading
yesterday, lagging the 3 percent gain in the Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks and Financial Services Index. The American depositary
receipts gained 1.5 percent to $42.73 in  New York . Each ADR
represents five underlying shares.  “People have looked through the disappointment,” said
Nick Ziegelasch, who helps manage 2 billion pounds at Killik &
Co., including HSBC shares. “The underlying business,
especially in  Asia , is still doing pretty well.”  Net income fell to $8.44 billion from $9.2 billion a year
earlier, missing the $9.1 billion median prediction of 10
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. So-called underlying revenue,
which excludes gains on disposals, movements in the valuation of
HSBC’s own debt, as well as currency movements, rose 4 percent
to $34.8 billion, the lender said yesterday.  “The key area of weakness remains top line income growth,
which at 4 percent on an underlying basis remains too low,”
said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool,
who rates the stock a hold. “Excluding the additional customer
redress and law enforcement provisions, underlying cost
performance is improving.”  Cost Cuts  Gulliver, who became CEO in January 2011, is seeking to cut
costs by $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion and revive profit by
selling assets to focus on emerging economies in which the bank
has a greater market share. He has overseen 36 asset sales and
closures so far, including the disposal of its U.S. credit card
unit to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  Gulliver said yesterday he
is “about 60 to 70 percent” through the disposals program and
expects to deliver at the “upper end” of his cost-cut target.  Costs as a proportion of revenue were unchanged at 57.5
percent, more than Gulliver’s 48 percent to 52 percent target.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds (LLOY)  Banking Group Plc have set aside a
total of 5.6 billion pounds ($8.8 billion) to compensate clients
sold payment protection insurance they didn’t need. Barclays
last month paid a record 290 million pounds in fines for
manipulating the London interbank offered rate.  Swaps, PPI  HSBC set aside an additional $1 billion to compensate
customers who were mis-sold payment protection insurance and
$240 million for those sold interest rate swaps that later lost
them money. In the case of payment-protection insurance, British
regulators have found some customer clients were forced to buy,
or didn’t know they had purchased, insurance to cover repayments
on credit cards or mortgages they were taking out.  The bank had already made a $717 million provision for so-
called payment protection insurance compensation through the end
of 2011. Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, increased
provisions for customer redress by 700 million pounds in the
second quarter, bringing the total it’s set aside to 4.3 billion
pounds.  “We’ve seen a higher level of incoming claims than we had
anticipated when we started looking at this issue around this
time last year, and that level of incoming claims has remained
at a high level when we would have expected it to start tailing
off,” HSBC Finance Director Iain Mackay told analysts
yesterday.  European Outlook  Pretax profit in Asia excluding  Hong Kong  rose 17 percent
to $4.37 billion. In Europe, the bank swung into a loss of $667
million compared with a profit of $2.15 billion. HSBC said the
economic outlook in the region will be “subdued.”  “Our assumption is that European leaders will take the
necessary measures to preserve the euro but, even so, we expect
the euro zone’s economy to contract this year,” Gulliver, 53,
said in the statement.  Pretax profit at HSBC’s investment bank, overseen by Samir Assaf, increased to $5.05 billion from $4.81 billion. Revenue at
the investment bank rose 6.6 percent to $10.35 billion. By
contrast, Wall Street’s five biggest banks, including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., posted the lowest
first-half revenue since 2008 in the first half of 2012 as
trading and deal-making dried up.  HSBC said employee numbers fell 4.7 percent to 271,500 from
285,000 three months ago and down 9.2 percent from the bank’s
peak in 2011 of 299,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  