-- Iceland to Increase Foreign Currency Purchases to Cap Krona
-- B y   O m a r   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-07-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/sedlabanki-to-increase-regular-purchases-of-foreign-currency-2-.html
Iceland’s central bank is increasing
purchases of foreign currency to cap gains in the krona as it
works to unwind  capital controls  in place since the island’s
banking meltdown in 2008.  The bank, which had purchased 500,000 euros ($612,650)
every Tuesday since September 2010 from the market makers it
deals with, will raise that amount to 1 million euros, it said
in an e-mailed statement from Reykjavik late yesterday.  “Growing inflows and the appreciation of the krona have
created room for maneuver to increase the purchases somewhat,”
Sedlabanki said. “The bank considers it desirable that the
purchases be sufficient to cover the interest payment on
government debt and to increase the share of non-borrowed
reserves over the medium term.”  The krona controls have protected the currency since
Iceland’s biggest banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008. The
central bank was only able to halt a sell-off of the krona,
which triggered an 80 percent plunge offshore, by imposing
capital controls. It’s now seeking to unwind the restrictions in
stages in an effort to normalize its  capital markets .  The krona gained as much as 1.1 percent against the euro
yesterday to its strongest level since March 2009.  Policy makers are seeking to phase out capital controls by
the end of 2015. The restrictions have locked in about 1
trillion kronur ($8.2 billion) held by offshore investors,
according to an estimate by Arion Banki hf.  So far the government has struggled to attract the euros it
needs and a weakening krona prompted the government in March to
close a loophole that had allowed overseas investors to
speculate on the currency. The move pushed the onshore rate up
about 10 percent against the euro.  The central bank in June raised  interest rates  for a fifth
time since August to keep inflation in check. The bank estimates
inflation, which eased to 4.6 percent this month, won’t return
to its target of 2.5 percent until 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  