-- Shaw Gets 12 Weeks Jail for Sex With Underage Prostitute
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-07-30T09:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/shaw-gets-12-weeks-jail-for-sex-with-underage-prostitute.html
Howard Shaw, a member of the family
that built an Asian movie production and real estate empire, was
sentenced to a 12-week jail term for having paid sex in
 Singapore  with an underage prostitute.  “His belief was really conjecture or guesswork at best,”
Judge See Kee Oon said today, rejecting Shaw's defense that
he thought the girl was 18 and he deserved only a fine. See said
there was a need for a deterrent message to curb demand for sex 
with minors.  Shaw, 41, is the second person to be sentenced for seeing
the prostitute. A former primary school principal, one of
another 50 men charged for the same crime, was sentenced to nine
weeks’ jail in April by See.  The case is one of several high profile ones involving sex
that prosecutors have brought this year in Singapore, including
graft charges against a law professor who had previously been a
judge and against the former head of the Asian country’s Civil
Defence Force.  The girl wasn’t coerced into prostitution and had colluded
with her pimp in an “act of deliberate deceit” to misrepresent
that she was at least 18 at the time of Shaw’s offense, his
lawyer Harpreet Singh said. She was actually about 17 years and
7 months, his lawyer said, adding that a jail sentence would be
an “absurdly draconian result.”  Appeal Intended  The maximum penalty for paid sex in Singapore with someone
under 18 is a seven-year jail term and an unspecified fine.
Singh told Judge See that Shaw, who’s out on S$10,000 ($8,000)
bail, intended to appeal the sentence. The lawyer declined to
comment further to reporters after the hearing.  Prosecutors asked the judge to jail Shaw for three months
to send an “unequivocal” deterrent message.  The Shaw family  business , co-founded by Shaw’s grandfather,
includes a movie studio in  Hong Kong , operating cinemas in
Singapore and real estate development, including two office
complexes in the city-state’s prime shopping belt district.  The criminal case is Public Prosecutor v Howard Shaw.
DAC13759/2012. Subordinate Courts of Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  