-- Singapore’s GIC Boosts Cash to Levels Above 2008 Crisis
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-31T04:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/singapore-s-gic-boosts-cash-amid-europe-crisis-u-s-slowdown.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , managing more than $100 billion, boosted cash to levels
exceeding the 2008 global financial crisis as it pared stocks
and bonds, reducing its holdings in Europe.  Cash allocation almost quadrupled to 11 percent of its
portfolio in the year ended March from 3 percent a year earlier,
GIC, as the sovereign wealth fund is known, said in its annual
report. Stocks fell to 45 percent from 49 percent as it pared
equities in developed markets, while bonds dropped to 17 percent
from 22 percent.  GIC is reducing its investments as the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
posted its biggest  slump  since the 2008 global financial crisis
and market volatility reached the highest level in more than two
years. Trading options have become limited for government funds
seeking to preserve capital as policy makers across the world
prepare for a deeper impact from Europe’s debt woes.  “There are not many safe havens, so cash is king,” said
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at  China 
Merchants Securities Co., which oversees about $1.5 billion.
“It’s logical for everyone to cut investments and take a wait-
and-see approach. The economic downturn will last for a while
before we can see certainty and a swing-back in investment
sentiment.”  GIC’s holdings in  Europe  fell to 26 percent from 28
percent, with those in the U.K. unchanged at 9 percent, it said.
Within Europe, GIC’s assets in  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy ,  Greece 
and  Spain  made up 1.4 percent of its portfolio, mainly held in
real estate and stocks in Italy and Spain, it said.  ‘Greater Uncertainties’  Assets in the Americas were unchanged at 42 percent, with
33 percent of the total portfolio in the U.S., it said. It
raised its allocation to  Asia  to 29 percent from 27 percent.  “The market experienced many twists and turns over the
last year,” Lim Siong Guan, president of GIC, said in its
annual report today. “There will be greater uncertainties in
the future.”  Holdings in so-called alternative assets increased to 27
percent from 26 percent, it said, with a gain in private equity
and infrastructure investments. Real estate was unchanged at 10
percent of its portfolio, it said.  The so-called 20-year annualized real return was 3.9
percent as of March 2012, unchanged from the previous year, it
said. The annualized nominal rate of return in U.S. dollar terms
was 3.4 percent over 5 years, 7.6 percent over 10 years and 6.8
percent over 20 years, it said. The fund doesn’t report an
annual return or disclose the actual size of its portfolio.  Tracking Performance  The 5 and 10-year returns beat two composite portfolios of
stocks and bonds it tracks, while it underperformed over a 20-
year period, said GIC, which was set up in 1981.  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that the
euro-area debt crisis has exacerbated global financial
instability and an orderly adjustment process is likely to be
prolonged and costly.  In Asia, Singapore’s economy unexpectedly contracted last
quarter and China and  South Korea  cut  interest rates  this month.
Europe was plunged into fresh market turmoil as calls for
bailout aid sent borrowing costs surging, while Moody’s
Investors Service lowered  Germany ’s rating outlook to negative.  The MSCI World Index dropped 7.6 percent in 2011, the worst
annual performance since 2008. The decline narrowed to 1.7
percent for the year ended March.  ‘Heightened Uncertainty’  The cost of insuring sovereign bonds from default in
Western Europe reached a high this year of 382.5 basis points
before falling to 255.24 basis points, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. A
similar measure tracking Asia Pacific reached a high of 232.86
on Oct. 4 before declining to 130.05.  “Due to the heightened uncertainty in global markets, we
allowed the cash inflow from investment income and fund
injection to accumulate during the year in preparation for
better investment opportunities,” Ng Kok Song, GIC’s chief
investment officer, said in the report. “We reduced the
allocation to bonds because bond yields in the developed markets
had been pushed down to abnormally low levels by the flight to
safe assets and central bank intervention.”  In the year ended March 2009, when its investments were hit
by its stake in  UBS AG (UBS) , GIC raised its cash holdings to 8
percent from 7 percent, and reduced its bond investments to 24
percent from 26 percent, it said at the time.  China’s  sovereign wealth fund  said last week it will invest
with a longer-term focus after it posted a 4.3 percent loss on
its overseas holdings last year because of declines in global
commodity prices.  CIC’s Returns  Net income at the $482.2 billion fund, with a resources-
heavy portfolio, fell to $48.4 billion in the year ended Dec.
31, Beijing-based China Investment Corp. said in its annual
report on its  website  on July 25. The overseas  investment
performance  was the worst since the fund was set up in 2007, and
compares with an 11.7 percent return in 2010. CIC was set up to
improve returns on foreign-exchange reserves by investing
overseas. In China, the fund’s holdings are largely limited to
stakes in financial institutions for the government.  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, said it spent the most on new holdings in four years as
it added more energy and resources producers to its portfolio.
The company said it made S$22 billion ($18 billion) of
investments in the year to March 31, boosting assets 2.6 percent
to a record S$198 billion.  Temasek’s Profit  The investment firm said profit for the year declined 16
percent as contributions from units fell amid the global
slowdown. Net income dropped to S$10.7 billion from S$12.7
billion a year earlier, it said in its  annual report . Temasek’s
total shareholder return averaged 17 percent since its inception
in 1974.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., held holdings of Treasuries
and mortgages steady in June after saying that U.S. securities
are still the safest bet. Gross kept the proportion of U.S.
government and Treasury debt in his $263 billion Total Return
Fund unchanged at 35 percent of assets last month, according to
a report on the company’s  website . Pimco doesn’t comment
directly on monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  Gross left the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-equivalent
position unchanged at negative 21 percent last month. The fund
can have a so-called negative position by using derivatives,
futures or by shorting.  “Looking ahead, we assess that the investment environment
will be characterized by a global economy struggling to return
to sustainable growth,” GIC’s Ng said. “The medium-term
investment outlook is therefore challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  