-- Siris, Guerrilla Capital Settle SEC Suit Over China Firm
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-30T18:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/siris-guerrilla-capital-settle-sec-suit-over-china-firm.html
Fund manager Peter Siris and his
Guerrilla Capital Management agreed to pay more than
$1.1 million to settle allegations by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission of “wide-ranging misconduct” in connection
with a Chinese reverse-merger firm.  The SEC today announced the settlement with Siris, a former
writer for the  New York  Daily News and author of “Guerrilla
Investing: Winning Strategies for Beating the Wall Street
Professionals.” The agency also settled with Guerrilla Capital
and a related firm, Hua Mei 21st Century LLC.  From 2007 to 2010, Siris and the firms sold unregistered
securities and engaged in unregistered broker-dealer activity
and illegal insider trading tied to China Yingxia International
Inc., the SEC said in a complaint filed today in  Manhattan 
federal court.  Siris, who manages two New York-based funds that invest in
Chinese companies listed in the U.S., had about $160 million
under management in 2010, according to the SEC’s complaint.  William Munno, a lawyer for Siris and his two firms, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment on the SEC
allegations and the settlement.  Separate Suits  The SEC separately sued five other individuals and one firm
for securities law violations related to  China  Yingxia, the
agency said today in a statement.  Siris and investor-relations consultant Alan Sheinwald, who
was sued in a separate action, acted as unregistered securities
brokers in efforts to raise money for China Yingxia through
private investment in public equity transactions, or PIPEs, the
SEC alleged.  China Yingxia a was a nutritional health food business with
operations in Harbin, China, which entered the U.S. capital
market through a reverse merger deal in 2006, according to court
filings. The company collapsed in 2009 amid allegations that its
China-based chief executive officer had engaged in illegal fund-
raising activities, the filings said.  The company’s former U.S.-based chief financial officer,
Ren Hu, was accused by the agency of failing to implement
appropriate accounting controls and making misstatements to
investors.  Ernest Badway, a lawyer for Sheinwald and his firm Alliance
Advisors, and Florian Miedel, who represents Hu, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Two Funds  Along with providing broker services and acting as a
consultant to China Yingxia, Siris also invested about
$1.5 million in the firm on behalf of his two funds. After
receiving confidential information about trouble emerging at
China Yingxia, including communication from its CEO, Siris
started selling his shares to avoid losses, the SEC alleged.  Around the same time, Siris wrote in a letter to his
investors that there was “reason to believe a restructuring can
be achieved” at China Yingxia despite the illegal fundraising
issues, according to the agency’s complaint. He also omitted
material information concerning his role as a paid consultant in
dealings with China Yingxia, the agency alleged.  Additionally, Siris, who was regularly asked to participate
in Chinese company securities offerings, engaged in  insider
trading  involving other companies, including China Green
Agriculture Inc., SmartHeat Inc. and Puda Coal Inc., netting a
total of $161,213 as a result of the illegal trading, the SEC
alleged.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Siris,
12-cv-5810, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  