-- Solars Tumble on Oversupply as Suntech Slumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-30T20:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/solars-tumble-on-oversupply-as-suntech-slumps-china-overnight.html
Chinese solar companies fell in New
York, sending the benchmark  index (SHCOMP)  to its biggest decline in a
week, on concern an oversupply of panels and reduced subsidies
in  Europe  will erode revenue.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. dropped 1.4 percent to 86.92
yesterday in New York. Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. lost 11
percent while  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  sank after cutting its forecast
for second-quarter shipments.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  tumbled
15 percent after the world’s largest solar-panel maker said it
may have been the victim of fraud.  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  and  Tudou Holdings
Ltd. (TUDO)  slid the most in two weeks.  Chinese solar manufacturers have reported losses since the
second quarter of 2011 as the industry has been plagued by
overcapacity and as Europe’s debt crisis prompts governments to
trim solar energy subsidies.  Germany ’s  Solarworld AG (SWV)  last week
led a group of manufacturers asking the European Commission to
investigate whether Chinese competitors sold products at below-
market rates after the U.S. imposed duties on solar imports from
 China  in May.  “The industry is undergoing a very painful correction due
to a massive oversupply,”  David Smith , portfolio manager of the
Gabelli Green Fund, said by phone yesterday from Purchase, New
York. “There are uncertainties in demand as European countries
including Italy and Germany cut their subsidies. This tariff
issue around the EU and U.S. on Chinese solar panels creates a
situation of even more uncertainties.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.2 percent to $34.06,
snapping a three-day rally. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
the biggest U.S. shares was little changed at 1,385.30.  Suntech Lawsuit  Suntech, based in Wuxi of China’s Jiangsu, decreased to
$1.34 in New York, the lowest level since the company’s initial
public offering in 2005.  The company said it’s suing Javier Romero, a former Suntech
sales representative who manages an affiliated company that
Suntech says pledged German bonds as collateral for payment
guarantees. The bonds may never have existed, Suntech said in a
statement yesterday. The company said it may delay its second-
quarter earnings report while it evaluates the financial impact
of the incident.  Trina, the third-biggest solar cell maker and fourth-
biggest photovoltaic panel maker, dropped 11 percent to $4.84,
the lowest level since March 2009.  Trina Cuts Estimate  The Guangzhou-based company lowered its estimate of solar
module shipments for the second quarter by as much as 25 percent
to 390 megawatts, citing solar power projects in China and the
effect on U.S. import tariffs from the Asian country. It also
cut its gross margin forecast to as low as 7 percent from the
previous guidance of 10 percent.  Analysts at both Deutsche Bank AG and Jefferies Group Inc.
 reduced  their 12-month price estimates for Trina to $5 from $6
yesterday.  Yingli (YGE) , the world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar
module producer based in Baoding of China’s Hebei province,
tumbled 11 percent to a record low of $1.83. LDK Solar Co., the
world’s second-largest maker of wafers, dropped 5.8 percent to
$1.47.  Youku, owner of China’s most popular online video site,
retreated the most in two weeks on concern its purchase of
smaller rival Tudou, a deal announced in March, won’t be
completed this quarter.  Beijing-based Youku tumbled 6.1 percent to $16.90 in New
York, the biggest decline since July 17. Shanghai-based Tudou
sank 6.6 percent to $26.23.  Doubts on Merger  “Some people are still doubting whether the merger will go
through,” Echo He, an New York-based analyst at Maxim Group
LLC, said in a phone interview yesterday. “These stocks are
vulnerable to investors who want to sell because of China’s
macro economy and also because of its online ad market.”  The companies said in separate statements on July 18 that
their shareholders will meet on Aug. 20 to approve their merger.
The transaction, which was  valued  at $925 million when
announced, has a current value of $630 million.  China Eastern  Airlines Corp., the second-biggest domestic
carrier, and China Southern Airlines Co., the biggest by
passenger number, retreated for the first time in three days
after the Xinhua News Agency said yesterday the regulator
increased jet fuel prices by 96  yuan  ($15) for August.  American depositary receipts of Shanghai-based China
Eastern slid 3.8 percent to $17.18, trading 0.2 percent below
its Hong Kong stock, the first  discount  in three days. China
Southern lost 2.7 percent to $24.72, the most in a month.  Foreign Investment Rules  The Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks declined
0.9 percent to 2,109.91 yesterday, the lowest level since March
2009.  International companies with investment quotas under the
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program are now allowed
to buy bonds on China’s interbank market for the first time, the
nation’s securities watchdog said in a July 27 statement on its
website. Previously, overseas investors were restricted to
exchange-listed debt, which is less than 2 percent of the
interbank equivalent.  Foreign investors will also now be permitted to buy bonds
of small- and medium-sized companies through private placements,
the regulator said. Such securities typically yield more than
their counterparts listed on China’s stock exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  