-- Korea Output Unexpectedly Falls as Europe Caps Demand
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-07-30T23:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/south-korea-industrial-production-falls-as-europe-hurts-exports.html
South Korea ’s industrial production
fell for the first time in three months in June as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and  China ’s slowing economy curtailed export demand.  Output fell 0.4 percent last month from May when it climbed
a revised 1.3 percent, Statistics  Korea  said today. The median
estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.1 percent gain. Production rose 1.6 percent from a year
earlier.  South Korean  manufacturers’ confidence  dropped to a three-
year low for August, the central bank said yesterday, after
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy grew at the slowest pace in almost
three years last quarter. Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
warned last week the economy is losing steam, fueling
speculation policy makers will follow a surprise rate cut on
July 12 with further easing.  “The lower-than-expected output figure once again shows
that the European crisis is hurting South Korean companies and
consumer sentiment more than what economists had thought,” said
Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp.
“Although the industrial output data may not be enough for the
 Bank of Korea  to cut rates again this month, they may have to in
September or October.”  The won gained 0.1 percent to 1,137.60 per dollar at the
close in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 1,132.45 earlier, the strongest since May
4, on speculation Europe’s policy makers will act to resolve the
region’s debt crisis. The benchmark Kospi Index rose 0.8
percent.  ‘Difficult’ Situation  South Korea’s economy is in a “difficult” situation,
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday, adding that he
will do “everything I can to find a solution for the sluggish
domestic economy.” Bahk ruled out additional fiscal stimulus in
a July 16 interview, saying it would do more harm than good
while the global economy is weak.  The South Korean index for manufacturers’ confidence in
August was at 70 after 81 for July, the central bank said
yesterday. South Korea’s  consumer confidence  fell to a five-
month low in July, the BOK said on July 25.  Economic confidence in the euro area fell more than
economists forecast to the lowest in almost three years in July,
the European Commission in Brussels said yesterday. European
governments are trying to contain the debt turmoil, which last
month forced Spain and Cyprus to seek external aid.  “The Bank of Korea might continue to cut rates as Europe’s
debt crisis persists,” said Lee Sang Jae, an economist at
Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul. “The Korean economy is likely
to remain sluggish as domestic consumption weakens and exports
fall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  