-- Spain Faces Regional Resistance in Bid to Deepen Budget Cuts
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-31T18:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/spain-to-urge-more-regional-budget-cuts-as-deficit-deepens.html
Two Spanish regions shunned a
meeting in  Madrid  called by Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro to
discuss further fiscal cuts as efforts to prevent them
defaulting widen the central government’s deficit.  Carmen Martinez Aguayo, the finance chief of Andalusia, the
third-biggest contributor to Spain’s gross domestic product,
walked out shortly after the meeting began at 5 p.m. in Madrid,
while Catalonia, the biggest contributor, didn’t turn up. Both
regions, the first ruled by the Socialists and the second by a
Catalan nationalist party, oppose Montoro’s deficit and debt
goals for the 17 semi-autonomous regional governments.  Montoro is seeking to impose more austerity on the regions
after efforts to provide them, as well as cities and the welfare
system, with liquidity burdened state finances. The government’s
first-half deficit exceeded its full-year target, data showed
today. There was no news yesterday from a separate gathering
between Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and regional executives
from his  People’s Party  before the budget talks.  Rajoy is struggling to avoid a broader bailout after
gaining the right to borrow as much as 100 billion euros ($123
billion) from European rescue funds for its banks. Its budget
gap, the euro area’s third largest, remained almost unchanged
from 2010 at 8.9 percent of gross domestic product last year.  Bond Yields  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond was at 6.62 percent
today, compared with a euro-era high of 7.75 percent on July 25
even as Rajoy announced his fourth round of austerity measures
since Dec. 30. It fell after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said last week he would do whatever is needed to
protect the single currency.  The central government’s shortfall surged to 4.04 percent
of gross domestic product in the first half of 2012 from 3.41
percent in the five months through May as it transferred funds
to the rest of the public sector to prevent a liquidity squeeze,
Deputy Budget Minister Marta Fernandez Curras said today in
Madrid.  That compares with a central-government target for the year
of 3.5 percent.  Spain ’s overall 2012 deficit goal, which
includes all levels of government, is 6.3 percent.  Excluding 15 billion euros of transfers to regions, town
halls, the social security system and the European Union, the
central government’s gap through June was 2.56 percent of GDP,
Curras said. The regions are set to present budget plans today
as several show signs of deficit slippage, according to the
ministry.  Budget Transfers  The regions, which account for more than one third of
public spending, were mostly responsible for the 2011 slippage
as they overshot their limit by more than 100 percent. This
year, Rajoy’s seven-month-old government has organized as much
as 41 billion euros in bank loans on top of budget transfers to
allow them to pay suppliers and redeem bonds.  Still, Curras said Spain is on track to fulfill its
commitments as an income-tax increase and corporate tax changes
implemented this year are not yet having their full effect.  Curras said revenue from value-added tax will also improve,
after falling 10 percent in the first half, as an increase
announced in July will be implemented in September.  This year’s deficit targets for the central government,
regions, town halls and social security remain unchanged at 3.5
percent, 1.5 percent of GDP, 0.3 percent and zero respectively,
even after other euro-area countries agreed July 10 to raise
Spain’s combined 2012 target to 6.3 percent from 5.3 percent.  The extra percentage point gives Spain room for maneuver to
guarantee the overall target is met due to “uncertainty,”
Curras said. In the first half, Spain’s interest costs to
service its debt rose 32.6 percent from the first six months of
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  