-- Spain Regional Rescues Hurt Existing Debt Holders: Euro Credit
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-31T09:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/spain-regional-rescues-hurt-existing-debt-holders-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s rescue of Catalonia and
Valencia risks diverting the taxes those regions need to pay
their debts, disadvantaging holders of more than $150 billion of
regional debt.  Spain collects income, sales, gasoline, tobacco and alcohol
taxes on behalf of its regional governments, excluding the
Basque country and Navarra. About half of the 60.3 billion euros
gathered in the first five months of the year was then assigned
to local states, Bank of Spain  data  show.  The government is doubling loans to 17 semi-autonomous
regions to as much as 41 billion euros ($50 billion), after the
local authorities lost access to  capital markets  to meet debt
redemptions, pay suppliers and finance their deficits.  Terms  of
the backstops say that the regions’ tax share can be seized in
the event of default, meaning the government would rank ahead of
existing bondholders for repayment.  “The potential subordination is an element, which is
implicit in the way the rescue mechanism has been designed,”
said Fernando Mayorga, an analyst at Fitch Ratings in Barcelona.
That subordination risk will become increasingly important in
the event of rating cuts, he said.  Catalan Spread  Catalonia’s 850 million euros of 3.875 percent bonds due
April 2015 yield 14.2 percent, up from about 3.9 percent when
the securities were first sold in March 2010. That’s higher than
the 11.3 percent investors demand to lend to European companies
rated B, five levels below Catalonia’s BBB- rating at  Standard &
Poor’s , according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro High
Yield index.  A default is very unlikely scenario, since Catalonia is
committed to honor all its debts, said a Barcelona-based press
officer of the Catalan government, who declined to be named. In
any case, the central government will assume the maturities that
regions can’t repay, she said in an e-mailed statement.  The Spanish regions had 123.2 billion euros of long-term
debt in the first quarter, with 65.4 billion euros of bank loans
and the remainder mostly bonds, central bank  data  show. The
threat of subordination may mean local governments are unable to
sell additional debt for even longer, according to Leef Dierks,
a credit analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London .  Subordination Concern  “As loans granted to the regions will be backed by their
very own share in the centrally collected tax revenues, the
element of subordination of already outstanding paper could come
to the fore again,” Dierks said. “It could make it even harder
for regions to return to the capital market anytime soon.”  Loans organized by Spain’s central government with the
nation’s major banks and the state-owned Instituto de Credito
Oficial include 17.7 billion euros to repay commercial bills,
5.4 billion euros for first-half bond redemptions, and an 18
billion-euro fund set up this month to cover bond redemptions in
the second half of the year, as well as deficits.  The regions need about 16 billion euros during the next six
months to roll over debts and meet anticipated budget deficits,
according to Fitch data. Valencia, Catalonia and Murcia have
combined short-term financing needs of 9 billion euros, Fitch
said. Valencia said July 20 it will seek a rescue from the
government, adding to at least 4.35 billion euros raised from
Spain earlier this year to cover unpaid commercial bills, more
than any region. Catalonia, which took 2 billion euros of aid to
pay commercial creditors, may also request more cash.  Record Joblessness  Spain is bailing out its regions even as the European
Union’s highest unemployment rate and the nation’s second
recession since 2009 drove its borrowing costs to records this
month, and the government implements 110 billion euros of budget
cuts. The country’s 10-year yield rose to 7.75 percent on July
25 and dropped to about 6.6 percent today on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will resume its bond-buying program.  The central government’s budget deficit for the first half
rose to around 4 percent of GDP from 3.41 percent for the first 
five months of the year due to transfers to administrative units
including the regions, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said
yesterday in  Madrid .  Spain reformed its constitution last year to include a
commitment to restrict budget deficits and prioritize repayment
of debt over other public sector expenses.  “The most important issue now is that the central
government is aware of the regions’ lack of liquidity and that
it’s tackling the problem,” said Jose Sarafana, a credit
salesman at brokerage firm Aurel Bgc in Paris. “The potential
subordination that the central government program involves is a
longer-term issue, but the important thing is to solve the
immediate liquidity problem.”  Basque Debt  Basque Country’s 700 million euros of 2019 bonds, which are
rated A,  Fitch Ratings ’ sixth highest investment grade, yield 9
percent. The bonds from Basque Country, which hasn’t used the
Spain rescue funds, yield 262 basis points more than debt with a
similar maturity issued by Spain, which is rated three steps
lower at BBB.  “I prefer to go for bonds of regions, which aren’t being
bailed out since the rescue programs are very good news for the
regions’ short-term creditors, but not necessarily for long-term
debt holders,” said Ramon Nieto at Geroa EPSV Fondos in San
Sebastian, which manages 1.1 billion euros, including bonds from
regions such as Basque Country and Navarra. “Non-bailed out
regions debt pay a premium versus Spain even as some of them
such as Basque Country have higher credit ratings than the
country’s treasury.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  