-- Subprime Auto ABS Grows as Lenders Chase Margins: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-30T15:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/subprime-auto-abs-grows-as-lenders-chase-margins-credit-markets.html
Sales of bonds tied to payments on
subprime  car loans  are accelerating at the fastest pace in five
years as investors seek high yields amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will keep interest rates at record lows until mid-2015.  Led by Santander Consumer USA, issuance of $10 billion this
year in asset-backed debt linked to vehicle loans to borrowers
with spotty credit records compares with $8.2 billion in the
same period of 2011, according to Barclays Plc. Top-ranked
securities backed by the loans yield between 15 and 25 basis
points more than benchmark swap rates, versus 5 to 8 basis
points for similar debt of prime borrowers, Deutsche Bank AG
data show.  Sales are surging with the central bank holding its
 benchmark  rate near zero to spur growth following the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. Investors are
seeking riskier assets to generate returns as private-equity
firms such as Blackstone Group LP and Perella Weinberg Partners
are drawn to the high profit margins in subprime auto lending.  “There is broad-based demand for any reasonably safe bond
that offers any meaningful amount of yield,” said Harris Trifon, a debt analyst at Deutsche Bank in New York. Investors
are realizing that “ interest rates  may remain extraordinarily
low for years to come,” he said.  New Entrants  The subprime auto finance business has grown during the
past two years as new lenders compete to make loans with rates
of about 17 percent annually, while being able to finance
themselves at an average rate of less than 2 percent, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a July 17 report. With losses ranging
from 1 percent to 3 percent, originators collect annual spreads
of about 12 percent, according to the New York-based firm.  Asset-backed securities tied to vehicle debt have been
buoyed the past three years by rising used car values, which
boost recovery rates on defaulted debt and ease losses for
bondholders. Used vehicle values rose to a record in May 2011
before leveling off, according to Manheim Auctions Inc.
Manheim’s used vehicle index fell 3.2 percent in June from a
year ago.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose for the first time
in four days, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, adding 1.5 basis points to a mid-
price of 106.7 basis points as of 11:23 a.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, decreased 0.6 basis point to 19.5 basis
points as of 11:23 a.m. in New York. The gauge, at the lowest
level on an intra-day basis since July 6, 2011, narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, with 35 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:22
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Automobile Sales  Lenders have issued about $129 billion in asset-backed
securities linked to consumer and business borrowing this year,
with auto debt accounting for $62 billion, Bloomberg data show.
Citigroup Inc. boosted its 2012 asset-backed forecast this month
by about 50 percent to $183 billion as vehicle sales climb.  Santander Consumer has issued $4.9 billion of the auto ABS
this year, according to Barclays. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based
company sold top-ranked securities maturing in 1.87 years
yielding 52 basis points more than benchmark rates on June 26,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with a spread of 90 basis
points on similar debt issued by the lender in January.  U.S. auto sales for June beat analysts’ estimates,
accelerating to a 14.1 million seasonally adjusted annualized
rate, researcher Autodata Corp. said in a July 3 statement. The
pace exceeded the average 13.8 million light-vehicle estimate of
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Subprime Borrowers  Perella’s CarFinance Capital LLC funded more than $100
million in auto loans in its first 10 months of business as it
works with more than 1,500 auto dealers serving “non-prime”
consumers, who now account for more than a third of U.S. car
buyers, the  Irvine , California-based company said in an April 24
statement announcing an expansion in  Texas .  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, and
said it expects to keep it “exceptionally low” through at
least late 2014. Implied rates of Fed funds futures traded on
the Chicago Board of Trade are below 0.5 percent for every
maturity going out as far as June 2015.  Investors have returned to this segment of the asset-backed
market since shunning the debt when losses on mortgage bonds
linked to subprime borrowers sparked the financial crisis.  Vehicle Appreciation  “People are looking back with rearview mirrors and
reflecting that away from mortgages, AAA ABS did very well,”
Martin Attea, a managing director at Barclays in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “Very few people lost money,” on
those bonds, he said.  Autos have performed better than other parts of the
consumer loan market, particularly when financing non-prime
borrowers, according to Nadim El Gabbani, a principal in the
private equity group at New York-based Blackstone.  “Nobody expected a car to increase in value over time,”
he said. “Whereas everybody had home price appreciation” baked
into their models, Gabbani said.  Payments more than 60 days late on subprime auto loans
contained in securities peaked at 4.94 percent in early 2009,
compared with the November 2009 high of 45.23 percent for
subprime mortgages, according to Moody’s.  The current lending environment bears some similarities to
the 1990s when the number of subprime auto lenders ballooned
leading to lax underwriting and higher losses, though today’s
market is not ”nearly as overcrowded,” according to Moody’s.  “Loan performance has been strong over the past several
years,” Moody’s analysts Peter McNally and Joseph Snailer said
in the report. “The investor interest from outside the subprime
auto market niche and the potential for increasing competition
imply that losses could increase if a race for profits and
market share results in weaker underwriting standards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  