-- Suncor, Cenovus Work Around Crude Oil Discount
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-07-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/suncor-cenovus-work-around-crude-oil-discount.html
Integrated producers such as  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  are countering the slump in
Canadian crude prices by cutting costs, shipping by rail and
maxing out capacity at refineries.  “What you’re seeing coming through in spades is that those
companies with integrated operations, like Suncor and Cenovus,
are the ones that are doing better in this environment,” said
Chris Theal, chief executive officer of Kootenay Capital
Management Corp., which owns shares of both companies.  Canadian oil producers wrestled with a 13 percent decline
for Western  Canada  Select, a crude blend sourced from the land-
locked  oil sands , in the second quarter as demand for its
products stagnates in the U.S. The drop was bigger than the fall
in U.S. and international benchmarks.  While  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ,  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  and  Kinder Morgan
Energy Partners LP (KMP)  are proposing pipeline expansions to the
Pacific, Gulf and East coasts in the coming years, much of the
new output is stranded in Canada or places like Cushing,
 Oklahoma , depressing prices. Suncor and Cenovus, both based in
Calgary, are finding ways to circumvent the blockage.  Suncor’s  cash flow  from operations rose 18 percent to
C$2.34 billion ($2.33 billion) in the second quarter, while  net
income  declined after the company took an impairment charge
after suspending its Syrian operations. At Cenovus, cash flow
slipped 1.5 percent while Canadian crude prices fell almost 10
times as much.  Growth Visibility  Cenovus has a price-to-earnings ratio of 18, while Suncor’s
price to earnings ratio is 9.1 in the most recent period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Cenovus continues to deliver quarter after quarter,”
Raymond James Ltd. analysts Justin Bouchard and Kristopher Zack
said in a July 26 note. “Although some may point to the lack of
catalysts and a valuation premium as reasons to not own the
stock, we continue to like the company’s excellent growth
visibility and think the multiple is warranted.”  “Suncor really is in an enviable position,” the Raymond
James analysts said. “It has significant balance-sheet
flexibility, generates a lot of cash and is opportunity rich.”  Meg Energy Corp. (MEG) , which doesn’t own a refinery, reported a
32 percent drop in cash flow from operations and a net loss of
C$29.5 million in the second quarter, the Calgary-based company
said on July 26. Athabasca Oil Corp., which also has no
refineries, widened its loss to C$14.4 million in the period
from C$10.5 million a year earlier.  Oil Salesmen  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , which owns four refineries and is the
only Canadian company to have a AAA rating from Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services, said second-quarter cash flow from
operating activities more than doubled to C$1.32 billion. Net
income at Imperial, majority owned by Exxon Mobil Corp., matched
the decline in the price of Canadian crude.  “The volatility in the oil price itself has spooked a lot
of non-resource investors away from this segment of the
market,” said Eric Nuttall, a portfolio manager who helps
manage C$9.7 billion at Sprott Asset Management LP in Toronto.
“Previously the biggest challenge of an oil executive was to
find oil, it wasn’t how to sell it.”  The average price for Western Canada Select fell to $73.53
a barrel in the second quarter from a year earlier. That
translates into a bigger drop than the 8.8 percent decline for
West  Texas  Intermediate, a U.S. benchmark, which averaged $93.35
a barrel in the second quarter. It was a bigger drop than the 7
percent decline for Brent, an international benchmark, which
averaged $108.76.  Refinery Hedge  Suncor operates refineries in  North America , including
Montreal and Sarnia, Ontario, where it refines products such as
jet fuel. That allows the company to price 96 percent of its
output to Brent, said Chief Financial Officer Bart Demosky.  “It’s important to reiterate that Suncor is effectively
hedged against these crude discounts because we’re able to
recapture the majority of the spread through our inland refining
operations,” he said on a conference call with analysts last
week.  Suncor also cut costs per barrel produced at its oil-sands
operations by 19 percent to C$39 a barrel. The company credited
the decline on higher output, less maintenance and a drop in
natural-gas costs.  “We think the second-quarter earnings result again
demonstrates the benefit of the company’s integrated business
model under the current elevated North America crude oil
differential outlook,”  Paul Cheng , a New York-based analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc., said in a July 26 note. “We believe the
shares will outperform over the next 12-18 months.”  Project Delay  The producer also may delay a plan to expand production to
1 million barrels a day by 2020 in order to maintain profitable
growth, said Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams .  “We are heavily involved in these profit-improvement
reviews at the moment,” Williams said on the Suncor conference
call. “The indications are that some of these projects are
moving backwards, not forwards.”  Suncor has gained 8.5 percent this year, beating the 3.8
percent decline of the S&P/TSX Energy Index. Cenovus’s shares
have declined 6.7 percent.  Cenovus is currently shipping about 11,000 barrels a day to
 Vancouver  on  Kinder Morgan ’s Trans Mountain pipeline. The oil is
then sold at the port to international shippers, earning an
extra $10 to $20 per barrel, Chief Executive Officer Brian Ferguson said in an interview. Those prices are closer to those
paid for Brent and at a premium to West Texas, Ferguson said.  Rail Shipments  “Innovation is really important,”  Robert Schulz , a
professor at the University of Calgary business school, said in
an interview. “If Cenovus is first on the Trans-Mountain
pipeline, that’s going to constrain others’ ability to do the
same.”  Cenovus is also shipping almost 5,000 barrels a day of oil
by rail to move oil to the  Gulf Coast  and unspecified amounts to
the East coast, where the company also captures higher prices.  “Companies like Cenovus that are becoming more innovative
in reaching more markets are also showing advantages,” Kootenay
Capital’s Theal said.  The company next year will look at ways to revamp its Wood
River, Illinois refinery, a joint venture with  Phillips 66 (PSX) , to
take more Canadian heavy crude, while continuing to look for
more opportunities to ship crude to new markets, Ferguson said.
The Canadian company is also part owner of a refinery in Borger,
Texas.  “We are taking a portfolio approach to our transportation
arrangements,” Cenovus’s CEO said. The company has already
committed capacity to proposed pipeline expansions like Kinder
Morgan’s Trans Mountain conduit and those planned by TransCanada
and Enbridge to the Gulf and Pacific coasts because of
significant expansion opportunities in the oil sands, he said.  Low Cost  Cenovus had operating cash flow from refining of C$344
million, an increase of C$22 million from the year-earlier
quarter. The company is counting on new technology, hedging and
higher production to help reduce costs of its oil-sands
production in the coming years.  “In any commodity business, it’s the low-cost producer
that is always the one that benefits whether there are high
prices or low prices,” Ferguson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  