-- Suntech Probes Potential Fraud on $680 Million Guarantee
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-07-30T20:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/suntech-may-have-been-victim-of-fraud-on-680-million-guarantee.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
world’s biggest solar panel maker, said it may have been the
victim of a fraud involving a 554.2 million euro ($680 million)
financing guarantee it extended in 2010.  The Chinese company listed in  New York  said it’s suing
Javier Romero, a former Suntech sales representative who manages
an affiliated company that Suntech says pledged German bonds as
collateral for payment guarantees. The bonds, Suntech said in a
statement today, may never have existed.  Suntech said it may delay its second-quarter earnings
report while it evaluates the financial impact of the incident,
which involves an affiliated company responsible for $348.6
million in sales for Suntech over the past three years. The
fraud may complicate talks Suntech is having with banks about
extending credit lines necessary to fund operations.  “This makes it very difficult for Suntech to raise any
equity in the U.S.,” said Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardour
Capital Partners in New York who has a sell rating on the
shares. “They’re going to need support from their Chinese
lenders” to meet their debt obligations. Suntech shares fell 15
percent to $1.34 at the close in New York.  The company discovered the potential irregularities as it
sought to sell its stake in the  investment company  managed by
Romero, Global Solar Fund S.C.A., Sicar, partly to meet debt
obligations due next year, Zhengrong Shi, Suntech’s chairman and
chief executive officer Shi said in a conference call today.  Liquidity Gap  This monetization process was part of its plan to pay 2013
convertible notes and is now on hold. To close the liquidity
gap, Suntech has said it’s seeking additional bank financing,
drawing on credit lines and tapping both equity and debt markets
for cash.  Suntech is pursuing a “possible” credit facility and is
considering a local bond issuance in  China , Shi said today. The
company will provide an update on the matter in the week of
August 20.  “We now suspect that the German  government bonds  may not
have existed and that Suntech may have been the victim of a
fraud,” Zhengrong Shi, Suntech’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the call. “We are in discussion with our major
banking partners and we believe that this development will not
materially impact our banking relationships.”  ‘Significant’ Debt  Suntech has “significant” outstanding debts and liquidity
issues that may risk its viability as a going concern, the
company said when it released its first-quarter results in May.
The company had net debt, reflecting total debt less cash and
restricted cash, of $1.6 billion at the end of March and short-
term  liabilities  of $3.1 billion, a record high. The outstanding
principal on its 2013 convertible bonds was $541 million.  Suntech has filed claims “against relevant parties in
multiple jurisdictions” to assert control of Romero’s company
and its assets, which include solar projects with 145 megawatts
of capacity in  Italy , the solar company said.  Romero worked for Suntech in  Spain  as a non-executive sales
representative selling solar panels. In June 2008, Suntech
invested in Global Solar Fund, which was set up to make
investments in  power plants  and was managed by Romero. Shi, the
Suntech chairman, has a 10.67 percent stake in the partnership
company that controls GSF and Romero holds another 10 percent.  The Chinese solar company invested a total of 258 million
euros in GSF, taking as much as 86 percent of the company.
Between 2009 and 2011, GSF sold $356.8 million of Suntech solar
panels through seven affiliated companies working in Spain and
Italy, according to Suntech’s 2011 annual 20-F  filing  in April.  Chinese Bank  In May 2010, Suntech guaranteed 554.2 million in payment
obligations for GSF under a finance facility provided by China
Development Bank Corp., the state-owned lender based in Beijing.
As security for Suntech’s obligations under the guarantee it
received a pledge of 560 million euros in German government
bonds held by an affiliate of GSF called GSF Capital Pte Ltd.,
which was an investor in the GSF fund.  In November 2011, Suntech worked to reduce its stake in GSF
by 6.7 percent, selling the interest to a company controlled by
Romero. Suntech booked a loss of $30.7 million in the
transaction and agreed to meet future  capital costs  linked to
GSF, according to the 20-F filing. The transaction reduced its
share in GSF to 79.3 percent. Romero could not be located for a
comment. An e-mail sent to the address listed on GSF Capital’s
 website  wasn’t returned today.  Suntech, based in Wuxi, said an outside counsel recently
found facts suggesting the German bonds may not have existed.
Romero and GSF Capital are listed as defendants in a case
Suntech filed at the  High Court  in  London  on July 27.  Suntech’s 2011 annual report was audited by Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. Shelley Pfaendler, a spokeswoman for  Deloitte
& Touche LLP  in  Chicago , directed requests for comment to
colleagues at the company’s office in  Hong Kong , Rebecca Lam and
Wilfred Lee, who didn’t return e-mails.  GSF Capital owns Global Solar Fund Partners S.a.r.l., a
company owned by Romero that manages the fund through a board
that also includes Suntech executives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  