-- Supervalu Names Wayne Sales CEO Amid Strategic Review
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-07-30T20:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/supervalu-names-sales-chief-executive-officer-to-replace-herkert.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the supermarket
chain that said earlier this month it will review strategic
alternatives, named board member Wayne C. Sales chief executive
officer to replace Craig Herkert  Sales, 62, who was CEO of Canadian Tire Corp., has been a
Supervalu director since 2006 and nonexecutive chairman since
2010, the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company said today in a
statement.  Supervalu has been eliminating jobs and accelerating price
reductions to keep pace with discounters such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  On July 11, Supervalu said it was
conducting a strategic review of alternatives for the business
and suspended its dividend.  Herkert “clearly inherited a very bad situation and was
not able to turn things around” during his three years at the
helm, Ajay Jain, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York,
said in an interview. “There’s probably more urgency to pursue
strategic alternatives and that includes a potential for asset
sales,” said Jain, who recommends buying the shares  Supervalu rose 13 percent to $2.24 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since April 10. The  shares  have tumbled
72 percent this year.  Supervalu’s  valuation  is 3.8 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, making
it the cheapest among its peers, prompting investors and
analysts to view it as a potential acquisition target. The
average valuation for its peers is 8.4, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Losing Share’  “They’re losing share,” Jain said. “I think that at the
right price everything is up for sale right now.”  Sales at Supervalu have declined for the past three years
as the company faces increasing competition from mass retailers
and dollar stores. Sales dropped 3.8 percent to $36.1 billion in
the year ended Feb. 25 and may fall 4.2 percent in the company’s
fiscal 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The board decided that this change would be important to
the company’s efforts to improve our sales and earnings
trajectory and generate long-term  shareholder value ,”  Mike Siemienas , a company spokesman, said in an interview today. The
company’s strategic review is continuing, he said.  Sales, who has more than 35 years of retail-executive
experience, plans to retire from his board positions at
Discovery Air Inc. and Georgia Gulf Corp., according to the
statement. He’s also a director at  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI)   ‘Lost Confidence’  “Many of our customers and investors have lost confidence
and patience,” Sales said in a e-mail today to Supervalu’s
130,000 employees. “We are doing many things that are not
business critical, are of low value or are not focused on
driving sales or profitability. Tough decisions will be made to
change this reality.”  Sales also said that Supervalu will boost its Save-A-Lot
business. The grocer’s more than 1,300 discount Save-A-Lot
stores sell food for as much as 40 percent less than traditional
supermarkets,  according  to the company’s website.  Supervalu is the largest U.S. grocery chain after  Kroger
Co. (KR)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  