-- Support for Noda Government Drops After Party Split on Tax
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-07-30T07:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/support-for-noda-government-drops-after-party-split-on-tax-plan.html
Support for Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s cabinet fell to 28 percent, after his party
split earlier this month over the passing of legislation that
will double the  consumption tax .  The five point drop from June, in a poll published by the
Nikkei newspaper and TV  Tokyo , means support for Noda’s
administration matches a low it reached in May. Approval for the
ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan slid 8 points to 18 percent.  Noda, who pushed the sales tax measure through the Diet’s
lower house last month in an effort to tackle Japan’s record
debt, faces re-election as leader of his party in September.
Opposition leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki , who backs the sales tax
plan, increased the pressure on Noda last week when he said he
would submit a no-confidence motion if the ruling party
backpedals on the plan to double the tax by 2015.  The drop in support for the Democrats didn’t translate into
a boost for the main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , which
was favored by 27 percent of respondents, almost unchanged from
the previous poll conducted in June, the Nikkei said.  The bill to raise the consumption tax to 8 percent in 2014
and to 10 percent in 2015 from the current 5 percent passed the
lower house in June, prompting former Democratic party leader
 Ichiro Ozawa  to leave with about 50 of his followers and set up
a new party. The debate over the tax continues in the upper
house, where the bill is likely to pass even though Noda lacks a
majority because the proposal also has the backing of the LDP.  Poll Boost  Enacting the bill may give Noda and the Democrats a boost
in the polls, according to Steven R. Reed, a professor of
political science at Chuo University in Tokyo.  “People want a government that can do something, rather
than a government that keeps putting things off,” Reed said by
phone. “Getting something done will, I think, be more important
than what you get done.”  Some opponents of the tax bill, including former Prime
Minister  Yukio Hatoyama , who set up a group to study changes to
the legislation, have remained with the Democratic party.  Tanigaki said in an interview last week that if the DPJ
modifies the sales tax plan “to please members of the ruling
party, we are more likely to tell them to forget the whole thing
than to say OK.” At that point a no-confidence motion would be
“possible,” he said.  The Nikkei said the poll showed 49 percent of respondents
were opposed to the tax increase, while 41 percent said they
were in favor. Support for Ozawa’s new party was one percent.  Nuclear Power  On nuclear power, another issue that divides  Japan ’s
electorate, 49 percent of respondents said it should be kept to
a minimum, and 27 percent said it should be abandoned. A further
19 percent said nuclear reactors should be restarted after being
approved as safe.  Renewable energy advocate Tetsunari Iida failed yesterday
in a bid to become governor of Yamaguchi prefecture in western
Japan, losing out to a former bureaucrat who promised to
suspend, rather than abandon, plans for a new nuclear plant in
the region.  The Nikkei survey included 929 respondents and was carried
out by telephone from July 27-29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  