-- Swiss Stocks Advance for Fourth Day; UBS, Vontobel Climb
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-30T15:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/swiss-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-credit-suisse-advances.html
Swiss stocks  completed the biggest
four-day advance this year, extending a 13-month high, amid
optimism the  European Central Bank  will win support from policy
makers to take steps to ease the euro area’s debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s largest
lenders, advanced.  Vontobel (VONN)  Holding AG rallied 6.1 percent after
MainFirst Bank AG recommended buying the company’s shares.
 Syngenta (SYNN)  AG, the world’s biggest supplier of agricultural
chemicals, retreated.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.6 percent to 6,402.38 at the
close of trading in Zurich. The gauge advanced 1.2 percent last
week as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  joined European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  in promising to do everything to protect the euro. The
SMI has  rallied 12 percent from this year’s low  on June 4. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also climbed 0.6 percent today.  “The upcoming central-bank meetings this week will be
carefully followed,” Christian Schmidt, a technical analyst for
equities at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt,
wrote in a report today. “Monetary-policy decisions in the U.S.
and Europe are on the program and the expectations are high. It
will be interesting to see how ECB President Draghi assesses the
situation and whether there are hints at further measures.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 18 percent higher than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Building Consensus  Draghi is trying to build consensus among governments and
central bankers for a plan to ease borrowing costs for Spain and
Italy before ECB policy makers hold their next meeting on Aug.
2. He needs to win over Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, a
critic of ECB bond purchases.  Draghi proposes using the euro area’s rescue fund to buy
 government bonds  on the primary market, while the ECB purchases
securities on the secondary market to ensure the transmission of
its  record-low interest rates , two central bank officials said
on July 27 on condition of anonymity.  In the U.S., the Federal Open Market Committee will
announce a policy decision on Aug. 1 after a report last week
showed the economy expanded at a slower pace in the second
quarter, giving the central bank scope to add to stimulus
measures to spur growth.  Greece’s Budget  In Greece, a finance ministry official said yesterday that
representatives of the European Commission, the ECB and the
International Monetary Fund may remain in the country until the
government has completed work on a two-year, 11.5 billion-euro
($14 billion) budget plan.  Members of the so-called troika were due to leave at the
end of July and return at the end of August to complete a review
of the government’s budget cuts for this year and its plans for
2013 and 2014, the official said. That would have led to a
significant delay in the next disbursement of loans to Greece,
said the official, who asked not to be identified.  A gauge of European lenders rose 3.2 percent, contributing
the most to the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) ’s advance. UBS jumped 3.9
percent to 10.93 Swiss francs.  Credit Suisse gained 0.5 percent to 16.83 francs as it said
shareholders exercised 97 percent of subscription rights in
mandatory convertible bonds for 1.9 billion francs ($1.94
billion). The bank placed the remaining notes with strategic
investors, it said in a statement.  “The high take-up is a significant vote of confidence from
both our new and existing investors,” Chief Executive Officer
 Brady Dougan  said in the statement.  Vontobel climbed 6.1 percent to 21.65 francs, its highest
price in more than two months, after MainFirst Bank raised the
stock to buy from neutral.  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG added 2.8 percent to 49.85 francs.
The company said it filed for European Marketing Authorization
Application approval for its ceftobiprol drug for the treatment
of pneumonia.  Syngenta slipped 0.8 percent to 335.60 francs after ING
Groep NV cut the stock to sell from hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  