-- Synthes Sued Over Death Linked to Bone-Cement Trials
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-30T16:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/synthes-sued-over-death-related-to-unapproved-bone-cement-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Synthes unit, a
maker of tools and implants to treat damaged bones, along with
its former Norian Corp. subsidiary, was sued by the family of a
woman who died during an unapproved trial of a bone cement.  Lois L. Eskind lost her life on Jan. 13, 2003, after a
surgeon injected Synthes’s Norian SRS drug into her spine mixed
with barium sulfate. Moments after the mixture leaked into her
venous system she suffered cardiac arrest, according to the
complaint filed July 27 in federal court in Philadelphia by her
daughter, Eva Sloan.  Synthes, its Norian unit and the operating surgeon
“concealed the illegality, experimental nature and substantial
risks of the surgery,” Sloan claimed in the complaint.  Four Synthes executives were sentenced last year to prison
terms ranging from five months to eight months for their roles
in the unapproved trials. The cement, approved for use elsewhere
in the body, was employed in the spines of 200 patients with
fractured vertebrae. Three patients, including Eskind, died
during spinal surgeries.  Synthes, based in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , agreed in
October 2010 to sell the Norian unit, which pleaded guilty to
felony and misdemeanor criminal charges, and pay a $23.5 million
fine to settle the case. Johnson & Johnson’s acquisition of
Synthes won regulatory approval in June.  Sloan’s lawsuit makes claims of wrongful death, negligence
and fraud stemming from her mother’s death.  The case is Sloan v. Synthes Inc., 12-cv-04286, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  