-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Decline to Lowest Level in 18 Months
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-30T10:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-k-mortgage-approvals-decline-to-lowest-level-in-18-months-1-.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  fell more
than economists forecast in June to an 18-month low as concerns
about the euro area mounted and Britain’s recession deepened.  Lenders granted 44,192 loans to buy homes, compared with a
revised 50,544 the previous month, the  Bank of England  said
today in  London . That’s the lowest since December 2010.
Economists predicted that approvals would drop to 48,000, based
on the median forecast of 19 estimates in Bloomberg News survey.
A separate report showed  retail sales  slowed in July.  Recent housing-market data suggest weakening demand is
hurting prices, with a Hometrack Ltd. report today showing
 values  fell for the first time in seven months in July. The
economy shrank 0.7 percent in the second quarter, and the Bank
of England and the Treasury have introduced a program to lower
borrowing costs and boost lending to help the recovery.  Today’s figures “suggest that the financial sector is
acting as an increasing drag on the economic recovery,” said
Samuel Tombs, an economist at capital Economics Ltd. in London.
“The low level of  consumer confidence  and recent tightening of
credit conditions suggest that approvals are likely to remain
depressed in the second half of this year.”  The Bank of England also said today that  M4 money supply 
fell 1.6 percent in June from the previous month and was down
5.2 percent from a year earlier. The annual drop was the biggest
since records began in 1964.  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the data
were published. It traded at $1.5695 as of 11:01 a.m. in London,
down 0.3 percent from yesterday.  Consumer Weakness  A report from the  Confederation of British Industry  showed
that an index of annual retail-sales growth fell to 11 in July
from 42 in June, when it was boosted by an additional public
holiday for the queen’s jubilee. The slowdown was sharper than
retailers had forecast.  According to the Bank of England, net mortgage lending fell
355 million pounds ($557 million) in June from May, the most in
18 months. The housing market may have been affected by wet
weather and the extra holiday.  Net consumer credit  rose 635
million pounds and net borrowing on credit cards increased 235
million pounds.  Mortgage approvals are at less than half their monthly
average in the decade to 2007, before the financial crisis
struck. Hometrack said today house prices fell 0.1 percent in
July and a measure of demand fell the most in six months.  BOE Meeting  The Bank of England and the Treasury have tried to kick-
start lending by introducing a program to get credit to
households and companies flowing again. The central bank also
increased bond purchases in July to spur economic growth.  Bank of England policy makers meeting this week will
probably keep their  bond-purchase target  at 375 billion pounds
and the benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent, according to
separate Bloomberg surveys of economists. Officials will have
new forecasts for growth and inflation, which the central bank
will publish later this month.  Scotiabank changed its Bank of England forecast today and
now sees an expansion of the bond-purchase target by 25 billion
pounds this week.  “There has been considerable water under the bridge”
since the stimulus expansion in June, including weaker-than-
expected second-quarter data, economists including  Alan Clarke 
said in a note. In the euro area, “storm clouds over the
periphery have cast a shadow over the core of  Europe  and further
afield, highlighting an increased risk that the infection is
spreading.”  A measure of  M4 money-supply growth  the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases rose 2.9
percent in the three months through June on an annualized basis.
That compares with 3.4 percent growth in the three months
through May. The gauge excludes financial companies that
specialize in intermediating between banks, such as holding
companies and non-bank credit grantors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  