-- U.K. Retail-Sales Growth Slows After Jubilee Surge, CBI Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-30T10:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-k-retail-sales-growth-slows-after-jubilee-surge-cbi-says.html
U.K.  retail-sales growth  slowed more
than stores had forecast this month after the additional public
holiday for the queen’s Diamond Jubilee boosted sales in June,
the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  A gauge measuring the annual change in sales fell to 11,
the lowest since April, from 42 in June, the London-based
business lobby said in a monthly survey today. That’s below the
reading of 32 that retailers had predicted. A measure of
expected sales for August was at 3, indicating they expect sales
growth to slow further, the CBI said.  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.7 percent in the second quarter,
the most in more than three years, according to data last week.
With the euro-area debt crisis damping  consumer confidence ,
that’s dimming prospects for a recovery even as the  Bank of
England   pumps money  into the economy and tries to encourage
lending to companies and households.  “The unprecedented poor weather for the time of year did
not help, but retailers also expect conditions to remain tough
during August,” said Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit and head of the CBI’s
distributive trades panel. “With consumer confidence weak and
wage growth remaining sluggish, the longer-term outlook for
retailers remains challenging.”  The CBI report also showed that a gauge of orders with
suppliers fell to 5 in July from 23 in June and the volume of
stocks in relation to demand rose to 21 from 11. The CBI said
sales in July were below average for the time of year.  In the three months through June, the index of annual sales
growth jumped to 25 from 19. The CBI surveyed 72 retailers
between June 26 and July 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  