-- U.K. Libor Review to Consider Using Trade Data to Set Rates
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-07-30T10:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-k-libor-review-to-consider-using-trade-data-to-set-rates-1-.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  set out guidelines for a review aimed at
preventing the manipulation of Libor, saying it should consider
whether the benchmark should be based on actual traded rates
rather than those banks choose to report.  The report by Martin Wheatley of the Financial Services
Authority will form the basis for amendments to legislation
currently making its way through Parliament. Wheatley is due to
present his findings by the end of September, the Treasury said.  “It is clear that urgent reform of the Libor compilation
process is required,” Wheatley said in a statement released by
the Treasury in  London  today.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($455 million) last month for
attempting to rig the London interbank offered rate and Euribor,
its equivalent in euros, to appear more healthy during the
financial crisis and boost earnings before it. At least 12 banks
including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Deutsche Bank AG
are being investigated for manipulating Libor.  Regulators must now find a balance between restoring
credibility and minimizing disruption to Libor, the benchmark
for more than $500 trillion of securities, including $350
trillion of  interest-rate swaps  and $10 trillion of loans,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Any
material changes to the mechanism for setting Libor risks
invalidating millions of existing financial contracts, lawyers
say.  Possible Sanctions  The review will include establishing a governance structure
for setting the rate and will determine sanctions for any form
of abuse. It will consider the scope of powers civil and
criminal authorities should have and whether other price-setting
mechanisms in markets need to be policed.  Wheatley will publish a discussion paper determining the
scope and detail of the review on Aug. 10, to which interested
parties will have four weeks to respond.  Libor is determined by a daily poll carried out on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks banks to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies.  Euribor is overseen by the European Banking Federation in
Brussels. The rates, an indicator of the cost of money, are used
to set prices for securities from mortgages to  car loans .  ‘Now Dead’  Because submissions aren’t based on real trades, the
potential exists for the benchmark to be manipulated by traders
hoping to profit on where the rate is set. That has spurred
calls for regulators to base the rate on how much banks pay to
borrow unsecured cash rather than estimates of how much they
might have to pay if they were to borrow.  “The idea that one can base the future calculation of
Libor on the idea that ‘my word is my Libor’ is now dead,”  Bank
of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said at a press conference to
present the central bank’s Financial Stability Report in London
on June 29. “It will have to be based in the future, in my
judgment, on actual transactions in order to bring back
credibility to the system.’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  