-- U.K. Currency Trading Fell 5% in April From Year Earlier
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-07-30T16:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-k-currency-trading-fell-2-in-april-versus-october.html
Foreign-exchange average trading
volume in the U.K. fell to $2 trillion a day in April, a drop of
5 percent from a year earlier, as the euro-region’s debt crisis
deepened.  Average trading volumes in  Japan , Australia and  Singapore 
also dropped from April 2011 as rising borrowing costs in
Europe’s core and a lack of confidence in the measures designed
to stem the crisis damped investors’ willingness to change their
positions. The euro fell in April, while Japan’s yen surged as
investors sought a haven from the turmoil.  “Given there are long-held short positions in the euro
that have been in play for the best part of a year, we’ve had a
trend that has not caused too many disturbances,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in  London . “Consequently, we’ve had a lower volume of
business.” A short position is a bet that an asset will decline
in value.  Average daily trading declined 2 percent from October,
according to a semi-annual survey published by the Foreign
Exchange Joint Standing Committee on the Bank of England’s
 website  today.  Spot Trading  Average spot trading in the U.K. fell 12 percent to $711
billion per day in April, while currency-swaps trading increased
8 percent to $957 billion per day, the survey showed.  ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of transactions
between banks, said May 7 that the average daily spot currency
volume on its Electronic Broking System, or EBS, platform in
April was $109.7 billion, down 26 percent from the same month
last year.  In June, the average daily currency volume had risen to
$137.6 billion, ICAP said July 5. CLS Bank, the New York-based
operator of the largest  currency-trading  settlement system,
handled an average 823,449 trading instructions per day in June,
up from 740,342 a month earlier, according to a statement the
same day.  “The sluggish global economy and euro-zone crisis are
inevitably leading to reduced trading volumes,” ICAP Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  said in a July 11 statement
after the broker announced fiscal first-quarter sales fell 9
percent. “The lack of aggressive action to resolve the euro-
zone crisis is not helping to normalize financial market
activity in the near term.”  Japan Market  The average daily trading volume of foreign currencies in
 Tokyo  fell 7.6 percent to $262.8 billion in April from a year
earlier, Japan’s Foreign Exchange Market Committee said, citing
a survey of financial institutions.  Average daily turnover in Australia slid 20 percent to
$175.7 billion, compared with the same month a year earlier, the
Australian Foreign Exchange Committee said today, citing a
similar poll.  Foreign-exchange trading in  North America  fell to $860
billion a day in April, a decrease of 12 percent from October
2011, according to a report released by the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York .  Average daily currency transactions executed by traders in
 Canada  advanced 14 percent to $59.6 billion in April, from $52.4
billion in October 2011, according the Canadian Foreign Exchange
Committee.  Singapore Volumes  The Singapore Foreign Exchange Market Committee said
currency-trading volumes averaged $300 billion a day in April, a
6.7 percent decrease from October.  Currency trading may have risen to a record $5 trillion a
day in September, surpassing the peak reached before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008, the  Bank for
International Settlements  said March 11.  Trading then declined to about $4.7 billion a day in
October and is likely to have fallen considerably in early 2012,
the Basel, Switzerland-based bank said in a report.  Deutsche Bank AG kept its position as top foreign-exchange
trader for an eighth-straight year in an annual survey by
 Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc. (ERM)   Citigroup Inc. leapfrogged Barclays Plc and UBS AG to
become the second-biggest currency trader, Euromoney said in an
e-mailed statement on May 9. Barclays slipped to third place and
UBS to fourth, while HSBC Holdings Plc climbed into the top
five.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  