-- S&P 500 Snaps Two-Day Rally Amid Concern About Economy
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-07-30T20:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-on-economic-concern.html
U.S. stocks declined amid concern
that a rally which gave the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its
biggest two-day gain in 2012 has outpaced the economic outlook.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  retreated 2 percent after Deutsche
Bank AG lowered its recommendation for the shares.  Loews Corp. (L) 
slumped 5.2 percent as Chief Executive Officer James Tisch said
he’s “very concerned” about the global economy after profit
fell for a third-straight quarter. A measure of  homebuilders  in
S&P indexes dropped 2 percent as Citigroup Inc. said the
industry’s shares may decline after this year’s surge.  Three stocks fell for every two that rose on U.S. exchanges
at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  declined 0.1 percent to
1,385.30, after rallying 3.6 percent in two days. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slid 2.65 points, or less than 0.1 percent,
to 13,073.01. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was
5.8 billion shares, or 14 percent below the three-month average.  “You have the jobs report on Friday, the Fed meeting
before that and that’s getting people a little nervous,” said
 Keith Wirtz , who oversees $14.7 billion as chief investment
officer for Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. “You’ve
got concerns about a weakening economy and slowing earnings.
It’s a terribly difficult trading environment.”  Stocks declined ahead of an Aug. 3 report that may show the
pace of hiring in July failed to reduce the U.S. jobless rate,
which has been stuck above 8 percent for more than three years.
Policy makers meeting this week are looking for new monetary
tools after the  Federal Reserve  lowered its benchmark  interest
rate  to near zero in December 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion
of securities to spur the economy.  European Rally  American equities fell even as European stocks rallied to
their highest level since April on speculation policy makers
will take action to ease the debt crisis. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  backed a commitment by European leaders to do
everything needed to defend the euro area while failing to
mention its weakest link, Greece.  “Policy makers are saying: hey, we have another card to
play,” said Ann Miletti,  fund manager  for Wells Fargo Advantage
Funds in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. Her firm manages $201
billion. “It’s a positive to have indications out of Europe
that they are willing to do things that the market feared they
weren’t willing to do before, such as buying bonds.”  JPMorgan lost 2 percent, the most in the Dow, to $36.14.
The shares were cut to hold from buy at Deutsche Bank, which
said earnings expectations may be too high.  Earnings Tumble  Loews slumped 5.2 percent, the biggest decline since Aug.
10, to $39.54. It has been pursuing growth at subsidiaries that
sell insurance, manage hotels and produce energy. Second-quarter
 profit  fell 78 percent to $56 million as the company took an
impairment at its HighMount Exploration & Production LLC tied to
lower natural gas prices.  Nine out of the 11 stocks in a measure of homebuilders in
S&P indexes retreated. The gauge had surged 51 percent this year
through July 27.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S. homebuilder
by revenue, declined 3.4 percent to $11.60 after Citigroup
downgraded the stock to neutral from buy.  Solar companies slumped on concern an oversupply of panels
and reduced subsidies in Europe will erode revenue.  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  sank 11 percent to $4.84 after cutting its  forecast  for
second-quarter shipments. Suntech Power Holdings Co. tumbled 15
percent to $1.34 after the world’s largest solar-panel maker
said it may have been the victim of fraud.  Progenics Pharmaceuticals Inc. (PGNX)  plunged 50 percent, the most
since 2008, to $5.39. The company failed to gain U.S. approval
to expand use of its constipation medicine Relistor licensed to
Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Salix decreased 13 percent to $46.25.  Best Buy  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  rose 1.7 percent to $18.06. Founder Richard
Schulze is recruiting executives to help lead the retailer if
his attempt to take the company private is successful, according
to a senior Best Buy executive.  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  surged 55 percent to $41.49. Chicago Bridge
& Iron Co. agreed to buy the company for about $3 billion,
expanding its nuclear building services in a portfolio of
energy-related engineering and construction projects. Chicago
Bridge lost 14 percent to $34.94.  Roper Industries Inc. (ROP)  rose 1.1 percent to $99.64 after
agreeing to  buy  Sunquest Information Systems Inc. for about
$1.42 billion to add health-care diagnostic systems that bridge
its software and medical businesses.  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  rallied 2.8 percent to $115.39. The
manager of the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds beat
analysts’  estimates  after gathering money into its funds amid
sagging global markets.  New CEO  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  surged 13 percent to $2.24. The supermarket
chain that said earlier this month it will review strategic
alternatives named board member Wayne C. Sales chief executive
officer to replace Craig Herkert. The third-largest U.S. grocery
chain increased the interest rate and price discount on an $850
million  term loan  it’s seeking to refinance debt, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. climbed 5.5 percent to
$36.42. The world’s biggest vehicle-safety equipment supplier
agreed to pay a $5.1 million fine to settle an antitrust
investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice.  AT&T Inc. (T)  added 0.8 percent $37.43. The biggest U.S.
telephone company said July 27 its board authorized a repurchase
of as much as $11.1 billion in stock, doubling a buyback program
the company announced in December 2010.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index has
fallen to the lowest daily average in five years, pushed down
amid optimism that policy makers will support growth and prevent
Europe’s debt crisis from derailing the global recovery.  Below Average  The VIX’s mean rate of 18.9 in 2012 compares with 24.2 last
year and is the lowest since 17.5 in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark gauge for options that
protect against losses in the  S&P 500  has held below 20.7, its
two-decade average, 77 percent of the time in 2012.  Demand for options linked to the S&P 500 has fallen after
the index rallied 6.2 percent during the past 12 months, the
most among the world’s 10 largest developed stock markets.  “Investors aren’t paying for volatility because they
believe that government intervention will put a floor on stock
prices,” Sean Heron, who manages options strategies at Glenmede
Trust Co., said in a phone interview last week. The
Philadelphia-based firm oversees about $21 billion. “The fear
of a big down market has been diminished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  