-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Speculation Europe to Act on Crisis
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-07-30T14:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-s-stocks-rise-on-speculation-europe-to-act-on-crisis.html
U.S. stocks advanced, after the
biggest two-day rally this year in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, on bets policy makers will act to ease Europe’s crisis.  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  added 1.1 percent after Bloomberg News
reported that founder Richard Schulze has been recruiting
executives to help lead the retailer if his attempt to take the
company private is successful.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost 1.4
percent as Deutsche Bank AG cut its recommendation.  About four stocks rose for every three falling on U.S.
exchanges at 10:29 a.m. New York time. The  S&P 500  gained 0.3
percent to 1,390.65. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced
44.50 points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,120.16 today.  “Policy makers are saying: hey, we have another card to
play,” said Ann Miletti,  fund manager  for Wells Fargo Advantage
Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin . Her firm manages $201
billion. “It’s a positive to have indications out of Europe
that they are willing to do things that the market feared they
weren’t willing to do before, such as buying bonds.”  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi meets with
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in Frankfurt today
after leaders in Berlin, Paris and Rome backed him by saying
they will do what’s needed to protect the 17-nation euro.
Federal Reserve policy makers will meet ahead of the jobs report
to decide whether additional stimulus is needed to combat a
slowing economy as Europe’s debt crisis lingers.  Companies such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  are among those
warning they’ll have to reduce headcounts later this year in the
run-up to the so-called U.S. fiscal cliff of automatic tax
increases and government spending cuts.  Monthly Return  The S&P 500 erased its monthly decline last week amid bets
on global policy action as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. He
meets with U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner in Frankfurt
today and is also attempting to win over Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann, a critic of ECB bond purchases. The S&P 500 was
up 1.8 percent this month through July 27.  Best Buy gained 1.1 percent to $17.95. Schulze “is talking
to people he trusts,” J.D. Wilson, senior vice president of
enterprise capabilities, said in an interview. Wilson, who said
his position is being eliminated as part of Best Buy’s cutbacks,
was approached by Schulze in June and said he would work for the
company if a deal went through.  Shaw Group Inc. (SHAW)  surged 58 percent to $32.25. Chicago Bridge
& Iron Co. agreed to buy the company for about $3 billion,
expanding its portfolio of engineering and construction projects
across the  energy industry  and adding nuclear building services.
Chicago Bridge & Iron tumbled 13 percent to $35.28.  Earnings Expectations  JPMorgan lost 1.4 percent to $36.36. The shares were cut to
hold from buy at Deutsche Bank, which said earnings expectations
may be too high.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index has
fallen to the lowest daily average in five years, pushed down
amid optimism that policy makers will support growth and prevent
Europe’s debt crisis from derailing the global recovery.  The VIX’s mean rate of 18.9 in 2012 compares with 24.2 last
year and is the lowest since 17.5 in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark gauge for options that
protect against losses in the S&P 500 has held below 20.7, its
two-decade average, 77 percent of the time in 2012.  Demand for options linked to the S&P 500 has fallen after
the index rallied 6.2 percent during the past 12 months, the
most among the world’s 10 largest developed stock markets.  “Investors aren’t paying for volatility because they
believe that government intervention will put a floor on stock
prices,” Sean Heron, who manages options strategies at Glenmede
Trust Co., said in a phone interview last week. The
Philadelphia-based firm oversees about $21 billion. “The fear
of a big down market has been diminished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  