-- U.S. July Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-30T14:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-s-july-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Texas manufacturing
activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity continued to increase in July, according to business
executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production
index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, fell from 15.5 to 12,
suggesting slightly slower output growth.  Other measures of current manufacturing activity also indicated slower growth
in July. The new orders index was positive for the second month in a row, although
it moved down from 7.9 to 1.4. Similarly, the shipments index posted its second
consecutive positive reading but edged down from 9.6 to 7.4. The capacity
utilization index came in at 8.7 after rising to 13.3 last month.  Perceptions of broader economic conditions were mixed in July. The general
business activity plummeted to -13.2 after climbing into positive territory in June.
Nearly 30 percent of manufacturers noted a worsening in the level of business
activity in July, pushing the index to its lowest reading in 10 months. The company
outlook index remained positive for the third month in a row but fell from 5.5 to
1.6.  Labor market indicators reflected stronger labor demand. Employment growth
continued in July, although the index edged down from 13.7 to 11.8. Twenty-one
percent of firms reported hiring new workers, while 10 percent reported layoffs. The
hours worked index was 4.1, up slightly from its June reading.  Price pressures were largely unchanged in July, although compensation costs
rose at a faster pace. The raw materials price index held steady at 3, suggesting
only slight increases in input costs this summer after strong upward pressure
earlier in the year. Selling prices fell for the fifth consecutive month in July;
the finished goods price index was -5.5, virtually unchanged from last month’s
reading. The wages and benefits index rose nearly 10 points to 22.9, largely due to
a marked rise in the share of firms noting increased compensation costs. Looking
ahead, 36 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials
prices over the next six months, while 25 percent expect higher finished goods
prices.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were less optimistic in July.
The index of future general business activity slipped from 1.3 to -7.3, registering
its first negative reading in 10 months. The index of future company outlook
remained positive but fell from its June level, coming in at 5.3. Indexes for future
manufacturing activity also decreased, although all remained in strong positive
territory.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to
obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected July
17-25, and 89 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or
remained unchanged over the previous month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from
the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase
exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero,
suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be
below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index
will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number
of firms reporting a decrease.  Next release: August 27, 2012 