-- U.S. Sets Duties on Mexican, Korean Washing-Machine Imports
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-07-30T19:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/u-s-sets-duties-on-mexican-korean-washing-machine-imports-1-.html
The U.S. set tariffs as high as 82
percent on large, residential washers from South  Korea  and 72
percent on the products from  Mexico , concluding the items are
sold below production costs to drive out American competitors.  The Commerce Department in a preliminary finding today
responded to  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) ’s complaint that  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  and Daewoo Electronics Corp., both based in  Seoul , and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  of Suwon, South Korea, use unfair trade
practices. Laundry appliances accounted for 30 percent of
Whirlpool’s 2011 revenue of $18.7 billion, according to its
annual report.  Daewoo should pay 82 percent, LG 12 percent, Samsung 9.6
percent and all other companies 11 percent for products made in
Korea, the Commerce Department said. For machines made in
Mexico, the agency announced duties of 72 percent for Samsung
and a Whirlpool affiliate and 33 percent for other companies. A
final decision will be issued in December, the agency said.  LG and Samsung, in separate statements, contested the
Commerce Department decisions. In addition, Samsung said it no
longer makes washers in Mexico, and Whirlpool said it no longer
ships units to the U.S. from Mexico.  Whirlpool has 3,500 employees in Clyde,  Ohio , between
Toledo and  Cleveland , where washing machines are manufactured.
The company has invested $175 million to make energy- and water-
efficient appliances, according to a statement when the
complaint was filed on Dec. 30.  ‘Established Rules’  “Our investments will continue as long as we can compete
on a level playing field, with all of our foreign competitors
playing by the established rules,” Kristine Vernier, a
spokeswoman for the  Benton Harbor , Michigan-based company, said
today in a statement.  Whirlpool fell 49 cents to $68.12 at 3:42 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had climbed as much
as 1.7 percent after the U.S. announcement.  LG said in a statement that the Commerce Department’s
calculations were “significantly overstated” and said it is
confident a review by the U.S. International Trade Commission,
an independent agency, will find U.S. companies weren’t harmed.  Samsung “strongly disagrees” with the finding and said
the company will be found in compliance “once the final phase
of the investigation is completed,” according to a statement.  Whirlpool Unit  The U.S. also announced duties of 72 percent for a
Whirlpool subsidiary in Mexico, Whirlpool International. The
high tariffs for Daewoo, Samsung and Whirlpool International
reflected failure to cooperate, the Commerce Department said in
a statement.  In May, the U.S.  ordered  initial tariffs after finding LG,
Daewoo and Samsung got subsidies from  South Korea ’s government
that undercut U.S. producers. Daewoo was told to pay 71 percent,
with smaller duties of 1.2 percent for Samsung and 0.22 percent
for LG Electronics on their share of $569 million in annual
imports from South Korea. All other companies would pay 1.2
percent. The duty for Daewoo reflected refusal to respond, the
agency said.  The duties may help reduce unbalanced trade with both
nations. U.S. has deficits of $13 billion with  Korea  and $64
billion with  Mexico , according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  The Commerce Department and the U.S. International Trade
Commission are scheduled to make their final determinations on
the Whirlpool complaint later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  