-- Ukraine’s Economic Growth Quickened to 3% in Second Quarter
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-07-30T14:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/ukraine-s-economic-growth-quickened-to-3-in-second-quarter-1-.html
Ukraine’s  economic growth  quickened
in the second quarter, when the former Soviet republic made
final preparations for the Euro 2012 soccer championship.  The economy grew a preliminary 3 percent in the second
three-month period from a year earlier after expanding 2 percent
in the first three months, the Kiev-based statistics committee
said today on its  website , without providing details. On a
seasonally adjusted basis, gross domestic product advanced 1.9
percent from the first quarter, the committee said.  “This is possibly the result of construction and other
work in preparation to the Euro 2012 soccer championship,” said
Alexander Valchyshen, head of research at Investment Capital
Ukraine. “Another factor is domestic consumption.”  Ukraine had a one-time benefit from its partnership with
 Poland  in hosting the premier European  soccer tournament  in June
after the two nations poured $35 billion into roads, airports,
hotels and rail lines, economists said. That advantage will
probably wane as the euro-area debt crisis trims demand for
exports such as metals, which generate more than 50 percent of
GDP.  The government predicts the economy will expand 3.9 percent
in 2012 after growing 5.2 percent last year. The  World Bank  on
July 19 cut its forecast for Ukraine’s GDP by 0.5 percentage
point to 2 percent this year.  Domestic Consumption  “Through the end of the year, the economy will be helped
by domestic consumption, which remains strong because of loose
fiscal policy and exceptionally low inflation,” said  Olena
Bilan , the chief economist at Kiev-based investment bank Dragon
Capital. “This factor will weaken next year because fiscal
policy will be more conservative after elections.”  Ukraine’s government bonds due to 2013 rose, pushing yields
down to 8.283 percent as of 5:10 p.m. Kiev time, the lowest
level since March 14, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Industrial production rose 0.4 percent in the first six
months of the year, compared with 9.3 percent in the same period
a year ago, according to the state statistics data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  