-- Ultra Looks at Acquisitions as Purchases Propel Revenue
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-30T09:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/ultra-looks-at-acquisitions-as-purchases-propel-revenue.html
Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE) , the
provider of secure communications equipment to Britain’s prime
minister, is considering further acquisitions after purchases
propelled first-half sales growth.  Revenue increased 8 percent from a year earlier to 370.2
million pounds ($581 million), led by a 35 percent jump in the
non-defense information and power systems businesses, Greenford,
England-based Ultra said today in a statement. Earnings before
interest and taxes and excluding acquisition-related costs rose
3 percent to 57.5 million pounds.  Ultra has completed eight  acquisitions  in the past two
years as the manufacturer, which is also the world’s biggest
supplier of sonar used to detect submarines, contends with
slowing military spending by the U.S. and U.K. Chief Executive
Officer Rakesh Sharma said Ultra, which can afford 100 million
pounds annually on purchases, is open to buying companies in any
industry where it already operates.  “In which sector we acquire next pretty much comes down to
what becomes available next,” with targets possible in
surveillance technology, communication systems, nuclear energy,
transit-system power and power management, Sharma said in a
telephone interview. “We are very comfortable with making
acquisitions of 30 million pounds to 50 million pounds,” while
a large deal that would reshape the business is “unlikely.”  ‘Many Eggs’  Computing-system security is also a possible area for
expansion, though “cyber is just another element of our many-
eggs-in-many-baskets strategy.”  Ultra  declined  as much as 1.4 percent to 1,461 pence and
was down 0.9 percent at 10:20 a.m. in London. The stock, which
has been trading at the lowest price since January for about a
week, has declined 0.7 percent this year.  First-half revenue excluding acquisitions, disposals or
currency effects fell 1.4 percent. Net  debt  at the end of June
widened to 67.7 million pounds from 10.1 million pounds a year
earlier. The company raised its six-month dividend 4 percent to
12.2 pence a share.  Ultra Electronics expects sales to shift further to non-
defense activities. About 45 percent of revenue is now generated
from non-defense businesses. As sales on commercial-aircraft
programs increase, that will “grow quite naturally by another
10 percent over the next couple of years,” Sharma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  