-- Umicore Gains as Recycling Profit Seen ‘Strong’: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-07-30T09:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/umicore-gains-as-recycling-profit-seen-strong-brussels-mover.html
Umicore SA (UMI) , the world’s largest
precious-metals recycler, rose the most in eight months in
Brussels after saying a slowing economy didn’t affect supply
conditions and profit from catalysts and battery cathodes rose.  Umicore gained as much as 6.7 percent on Euronext Brussels,
the most in intraday  trading  since Nov. 30, and traded 1.46
euros higher at 36.83 euros by 11 a.m. local time. The shares
have returned 17 percent including reinvested dividends so far
this year,  less  than the 19 percent investors got from holding
Johnson Matthey Ltd. in the period.  While lower metal prices, an extended maintenance shutdown
and rising development costs reduced profit in the first half,
Umicore’s  recycling business  boosted return on capital employed
to a record 83 percent. The precious-metals refinery should post
“another strong performance” amid “buoyant” supplies of
electronic scrap and residues from base-metal smelters, the
Brussels-based company said today in a statement. The catalysis
and rechargeable-battery materials businesses, two key areas of
investment for Umicore, reported an increase in profit.  “Despite the short-term concerns related to the economic
growth in mature countries, Umicore has long-term promising
growth potential in emission control, recycling and rechargeable
battery materials,”  Bernard Hanssens , an analyst at Banque
Degroof SA in Brussels, wrote in an investor note today.  Umicore forecast a  steeper decline  in operating profit this
year as an economic slowdown reduced demand for building
materials and germanium substrates used in solar panels mounted
on spacecraft. Increased competition in the battery market also
affected the premiums at which Umicore could price its lithium-
ion cathodes.  Analyst Projections  Earnings before interest, tax and special items will
decrease to 380 million euros ($466 million), plus or minus 10
million euros, from 416.1 million euros in 2011, Umicore said.
That compares with analyst projections of 388.3 million euros,
the average of 13  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-half profitability will be “essentially in line”
with the performance in the first half, Umicore said, adding
that premiums for rechargeable-battery materials have started to
stabilize. Operating profit in the six months through June fell
11 percent to 191.5 million euros.  Umicore, which had forecast operating profit of as much as
410 million euros on April 24, faces a contraction in recycling
margins as prices for metals including cobalt, nickel, rhodium
and  tellurium  declined. Depreciation charges rose 13 percent in
the first half after Umicore increased  capital spending  by 24
percent last year to accommodate capacity expansions for
automotive catalysts and battery materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  