-- Muni Indexes Draw U.S. Scrutiny After Libor-Rigging Probe
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-07-30T16:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/municipal-indexes-draw-u-s-scrutiny-after-libor-rigging-probe.html
U.S. financial regulators are
examining the indexes used in the $3.7 trillion municipal  bond
market , after an investigation in the U.K. found that bankers
rigged a widely used benchmark for worldwide  interest rates .  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, or MSRB, which
crafts regulations for banks that deal state and local
government bonds, said today it plans to study how municipal-
debt indexes are put together. The regulator said it had no
indication of manipulation, and that the review seeks to educate
investors about indexes used to gauge yields on municipal bonds.  “Like other regulators, the MSRB is concerned about the
transparency surrounding the development of market indices,”
Alan Polsky, the group’s chairman, said in a statement. “We
plan to review indices used by the municipal market -- and
develop educational materials about their use -- to ensure that
the market operates fairly and transparently.”  Officials in the U.S. and the U.K. are investigating how
bankers set the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, an
index that is used to determine interest rates on trillions of
dollars of debt and derivatives, including contracts purchased
by states and cities. At least a dozen banks are being
investigated by regulators, while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined in
connection with the probe.  Libor Concerns  The MSRB review is in response to concerns about the
integrity of financial market indexes such as Libor, according
to the statement.  The MSRB develops regulations and relies on the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to bring action against those
who run afoul of its rules.  At its quarterly meeting last week, the board decided to
study the processes used to develop key municipal market
indexes, saying it wants to provide investors with information
needed to evaluate how best to use them.  Separately, the MSRB said it would seek additional
disclosures from underwriters about donations they make to
election campaigns seeking to persuade voters to approve bond
issues. Those donations can foster the perception that public
officials are awarding work to banks that contribute to the
campaigns, according to the MSRB.  Reporting Contributions  Underwriters are currently required to report such
contributions, though not the connection to subsequent work. The
additional disclosures may include payments underwriters receive
from bond issues approved by voters, Polsky said.  “Some observers would like to see the board ban
contributions, but it’s important to know that there are some
important First Amendment rights that have to be considered, as
well as the need for the MSRB to demonstrate a clear connection
between contributions and the award to underwriting firms,” he
said.  Regarding its review of the municipal bond market’s
indexes, Polsky said he had no reason to believe they are
subject to the type of manipulation at the center of the  Libor
probe .  Among those the board will evaluate include indexes
developed by: Municipal Market Data, a  Thomson Reuters (TRI)  company;
Municipal Market Advisors Inc.; and the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. He didn’t indicate whether the
MSRB would review municipal market indexes produced by Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  It’s important that investors “understand how these
indices are prepared, that there’s transparency in their
creation and that there’s appropriate education,” Polsky said.
“I don’t think there’s a smoking gun. I don’t think that that’s
the implication in the review.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ; 