-- Usiminas Jumps as Goldman Sachs Says Buy the Stock: Rio Mover
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-30T20:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/usiminas-jumps-as-goldman-sachs-says-buy-the-stock-rio-mover.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , the Brazilian steelmaker that posted net losses in two of
the past five quarters, jumped to the highest in more than a
month after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  recommended buying the
stock.  Preferred  shares  of Usiminas, as the Belo Horizonte,
Brazil-based company is known, gained 5.7 percent to close at
7.01 reais in Sao Paulo, the highest since June 20. The
company’s voting shares, a less traded type of stock, climbed 6
percent, leading gains in the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index
today. The preferred stock has tumbled 31 percent this year
while the common stock has dropped 53 percent.  Usiminas is Goldman’s new top pick within Latin American
steel stocks, analysts led by  Marcelo Aguiar  in Sao Paulo said
in a note to customers today after upgrading their
recommendation on the equity to buy from sell. The company
stands to profit from a recovery in Brazil’s flat steel demand
and an operational “turnaround” after the entrance of the
Techint Group in the controlling shareholder group, they said.  “We expect Usiminas to outperform peers and the broader
market in the next 12 months as in our view operating turnaround
will begin to materialize throughout the second half of 2012,”
the analysts said. “Risk/reward has become compelling for
Usiminas shares.”  Techint, through its  Ternium SA (TX)  and  Tenaris SA (TEN)  units, on
Nov. 27 agreed to pay 5.03 billion reais for a 27.7 percent
voting stake in Usiminas, teaming up with  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  to
control Usiminas.  Usiminas is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings
after the market closes today. The steelmaker is expected to
post a net loss of 221.3 million reais excluding some items, the
average of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  