-- Vacant Olympic Seats Filled as Tickets Released to Public
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-07-30T17:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/vacant-olympic-seats-to-be-filled-as-tickets-released-to-public.html
Thousands of tickets for sold-out
London Olympics events will be made available daily to the
public after rows of empty seats were visible during the first
weekend of the games, organizers said.  All 3,000 recalled tickets placed into the public pot
yesterday were sold, including 600 for today’s men’s gymnastics
team final, Jackie Brock-Doyle, director of communications for
the London organizers, or LOCOG, said in an interview.  Some vacant seats were filled by military personnel and
children at the weekend events, and ticket-holding fans were
told they could upgrade from cheaper areas of the venues.  “We are trying everything we can to make sure that those
accredited seats are filled where we can,” Brock-Doyle said.
“There are operational issues that make it difficult to fill
those seats, which is why we are making available to the troops,
and to the teachers and to the children.”  At least some of the seats were part of the allotment for
what the  International Olympic Committee  refers to as the
“Olympic Family.” That group includes sports federations,
television rights holders, Olympic committee officials, and
sponsors such as the  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)   “So we’re doing this session-by-session, talking to the
accredited, including broadcast, media and everybody else and
asking whether we can release for the different sessions tickets
back into the public pot,” Brock-Doyle said.  Ticket Scalping  Rows of vacant seats were visible at weekend events after
fans had been unable to buy tickets. Some fans wanting access to
popular events have been scammed into buying fake tickets from
unauthorized sellers, and the  Metropolitan Police Service  has
arrested 29 people for ticket scalping since the beginning of
the games.  Tickets were made available yesterday for beach volleyball,
water polo, swimming, handball, and equestrian events, according
to Brock-Doyle.  “The ticket sales are going well,” the spokeswoman said.
“They’re going very strongly. Ticketmaster is selling tickets
and they’re only selling tickets online. So the box offices are
only for collection of tickets that have been bought.”  Asking accredited ticket holders to return tickets on a
session-by-session basis is “not an exact science,” she said.  “We have not had any conversations in this area with LOCOG
or the IOC,” Cornel Marculescu, executive director of FINA, the
international swimming federation, told the  Guardian  today in an
interview.  Marculescu said he hadn’t agreed to hand back tickets after
LOCOG said it had reclaimed 100 tickets, according to the
Guardian.  “Everybody is giving up what they can,” Brock-Doyle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  