-- Virginia Voters Ask Whom to Blame for Defense Cut Risk
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-30T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/virginia-voters-ask-whom-to-blame-for-defense-cut-risk.html
In a campaign year dominated by the
economy and jobs, Michael  Washington  says little matters more in
his  Virginia  community than the flood of layoff notices
threatening to stun defense workers days before the November
elections.  Washington, who manages employee benefits for companies in
Norfolk’s naval shipyards and elsewhere, says southeast
 Virginia’s economy  would be crushed by $500 billion in military
cuts that will start in January unless Congress and President
 Barack Obama  stop them. Everything from florist shops to
restaurants to his Norfolk firm’s commissions would take a
“trickle-down” hit, he said.  While Washington said he won’t back Obama’s re-election, in
part because he doesn’t think the president is strong enough on
defense, he hasn’t decided whether to support a second term for
Republican Representative Scott Rigell, who’s serving in a
Congress where partisan gridlock led to the threat of automatic
across-the-board budget cuts.  “All politics is local, and when there’s a 10 percent cut
to defense, that’s us,” said Washington. “Throw them all
out.”  In Virginia, a key swing state in this year’s battles for
the White House and both houses of Congress, there are early
signs that the threatened defense reductions are becoming a
potent political issue.  “This is a conversation that’s happening in board rooms
now, but it hasn’t seeped down to the average voter yet,” said
 Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor of the nonpartisan  Cook Political
Report  in Washington. “It’s going to get baked into the cake
sometime in September or October, and I do think it matters.”  Defense-Dependent  The economies of Virginia, Hawaii, and Alaska, in that
order, are the most dependent on defense spending, a Bloomberg
Government study in November found. Virginia is home to the
Pentagon, Naval Station Norfolk, Joint Base Langley-Eustis,
Forts A.P. Hill and Belvoir, and major defense contractors.
Almost 14 percent of the state’s gross domestic product stems
from defense spending, according to the report.  Scaled-back defense spending also would have election-day
effects in  Florida , Missouri, Pennsylvania and other swing
states, those that are closely contested.  Republican senators  John McCain  of Arizona,  Lindsey Graham 
of South Carolina, and  Kelly Ayotte  of New Hampshire plan to
convene a “town hall” meeting today in Norfolk to rally
opposition to the cuts. They also scheduled events in Florida,
 North Carolina  and New Hampshire.  Blanket Warnings  The threatened cuts stem from last year’s partisan clash
over raising the federal debt limit. The measure boosting the
limit included $1.2 trillion in reductions to federal programs
over a decade -- with $500 billion from defense -- if a
bipartisan plan to cut spending and boost taxes isn’t reached by
Jan. 2. A “supercommittee” assigned to reach an accord
collapsed last year without a deal.  Defense companies led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s
largest defense contractor, say federal and state laws may
require them to send out blanket notices of potential job
eliminations before the elections unless Obama and Congress act
to avert the initial $55 billion in annual cuts. In Virginia,
those warnings may arrive the weekend before the elections.  In Virginia’s Senate race, which could help decide control
of the Democratic-controlled chamber, both candidates consider
it a pivotal issue.  ‘Another Failure’  Former Republican Governor George Allen is citing his early
opposition to the legislation that established the cuts because
of the risks to Virginia’s defense industry. His Democratic
opponent, former Governor Tim Kaine, praised other aspects of
the measure that averted a default on the national debt.  “This is seriously threatening jobs in Virginia, and it’s
another failure from Washington that I opposed and  Tim Kaine 
supported,” Allen said in an interview. “Now it’s our military
and Virginia workers who may have to bear the brunt of the
failure.”  Kaine says Allen’s willingness to sign a no-new-taxes
pledge to anti-tax activist  Grover Norquist  means there would be
even deeper defense reductions if voters return Allen to the
Senate, where he served from 2001 to 2007.  “He has pledged that any effort to reduce the deficit is
100 percent through cuts,” Kaine said in an interview. “An
all-cuts approach would be extremely harmful to Virginia and to
important national priorities like defense.”  Jobs Affected  Virginia collected $56.9 billion in federal defense
spending in 2009, according to the Bloomberg Government study.
As many as 122,800 Virginia jobs that depend on defense
spending, directly or indirectly, would be lost if the budget
cuts are made, according to a study by George Mason University’s
Center for Regional Analysis that was funded by the Aerospace
Industries Association.  The industry is richly represented in the Democratic-
dominated Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, where defense
contractors including  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  CACI International
Inc. (CACI)  and  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  have their headquarters close to the
Pentagon.  No region of the state is as defense-focused as Republican-
leaning southeastern Virginia, home to the Norfolk Naval
Station, the world’s largest naval base, and to thousands of
workers for companies such as  Huntington Ingalls Industries
Inc. (HII) , the Newport News-based shipbuilder, and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,
the London-based aircraft and shipbuilder.  ‘Major Issue’  In the region, which includes Virginia’s second
congressional district, 45.6 percent of the economy derived from
direct or indirect Defense Department spending last year,
according to James Koch, an economics professor and president
emeritus at Old Dominion University in Norfolk. He estimates
direct defense spending in the region will reach $20.8 billion
this year.  Sequestration may cost 26,900 jobs, or 2.7 percent of all
those in the region, he said, making the matter a “major, major
issue” in November.  Brett Davis, who works at the BAE Systems Ship Repair
shipyard in Norfolk, said he hopes that if the cuts occur in
January, his 12 years of experience as a welder will outweigh
his lack of seniority as a new employee of a BAE subcontractor.
He was leaving the shipyard in the evening on July 23, after his
first day on the job.  “They’ll pick the most experienced people, those who have
been with the company the longest time,” said Davis, who lives
in Suffolk and declined to identify his employer.  ‘Suspended Disbelief’  He said he reminds himself that brinkmanship in Congress is
often followed by last-minute deals, and that all sides could
delay the cuts.  Wall Street  also doubts the cuts will really
happen, according to  Byron Callan , a defense analyst in
Washington with Capital Alpha Partners LLC.  “We’re kind of in a state of suspended disbelief,” said
Callan, who said investors also may be reassured by the
dividends many contractors are paying out.  Northrop Grumman has gained 13 percent in  New York  trading
this year, while Huntington Ingalls has risen 24 percent.  Rigell, the Republican incumbent, is battling Democratic
challenger Paul Hirschbiel in Virginia’s second district. A car
dealership owner who ousted Democratic Representative Glenn Nye
to take the Virginia Beach-area district in 2010, Rigell voted
last August for the Budget Control Act that established the
sequester.  ‘Out of Touch’  Hirschbiel, a partner in Eden Capital, a Virginia Beach
consulting firm, said Rigell should have foreseen the possible
impact on defense contractors.  “He should never have been for this,” Hirschbiel said.
“As a congressman representing this district, he was just
totally out of touch.”  Rigell said he backed the legislation as the “best
option” to avoid a default on U.S. obligations to debt holders
and has been a leader in trying to prevent the defense
sequestration. He sponsored an amendment to an annual defense
authorization bill that passed the House in May that instructs
Congress to find ways to avert the first year of the cuts.  Rigell said Hirschbiel will be hurt by his connection with
Obama, who hasn’t said much about the looming defense spending
decrease.  ‘Government Dysfunction’  Political analysts such as Nathan Gonzales say it’s hard to
know which party is most at risk nationally if on election day,
Nov. 6, the reductions still appear to be coming.  “It will just feed the sense of government dysfunction in
people’s minds,” said Gonzales, political editor of the
nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political Report . “But there’s a real
question of whom voters will blame for that dysfunction.”  At VFW Post 4809 in Norfolk, Ruben Johnson, a retired Air
Force master sergeant, said he’s concerned cuts could affect his
military health benefits. While he said he’s voting against
Obama and supporting Republican Allen in the Senate race, he
hasn’t decided in the House race yet. He gives Rigell just a
“75 percent approval rating” because of all the partisan
sniping in Washington.  “This whole area is built around the armed forces,” said
Johnson, 82. The spending reductions, he said, “will be a
domino effect on all kinds of businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Norfolk, Virginia, at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  