-- Wal-Mart Beats Apple, Ikea in U.S. Solar Installations
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-07-30T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/wal-mart-beats-apple-ikea-in-u-s-solar-installations.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, has installed more than 150 U.S. solar
projects and expects to have as much as 90 megawatts of capacity
by year-end, more than Ikea Group and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Wal-Mart’s San Diego store is the 100th to get solar panels
in California, the company said today in a statement. The
company currently has 62 megawatts of panels installed at U.S.
locations, and also operates fuel cells and wind turbines at
some sites.  Wal-Mart, with 4,522 stores in the U.S., expects to have
1,000 solar-powered locations by 2020, Marty Gilbert, director
of energy at the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company, said in an
interview. The retailer gets about 4 percent of its power from
renewable sources and plans to install another 100 solar systems
by the end of 2012, demonstrating that renewable energy is
economically viable to businesses.  “We are trying to show folks that you can not only pursue
these sustainability initiatives, they also make business
sense,” he said.  The company expects its use of renewable power to drive
down prices, he said.  “The more we get involved and commit to volume, the more
the prices come down for the technology,” he said.  “Prices
for solar panels, fuel cells,  wind turbines  to some degree, they
are all approaching grid parity.”  Economic Sense  The company installed its first five solar projects in
2008. It’s installing panels in markets where utility rates are
higher, such as California, Hawaii, Puerto Rico,  Ohio  and
Connecticut, said Gilbert. Each system must add to the bottom
line for the individual store.  “The only projects that we were doing are the ones that
economically make sense at the store level.”  Wal-Mart has 26 fuel-cell projects and six projects. A 1.1-
megawatt wind turbine at a store in Red Bluff, California, will
be operational within a month, said Gilbert.  “ Wall Street  was watching to see if this was a public
relations game and we would be passing the cost on to our
customers, said Gilbert. ‘‘It’s not done on a portfolio basis,
it’s every store analyzed individually.”  Other large companies are also installing U.S. solar
projects. Apple Inc. is building a 20-megawatt solar farm and a
5-megawatt fuel-cell system to power a  data center  in  North
Carolina .  Ikea has solar projects at 26 U.S. sites and is planning to
install 13 more, with total capacity of 38 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  