-- Weak Monsoon Seen Curbing India Sugar, Rice Sales, Espirito Says
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-07-30T10:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/weak-monsoon-seen-curbing-india-sugar-rice-sales-espirito-says.html
India  may restrict exports of rice,
wheat, sugar, cotton and onions to bolster domestic supplies as
the worst monsoon since 2009 threatens harvests,  Espirito Santo
Investment Bank Research  said.  Imports of cooking oils and lentils are set to increase as
below-average rainfall delays sowing, a unit of Espirito Santo
Financial Group SA, said in a report today. Droughts from the
U.S. to  Russia  may limit India’s ability to import food crops
cheaper this year, it said.  India, the world’s second-biggest grower of rice, cotton
and sugar, is facing the weakest monsoon in three years that’s
reduced plantings and fueled prices of grains and oilseeds. The
government will refrain from banning exports of food grains and
sugar for now, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said July 26. State
reserves of rice were 30.7 million tons, more than double the
amount required to run welfare programs and emergencies,
government data showed.  “We think the overall monsoon picture is worse than that
seen in 2009,” Espirito said. “The situation this year is
somewhat similar to 2002” when rains were 19.2 percent below
normal, cutting summer food grain production by 22 percent, the
report said.  Food-grain  output fell 13.5 percent in 2009 even as
the monsoon rains were 21.8 percent below normal, it said.  Rice Crop  Monsoon, which brings more than 70 percent of India’s
annual rain, is set to be less than normal for the first time in
three years. Rainfall during June 1 to July 29 period was 21
percent below normal, according to the  India Meteorological
Department . The government extended a ban on the export of
sugar, rice, and wheat in 2009. Bumper harvests in 2010 and 2011
enabled it ease the curbs and allow free exports of wheat, rice,
sugar, cotton and onion.  “A significant decline in rice production this year,
particularly in the states of Bihar,  Uttar Pradesh , West Bengal,
Assam, Punjab and Haryana, appears inevitable,” Espirito said.  Rice output fell 23 percent, or by 21 million tons in 2002,
it said.  “Poor rains globally may further worsen things for India,
limiting the scope for it to import commodities at cheaper
rates,” it said. India is expected to increase imports of
lentils, estimated at 3 million tons in the financial year
started April 1, and edible oil, the report said.  Dry weather from the U.S. to  Australia  has parched fields,
pushing up corn, wheat and soybean prices on concern global
supplies will be curbed. Countries such as Russia,  Korea ,
Ukraine and  Sri Lanka  face a drop in agricultural output due to
deficient rains, Espirito said.  High Inflation  “Food inflation was low during the drought in 2002-2003 as
there were huge buffer stocks of food grains,” the
 Confederation of Indian Industry  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “Although the situation is similar today in terms of
grain stocks, inflationary concerns have now moved to crops such
as pulses and oilseeds as well as perishables.”  Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, states with the biggest
deficit in rainfall this year, account for about 50 percent of
India’s oilseed production, 40 percent of pulses output and over
57 percent of the cotton crop, and the impact of a weak monsoon
could be severe, Espirito said.  “The bad news is that India is increasingly drought prone,
yet seemingly no better prepared to handle the effects,” the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  