-- Weil, White & Case, Mintz Levin, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/weil-white-case-mintz-levin-sidley-business-of-law.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , advised by Weil Gotshal
& Manges LLP, agreed to buy  AuthenTec Inc. (AUTH)  for about $350
million, deploying some of its $117.2 billion cash hoard to gain
fingerprint-authentication and encryption security technology
for the iPad and iPhone. Alston & Bird LLP represented
AuthenTec.  Weil’s team included Silicon Valley mergers and
acquisitions partner Kyle Krpata, New York M&A partner Howard Chatzinoff, Silicon Valley technology and IP transactions
partner Karen Ballack, New York technology and IP transactions
partner Charan Sandhu and Silicon Valley technology and IP
transactions partner Jason Kipnis.  Alston & Bird’s lead partners for the deal are Scott
Ortwein and Justin Howard.  Apple is paying $8 a share, Melbourne, Florida-based
AuthenTec said July 27 in a filing. The transaction represents a
premium of 58 percent over AuthenTec’s closing share price July
26. Under the agreement, Apple also has the right to pay patent
licenses totaling as much as $115 million.  AuthenTec makes fingerprint sensors that corporations use
to secure access to  computer networks , technology that it has
been expanding for use on smartphones and tablets. Apple is
stepping up efforts to demonstrate its devices are safe from
malware and other threats as the iPhone and iPad gain popularity
with business customers.  Samsung Electronics Co., which less than  two weeks ago  said
it would start using AuthenTec technology in new smartphones and
tablets, might consider bidding, said Richard Shannon, an
analyst at Craig-Hallum Capital Group, who has a buy rating on
AuthenTec’s shares. Like Apple, Samsung may need to upgrade
security features on its devices, he said.  AuthenTec’s other customers include  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Cisco
Systems Inc., and  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , according to the
company’s website.  The deal, which still requires the approval of shareholders
and regulators, is expected to close in the third quarter of
this year, according to the filing. AuthenTec would pay Apple a
breakup fee of $10.95 million if it accepts a superior proposal.  Adding AuthenTec’s technology will help Apple increase
sales to businesses, whose information-technology departments
require more security capabilities than consumers using the
devices for personal use, said Krishnamurthy.  For more, click here.  Moves  White & Case Loses Two New York Bankruptcy Partners  Two  White & Case  LLP New York bankruptcy partners left for
other firms last week. Gerard Uzzi moved to Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McCloy LLP’s financial restructuring group and Evan Hollander joined  Arnold & Porter  LLP’s bankruptcy and corporate
restructuring practice.  Uzzi, who has advised the Paulson-Calpers group and
ResCap’s bondholder group, advises debtors, creditors and
acquirers on large and complex bankruptcies.  Hollander, who focuses his practice on advising domestic
and non-U.S. clients in insolvency proceedings and financial
restructuring matters as well as counseling parties on acquiring
the assets of troubled companies, and structuring commercial
transactions to reduce or eliminate risk, has handled matters
for BNP Paribas,  Credit Agricole  and Deutsche Bank, his new firm
said in a statement.  Milbank has more than 500 lawyers in 11 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and Brazil. The firm’s restructuring group
has been involved in high profile cases, including most recently
its nearly four-year representation of the Official Committee of
Unsecured Creditors in the  Lehman Brothers ’ bankruptcy and the
Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors in both Eastman Kodak
and Arcapita Bank, the Bahrain-based private equity sponsor.
Milbank is also acting as the debtor’s counsel to the satellite
wireless-telecom carrier LightSquared, which filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in May.  “Jerry will add strength, depth and experience to our
group,” Dennis Dunne, co-chair of Milbank’s financial
restructuring group said in a statement. “He is known for
crafting creative and commercial solutions to difficult and
multifaceted cases.”  Arnold & Porter has more than 800 lawyers with nine offices
in the U.S. and London.  The firm’s recent bankruptcy matters have included the
representation of the Chrysler National Dealer Council in
Chrysler’s  Chapter 11 case, Quebecor World (USA) Inc. and 52 of
its affiliated entities in their reorganization, and Northwest
Airlines as special counsel in its bankruptcy case.  “Evan’s deep experience in both litigation and
transactional restructuring matters complements our existing
expertise in a very important field for us,” said Thomas Milch,
Arnold & Porter’s chairman. “He also provides further depth to
our busy New York bankruptcy team.”  White & Case declined to comment on the departures. The
firm’s financial restructuring and insolvency practice has
recently represented three Indiana state pension and
construction funds in the Chrysler Chapter 11 case.  The firm
also represented an ad hoc group of lenders that held a majority
of the $870 million of outstanding Six Flags, Inc. notes,
according to its website.  Mintz Levin Expands International IP Litigation Practice  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo PC,  hired
Michael Renaud, James Wodarski and  Michael McNamara , as members
in the firm’s intellectual property section in Boston. Joining
them are a group of at least six associates who will also be
practicing in the firm’s intellectual property section. The
group comes from Pepper Hamilton LLP, the firm said.  “IP has long been one of Mintz Levin’s core strengths,”
said Robert I. Bodian, managing member of Mintz Levin. “This
talented group of attorneys will further enhance our ability to
serve our clients’ intellectual property needs and reinforces
Mintz Levin’s reputation as a go-to firm in this area.”  A former Mintz Levin member, Renaud specializes in patent
litigation at both the International Trade Commission and U.S.
district courts, and appeals to the Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit.  Wodarski, also a former Mintz Levin member, focuses on
patent and trademark litigation, representing high tech and life
sciences companies throughout the country. He also specializes
in the defense of pharmaceutical and medical device
manufacturers in product liability actions.  McNamara’s practice focuses on intellectual property
litigation, with an emphasis on patents relating to electrical
systems, solid state devices, optical systems, semiconductor
fabrication, computers, communication networks and software. He
advises clients in all phases of litigation, from initial
counseling through trial and appeal.  Pepper Hamilton didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment
on the departures.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in 8 offices in the U.S. and
London.  Litigation  Whitman Trial to Turn on Whether He Knew of Illicit Inside Leaks  Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman, facing an
insider-trading trial this week in New York, is accused of using
illicit information from a network of sources to make $900,000
for his hedge fund.  The insiders included two employees of chipmaker  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  who supplied tips to a consultant whose
firm Whitman paid, according to prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. Whitman is also accused
of getting inside tips from a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive who
twice pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges, including
passing tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  “There is no allegation that Mr. Whitman provided payoffs
or any other benefits to any insiders for inside information,”
his lawyer  David Anderson , of  Sidley Austin LLP, said in an
interview. “He’s been following these companies for as long as
they have existed as a well-regarded research analyst in Silicon
Valley.”  Whitman’s lawyers said there’s no proof he knew he was
getting illicit information from his sources, and U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the trial, has said the
burden is on the prosecution to prove Whitman traded on
information he knew wasn’t public.  Whitman is charged with two counts of conspiracy and two
counts of  securities fraud . The most serious charge carries a
maximum 20-year prison sentence.  The U.S. alleges that Whitman obtained tips through an
intermediary about Santa Clara, California-based Marvell from
Sam Miri, a former employee at the chipmaker, and Bill Brennan,
who was a Marvell vice president of sales.  “Miri and Brennan were sources of material, nonpublic
information at Marvell Technology Group from approximately late
2007 through early 2009,” assistant U.S. attorneys Chris LaVigne and Jillian Berman said in a letter to Whitman’s lawyers
made public this month. Neither Miri nor Brennan has been
charged with criminal wrongdoing, according to court records.  Prosecutors identified Whitman’s intermediary as Karl
Motey, an independent consultant who pleaded guilty to insider-
trading charges and is cooperating with the U.S. Motey was a key
witness against James Fleishman, a former executive at Mountain
View, California-based Primary Global Research LLC. Fleishman
was convicted on insider-trading charges involving the expert
networking firm last year.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Whitman, 12-cv-01055, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Megaupload Prosecutors Seek to Keep Company as Defendant  Megaupload Ltd. should remain a defendant in the federal
criminal case accusing the  Internet company  and its founder, Kim Dotcom, of running a massive illegal file-sharing service, U.S.
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors, seeking to defeat the company’s request for
dismissal, said July 27 that the U.S. has authority to bring
copyright infringement charges against Megaupload even though it
has no offices in the country.  “The heart of the issue is whether foreign companies like
Megaupload can commit crimes in the U.S. and in this district
and then never be brought to justice,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Ryan Dickey told U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady during a
hearing in Alexandria, Virginia. “That just can’t be the case,
your honor.”  The dismissal of charges against Megaupload would add to
the challenges prosecutors have faced since shutting down the
company’s file-sharing website and charging Dotcom and six other
individuals in January. A judge in  New Zealand  last month threw
out warrants used to seize the Internet entrepreneur’s property,
delaying Dotcom’s possible extradition by at least seven months.  At the July 27 hearing, lawyers argued over whether federal
rules governing criminal cases bar indictment of foreign
companies that don’t have offices or agents in the U.S. The
rules require prosecutors to issue a summons to an agent or
officer of the company, and mail a copy to the company’s last
known address in the U.S., when bringing criminal charges
against an enterprise.  Megaupload contends prosecutors haven’t tried to serve the
company, which is registered in Hong Kong, and can’t meet the
requirements.  By indicting Megaupload, officials were able to shut down
its operations through criminal forfeiture, seizing domain names
and freezing assets without any review by a judge, William
Burck, a lawyer for the company, told O’Grady.  “The process chosen here illustrates the threat the rule
was designed to prevent,” Burck, a partner at Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, said. “They wiped out a foreign
corporation with no office in the U.S. by bringing a criminal
indictment.”  Megaupload operated in the U.S. for more than six years,
earning more than $175 million in illegal profit since 2005 from
the exchange of pirated films, music, books and software,
according to an indictment. More than 500 servers leased by
Megaupload were located in Virginia, giving the U.S.
jurisdiction to prosecute the company, the government argued in
court papers.  An extradition hearing for Dotcom, 38, was pushed back
from next month until March 25 after a New Zealand judge ruled
on June 28 that warrants police used to search his rented
mansion on the outskirts of Aukland were overly broad and
invalid. The warrants also enabled authorities to seize Dotcom’s
property, including a pink Cadillac. Prosecutors are appealing
the decision.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  News  Dewey Reports Assets and Proposed New Plan for Partner Paybacks  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the bankrupt  law firm , disclosed
financial data on its bank loans and assets last week as the
team winding down the firm attempted to get former partners to
sign on to a deal that would keep the estate from suing them.  Dewey said in court papers that  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  took
extra collateral for loans in April and May. Accounts receivable
for Dewey were $210.7 million and advances to partners for taxes
were $20.5 million, while the amount due from affiliates was
$46 million, the firm said in court papers. The unaudited data
mostly reflects values as of May 28, Dewey said.  The firm reported assets of $368 million and secured debt
of $228 million. Unsecured debt was about $120 million as of May
28, Dewey said.  On July 26, the team winding down Dewey revealed a new plan
offering former partners immunity from clawback suit that
reduced the amount expected from lower earning lawyers and
shifted the amount sought from Dewey’s highest earning lawyers
and those in leadership roles, The Wall Street Journal reported.
A plan presented earlier this month was not well received, the
paper said.  The new proposal seeks $90.4 million from 672 former
partners who received salary, pension or equity refunds in 2011
and 2012, the WSJ said.  At the bottom end of the scale, some partners would be
expected to pay only $5,000 to the firm, a reduction from the
$25,000 floated in the original plan, the WSJ said. At the top
end, the maximum contribution would be $3.5 million, an increase
from $3 million under the old plan, according to the paper. The
new plan, which gives partners until Aug. 7 to sign on, also
imposes a 20 percent premium on the firm’s executive committee,
the WSJ said.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Firm News  Beckwith Named Partner in Charge of Recruiting at Baker Botts  Baker Botts LLP has named Van Beckwith to a new firmwide
position -- Partner in Charge, Recruiting. Beckwith has been
involved with the firm’s recruiting efforts for more than a
decade, serving as hiring partner for the firm’s Dallas office
the last five years.  Beckwith will lead and expand firm-wide efforts to recruit
outstanding new lawyers and provide support and coordination on
the firm’s efforts to attract and recruit lateral partners and
practice groups across its offices, the firm said. He will
coordinate these efforts with the firm’s partners and department
chairs throughout the Baker Botts network, the firm said.  Baker Botts has over 725 lawyers and a network of 13
offices in the U.S., Europe, the Middle East and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 