-- Western Wind Rises With Company for Sale: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   D i v y a   B a l j i
-- 2012-07-30T21:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/western-wind-rises-with-company-for-sale-vancouver-mover.html
Western Wind Energy Corp. (WND) , a
Canadian renewable-energy developer with projects in the western
U.S., rose the most in nine months after the company said it was
for sale.  Western Wind  jumped  50 percent to C$1.78 at the close in
Toronto, the biggest gain since Oct. 11. Prior to the sale
announcement yesterday, the shares had fallen 41 percent this
year.  The company, which rejected a C$2.50-a-share takeover bid
last year, will choose two final advisers to manage and
administer the sale process within 10 days, Vancouver-based
Western Wind said in a statement. The company is selling now to
relieve “consistent suffering” its shareholders have endured
as the stock price fell more than 50 percent from a 52-week high
after the October bid.  The board said it sees a sale price between the C$2.50
offer and the more than C$5 value that DAI Management
Consultants Inc. gave to the company. Potential buyers may be
energy companies interested in U.S. tax benefits Western Wind
has accumulated during construction of its projects, Chairman
Michael Boyd said in a phone interview today. Developers of  wind
energy  get a tax credit of 2.2 cents for each kilowatt-hour of
power they generate.  Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (AQN)  scrapped its bid in
October after Western Wind said it “undervalued” the company
by at least half. Boyd said he didn’t see another bid from
Oakville, Ontario-based Algonquin.  Wind Projects  “They are a Canadian-based company that would seem to not
be able to realize significant value in” Western Wind, Boyd
said.  Western Wind owns and operates three wind projects in
 California  totaling 154.5 megawatts and one 10.5-megawatt
combined wind-and-solar plant in  Arizona . The company plans to
continue developing a project in  Puerto Rico  that will be
included in the sale, according to the statement.  The company was awarded a $78.3 million U.S. grant on July
10 after applying for $90.5 million under the Treasury
Department’s 1603 cash grant program.  “It’s a difficult situation because the stock has fallen
so much,” said John McIlveen, a Toronto-based analyst with
Jacob Securities Inc. who rates the stock a buy. The company’s
“fundamental value” is C$2.50 a share, “but now you’re in an
auction process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Divya Balji in Toronto at 
 dbalji1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  