-- Why Republicans Will Best Democrats on Tax Fight
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-07-30T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/why-republicans-will-best-democrats-on-tax-fight.html
U.S. Senator  Patty Murray  of
 Washington  thinks her fellow Democrats  hold the upper hand  in
the fight over taxes.  Murray, who leads her party’s campaign to elect senators,
thinks she can make Republicans buckle by giving them an
ultimatum: Either they stop trying to extend tax cuts for high
earners, or they see middle-class taxes rise.  It’s an empty threat that should frighten no Republican.  The tax cuts enacted under President  George W. Bush  expire
at the end of this year. Republicans want to extend all of them,
while Democrats say they favor keeping only the cuts that
directly benefit the middle class. Some liberals -- usually not
ones in elected office -- say they should all go, because the
government needs the revenue.  In a  speech this month  at the  Brookings Institution , Murray
explained how she sees this debate playing out next year. Taxes
will have risen for everyone. Democrats will introduce
legislation to restore only the middle-class tax cuts.
Republicans will go along to avoid being blamed for blocking
those cuts just so they can get “new tax cuts for the rich.”  Eyeing 2014  Of course, if Republicans sweep the election, none of this
will come to pass. They would extend all the tax cuts, probably
by simple-majority votes. If President  Barack Obama  wins re-
election and Republicans take the Senate, Congress will extend
all the cuts and dare the president to veto it. Republicans will
then blame high middle-class taxes on Obama and look forward to
the 2014 elections.  Democrats would respond by blaming the higher taxes on
Republican intransigence about upper-income tax cuts. In most
polls, voters side with Democrats over Republicans on that. Even
so, Democrats would lose the blame game. Voters usually praise
or blame the president, not Congress, for almost anything. They
think of Democrats, not Republicans, as the party that is most
enthusiastic about tax increases.  Parties have a very hard time countering these long-held
impressions. Every so often Republicans introduce big campaigns
arguing that they are trying to save Medicare or Social Security
while Democrats are letting the programs collapse. It never
works, because the storyline is too counterintuitive for voters.
So it is with tax increases. Even if the Democratic spin and the
Republican spin cancel each other out, voters will hold
Democrats responsible.  Because the party in the White House tends to lose seats in
midterm elections, and because Democrats did so well in the 2008
Senate elections, they would have a rough November 2014 in store
even without the tax issue. Add taxes to the mix and you have
the makings of a bloodbath. Republicans aren’t going to prevent
that just to let Democrats get their way on policy.  There is, however, one way for Democrats to make sure that
this debate goes even worse for them. That’s to spend the next
several months loudly advertising their willingness to let
middle-class taxes rise if they don’t get their way. If
Democrats sound like they’re the ones who are most willing to
see higher middle-class taxes, they will reinforce rather than
counter the impression of their party as enthusiastic tax-
increasers.  Republicans ran into a similar problem in budget battles
with President  Bill Clinton  in 1995-96. Conservative Republicans
kept saying that if Clinton balked at their spending cuts, the
government would shut down and Democrats would have to accede to
their demands. Once the government actually shut down,
Republicans tried to blame Clinton. They had passed bills to
keep the government running, they said: The shutdown was
Clinton’s fault for vetoing those bills.  The public didn’t buy it. Voters knew that Republicans were
more anti-government than Democrats. Republicans had been
talking gleefully about a shutdown showdown for months. If
Murray’s strategy prevails among Democrats, her party’s position
will be weaker next year for similar reasons.  Talking Tough  And weaker this year, too. How can Democrats possibly win
votes this fall by saying they’re willing to let taxes rise soon
after? Although some liberals like it when Democrats talk tough
about not compromising on taxes, their votes are already safe.
Murray and any Democrats who follow her lead are handing
Republicans the opportunity to tell the rest of the electorate
that Democrats are perfectly happy to see middle-class taxes go
up.  Let’s say you’re a Democrat who actually wants to see taxes
rise for everyone, including the middle class. In that case you
should want your party to hold the White House, refuse to allow
the Republicans’ tax-cut-extension-for-all to pass, and let the
resulting standoff keep all taxes higher. At that point, trying
to blame the Republicans for the middle-class tax increase may
be better for your party than saying nothing.  Just keep in mind three things. You’re still likely to have
a bad 2014 election. You’re not going to make the Republicans
fold that way. And you’re not doing yourself any favors by
talking about your plan now.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  housing as a campaign issue 
and on why Italians should deepen Monti’s reforms and  reject
Berlusconi ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Mexico’s energy reforms ;
William Pesek on  Japan ’s attempts to  weaken the yen ;  Alexander
Friedman  and Kiran Ganesh on the  butterfly effects  of central
banks; Carrie Lingo on the excitement of  women’s field hockey .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 