-- Winnebago Wins Ban on Use of its Brandname by Australian Copycat
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-30T01:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/winnebago-wins-ban-on-use-of-its-brandname-by-australian-copycat.html
Winnebago Industries Inc., (WGO)  a U.S.
maker of motor homes, won a court decision that will prohibit
Knott Investments Pty from using the Winnebago name in Australia
as it has been doing for at least 30 years.  Federal Court of Australia Justice Lindsay Foster  ruled 
that Knott founder Bruce Binns “intentionally hijacked the
Winnebago marks in Australia in a bold attempt to preempt
Winnebago’s opening its doors here.”  Foster gave Forest City, Iowa-based Winnebago and Knott
until Aug. 13 to propose an order to implement his July 25
ruling. The judge said he would consider a request to defer the
ban on Knott’s use of the name for a “reasonable time” to
allow the company to rebrand its business.  “I urge the parties to agree on an appropriate period for
this rebranding to occur,” Foster wrote. “In the event that
agreement cannot be reached, I will determine the appropriate
period.”  Knott had no comment on the ruling today, said the person
who answered the phone at the company’s office and declined to
be identified.  Binns founded Emu Plains, New South Wales-based Knott in
1967 as a landholding company that acquired properties for
recreational vehicle factories in Australia. The manufacturing
company, Freeway Camper Co. failed and was wound up in 1977,
Foster wrote.  Knott then began manufacturing recreational vehicles and
selling them under the Winnebago name, either in 1978 according
to Binns, or 1982, according to Winnebago, Foster said.  Registering Trademark  Knott applied for, and received,  registration  of the
Winnebago name as a trademark in Australia in 1997. Foster
ordered the registration to be canceled.  During the four-day trial last year, Binns had denied he
wanted to associate his company with the U.S. brand.  “I didn’t want to associate it with that particular
business,” Binns testified, according to a transcript in
Foster’s reasons. “We were operating in Australia.”  Foster rejected Binns testimony, writing that it wasn’t
credible.  “By choosing to exploit the Winnebago name and the
Winnebago logos, he was intending to gain for himself as much
benefit as possible in Australia,” Foster wrote.  The case is Winnebago Industries Inc. v. Knott Investments
Pty. NSD1355/2010. Federal Court of  Australia  (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  