-- Twitter Blocks Reporter After He Posts NBC Executive E-Mail
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-30T20:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/twitter-blocks-journalist-after-he-posts-nbc-executive-s-e-mail.html
Twitter Inc. blocked Independent
newspaper journalist Guy Adams from the social-networking
service after he posted the e-mail address of an NBC Sports
executive while complaining about Olympics coverage.  Adams, saying he was frustrated with NBC’s delayed coverage
of Olympic events, had tweeted the corporate e-mail address of
NBC Olympics President Gary Zenkel. A few dozen people reposted
the address on their own feeds, he said on  the website  of the
U.K.’s Independent. He later discovered that his account had
been suspended, Adams said.  “In what was apparently an automated e-mail, I was told
that: ‘Your Twitter account has been suspended for posting an
individual’s private information such as private e-mail
address,’” Adams wrote. “It then contained a copy of my tweet
regarding Mr. Zenkel.”  NBC Sports, a partner with Twitter in covering the  Olympic
Games  in  London , said it complained to the social-networking
site because the tweet violated privacy policies. Still, it was
Twitter that made the decision to block Adams, NBC Sports said
in an e-mailed statement.  “We filed a complaint with Twitter because a user tweeted
the personal information of one of our executives,” said NBC
Sports, a division of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal. “Twitter
alone levies discipline.”  Carolyn Penner, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Twitter, said her company doesn’t comment on individual accounts
for privacy reasons. Adams also declined to comment to Bloomberg
News, saying the Independent was seeking more details about what
had happened.  What’s Non-Public?  Twitter says on its website that posting “non-public,
personal e-mail addresses” are examples of private and
confidential information. It doesn’t specify if work e-mails are
public or non-public.  Twitter could have handled the situation better by asking
Adams to remove the posting with the e-mail, instead of shutting
down the entire account, said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst
with  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  “Someone at Twitter should have looked at this in the
larger context because it probably could have been resolved with
a single phone call or with a single e-mail,” Gartenberg said.
“Instead it became this mini-tempest in a teapot when there was
really no reason for it to be anything other than, ‘You’ve
stepped over a guideline of using Twitter. Please step back over
the line and everyone will be happy.’”  Adams had criticized NBC in a number of tweets for its
policy of tape-delaying major Olympic events and the opening
ceremonies so that it could air the programming during prime
time. Live events are available for cable subscribers online.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  