-- Yahoo’s Ross Levinsohn Departs After Marissa Mayer Gets CEO Job
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/yahoo-says-former-interim-ceo-ross-levinsohn-leaving-company.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s  Ross Levinsohn , who
was interim chief executive officer, is leaving today after the
board passed him over for the top job and unexpectedly recruited
 Marissa Mayer , a former  Google (GOOG)  Inc. executive.  Levinsohn stepped into the position in May after former CEO
 Scott Thompson  left amid questions about the accuracy of his
resume. Levinsohn was a top contender before Mayer was hired to
turn around the biggest U.S. Web portal, which has failed to
keep pace with competitors Google and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in user and
advertising growth.  “Ross has done a terrific job during his time at Yahoo,”
the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “We wish him all the best.”  Levinsohn, a veteran of social-networking service MySpace
and search engine AltaVista, was known for interacting well with
advertisers. On his watch, Yahoo recruited executives including
Michael Barrett as chief revenue officer, and resolved a patent
dispute with Facebook Inc. Mayer is an engineer who oversaw some
of Google’s most popular products.  Yahoo’s sales  tumbled  21 percent to $4.98 billion last year
as users devoted less time to the service. Visitors on average
spent less than two hours and 20 minutes on Yahoo pages in May,
compared with more than six hours for Facebook, according to
ComScore Inc.  Levinsohn’s exit is effective as of today, according to
Yahoo’s  regulatory  filing.  Former Yahoos  Mayer is the fifth CEO to join Yahoo in three years.
Thompson, who joined from EBay Inc.’s PayPal in January,
replaced interim CEO Tim Morse. Morse stepped in after  Carol
Bartz  was fired in September.  With Mayer, Yahoo selected a known technologist who joined
Google as its 20th employee and first female engineer. She is
credited with maintaining the company’s Spartan home page for a
decade and overseeing such products as Gmail, Google News, and
image, book and product search. In 2010, she became vice
president of local, maps and location services.  Yahoo fell less than 1 percent to $15.98 yesterday at the
close in New York. The shares have lost less than 1 percent this
year.  Levinsohn, as part of his compensation for being interim
CEO, will receive 67,000 restricted stock units, valued at $1.07
million, based on yesterday’s closing price. The company also
awarded 250,000  stock options  at a strike price of $15.80.  Done Deals  On Levinsohn’s watch as interim CEO, Yahoo worked out the
final details of a plan for Chinese e-commerce provider Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd. to buy back a stake in itself. The deal, long
urged by shareholders, will hand Yahoo at least $6.3 billion in
cash and as much as $800 million in newly issued Alibaba
preferred stock.  Levinsohn’s background spans investing in startups, running
online businesses such as FoxSports.com and helping clinch deals
-- notably,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s MySpace acquisition.  Still, Levinsohn’s record as an investor is mixed. After
leaving News Corp. in 2006, he teamed with former AOL Inc. CEO
 Jon Miller  to begin a venture capital career focused on digital-
media startups.  They were unable to raise a round of outside money, two
people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this year.
Instead, the duo merged with a Palo Alto, California-based firm
that had already raised $1.5 billion. Over the next three years,
Levinsohn led investments in eight digital media companies. One
was shuttered, and five were sold at a loss to the firm of about
$15 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 