-- Yandex’s Discount to Baidu Is a Buy to BofA
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-07-30T03:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/yandex-s-discount-to-baidu-is-a-buy-to-bofa.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s biggest Internet
search engine, is trading at the cheapest level in six weeks
relative to  China ’s  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , a buy signal to Bank of America
Corp. and Troika Dialog as advertising revenue surges.  Yandex has retreated 27 percent from this year’s high on
April 19, sending its enterprise value, or the sum of its equity
and net debt, to 14 times estimated 12-month earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a 19 percent
discount versus the owner of China’s most-used search engine,
the widest gap since June 22. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies listed in the U.S.
rose 4.1 percent to 92.56 on July 27, gaining for a fifth week.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch raised Yandex to a buy
earlier this month because it trades at a discount to Baidu and
on expectations Yandex will release “strong” results for the
second quarter, it said in a July 24 report. Morgan Stanley said
in a report July 26 the stock will “rise relative to the
industry” over the next two months.  China’s economy  expanded
the least in three years last quarter, while Russia’s economic
growth accelerated in the second quarter.  “Russia’s macroeconomic story remains strong and Yandex
benefits in many ways: it gets more users, it gets more
advertising revenue,”  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at Troika
Dialog, said by phone from Moscow on July 26. “When the economy
grows and  consumer confidence  is strong, those advertisers spend
more, when the economy slows and consumer confidence fades they
are among the first ones who adjust.”  Russia ETF Surges  The  RTS stock-index futures  expiring in September rose 1.9
percent to 140,275 on July 27. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) ,
the biggest U.S.-traded exchange-traded fund that holds Russian
shares, jumped 3.8 percent to $27.21, increasing 1.8 percent on
the week, for a third consecutive gain. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in the index futures, fell
5.9 percent to 28.88.  “We expect rapid growth of the Internet advertising sector
and Yandex to stay in the lead in paid search,” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts including Mariya Kahn in  Singapore , said
in the July 24 report. “We recently upgraded Yandex to buy on
the discount to Baidu and on the back of search share
improvements, a more relaxed competitive environment and a
number of potential good news on earnings.”  Russia’s economy grew 3.9 percent in the second quarter
from 3.4 percent in the same period a year ago, Interfax news
agency reported on July 25, citing the  Economy Ministry ’s
estimate.  ‘Best Exposure’  Yandex is expected to report on July 31 its net income in
the second quarter rose 62 percent from the same period a year
ago, to 1.8 billion rubles, or $56.1 million, according to the
 average  of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Yandex is also expected to report sales of 6.8 billion rubles,
representing 50 percent growth, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The results should reflect recovery in the company’s
market position and continuing growth in Russia’s online ad
market,” analysts led by Konstantin Chernyshev, the head of
research at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, wrote in a July
27 report. “Yandex offers the best exposure to these growth
prospects.”  Yandex rose 6.4 percent to $20.22 in  New York , the most
since March 2, on July 27 for a 6.6 percent advance on the week,
compared with a 12 percent surge in Baidu’s shares. Yandex has
increased at half Baidu’s pace so far this year, as the Russian
company’s shares have gained 2.6 percent in 2012 compared with
Baidu’s 6.3 percent growth.  Internet Search Shares  Yandex’s portion of  Russia ’s  Internet searches  rose to an
average of 60.4 percent in the second quarter, from 59.4 percent
in the first three months of the year,  Liveinternet , an Internet
service provider and researcher, said on its website.  “It’s unjustified and simply wrong that Yandex trades at
such a discount to Baidu and it should go away over time,”
Lepetukhina said. “Investors wait to see how sustainable the
current stabilization of Yandex’s search share market is and how
much it costs for the company to compete with Google.”  Russian searches using Google, the world’s largest Web-
search provider, rose at a slower pace, gaining to an average
26.2 percent in the second quarter from 25.7 percent in the
first quarter, the data show.  E-mailed messages left after normal business hours in
Moscow and Beijing on July 27 with Ochir Mandzhikov, Yandex’s
press officer, Vladimir Isaev, responsible for international
media relations at Yandex, and Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for
Baidu, were not immediately returned.  Oil, Russia’s top export earner, rose on speculation that
the  European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal Reserve will ease
monetary policy to boost economic growth.  Saving the Euro  The ECB’s Governing Council is scheduled to meet on Aug. 2
in  Frankfurt . The Fed’s Federal Open Market Committee will
consider the need for more stimulus at a two-day meeting that
concludes on Aug. 1. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande  said on July 27 that they will do
“everything” necessary to protect the euro. The remark echoed
a comment by ECB President  Mario Draghi , who said on July 26
that the ECB will do “whatever it takes” for the common
currency to survive.  Crude oil for September delivery climbed 0.8 percent to
$90.13 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on July 27.
Prices have risen 16 percent since June 28 and fell 1.4 percent
in the week.  Brent oil for September settlement gained 1.2 percent to a
one-week high of $106.47 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude  climbed 1.5 percent to
$106.45 per barrel on July 27.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
was unchanged at HK$4.23 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:15 a.m.
local time. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 0.9 percent today
on speculation European Union policy makers will take action to
ease the debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  