-- Zames Rises From JPMorgan Battlefield to Dimon’s War Council
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-07-30T13:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-30/zames-elevated-from-jpmorgan-battlefield-to-dimon-s-war-council.html
Twice in the past 100 days,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has turned to a
41-year-old former hedge-fund trader to tackle challenges facing
the largest U.S. bank.  Matt Zames , named chief investment officer in May to
contain trading losses that have cost at least $5.8 billion,
became the firm’s co-chief operating officer last week. Zames,
who began the year as co-head of the bank’s fixed-income
business, now oversees senior executives including Chief
Financial Officer Douglas Braunstein, 51, and regulatory affairs
head Barry Zubrow, 59.  “He had the guts and the brains,” Dimon said in an
interview after announcing the management shakeup on July 27.
“Matt is straight, direct, does his work. He’s got that kind of
confidence without arrogance.”  Zames’ promotion comes as Wall Street’s five biggest banks
reported the worst start to a year since 2008, and as a growing
number of investors, analysts and industry veterans, including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  creator Sanford “Sandy” Weill, call for the
breakup of U.S. financial conglomerates. Zames will help lead a
bank that faced two congressional hearings last month and is the
subject of at least four federal probes into the chief
investment office’s trading losses.  Zames shoots sporting clays,  described  by its national
association as “golf with a shotgun.” He studies military
history, reading books about World War II and more recent
conflicts. A husband and father of three, he leaves his bed in
 New Jersey  at 4:45 a.m., he said in an interview.  ‘Better Place’  “I wake up every morning -- every morning -- excited to
actually make this place a better place,” he said. “I am truly
humbled and honored to have been given the opportunity.”  Zames will continue to lead the chief investment office
while adding oversight of finance, strategy and regulatory
affairs, according to a memo sent to employees last week. The
additional duties place him among senior executives who might
one day succeed Dimon. Zames will serve as co-COO alongside
Frank Bisignano, 52, whose responsibilities include technology
and security.  Two JPMorgan executives who weren’t authorized to speak on
the matter said Zames is particularly interested in trying to
help shape regulatory policies so they’ll be better for the New
York-based bank and the broader economy.  He and Dimon, 56, were both involved in an earlier
multibillion-dollar trading crisis. After graduating from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of
Management  in 1993 and spending some months at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Zames became a trader for Long-Term Capital
Management LP.  Earlier Encounter  The hedge fund was bailed out in 1998 after  Russia ’s debt
default led to $4 billion of losses in what was then one of the
largest collapses in U.S. investment history. The  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  organized support from banks including
the firm Dimon was leading,  Salomon Smith Barney . Zames said he
“definitely” remembers meeting Dimon then, though his boss
doesn’t. “No,” Dimon said when asked about the encounter.  Even so, Long-Term Capital veterans recall Zames as one of
the firm’s most-trusted young traders.  “You did not get hired at Long-Term unless you were the
best and brightest -- you just didn’t, it didn’t matter if you
were a secretary,” said  James Rickards , once the fund’s general
counsel, who wrote the book “Currency Wars.” “Even in that
milieu, Matt stood out.”  Zames was trusted and mentored by senior colleagues,
according to Rickards and Long-Term partner Eric Rosenfeld.  Mathematician, Poet  “He’s a mathematician and he’s a poet: He understands the
math, but he understands qualitatively what’s going on,” said
Rosenfeld, who now teaches fixed-income at Sloan. Zames is one
of the people on Wall Street who “live and breathe the trades
they’re doing,” he said.  The trading that Zames has overseen at JPMorgan has made
the firm billions of dollars. Fixed-income trading revenue last
year was $14.8 billion excluding accounting adjustments, more
than any other global bank. JPMorgan posted the only increase in
debt trading among the largest firms that year, while  Bank of
America Corp.  and Goldman Sachs slid more than 30 percent.  JPMorgan’s 17 percent market share in fixed-income trading
among the top 10 global firms is probably a  Wall Street  record,
the investment bank unit’s then-CEO, James “Jes” Staley, said
in February.  Succession Talk  While Zames was elevated in last week’s shakeup, Staley,
55, relinquished daily operational duties, becoming chairman of
an expanded corporate and investment bank division. Once seen as
a potential Dimon successor, Staley was Zames’ boss until this
year. The new division will be co-led by Mike Cavanagh, 46, and
Daniel Pinto, 49. Ina R. Drew, 55, once among Wall Street’s most
powerful women and a Dimon confidante, resigned as the CIO’s
chief in May, days after that unit’s losses were disclosed.  While Dimon said in last week’s interview that he hopes to
keep leading JPMorgan for “many, many more years,” Zames’
promotion fueled speculation that the former trader is now a
potential successor, along with Dimon’s long-time lieutenant,
Cavanagh. By working with the so-called corporate division, the
top of the bank that oversees administrative functions, Zames
will gain experience dealing with investors, regulators and the
company’s board, Dimon said in the interview.  “I love executives to spend some time in corporate,”
Dimon said. Cavanagh served as chief financial officer for about
six years and helped integrate JPMorgan with Bank One, where
both he and Dimon had worked.  Saturday Meeting  JPMorgan’s shares have slid 17 percent since Bloomberg News
first reported April 5 that the bank had built illiquid bets on
 credit derivatives  that were big enough to move markets. The
stock closed at $36.89 last week.  Since Zames’ emergency appointment to the CIO in May, the
bank has said it reduced the unit’s positions, shored up risk
controls and will seek to claw back pay from three London-based
employees who oversaw the bets. Drew has also agreed to return
compensation. In a worst-case scenario, the trades may yet lose
an additional $1.7 billion, compared with $5.8 billion during
the year’s first half, the bank said July 13.  In last week’s interview, Dimon praised Zames’ handling of
the crisis and recounted their meeting in May to discuss the
situation. Dimon had called Zames into work on a Saturday, and
the two were standing in a hallway when the CEO asked him to
take over the money-losing unit. Zames’ promotion came fewer
than three months later.  “When you have a talent like that, you got to give him a
challenge,” Dimon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in  New York  at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  