-- ‘Twilight’ Leads Box Office for 3rd Weekend at $17.4 Million
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-12-03T23:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/-twilight-leads-box-office-for-3rd-weekend-at-17-4-million-1-.html
“The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn -
Part 2,” the finale of the teen vampire movies, led U.S. and
Canadian ticket sales for a third weekend, outselling fellow
holdovers “Skyfall” and “Lincoln.”  The last of the five films in the series from  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  collected $17.4 million,  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said today in an e-mail. “Twilight” has now taken in
$254.6 million in domestic sales.  “Twilight” and the other returning films exploited a
post-Thanksgiving lull in big releases to remain atop the box-
office standings. “Skyfall,” the latest Bond film from  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., followed in second place
with $16.6 million while “Rise of the Guardians” from
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  earned $13.39 million for third.
Each reached a distinct audience niche, helping to buoy sales.  “There are no major releases this week or next, so some of
the top films we’re seeing right now in the marketplace will
continue to play well until we get some new product,”  Paul Sweeney , a Bloomberg Industries analyst, said in a telephone
interview. “The next most anticipated film is ‘The Hobbit.’
Given how well the other films in that series have performed
globally, there’s great anticipation for the next installment.”  ‘Hobbit,’ ‘Miserables’  The holiday release schedule picks up with “The Hobbit: An
Unexpected Journey” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and MGM on Dec. 14,
Sony’s “Zero Dark Thirty” on Dec. 19 and “Les Miserables”
from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  on Christmas Day.  The U.S. box office may surpass $10.8 billion to set a
record this year, projects  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box office unit. Last year’s sales totaled $10.2
billion. Revenue has risen 5.9 percent to $9.91 billion to date
this year, according to the researcher.  “We’re going to see revenue in the theatrical window that
is bigger than it ever was,” Rob Friedman, co-chairman of Lions
Gate’s motion picture group, said on Nov. 28, speaking on a
panel at the  University of Southern California ’s film school in
Los Angeles.  The five “Twilight” pictures have taken in $1.33 billion
to date in domestic theaters, according to Box Office Mojo,
ranking in eighth place all time among film franchises.  Among other returning titles, second place’s “Skyfall”
has grossed $869 million to date in worldwide sales, making it
the best-performing film in the long-running secret agent
series, according to Box Office Mojo.  DreamWorks Animation  “Rise of the Guardians” rose to third place last weekend
after opening in fourth, Hollywood.com said.  “It’s been a little soft for DreamWorks,” Sweeney said.
“Once kids get out of school I think we’ll see some good
numbers coming out for that film as well.”  The 3-D picture, one of two releases this year from
Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation, missed
estimates in its debut.  “Lincoln,”  Steven Spielberg ’s examination of the 16th
U.S. president’s political campaign to end slavery, placed
fourth for the weekend with sales of $13.38 million. It was
produced by the director’s DreamWorks Studios and is being
distributed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   “I don’t think ‘Lincoln’ will go to No. 1,” Sweeney said.
“I don’t think it has the mass appeal that some other films do,
but it’s really well-reviewed and benefitting from word of
mouth.”  “Life of Pi,” from “Brokeback Mountain” director Ang Lee, is another Oscar contender. It had sales of $12.2 million
for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox, landing in fifth place,
in line with last week. The fantasy adventure features Suraj
Sharma as a young man who survives a disaster at sea and finds
himself sharing a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger.  Brad Pitt  “Killing Them Softly,” Weinstein Co.’s dark comedy
starring  Brad Pitt , led new releases with $6.8 million in
revenue, for seventh place overall. Pitt plays an enforcer hired
to track down thieves who rob a mob card game. Ray Liotta and
James Gandolfini co-star in the movie, which earned a 79 percent
positive rating from critics at Rottentomatoes.com.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 44 percent to
$106.1 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
film attendance has climbed 5.9 percent this year.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Nov. 30 and Dec. 1, and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  