-- A Bipartisan Way to Cap Deductions
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-03T23:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/a-bipartisan-way-to-cap-deductions.html
The big question in  Washington  should
be how, not if, the U.S. can limit the individual income-tax
breaks that  cost  more than $1 trillion in revenue each year.  Capping deductions is one of the few ideas both parties
agree on. House Speaker  John Boehner  said this week that
Republicans would  consider  proscribing tax breaks for some
upper-income individuals. And President  Barack Obama ’s budget
 proposals  for years have called for tax-deduction ceilings for
the rich.  Over the decades, lawmakers have considered limits on
popular deductions for mortgage interest, state and local taxes,
and charitable giving, only to jettison the proposals out of
concern that they would harm the housing market, millions of
charities and much of the middle class. This time should be
different.  Scaling back tax expenditures, which overwhelmingly  benefit 
the wealthiest, will require sacrifice from many, but it can be
achieved in ways that minimize unwanted consequences. What’s
more, recent research  shows  that many of the effects lawmakers
have long feared -- and that lobbyists have all too eagerly
warned about -- are likely to be minimal.  The simplest approach is to cap all tax deductions at
$50,000, allowing individuals to choose which breaks to claim,
up to the limit. Setting a cap at $50,000 would primarily affect
the richest Americans because most taxpayers’ deductions aren’t
even close to that amount.  Charitable Credit  To blunt the potential for a steep decline in charitable
giving, lawmakers could exempt such contributions from the cap
and instead create a 25 percent refundable tax credit for
households contributing at least $1,000. A couple donating
$1,000 would get $250 back from the federal government -- even
if they owed no income taxes. Under the current system, only
those who itemize their taxes and have a tax liability can claim
a deduction. And because the deduction is tied to marginal tax
rates, the wealthiest get the biggest benefit.  According  to the  Congressional Budget Office , if such a
credit had been in place in 2006, donations would have increased
by $1.5 billion and the cost to the U.S. would have fallen by
$2.4 billion.  A $50,000 limit would also largely mollify concerns that
trimming deductions would harm the housing market and
disproportionately hit taxpayers in high-tax states. First, it’s
worth noting that about  two-thirds  of taxpayers take a standard
tax deduction rather than itemizing, and therefore don’t benefit
whatsoever from tax breaks. Of the roughly 33 percent of
taxpayers who itemize, most claim far less than $50,000 in
deductions. The average in 2011 for middle-income earners was
$15,583, while those in the top 1 percent deducted about
$173,670,  according  to the Tax Policy Center. Those figures
include the charitable deduction, suggesting that a small
fraction of taxpayers would hit the $50,000 ceiling.  As we have noted, there are good economic reasons to
curtail the mortgage-interest deduction. It’s an inequitable
subsidy that drives up  home prices ,  encourages  people to buy
more house than they need or can afford, and rewards the rich. A
top earner in the 35 percent tax bracket gets a $3,500 tax break
for every $10,000 paid in mortgage interest, while a lower-
earner gets just $1,500. In 2011, the  average  benefit for a
middle-income earner was $139. For the top 1 percent, it was
$3,752.  The deduction for state and local taxes is similarly
unjust. It encourages states to raise taxes that provide public
benefits for its residents yet the cost is shared by those who
live outside the state. In other words, residents living in a
low-tax state like  Alabama  subsidize public spending in a high-
tax state like  Connecticut .  Bigger Share  Several tax-reform panels, including commissions in  1985 
and  2005 , have called for abolishing the deduction. Although we
wouldn’t go that far, a $50,000 cap would enable most itemizing
taxpayers to deduct the same amount of state and local taxes
they currently do, while still enjoying other deductions under
the cap. High-income individuals, however, might be forced to
pay a bigger share of their state and local tax bills -- not
necessarily a bad thing.  How would all of this affect taxpayers? Those in the top 1
percent would see their  average  tax bill increase by about
$51,548, for a 2 percent increase, according to the  Tax Policy
Center . Those in the middle income quintile (with earnings
between $42,597 and $67,608) would see an average increase of
$823.  Notably, it would help close the revenue gap. A $50,000 cap
with a charitable exemption would raise about $490 billion over
the next decade, according to the Tax Policy Center. Replacing
the charitable deduction with the 25 percent credit would bring
in an additional $25 billion over 10 years. Add those savings to
the $566 billion  gained  by allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire
on household earnings above $500,000 -- along with increasing
the rates paid for  capital gains  and dividends to at least 20
percent -- and the U.S. gains about $1.2 trillion.  That’s pretty close to the $1.6 trillion Obama has called
for. It is also a more realistic figure, given steep Republican
resistance to raising taxes.  With its unsustainable fiscal situation made worse by the
costly demands of the retiring postwar generation, the U.S.
faces hard choices. Some Republicans, including Tennessee
Senator  Bob Corker , are already  embracing  the $50,000 cap as the
least painful revenue-raising option. The U.S. has been on the
cusp of enacting tax-expenditure reform before, only to walk
away. This time, the nation’s dire financial straits demand
action.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 