-- Adoboli’s Ex-Manager Sues UBS Saying Firing Was Race Bias
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-12-03T10:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/adoboli-s-ex-manager-sues-ubs-saying-firing-was-race-bias.html
Ronald Greenidge, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
managing director fired for gross misconduct in his supervision
of convicted trader Kweku Adoboli, sued the bank claiming it
treated him more harshly than others because he’s black.  Greenidge, who was UBS’s head of European cash trading,
alleges race discrimination and unfair dismissal in a lawsuit
filed in June at a London employment tribunal, according to
documents obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “There are stark discrepancies” between UBS’s treatment
of Greenidge and other people connected to Adoboli, according to
the complaint. Greenidge “is of black Caribbean origin. Mr.
Adoboli is of black African origin. The claimant believes he has
been treated less favorably than his” white counterparts.  Adoboli, originally from  Ghana , was sentenced to seven
years in prison on Nov. 20 for fraud tied to a $2.3 billion
loss, the largest from unauthorized trading in U.K. history. The
bank was later fined 29.7 million pounds ($47.6 million) by a
U.K. regulator for weaknesses in management systems and internal
controls that allowed Adoboli to make risky trades.  At least 11 employees left Zurich-based UBS, either through
firings or resignations, after Adoboli revealed the massive
losses in an e-mail on Sept. 14, 2011. They included former
Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  and Adoboli’s co-workers
on the exchange-traded funds desk --  John Hughes , Simon Taylor
and Christophe Bertrand.  The lawsuit is one of several against the bank for unfair
dismissal because of the loss, at least one of which has
settled. The limit on damages for unfair dismissal in  England  is
72,300 pounds, while awards for race discrimination are
unlimited. UBS spokesman Oliver Gadney declined to comment.  Windu Trader  Greenidge, who was born in Britain, worked at the bank for
almost two decades and made 286,000 pounds a year, including his
bonus, according to the complaint. His nickname, used by the ETF
traders, was Mace Windu, after the “Star Wars” character
played by Samuel L. Jackson, according to his testimony at
Adoboli’s two-month trial.  Greenidge said in his complaint the bank fired him based on
“weak and unsubstantiated allegations” in a process “tainted
with a sense of pre-determination.” The ex-manager said he was
given two days to prepare for an internal disciplinary hearing
in October last year, while UBS had six weeks to ready itself.  The bank denied the allegations and said in tribunal papers
that Greenidge “did not take his supervisory responsibilities
as seriously as he should have.”  Greenidge’s lawyer, Tim Spillane of Stewarts Law LLP,
declined to comment on the case because it’s “subject to
ongoing legal proceedings.”  Father Figure  Adoboli’s lawyer,  Charles Sherrard , said Greenidge was like
“a father figure” to the ETF traders -- a description
Greenidge rejected in court. He appeared close to fainting at
one point in his testimony and told the judge he needed a break.  Sherrard had argued Adoboli should be cleared because
Greenidge and other managers failed to uncover the secret
transactions and encouraged risky trading in a drive for profit.  Greenidge oversaw the ETF desk until April of last year,
when it was moved to the global synthetic-equities department
overseen by John DiBacco in  New York . Greenidge claimed he was
the only person in the cash-equities department to be suspended
or fired over the scandal, even though the losses occurred after
he no longer supervised the desk.  UBS never gave Greenidge a “coherent or credible
response” when he asked why he was the only one in the
department to be fired, he said. Both DiBacco and Greenidge
testified they were unfairly dismissed and made scapegoats.  Refusal, Firing  DiBacco testified in September that he was asked to resign
after the loss. He refused and was fired in January, receiving a
letter from UBS saying he didn’t “ensure the ETF desk had
adequate supervision” and didn’t investigate why its revenue
had increased substantially.  “I do not agree that I failed,” DiBacco said.  UBS suspended Greenidge for five months before he was
fired, and the process has had a “grave” impact on his family,
his health and reputation, he said in the complaint.  After Adoboli sent the confession e-mail to management,
Greenidge was asked by Phil Allison, UBS’s global head of cash,
to call Adoboli’s mobile phone, ask him to come to the office
and conduct the first interview, which he did. Adoboli was
arrested the next day.  Greenidge said he suspects the request he call Adoboli
“may have been motivated by the bank’s (perhaps unconscious)
stereotypical assumption that the claimant and Mr. Adoboli
shared a bond due to their related black ethnicity.”  In UBS’s defense papers, the bank said Greenidge was chosen
to make the call because he “had worked with him closely for a
number of years and had a good working relationship with him.”  Greenidge said in his testimony that he had daily contact
with Adoboli after he became a trader in 2006 until the time he
was arrested, sitting one aisle away on the trading floor.  Greenidge said he gave UBS a list of other people
responsible for supervising Adoboli or managing some aspect of
the trading processes he used in the fraud, who weren’t
interviewed or disciplined the way he was. He said discussing
his concerns with UBS was like “talking to a brick wall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  