-- Thailand Mulls First Dollar Bond Since 2003 for Flood
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-12-03T04:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/thailand-mulls-first-dollar-bond-sale-since-2003-for-flood-works.html
Thailand  may sell dollar bonds for
the first time since 2003 to raise money for water-management
projects as it seeks to prevent a recurrence of the worst floods
in almost 70 years.  The country is considering offering $1 billion to $3
billion of notes due in 10 years or 30 years, in line with
recommendations from investment banks, Chularat Suteethorn,
director general of the  Finance Ministry ’s public debt
management office, said in a Nov. 30 interview in Bangkok.
Thailand will sell the debt “if the time is right and the price
is right,” she said, adding that “current pricing is
reasonably good.” Chularat declined to give a specific
timeframe for the sale.  Southeast Asian markets are attracting funds because they
offer higher growth rates and debt yields than developed nations,
where central banks have eased monetary policy to spur economic
growth. Rising investment and domestic consumption is expected
to propel expansion, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said on Nov. 18, predicting an average annual
growth rate for the Thai economy of 5.1 percent from 2013
through 2017.  The  Philippines  and Indonesia, as well as Thai companies
including  PTT Global Chemical Pcl (PTTGC)  and  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) ,
have sold dollar-denominated bonds in global markets this year.
Thailand sold $300 million of floating-rate notes in 2003, the
last time it tapped the international market. The Bank of
Thailand forecasts gross domestic product will increase 5.7
percent this year.  ‘Scarcity Value’  A global sale by Thailand would be successful because the
country has a higher  credit rating  than the Philippines and
Indonesia, and demand for the nation’s debt outweighs supply,
according to Pioneer Investments, which manages the equivalent
of $198 billion of assets. Standard & Poor’s rates Thailand BBB+,
the third-lowest investment grade, and the Philippines and
 Indonesia  three levels lower at the top junk level of BB+.  “Thailand is planning to come to the external markets
after a long time of absence, whereas the Philippines and
Indonesia have been among the more frequent issuers,” Yerlan Syzdykov, a London-based portfolio manager at Pioneer said on
Nov. 16. “There is certainly an element of higher rating for
Thailand vis-à-vis these countries as well as scarcity value
that will allow the Thai government to have a positive response
from investors and a successful market issue.”  Thailand is also planning to sell 30 billion baht ($978
million) of 25-year amortizing notes this year and 40 billion
baht of 15-year inflation-linked debt in the first quarter of
2013, Chularat said. It may issue zero-coupon long-term
securities to diversify fundraising instruments, she said.  ‘Quite Confident’  A global sale would help the government raise money for
infrastructure projects, including investments to alleviate
flooding, Chularat said. The government will seek Cabinet
approval early next year for a proposal to spend 2 trillion baht
on infrastructure over the next seven years. Last year, floods
disrupted manufacturing and resulted in economic growth of just
0.1 percent.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.125 percent government securities
due December 2015 reached a two-year low of 2.84 percent on Nov.
8 and was 2.92 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield  premium  investors demand to hold the notes
over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 257 basis points from
this year’s peak of 309 basis points on May 28.  International investors have bought $28 billion more Thai
sovereign securities than they sold this year, according to data
from the Thai Bond Market Association. Foreign funds hold about
10 percent of Thai government notes, Chularat said.  “Nowhere else is more attractive than  Asia , especially
 Southeast Asia ,” she said. “Thailand is one of the countries
they are quite confident about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  