-- Alex Rodriguez to Have Hip Surgery, Miss Start of 2013 Season
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-04T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/alex-rodriguez-to-miss-4-to-6-months-with-hip-yankees-announce.html
The  New York Yankees  are preparing to
start the 2013 Major League Baseball season without  Alex Rodriguez , who needs surgery on his left hip that will keep him
out for as long as six months after the operation.  The third baseman will need four to six weeks to prepare
for the arthroscopic procedure, which will repair a torn labrum
and correct bone alignment and a cyst. If surgery is performed
next month, Rodriguez may be out until July and miss the first
three months of the regular season, which begins April 1 against
the  Boston Red Sox .  Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  said it remains to be
seen how the team will offset the loss of Rodriguez, a three-
time Most Valuable Player who is owed about $115 million on the
remainder of his contract.  “We’re just not going to overreact,” Cashman said
yesterday at baseball’s winter meetings in Nashville,  Tennessee .
“It’s a significant circumstance, I understand that, but I’ve
been engaging the trade and free-agent market, and listening,
and we will act accordingly.”  Rodriguez, a 19-year major-league veteran who has played
his past nine seasons with the Yankees, batted .272 with 18 home
runs and 57 runs batted in over 122 games in 2012.  He was 3-for-25 in the playoffs without an extra-base hit
and struck out 12 times. Cashman said Rodriguez’s playoff
struggles were probably connected to the hip injuries.  “That was a very difficult time for him,” Cashman said.
“He’s got some peace of mind now having an explanation of ‘Why
did I not perform to the level I was capable of?”’  Previous Surgery  Rodriguez had surgery on a torn labrum in his right hip in
2009 and needed two months to recover. Cashman said Rodriguez
will now undergo a more complicated procedure with a longer
recovery time because there is a bone impingement.  The Yankees first learned something was wrong with
Rodriguez’s health on Oct. 10, when manager  Joe Girardi  pinch
hit for him after an 0-for-3, two-strikeout performance. That
effort left Rodriguez 1-for-12 with seven strikeouts during a
playoff series with the  Baltimore Orioles .  “I’ve got to talk to you about something,” Cashman quoted
Rodriguez as telling Girardi. “My right hip needs to be looked
at. I just don’t think I’m firing on all cylinders.”  Rodriguez had a scan on the right hip that night, with no
injury found.  The left hip injury was diagnosed in an annual physical
exam last month with Marc Philippon, who performed the 2009
surgery. A second surgeon confirmed the diagnosis.  Left-Right  “The whole left-right thing is confusing,” Michael
Bronson, vice chairman of orthopedic surgery and director of the
Center for Joint Replacement Surgery at the Mount Sinai School
of Medicine in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“Pathology in one hip doesn’t cause pain in the other hip.”  Bronson, who has no specific knowledge of Rodriguez’s
injury, said it was “very reasonable” for the player to only
have his right hip initially examined when feeling pain in that
area. However, because there can be a genetic component to hip
abnormalities, Bronson added that it’s a good practice for those
with one injured hip to have the other monitored as well.  Cashman said he wasn’t aware of any connection between the
injury and Rodriguez’s use of steroids. The infielder said in
February 2009 that he had used the banned muscle builders for
three years starting in 2001 while with the  Texas Rangers .  Rodriguez has 647 home runs, the most among active major-
league players and fifth on the all-time list.  He was re-signed to a 10-year, $275 million contract after
the 2007 season, a deal that included bonus payments for
milestone home runs leading up to  Barry Bonds ’s record of 762.
He has five years remaining and Cashman said the team will have
to deal with injuries that arise along the way.  Eric Chavez , who saw time at third base last season when
Rodriguez was out, is a free agent. If they don’t bring another
player in, the Yankees may also consider using  Eduardo Nunez  or
Jayson Nix at third base in Rodriguez’s absence.  “It’s not an easy position to fill,” Cashman said.
“We’re going to get Alex back at some point, but other teams
don’t have a third baseman. The choices aren’t pretty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  