-- All Markets Gain for Second Time in 2012 on Recovery
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r ,   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-12-03T21:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/all-markets-gain-for-second-time-this-year-on-recovery-signs-1-.html
For the second time this year,
stocks, bonds, commodities and the dollar posted monthly gains
amid optimism central bank stimulus programs are bolstering
growth in the world’s biggest economies.  Raw materials  led, with the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total
Return  Index (SXXP)  rising 1.5 percent. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities added 1.3 percent, including dividends. Bonds
of all types returned 0.53 percent on average for a fifth
monthly advance, the longest run of gains since 2010, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which tracks the
currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners,
advanced 0.29 percent, its first increase since July.  The world economy has recovered to its strongest level in
18 months as China’s stimulus measures bolster growth and the
U.S. seeks to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, a Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors showed Nov. 29. The  Federal Reserve  has
pumped more than $2.3 trillion into the financial system, while
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is providing more than $800 billion. The
 European Central Bank  has made about $1 trillion available in
three-year loans to banks.  “With so much monetary stimulus around the world, we’ve
taken the brakes off the global economy,” Bruce McCain, chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in
 Cleveland , said in a Nov. 27 phone interview. His firm oversees
$20 billion. “It should mean improved growth into next year.
Officials in Europe and in the U.S. seem to realize that we’re
on the precipice of some pretty negative outcomes if they don’t
do something to find better solutions.”  Metals Gain  The last time all four market measures rose in tandem was
in July, when drought sent U.S. corn prices to a record and
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to protect
the euro buoyed stocks. Before that, prices hadn’t risen
together since April 2010, when concerns about Greece’s ability
to pay debt were heating up and economic reports were showing
signs of improvement in the U.S.  While asset prices rose in November, stocks and commodities
tumbled earlier in the month after U.S. President  Barack Obama 
won re-election, continuing a conflict in Congress over the
fiscal cliff of $600 billion of mandatory spending cuts and tax
increases due to begin Jan. 1. The MSCI All-Country World Index
slid 1.5 percent Nov. 7 and the S&P GSCI index declined 2.5
percent, the biggest drop since July 23.  Striking Deal  Sentiment improved after Obama said Nov. 18 that he was
confident of striking a deal with Republican Congressional
leaders. Signs of a stalemate in the talks sent the Dollar Index
to a one-month low today.  In televised interviews broadcast over the weekend, U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and House Speaker  John Boehner  blamed each other for the standoff. The Dollar Index
slid as much as 0.3 percent to 79.942, the least since Oct. 31.  Two-thirds of the 862 analysts surveyed in the Bloomberg
Global Poll described the world economy as either stable or
improving last month, the largest proportion since May 2011 and
up from just over half in September.  Base metals were four of the top five performers on the
GSCI index last month, with aluminum rising 10 percent. Zinc was
second, with a 9.7 percent gain. Soybeans and natural gas were
the biggest losers, dropping 7.1 percent and 6.9 percent,
respectively. The GSCI is up 0.7 percent in 2012.  European Rally  West Texas Intermediate oil advanced 3.1 percent on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, leaving it $22.32 below Brent on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange, $5.56 short of the widest spread
ever. WTI has slipped 10 percent this year. Brent has risen 3.6
percent.  WTI may recover 13 percent in 2013, according to the median
of 33 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. Copper may be
little changed, a separate survey of 23 analysts showed.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 2.2 percent last month,
bringing its advance this year to 17 percent. It was the sixth
straight month of gains, its longest rally since 2006. The  S&P
500  climbed 0.6 percent, extending its increase in 2012 to 15
percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 2.4 percent, bringing
its growth this year to 13 percent.  The U.S. equity benchmark will fall 1.2 percent to 1,399 by
the end of the year, according to the average of 14 Wall Street
strategists tracked by Bloomberg. It will recover 11 percent in
2013, the average of eight forecasts showed.  Equities as measured by the Stoxx 600 slid to the lowest in
more than two months on Nov. 15 after the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said gross domestic product in
the 17-nation currency bloc slipped 0.1 percent in the third
quarter, after a 0.2 percent drop in the previous three months.  Corporate Earnings  Fourth-quarter earnings at Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies will grow 3.9 percent, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding financial companies,
profits will grow 0.8 percent, the data showed.  The dollar strengthened 3.4 percent against the yen in
November, partly as Shinzo Abe, the front-runner to become
 Japan ’s next prime minister, called for unlimited stimulus.
Japan’s cabinet approved 880 billion yen ($10.7 billion) of
additional stimulus on Nov. 30.  “The  U.S. economy  is better than people expected,” said
Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc., a unit of Japan’s third-largest publicly traded bank by
assets. “In Japan, the central bank would have to print a lot
of money, and the yen will weaken. I don’t think the decline is
over.”  Fed Program  The Fed in September unveiled a plan to buy as much as $40
billion in mortgage-backed securities a month in an effort to
bolster the economy and reduce unemployment. The central bank’s
previous rounds of growth-boosting measures weakened the dollar
and made commodity investments more attractive. Its second round
of quantitative easing, known as QE2, began on Nov. 3, 2010.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  may rise more than 3 percent to 82.5 by
the end of next year, according to the median forecast of 13
analyst forecasts compiled by  Bloomberg News . It’s down about
0.3 percent so far this year.  Of 26 bond markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, all except
Australia’s gained.  U.S. Treasuries  handed investors a 0.6
percent return, bringing their advance this year to 2.7 percent.  Every market is poised to generate positive returns this
year for the first time since the peak of the financial crisis
in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gains range
from Portugal’s 52 percent to 1.9 percent for Sweden.  Greek Bonds  Greek bonds led the advance in November, surging 25
percent. European finance ministers arranged an emergency aid
package for Greece on Nov. 27 in their latest bid to keep the
euro intact. Greece today offered 10 billion euros ($13 billion)
to buy back bonds issued earlier this year as it sought to cut
its debt load.  Bond investors have been willing to accept lower  interest
rates  to hold government debt because of slowing inflation.
Average government bond yields dropped to 1.37 percent, from
1.76 percent on Dec. 31, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Sovereign Bond Index showed.  “There’s no inflation, so people are still buying,”
Yoshiyuki Suzuki, the head of fixed income in Tokyo at Fukoku
Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has about $70 billion in
assets, said in a Nov. 28 interview. “Interest rates should go
lower.”  The Fed’s  preferred measure  of inflation expectations, the
five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, fell to 2.634
percent as of Nov. 28, versus the average of 2.75 percent for
the past decade.  The U.S. economy is poised to grow 2.2 percent this year
and 2 percent in 2013, based on Bloomberg surveys of economists.
Japan’s will expand 2 percent this year and 0.8 percent in 2013,
while the euro area contracts 0.5 percent in 2012 before
recovering next year, the surveys showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  