-- Allstate Shuns Bond Market Food Fight to Seek Hard Assets
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-12-03T21:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/allstate-shuns-bond-market-food-fight-to-seek-hard-assets.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Wilson  is cutting longer-term bonds from the
insurer’s $77.7 billion fixed-income portfolio as he seeks to
invest in hotels and toll roads with yields near record lows.  The largest publicly traded U.S. auto and home insurer is
shifting course three years after Wilson correctly predicted
that yields would fall and boost the portfolio’s value. The
assets have rebounded from more than $9 billion in unrealized
losses at the end of March 2009 to almost $6 billion in gains as
of Sept. 30, according to regulatory filings.  “We are taking some of that $6 billion off the table and
effectively harvesting those  interest-rate  gains,” Wilson said
in an interview in his office at Allstate’s Northbrook, Illinois
headquarters. “We’d rather lock in those gains today, take the
 capital gains , and reinvest at a lower interest rate now,
because we think that interest rates will eventually go up.”  The  Federal Reserve  has held borrowing costs near zero and
expanded its balance sheet through bond purchases to help
stimulate the economy after the deepest financial crisis since
the Great Depression. That’s punished savers, said Wilson, and
spurred businesses that rely on higher interest rates to take
longer-term risks and settle for lower-quality investments.  “There’s a food fight going on in the fixed-income market
right now, because everybody’s looking for yield,” Wilson, 55,
said in the Nov. 30 interview. “We’re saying we’d rather own
things than lend on things. Hotels, real assets, infrastructure,
you pick it. Rather than loan you money to buy the toll way,
we’d rather just own part of the toll way, because if interest
rates go up, I’m going to get crushed on the bond.”  Corporate Debt  Bonds will still be a majority of the insurer’s investment
portfolio even as the company looks for alternatives, said Chief
Investment Officer Judy Greffin. About half of Allstate’s
investment portfolio was in corporate debt at the end of
September, according to regulatory filings.  The company has allocated about 10 percent of its
investments to public and private equity, Greffin said. That
portion of the portfolio could climb to as much as 20 percent,
with a greater share of the total shifting toward private equity
as the insurer weighs investments in real estate, energy,
timber, agriculture and infrastructure, she said. The amount may
stay closer to 10 percent if the firm struggles to find the
right opportunities, she said in an interview in Northbrook.  ‘So Competitive’  Low bond yields have increased competition among investors
including pension funds, sovereign-wealth funds and insurers for
the kinds of assets Allstate seeks, she said. The company looks
primarily for equity investments where most returns will come
from stable  cash flow  rather than an appreciation in value,
Greffin said.  Norway’s $660 billion sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s
largest, said last week that it plans to invest about $11
billion as it enters the U.S. real estate market.  “The valuation of these assets is getting pulled forward
as people are willing to pay higher and higher prices,” she
said. “It’s just so competitive.”  The portion of Allstate’s bond portfolio due in more than
10 years fell to 25 percent as of Sept. 30 from 30 percent a
year earlier, according to a  presentation  on the company’s
website. Investments in securities due in three years or less
climbed to 20 percent from 18 percent.  Declining Treasury yields have helped cut companies’
borrowing costs even as  spreads  remain near their average level
since 1996. The average yield on investment-grade corporate debt
dropped to a record low  2.73 percent  on Nov. 8, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Superstorm Sandy  Allstate climbed 1 cent to $40.49 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
The stock has rallied 48 percent this year, leading the 22-
company Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index.  Wilson has been charging customers more for coverage to
improve underwriting results after losses from tornadoes and
hurricanes hurt results in recent years. October disasters led
by superstorm Sandy cost the company $1.08 billion before taxes.  Insurers hold investments including bonds to cover
obligations to policyholders when they come due. Lower bond
yields may have pushed insurers to improve underwriting, Keith Walsh, who was hired by broker Marsh & McLennan Cos. to head
 investor relations , said in September when he was working as an
analyst at Citigroup Inc.  “There’s just no yield anywhere,” Monica Erickson, a Los
Angeles-based money manager and credit analyst at DoubleLine
Capital LP, which oversees about $50 billion, said in a
telephone interview.  Allstate’s book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, climbed 18 percent to $42.64 per share in the first
nine months of the year as investments rose in value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  