-- U.S. Manufacturing Probably Cooled as Capital Spending Waned
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-12-03T12:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-cooled-as-capital-spending-waned.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
cooled in November as business demand slowed and disruptions
from superstorm Sandy limited production, according to
economists surveyed before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  fell to
51.5 from 51.7 in October, according to the median estimate of
75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A reading of 50 marks the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. Other figures
today may show construction spending increased in October.  Less corporate spending on equipment as lawmakers debate
the nation’s budget, weaker orders from overseas and
disturbances related to the biggest Atlantic storm ever to hit
the U.S. are converging to slow manufacturing. A pickup in  home
construction  as well as rebuilding in the wake of Sandy may
offer the economy a lift as support from factories wanes.  “There is uncertainty from the fiscal cliff,  Europe  is
still going down, and then you’ve got Sandy,” said  Joel Naroff ,
president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,
 Pennsylvania . “Housing is going to be a solid aspect for
several years to come.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM will release the report at 10
a.m.  New York  time. Estimates ranged from 49 to 53.5. The gauge
averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 in 2010.  Other reports today showed euro-area manufacturing kept
contracting in November while factory output rose in  China  and
 Russia , underscoring the divergence of the global economic
recovery.  Europe, China  Manufacturing output in the 17-nation euro area shrank for
a 16th month, with a gauge of manufacturing rising to 46.2 from
45.4 in October. In China the  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed
50.6 and in Russia it expanded for a 14th month.  Recent U.S. regional reports show manufacturing, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy , weakened last
month. Factory activity in the New York area  contracted  in
November for the fourth consecutive month as Sandy knocked out
electrical power and limited activity, disrupting about 70
percent of businesses that were surveyed by the  Federal Reserve .
Output in the Philadelphia-area shrank for the sixth time in
seven months.  Seven of 12 Fed districts reported “either slowing or
outright contraction in manufacturing,” the central bank said
last week in its Beige Book business survey, which reflected
information collected before Nov. 14. The Cleveland, Richmond
and St. Louis areas said business was positive.  Fiscal Cliff  Apart from the storm’s impact, uncertainty surrounding the
so-called fiscal cliff of about $607 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts slated for 2013 if lawmakers fail to
act is prompting businesses to curb investment. Five of 12 Fed
districts expressed concern about next year’s outlook, partly
due to the lack of clarity about the budget, the report said.  Business spending on equipment and software fell at a 2.7
percent annual rate in the third quarter, the first drop since
mid-2009.  At the same time, there’s a risk overseas demand for U.S-
made goods will slow further. The euro-area economy hasn’t
expanded for a year, and China’s  economic growth  has slowed for
seven straight quarters.  “Business levels are not bad,” Jerald Fishman, chief
executive officer at chipmaker  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI) , said on a
Nov. 27 call with analysts. Still, “there’s so much uncertainty
out there in Europe and the U.S.”  ‘Standing Still’  Fishman said that because of a lack of clarity on
government tax policies, “people are just standing still and
that impacts their capital spending budget.”  A healthier housing market could pick up some of the slack
by bolstering demand for more durable goods, such as furniture,
refrigerators, and building products. Economists project
 construction spending  rose 0.5 percent in October, the sixth
gain in seven months, according to survey median before the 10
a.m. report from the Commerce Department.  Investors remain upbeat about the industry. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has surged 76.9 percent
this year, outpacing a 12.6 percent gain for the broader S&P 500
gauge.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  