-- Argentina Default Swaps Traders Lose 81% as Risk Recedes
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-12-03T19:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/argentina-swaps-traders-lose-81-as-default-risk-recedes.html
Traders who bought three-month
protection against an Argentine default lost 81 percent of their
money in the two days after a U.S. court delayed a ruling that
could have blocked payments to bondholders.  The cost to insure $10 million of Argentine debt against
non-payment through March has plunged to $651,389 from $3.5
million on Nov. 28, according to SW Asset Management LLC. The
selloff came after a U.S. federal appeals court stayed District
Judge Thomas Griesa’s decision that would have forced the
country to pay so-called holdout creditors from its $95 billion
default in 2001 before holders of its restructured bonds.  Speculation that  Argentina  would opt to default for a
second time in 11 years rather than settle with the holdouts
caused the nation’s bonds to tumble by the most in  emerging
markets  last month. While President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  says her country will pay its performing debt, she has
vowed never to give in to the demands of investors including
billionaire  Paul Singer  she has dubbed “vultures.” Argentina
is still more likely to renege on payments than any country in
the world, according to the credit-default swaps trading.  “People that bought protection due to the unnecessary
volatility and extremely aggressive stance by Griesa’s mandate
suffered significant losses based on the second court’s move,”
Ray Zucaro, who helps manage about $240 million of emerging-
market debt at SW Asset, said in a telephone interview from
Miami. “The three-month collapsed.”  Norma Madeo, a spokeswoman at the Economy Ministry,
declined to comment on Argentina’s bond payment plans in an e-
mail.  Uninterrupted Payments  The court’s decision to stay the judge’s orders and set a
Feb. 27 hearing for the government’s appeal ensures investors
will be paid this month, according to Zucaro.  Argentina was scheduled to make a $42 million interest
payment yesterday on bonds due in 2017.  Argentina will also pay about $3 billion on securities
linked to economic growth on Dec. 15 and has a $600 million
interest payment due for holders of bonds maturing in 2033,
according to the  Economy Ministry .  The upfront price of one-year protection with credit-
default swaps rose to a record 51 percentage points on Nov. 26,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Saved Coupons  “Griesa was pressuring for an expedited decision to be
completed by December 15th,” which would coincide with interest
payments, Jane Brauer, a fixed-income strategist at Bank of
America Corp., said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“Now they basically saved all the December coupons.”  The warrants, which were issued as part of Argentina’s debt
restructuring in 2005, rose 1.7 percent to 11.92 cents on Nov.
30 after surging a record 23 percent to 11.72 cents the previous
day.  Contracts tied to Argentine bonds were the seventh-most
actively  traded  sovereign swaps in the week ended Nov. 23,
according to the latest data from the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., which runs a central credit-swaps repository.
Investors bought 127 contracts, about seven times the average
amount among single-name contracts traded that week, with a
gross notional value of $595.7 million, according to the DTCC.  Banks,  hedge funds  and other institutional investors had
bought or sold a  net  $1.68 billion of default protection for
Argentine debt as of Nov. 23, according to DTCC. That compares
with $17.2 billion for  Brazil  and $2.01 billion for  Venezuela .  ‘Wiggle Room’  The rising demand for protection “reflects that Argentina
has very little wiggle room in the legal episode and the
probability that they are going to choose an avenue of potential
technical default is very high,” said  Enrique Alvarez , the head
of Latin America fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal, in a
telephone interview.  The  extra yield , or spread, investors demand to hold
Argentine debt over  U.S. Treasuries  surged to a three-year high
of 1,340 basis points or 13.4 percentage points on Nov. 28
before the ruling was stayed. The spread has narrowed 201 basis
points to 1,139 since then.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 4.8412 per dollar at 4:03
p.m. in Buenos Aires.  Swap contracts allow investors “to sleep well at night for
the next three months,”  Russell Dallen , head bond trader at
Caracas Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview from
Miami. “Who are we to say that their money wasn’t well spent? I
pay for a life insurance policy every year, but I’m thankful
that it isn’t used.”  More Volatility  The three-month contracts offer protection through March 20
of next year, and will expire before the country is due to make
an $84 million interest payment on its dollar-denominated par
bonds on March 31. That’s the first coupon Argentina is
scheduled to pay after the Feb. 27 hearing, and could be blocked
if the appeals court upholds Griesa’s Nov. 21 orders.  There will be more volatility in market prices as the
holdouts, led by Singer’s NML Capital Ltd. and Aurelius Capital
Management, ask the appeals court to lift the stay, according to
Bank of America’s Brauer.  On Nov. 30, NML filed an emergency motion to amend the
appellate court’s order, asking the judges to require that
Argentina post $250 million in order to maintain the stay.  “We expect a lot of noise -- it’s not going to be really
quiet between here and February,” Brauer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  