-- Army Seeks to Bar New Jersey Assemblyman From Contracts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-03T16:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/army-seeks-to-bar-new-jersey-assemblyman-from-contracts.html
The Army’s procurement fraud unit has
proposed prohibiting federal contracts to a Republican member of
 New Jersey ’s state legislature on allegations his company didn’t
pay money it owed an Afghan subcontractor and failed to deliver
an aircraft maintenance shelter for U.S. forces in Afghanistan.  The Army Procurement Fraud Branch is seeking debarment of
Assemblyman Robert Schroeder, a deputy Republican whip of the
New Jersey General Assembly, and his closely held company,  All
Points  International Distributors Inc. of Hillside, New Jersey.
Schroeder already is facing state criminal charges of writing
bad checks to company investors.  The Army fraud branch’s action, taken on Nov. 28, is
significant because the company “is a poster child for
contractors who fail to meet their obligations to pay Afghan
subcontractors,”  John Sopko , the special inspector for
 Afghanistan  reconstruction, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This is a pervasive problem that undermines the trust between
the Afghan people and coalition forces.”  Information from the inspector general prompted the Army
inquiry and “was among the evidence considered,” the Army
fraud office said in an e-mail.  Schroeder was charged by the New Jersey attorney general in
August with writing almost $400,000 in bad checks to investors
in All Points International, which manufacturers portable
shelters, canopies, aircraft hangars and multipurpose tents.  The Republican told the Record of Bergen County in August
that he didn’t knowingly write bad checks and that his company
was having trouble because U.S. “business has been in decline
during the Obama administration.”  Vindication Predicted  Schroeder, 52, has served in the General Assembly since
2010 and represents portions of Bergen and Passaic counties. He
sits on the Labor and  Homeland Security  and State Preparedness
committees.  Sopko said in his Oct. 30 quarterly status report on
Afghanistan that his office made “multiple requests to API to
meet it obligations to no avail before referring it” to the
Army.  Schroeder’s Washington attorney,  Jeff Ifrah , said in an e-
mail that his client “not only promptly acknowledged” the
inspector general’s requests “but proposed solutions” that
Sopko’s office approved.  “We are very disappointed that the Army will continue to
seek debarment of API and believe API will ultimately be
vindicated,” Ifrah said.  Temporary Suspension  The Army temporarily suspended the company and Schroeder in
September pending a fuller review. Instead of lifting the
suspension, the fraud branch Wednesday pressed ahead with a
proposed debarment of Schroeder and his company.  The proposed debarment “maintains the ineligibility of Mr.
Schroeder and his companies” to receive federal contracts “and
is the initial step in a debarment proceeding,” the fraud
office said in an e-mail.  Schroeder “has the opportunity to present matters in
opposition to the proposed debarment, in writing or in person,
on behalf of himself and/or his companies,” according to the e-
mail.  The Army will render a decision that “could include
debarment for a specified period, termination of the proposed
debarment, or entry into an administrative agreement in lieu of
debarment,” the fraud office said.  “The proposed debarment wasn’t based on just one thing,
but a preponderance of evidence, including what was outlined”
by the inspector general, Army spokesman Matthew Bourke said in
an e-mail.  Tents, Generators  All Points International had yet to pay an Afghan
subcontractor $158,692 of $204,692 owed for installing shelter
tents and generators at a forward operating base and Bagram
Airfield, according to the three-page summary of a document the
inspector general sent to the Army recommending debarment.  The company had received U.S. payments of $617,357.50 under
this contract, according to the document.  All Points International “failed to follow through on at
least six payment schedules” it had proposed from November to
May, according to the summary.  Ifrah said that while the company “ultimately fell behind
on its repayments due to a loss of revenue related to the
reduction in defense spending, it should be clear that this was
due to circumstances beyond its control and not for lack of
cooperation” with the inspector general.  No Shelter  The company was paid $247,500 in December and January by
another Afghan contractor on behalf of the U.S. military to
deliver a “large area maintenance shelter” for the Combined
Joint Special Operations Task Force.  The Afghan contractor in April filed a complaint with
Sopko’s office because the shelter wasn’t delivered, according
to the summary.  All Points International “was so derelict in delivering
this structure that the government ultimately changed the terms
of the contract and canceled” its requirement, the inspector
general’s summary found.  While the shelter’s delivery was delayed because of
circumstances caused by  Hurricane Irene  “it was eventually
shipped but” the Afghan contractor “refused to accept the late
delivery,” Ifrah said.  Sopko said in his quarterly report that his investigators
are “actively cooperating with the New Jersey State Police to
provide prosecutors with materials that could be used to support
the criminal case against Schroeder” on the bad-check charge.  Ifrah said in the e-mail that “the material will yield no
support for their criminal case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  