-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate on China Data, U.S. Budget Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-12-03T07:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/asian-stocks-at-seven-month-high-on-china-manufacturing.html
Asian  stocks  swung between gains and
losses as Chinese manufacturing data added to signs of recovery
while U.S. lawmakers continue to debate over a budget compromise
to avert a so-called fiscal cliff.  Metallurgical Corp. of China , an engineering contractor and
equipment manufacturer, climbed 4.4 percent in Hong Kong.
Shimizu Corp., a construction company, advanced 4 percent in
 Tokyo  on speculation a deadly highway-tunnel collapse will
reduce opposition to more public works spending. Li & Fung Ltd.,
a supplier of toys and clothing to retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., slipped 3 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 124.62 as
of 4:28 p.m. in Tokyo, erasing gains of as much as 0.5 percent.
The measure advanced 14 percent through Nov. 30 from this year’s
low on June 4 as central banks added stimulus to spur growth and
data showed China’s slowdown may be ending.  “While there are signs China’s economy might be bottoming,
we don’t expect growth to go back to double-digit rates,” said
 Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN
Amro Private Bank, which oversees about $207 billion. “We
expect no big stimulus or monetary easing from China. The U.S.
fiscal cliff is a concern even though we think they’ll
eventually come up with some kind compromise.”  U.S. lawmakers are debating the budget to help avert the
so-called fiscal cliff. Failure to come up with a budget deal
would trigger more than $600 billion of automatic tax increases
and spending cuts next year.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.1 percent in Tokyo
and South Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.4 percent.  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.6 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index dropped 0.9 percent, while  China ’s Shanghai Composite
Index slid 1 percent.  China PMI  China’s official manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index
rose to 50.6 in November, the highest reading in seven months,
data released by the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing on Dec. 1 showed. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  A separate survey by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
that focuses on smaller businesses also showed expansion.
Services industries maintained their pace of growth last month,
according to a PMI report released today.  The Chinese government may maintain its annual economic
growth target at 7.5 percent next year in a sign the new
leadership headed by Xi Jinping won’t tolerate a bigger slowdown
from the lowest goal since 2004. Nine of 16 analysts surveyed
over the past two weeks by Bloomberg News forecast the
government will set a goal unchanged from 2012, while six expect
a decline to 7 percent and one sees an increase to 8 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The gauge closed little changed on Nov. 30 and
ended 0.5 percent higher for the week as investors watched
developments in government budget negotiations amid better-than-
anticipated economic reports.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced last week amid
optimism U.S. lawmakers would agree on a budget deal that will
help avert the fiscal cliff and as the frontrunner to become
 Japan ’s next prime minister this month repeated calls for
stimulus. The gauge traded at 14.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 12.5 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  