-- Asmussen Says ECB Ready to Buy Bonds Under OMT, Jornal Reports
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-12-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/asmussen-says-ecb-ready-to-buy-bonds-under-omt-jornal-reports.html
The  European Central Bank  is ready to
activate its Outright Monetary Transactions program to buy
 government bonds , Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in
an interview with Jornal de Negocios.  “The OMT program has not yet been activated,” Asmussen
said in an interview with the Portuguese newspaper carried out
on Nov. 30 in  Frankfurt . “We are ready, but we have not yet
conducted any purchases.”  Asmussen said the ECB “will not encourage or discourage
any decision” regarding  Spain  and a possible request for
financial assistance, Jornal reported. “It is entirely up to
the Spanish government to decide what is best for its country,”
he said.  Portugal is still not at a stage at which the OMT program
can be used, he said, according to Jornal. It will be necessary
to issue “reasonable” amounts of bonds with maturities of more
than three years, Asmussen was quoted as saying.  “ Portugal  has taken a significant step forward with the
issuance of a three-year bond as part of a bond swap, but that
is not enough,” he said in the interview. “The majority of the
bonds were bought by domestic investors, which means that
international investors have not yet returned to the country. It
will have to issue reasonable amount of bonds with a longer
maturity. Moreover, the country is essentially dependent on
financial assistance,” Jornal cited Asmussen as saying.  Within Reach  Portugal’s goal of regaining access to bond markets in the
second half of 2013 is within reach, he said, according to
Jornal. “The program is broadly on track. Portugal’s
achievements under the program are remarkable and if the program
is followed 100 percent, the objective is achievable.”  European finance ministers cut the rates on  Greece ’s
bailout loans, suspended interest payments for a decade and gave
that country more time to repay at a meeting in Brussels that
ended on Nov. 27. Asmussen said a decision to extend those
conditions to Portugal and Ireland was not discussed, according
to the newspaper.  Ireland and Portugal are receiving favorable treatment by
not having to participate in the reduction of  interest rates  on
loans to Greece, Asmussen said.  Portugal’s  debt  is sustainable if the financial aid program
is fully implemented, Asmussen was cited as saying in Jornal.
Portugal’s  debt  will peak at 122 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014, according to the aid plan. He reaffirmed a
forecast for Portugal’s GDP to contract 1 percent in 2013,
according to Jornal.  “We in  Europe  have made significant progress in the last
year, and I am assuming that the U.S. will succeed in tackling
the fiscal cliff and that  China  will avoid a hard landing,”
Asmussen was cited as saying.  Asmussen said he does not see a common European deposit
insurance system “happening in the short term,” Jornal
reported. Asked by the newspaper if the ECB will act as a lender
of last resort for banks, Asmussen said “we have special
responsibility for the banks, but there are limits. We only
provide liquidity to sound banks against adequate collateral.”  Link to newspaper’s website:  http://www.jornaldenegocios.pt/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  