-- Latvian Nationalists Question 2014 Euro Adoption, TV Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-12-03T10:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/latvian-nationalists-question-2014-euro-adoption-tv-says.html
A Latvian nationalist party that’s
part of the ruling coalition hasn’t decided whether it will
support adopting the euro in 2014,  TV3  reported late yesterday.  The All for  Latvia /For Fatherland party hasn’t made a
decision on the currency switch, Einars Ciliniskis, the chairman
of the party’s parliamentary faction, said in a TV3 television
news program. Five of the group’s 14 lawmakers in the 100-member
parliament told the television they weren’t convinced the Baltic
country has to adopt the euro in 2014.  Latvia, which pegs its currency, the lats, to the euro
resisted pressure to devalue in 2008 and 2009 when its economy
shrank by more than a fifth. It relied on a loan from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  to pay wages.
The country was forced to abandon its goal to adopt the euro in
2008 after inflation exceeded criteria.  “It’s not possible for Latvia to keep inflation really low
over the long term” as the economy continues to grow, Finance
Minister Andris Vilks said on the television show.  The government, which has 56 seats in the legislature,
needs a majority to pass a law on adopting the euro in 2014 over
three readings. The proposal was sent to a parliamentary
commission after receiving only 51 votes, the television show
reported.  Maastricht Criteria  Countries seeking to adopt the euro must meet criteria on
inflation, long-term  interest rates ,  budget deficit  and
government debt.  “It’s clear that all together Latvia needs the euro,”
said Nils Usakovs, the mayor of Riga and chairman of the
opposition  Harmony Center  party, in an interview on the Latvian
Independent Television program  900 Seconds  today. “Yet there is
a question if that’s in 2014.”  Calling a referendum on the euro “is possible, I won’t
answer now that we will definitely do that,” Usakovs said.  About 13 percent of Latvians support adopting the euro, the
lowest level of support since the pollster SKDS began collecting
data, according to a  survey  in August. The poll carried a margin
of error of 3 percent, and surveyed 1,003 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  