-- Australia Dollar Declines After Retail Sales Data
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-12-03T04:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/australia-dollar-declines-after-retail-sales-data.html
Australia’s dollar fell against all
of its major counterparts after data showed the nation’s retail
sales unexpectedly stagnated, fanning speculation the  Reserve
Bank  will cut the benchmark  interest rate  tomorrow.  The so-called Aussie slid for a third day versus the U.S.
currency after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  hardened their positions over the so-
called fiscal cliff that threatens to send the world’s biggest
economy into recession. New Zealand’s dollar weakened versus
most peers after data showed the nation’s terms of trade
worsened. Both currencies were supported after official and
private reports showed China’s manufacturing expanded.  Australia’s dollar “definitely took the news rather
badly,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior currency
strategist at Scotiabank, said about the retail sales data. The
report “makes the market believe that the RBA may be more
concerned about the state of the domestic economy.”  The Australian dollar was at $1.0412 as of 3:36 p.m. in
Sydney after losing 0.5 percent over the previous two sessions
to close last week at $1.0428. New Zealand’s currency touched
81.71 U.S. cents, the lowest since Nov. 23, before trading at
82.03, little changed from the Nov. 30 close.  Australia ’s retail sales were unchanged in October from a
month earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey had predicted a 0.4 percent increase.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  will probably reduce the
overnight cash-rate target to 3 percent tomorrow from 3.25
percent, the median estimate of economists shows. Traders see an
almost 95 percent chance that the RBA will lower the rate by a
quarter of a percentage point, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on overnight-index swaps.  Bond Yields  Yields on Australia’s three-year bonds fell as much as five
basis points to 2.57 percent, the lowest since Nov. 19. Ten-year
rates slid as low as 3.12 percent, a level unseen since Nov. 20.  Republicans in Congress will be responsible for hurting the
 U.S. economy  if they refuse to raise tax rates on the highest-
income earners as part of a deal, Geithner said in a taped
interview that aired yesterday on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union .”
Republican Boehner said on the “Fox News Sunday” program that
the White House has responded “with virtually nothing” to
their offer.  The fiscal cliff refers to the $607 billion combination of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take
effect in January.  New Zealand’s  terms of trade  index fell 3.2 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30 from the second quarter, the biggest
drop since June 2009,  Statistics New Zealand  said today. The
gauge measures the price of exports relative to imports.  Prime Minister John Key said today that  New Zealand ’s
third-quarter economic growth will probably be a weak number.  China’s Manufacturing  The Aussie climbed 0.5 percent against the greenback in
November as concern eased that an economic slowdown in China
will curb demand for the South Pacific nation’s commodity
exports. China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today that
their purchasing managers’ index for China’s manufacturing was
at 50.5 last month, up from 49.5 in October. The report followed
the official manufacturing index released on Dec. 1 that
advanced to a seven-month high of 50.6. Readings above 50 signal
expansion.  “The moderation in growth found a base in the third
quarter, and we think the Chinese economy has been moderately
expanding since then,” said  Andrew Salter , a currency
strategist in Sydney at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. For the Aussie “it’s a positive, but only just.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  