-- Australia’s Weak Retail, Mining Profits Drive Up Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-03T02:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/australia-s-weak-retail-mining-profits-drive-up-rate-cut-bets.html
Australian  retail sales  stagnated in
October and mining profits dropped last quarter, sending the
nation’s currency lower as investors raised bets on an interest-
rate cut tomorrow.  Sales held at A$21.6 billion ($22.5 billion) from a month
earlier, when they rose 0.5 percent, a Bureau of Statistics
report showed in Sydney today.  Gross operating profits  fell 2.9
percent in the third quarter from three months prior, led by a
12.2 percent fall in mining companies’ earnings, a separate
government report showed.  The data intensify pressure on Reserve Bank of  Australia 
Governor Glenn Stevens to lower the benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point to 3 percent as he seeks to revive industries
outside resources. The nation’s unemployment rate jumped to a 2
1/2-year high in September and held there in October, and a
private report today showed help-wanted ads fell in November for
an eighth month.  The “disappointing data” make a rate cut tomorrow “even
more likely,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney. “The RBA won’t like sitting on the
sidelines if the economy is clearly in need of more stimulus.”  Traders are pricing in a 91 percent chance Stevens and his
board will lower borrowing costs tomorrow, up from 88 percent
prior to the reports, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
local dollar bought $1.0413 at 1:12 p.m. in Sydney, compared
with $1.0426 before the releases.  Household Goods  Economists had forecast a 0.4 percent rise in retail sales
in October, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. The report showed spending on household goods fell 1.6
percent, and consumers spent 0.3 percent less at cafes and
restaurants. They spent 0.9 percent more at food stores, the
only category to advance, it showed.  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , Australia’s largest
electronics retailer, said last month that first-quarter
earnings probably fell about 20 percent as it closed stores and
sales dropped 10 percent.  Weakness in the retail industry and lower projected mining
investment prompted job losses in the economy. Australian help-
wanted notices dropped for an eighth straight month in November,
sliding 2.9 percent, an  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  report showed today. Economists predict a Dec. 6 government
report will show unemployment rose to 5.5 percent.  Today’s business profits report showed that from a year
earlier, earnings declined 13 percent.  Rate Cuts  Stevens has lowered the  cash rate  by a total of 1.5
percentage points from November 2011 to October this year. He
held at 3.25 percent last month, citing faster-than-expected
inflation last quarter and a stabilizing global outlook.  A TD Securities Inc. gauge of inflation released today
showed a decline in November for the first time in five months,
falling 0.1 percent amid drops in the cost of vegetables and
fuel.  Prices in Australia have been restrained by the strength of
the nation’s currency, which has averaged above parity with the
U.S. dollar for the past two years as the resource investment
boom and international institutions seeking a safe haven from
global turmoil buy the currency. That hurt industries outside of
the resources industry vulnerable to international competition.  Australian manufacturing contracted for a ninth month in
November as producers cited the currency’s sustained strength
and weak demand at home and abroad, the Australian Industry
Group said in a survey released today.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said yesterday that growth in
Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of iron ore and coal,
may have slowed last quarter as commodity prices fell.  Gross domestic product probably expanded 3.1 percent in the
three months to Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a Dec. 5 government report. That’s slower than an annual
growth rate of about 4 percent in the first half of the year.  Today’s company profits report showed inventories, a
component of GDP, swelled 1.1 percent last quarter, compared
with analysts’ prediction for a 0.4 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  