-- Australia Company Profits Fall for Fourth Consecutive Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-03T00:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/australia-company-profits-fall-for-fourth-consecutive-quarter.html
Australian  business profits  dropped
in the three months through September, the fourth consecutive
quarterly decline, as  earnings  weakened at mining companies.  Gross operating profits fell 2.9 percent from the second
quarter, when they declined a revised 0.3 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast for a 3 percent drop in a Bloomberg survey of 20
economists. Inventories swelled 1.1 percent, compared with
 analysts ’ prediction for a 0.4 percent gain.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  will
likely lower the nation’s benchmark interest rate to 3 percent
tomorrow, according to most economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . A high currency has hurt earnings for non-resource
industries, and the price of  iron ore , which made up more than
20 percent of exports last year, dropped as much as 37 percent
last quarter.  The result reflects a “sharp fall in mining profits as
bulk commodity prices fell sharply,” Andrew McManus, an
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in
a research report before today’s release.  From a year earlier, profits declined 13 percent, today’s
report showed.  Earnings at mining companies slumped 12.2 percent in the
third quarter and wholesale trade dropped 10.4 percent,
according to today’s report. Profits at manufacturers rose 10.8
percent and earnings at utilities climbed 3.6 percent.  Yancoal Australia Ltd., the third-biggest standalone coal
producer in Australia, said Oct. 30 that it expects a third-
quarter loss of A$7.4 million ($7.7 million) after tax.  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd., Australia’s largest
electrical-goods retailer, said first-quarter earnings probably
fell about 20 percent as it closed stores and sales dropped 10
percent.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  