-- Baryshnikov’s Art Offers Rare Glimpse Into a Private Life
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/baryshnikov-s-art-offers-rare-glimpse-into-a-private-life.html
In the winter of 1975, several months
after he defected to the West from the former  Soviet Union ,
ballet star Mikhail Baryshnikov walked into a Paris art gallery
and bought his first two artworks.  That 1917 Jean Cocteau drawing of impresario Serge
Diaghilev, founder of the Ballets Russes, and Christian Berard’s
design for  George Balanchine ’s ballet “Mozartiana” are part of
a new exhibition in New York.  “The Art I’ve Lived With” comprises some 100 works from
Baryshnikov’s four decades of collecting. Never shown in public
before, the paintings begin around the turn of the 20th century
and include the Russian Avant-Garde, Soviet non-conformists and
contemporary art. Many are theatrical, humorous -- and personal.  “I never called myself a collector,” said Baryshnikov,
64, in a recent interview at ABA Gallery, where the exhibition
will go on view December 4 through 15. “I was just assembling
pieces that caught my eye.”  In spaghetti-striped pants and sporting a black scarf
around his neck, Baryshnikov toured the exhibition space, noting
last-minute imperfections. He pressed a couple of labels whose
corners got unstuck from the wall and removed a painting after
seeing a minuscule piece of paper on the side of its frame.  “It’s the most private thing I’ve done in my life in the
 United States ,” he said. “It’s even more revealing than to go
on stage. I am a performer. I go on stage and make a fool of
myself. Pictures can tell a story.”  Photos, Too  Gallery owner Anatol Bekkerman, who specializes in 19th and
early 20th century Russian art, concurred. Baryshnikov’s
photographs were shown at ABA in October.  “I respect Misha as an artist, as a photographer and as a
human being,” said Bekkerman. “It’s the first time ever that
the public will have a chance to see the private side of
Baryshnikov.”  Initially, the dancer was interested in works that related
to Diaghilev and the Ballets Russes, including set and costume
designs by Leon Bakst, Alexandre Benois and Sergei Sudeikin.  “I knew the names of those artists from the tender age,
from textbooks. They are people who worked in the imperial
theater in  Russia . They left Russia with Diaghilev and did
costumes for Vaslav Nijinsky and Mikhail Fokin. It was a
community of very gifted people.”  Paris Apartment  His collection at one point numbered between 400 and 500
works and has been spread among several residences, including
his Paris apartment, summer house in  Connecticut  and a studio at
the Baryshnikov Arts Center on  Manhattan ’s West Side.  “I never spent hundreds of thousands dollars on the
pieces, because I never had that kind of money,” said
Baryshnikov, a slender man with intense blue eyes. “A good
Bakst or Cocteau would be a couple of thousands of dollars. But
something like a little working sketch of Benois you could buy
for a couple of hundred dollars. Now it’s 20 times more.”  The collection is not for sale, though it will likely
travel to Moscow for an exhibition at the Pushkin Museum of Fine
Arts in 2013.  “Sell? No, no,” said Baryshnikov, shaking his head. “I
would hate to see them at some point disassembled. It would
probably be in the hands of my foundation.”  Last year, the Baryshnikov Arts Center sold the dancer’s
“View of  St. Petersburg ” by Petr Vereshchagin for $746,500 at
Sotheby’s in New York.  Great Gifts  As the word of Baryshnikov’s interest in works on paper got
out, people began offering him pieces, often as gifts.
Choreographer Trisha Brown gave him a drawing of her two knobby
feet. He received a drawing by Mikhail Larionov from
choreographer  Jerome Robbins .  French dancer and choreographer Roland Petit was the source
of another gift, a costume design for “Carmen” by Antoni
Clave.  One of the more unexpected presents came from an old man
whose name Baryshnikov never learned. Painted on board and rich
in purple and green, the work by Valentine Gross depicts
Nijinsky in the ballet “Le Spectre de la Rose.”  Baryshnikov often buys spontaneously during his world
travel. One of his more recent acquisitions is a small 1903
pencil drawing of a woman by Ilya Repin purchased in Helsinki.  “I am not a scholar,” he said. “I go. I like. I buy.”  ABA Gallery, 7 East 17th St. Information: +1-212-677-2367;
 http://abagallery.com/ .  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on wine.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 