-- Baseball Winter Meetings Begin One Year After $509 Million Spree
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-12-03T05:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/baseball-winter-meetings-begin-one-year-after-509-million-spree.html
A year after five free agents
switched Major League Baseball teams in deals worth more than a
half-billion dollars, the 2012 Winter Meetings that begin today
should be much less of a big-spending event.  The biggest name on the free-agent market, Texas Rangers
outfielder Josh Hamilton, has a history of drug and alcohol
abuse that may reduce clubs’ interest. Marquee players such as
New York Mets third baseman David Wright and New York Yankees
relief pitcher Mariano Rivera are staying with their teams.  Instead, general managers of the 30 MLB teams probably will
be focused at the meetings in Nashville,  Tennessee , more on
trades and second-tier players.  “I don’t expect anything as earth shattering as last
year,” Mike Haupert, an economics professor at the University
of Wisconsin-LaCrosse, said in a telephone interview. “There
just isn’t anybody out there who I think is a game changer, a
franchise player. There are a whole bunch of guys out there who
you might want if you’re building a team.”  Hamilton, 31, the 2010 American League Most Valuable
Player, hit a career-best 43 home runs last season and could
return to the Rangers after being courted by other teams.  The top pitcher available in free agency is Zack Greinke,
29, who made $13.5 million during a 2012 season that he finished
with the Los Angeles Angels after starting it in  Milwaukee .
Greinke, who won the 2009 AL Cy Young Award while with the
Kansas City Royals, missed most of the 2006 season while being
treated for social anxiety disorder.  Free agents B.J. Upton and Russell Martin already have
signed with new teams. Upton, a center fielder, moved from the
Tampa Bay Rays to the Atlanta Braves and Martin, a catcher, went
from the Yankees to the Pittsburgh Pirates.  Blockbuster Trade  The biggest trade of the offseason probably has already
occurred, as well. The Miami Marlins sent All-Stars Jose Reyes,
Mark Buehrle, Josh Johnson and John Buck to the Toronto Blue
Jays as part of a 12-player trade.  The Mets may officially announce at the Winter Meetings
that Wright has signed a seven-year contract extension that will
keep him with the team through the 2020 season.  Wayne McDonnell, an associate professor of sports
management at  New York  University, said the Wright signing, and
the Mets’ desire to build for the future, could lead General
Manager Sandy Alderson to trade Cy Young Award-winning
knuckleball pitcher R.A. Dickey, 38, this week.  “It wouldn’t surprise me to see teams such as the Kansas
City Royals or Los Angeles Dodgers get in on the action for
Dickey,” McDonnell said in a telephone interview. “If Sandy
Alderson is presented with a knee-buckling deal, I could see
Dickey being moved. The Mets are not going to be a competitive
ballclub for probably another two to three years, I think
they’re really looking at getting young players.”  Yankees Needs  The Yankees retained Rivera, 43, the MLB career leader with
608 saves, with a one-year deal. They also re-signed starting
pitchers Andy Pettitte and  Hiroki Kuroda  in recent weeks.  The Yankees probably will be looking for a right fielder to
replace Nick Swisher, a free agent who will probably sign
elsewhere. General Manager Brian Cashman said that will be a
bigger priority than finding a free-agent catcher to replace
Martin.  Free-agent catchers on the market include A.J. Pierzynski
and Mike Napoli. Cashman told reporters last week that the
Yankees are likely to fill Martin’s spot with one of the
catchers now on the roster --  Francisco Cervelli , Chris Stewart
and Austin Romine.  “In terms of catching and throwing and running games, I’d
line those guys up with some of the best catchers in the game on
the defensive side, game-planning and handling a pitching
staff,” Cashman said. “A couple of those guys have the
potential to become everyday catchers because of their bats if
they develop.”  Granderson Move  McDonnell said the Yankees might pull off a big trade this
week in Nashville, perhaps dealing away All-Star center fielder
Curtis Granderson -- whose 43 home runs during the regular
season were offset by 195 strikeouts and a .232 batting average.
He hit .100 (3-for-30) in the playoffs.  “I think the Yankees are a team that might make some noise
on the trade front, because they are going to be very
conservative in how they spend their money but they might
reposition their finances with a trade,” he said.  With the moves that already have happened before the Winter
Meetings, the four-day session in Nashville isn’t expected to be
as frenetic as last year’s gathering in  Dallas .  Reyes, Buehrle and Heath Bell signed long-term contracts
with the Marlins as free agents during last year’s meetings,
with shortstop Reyes agreeing to a $106 million deal, starting
pitcher Buehrle getting $58 million and reliever Bell receiving
$27 million. Bell was traded away in October by the Marlins, who
went 69-93 last season.  Hamilton’s Value  Three-time National League MVP Albert Pujols and pitcher
C.J. Wilson were signed as free agents by the Angels during the
2011 Winter Meetings. Pujols got a 10-year, $240 million
contract and Wilson was signed for $77.5 million over five
years. The Angels missed the playoffs.  This year, Hamilton and Greinke are the only players who
should be offered blockbuster free-agent deals.  “Josh Hamilton is the biggest name and he comes with so
many red flags,” said Haupert, who teaches the economics of
sports. “Without that baggage, he would probably have been
courted by every team in the league right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  