-- BOE Says Santander, Lloyds Reduced Lending in Third Quarter
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-03T10:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/boe-says-santander-lloyds-reduced-lending-in-third-quarter.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. unit pared lending in the third quarter, the
Bank of England said today as it published the results for the
first two months of its Funding for Lending program.  The two banks cut lending by a combined 6.2 billion pounds
($10 billion), central bank data show. Lending by other banks,
including 3.8 billion pounds by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , offset this,
leaving total cumulative net U.K. lending up 496 million pounds.
The BOE also said banks borrowed 4.36 billion pounds from the
FLS up to the end of September.  The central bank and U.K. Treasury started the program Aug.
1 to aid the economy by lowering funding costs and improving the
flow of credit to companies and consumers. Based on the stock of
loans as of the end of June, banks can borrow an initial 68
billion pounds from the FLS, according to today’s data.  “It is too early to use these data as a reliable
indication of the impact of the FLS on lending volumes,” BOE
Markets Director Paul Fisher said in a statement. “Since the
scheme was announced we have seen widespread falls in funding
costs across different sources and an equally wide variety of
lending rate reductions.”  Under the FLS, a bank can initially borrow treasury bills
valued at 5 percent of outstanding loans, plus any expansion of
lending during an 18-month reference period to end-2013. For
banks whose lending declines over that period, the fee on their
borrowings will increase.  Lloyds Lending  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s net lending fell by 642
million pounds in the third quarter, while it borrowed 750
million pounds through the FLS as of end-September.  Lloyds has drawn down 1 billion pounds from the FLS. The
lender said in a statement it intends to apply to draw a further
2 billion pounds by the end of the year and that it will pass on
the discount on those borrowings to customers. Barclays and
Santander have also borrowed 1 billion pounds through the plan.  It’s “a case of so far so good with regards to the take-
up,” said Alan Clarke, an economist at Scotia Bank in London.
“Quite whether it kick starts the chain reaction that is
required to get the economy going is less clear.”  The central bank said 35 lenders representing 80 percent of
the stock of lending to the economy are participating in the
program. Data on Oct. 30 showed 30 lenders had signed up.  “The first FLS figures are a snapshot at the very early
stages of the scheme and therefore the full impact is not yet
reflected in the net figures,” the British Bankers Association
said in a statement. “As the scheme embeds in banks, we should
continue to see the scheme acting as a driver for competition,
benefiting all borrowers and therefore the wider economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  