-- BOX Options Exchange Hires Ex-Getco Executive Ed Boyle
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-12-03T23:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/box-options-exchange-hires-ex-getco-executive-ed-boyle.html
BOX Options Exchange LLC, owned by
the Toronto Stock Exchange operator and seven brokers, hired
Edward Boyle to oversee business development and strategy.  Boyle, 50, a former executive in charge of the U.S. options
business at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , will join Chicago-based BOX in
January, he said by telephone. Automated trading firm Getco LLC
hired him in early 2011 to manage its relationships with
exchanges and work on business strategy. The company eliminated
about 40 jobs in June including Boyle’s, a person with direct
knowledge of the situation said at the time.  BOX, which executed 3.4 percent of U.S. equity options
volume excluding index transactions last month, will consider
initiatives including a second options exchange, new products
geared toward institutional traders and changing its trading
rules to attract more business, Anthony McCormick, chief
executive officer of BOX, said in a phone interview. It may also
consider selling stakes to brokers or financial firms, he said.  “We have to think about how to broaden our position in the
marketplace and what we can do strategically to diversify,”
McCormick said. Boyle will “be in the forefront of adjusting
our position in the marketplace and how the exchange company
develops,” he said. “We’re not going to sit back and just do
what we’re doing even though we’re doing it well.”  Order Flow  Boyle reports to McCormick and will join Patty Kevin-
Schuler in the business development group, BOX said in the
announcement today. McCormick added that Boyle’s role at the
company, which has about 35 employees, could increase.  “Exchanges are competing for order flow,”  Andy Nybo , head
of derivatives research at New York-based Tabb Group LLC, said
in a phone interview. “BOX has been known for their aggressive
price improvement auction and they’re looking to expand their
market share. I expect them to expand their product set beyond
what they’ve focused on in the past and move beyond the retail
price-improvement platform they’ve offered for years.”  U.S. options volume is likely to decline from last year’s
4.56 billion cleared contracts. Trading rose 17 percent in 2011
over 2010’s volume,  according  to Chicago-based OCC, which clears
and settles trades.  Registered Exchange  BOX, which began in 2004, became a registered exchange this
year after earlier using the regulatory license of a market
owned by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Nasdaq started the 10th U.S.
options exchange, called Nasdaq OMX BX Options, in June. Nasdaq
OMX has three U.S. options exchanges while NYSE Euronext and
 CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  have two each.  “Most of our competitors have gone in that direction,”
McCormick said about exchanges launching a second or even third
market to offer users different rules for how orders are matched
and the prices they pay to trade. “It’s something we’re going
to review strategically.”  The  International Securities Exchange , the first fully
electronic options exchange in the U.S., is considering plans
for another venue, Chief Executive Officer Gary Katz said in an
interview in March. Miami International Holdings Inc. plans to
add its own options venue, Shelly Brown, a senior vice president
at the Princeton, New Jersey-based firm, said last year. The SEC
hasn’t yet approved the MIAX exchange.  Bigger Contract  Among products BOX may consider trading is a larger-size
contract for options on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, an exchange-
traded fund based on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Instead of
the contract reflecting 100 shares of the underlying product, it
could represent 1,000 shares, McCormick said. The exchange would
need regulatory approval for the contract.  BOX may also consider new contracts such as volatility
products based on individual stocks, he said.  “There’s plenty of things that are going to happen in the
next six months to one year that Ed’s going to sink his teeth
into for us,” McCormick said. “While it will be a change for
us and it will be broadening our horizons, it won’t be at the
expense of what we’re emphasizing now, which is retail customer
price improvement.”  The exchange improved the prices on trades beyond what was
publicly available on a daily average of 205,000 contracts in
November, the company  said . BOX has saved investors more than
$409 million since 2004, it said.  BOX is considering “strategic changes” to improve its
price improvement system, the industry’s first effort to give
retail investors better prices through brief automated auctions,
McCormick said. It also plans to release a so-called complex
order book, which allows users to conduct trades with several
parts, or legs, he said.  TMX Group Inc. (X) , which owns 53.8 percent of parent company
BOX Holdings Group LLC, said earlier this year it would limit
its equity stake in the self-regulatory organization, the entity
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that
operates BOX, to 40 percent and its voting share to 20 percent.
Interactive Brokers would have 20 percent of BOX Holdings, the
 document  said. Citadel, Citigroup Inc., UBS AG and Credit Suisse
Group AG would each own between 3.99 percent and 4.2 percent.  BOX’s share of total U.S. options volume, including index
trading, is 3 percent, according to OCC. C2 Options Exchange, a
venue run by CBOE Holdings, and Nasdaq OMX’s newest market are
smaller than BOX.  McCormick said he doesn’t see an initial public offering
“anytime on the near-term horizon.” A realignment of the
exchange’s owners would need to occur first even if that were
considered, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 