-- Brazil Real Rises From Three-Year Low as Central Bank Intervenes
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-12-03T15:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/brazil-real-rises-from-three-year-low-as-central-bank-intervenes.html
Brazil ’s real advanced after policy
makers intervened following a plunge in the currency last week
to a three-year low on slower-than-forecast third-quarter
economic growth.  The real gained the most in five months after the central
bank sold 41,800 currency swap contracts worth $2.1 billion in
two auctions today. Swap rates dropped on speculation policy
makers will keep borrowing costs low for an extended period
after a report showed Nov. 30 that  Latin America ’s biggest
economy grew at half the pace economists had projected.  The currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 2.1164 per dollar
at 12:49 p.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier rallying as much as 1.8
percent, the most on an intraday basis since June 29. Swap rates
on contracts due in January 2014 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 7.18 percent.  “With the weak GDP outlook, there has been pressure on the
real,” Bernd Berg, an emerging-markets strategist at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said in a phone interview from Zurich. “They
don’t want the real to depreciate too quickly.”  Brazil’s economy will grow 1.27 percent this year and 3.70
percent in 2013, according to the median estimate in a central
bank survey of about 100 analysts published today. It was the
biggest single-week reduction in 2013 growth forecasts all year.
In the previous week’s survey, analysts forecast GDP to expand
1.50 percent in 2012 and 3.94 percent next year.  ‘Weak GDP’  Growth domestic product increased 0.9 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics agency said Nov. 30,
trailing the 1.9 percent median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “The central bank once again offered currency swaps,
helping stabilize the reeling real after Friday’s unexpectedly
weak GDP figures sent the real into a tailspin,”  Eduardo Suarez , a senior currency strategist at Scotiabank in Toronto,
said in an e-mailed report. The central bank may try to keep the
real between 2.05 and 2.15 per dollar, he wrote.  Policy makers have oscillated between selling reverse swaps
to protect exporters by keeping the real from strengthening, and
selling swap contracts aimed at preventing the real from
depreciating too quickly and creating inflationary pressures, he
said.  The central bank sold 41,800 currency swap contracts due in
January worth $2.1 billion in two auctions today. On Nov. 23, it
sold $1.6 billion in currency swaps in the first use of the
instrument since auctions from May 18 through June 29. From
August through October, the bank sold reverse currency swaps  to
keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar and make Brazil’s
exporters more competitive. The currency traded in a range of 2
per dollar to 2.1 per dollar from July 4 through Nov. 21.  Rate Outlook  Policy makers left Brazil’s target lending rate at a record
low 7.25 percent last week, snapping a streak of 10 reductions
as they tried to stoke growth in an economy forecast to expand
at the slowest pace in three years. They pledged to keep
monetary conditions stable for a “prolonged period,” according
to a statement accompanying the rate decision,  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has cut taxes and
boosted spending over the past 12 months to prop up the economy.
While the efforts are keeping retail sales buoyant amid a global
slowdown, companies are holding back on investment and
industrial production contracted in September for the first time
in four months.  Cuts in GDP forecasts are a signal the central bank will
keep borrowing costs low for a prolonged period and could even
cut rates before raising them, said Berg. Credit Suisse AG
revised down its 2012 GDP forecast to 1.1 percent last week,
from a previous forecast of 1.5 percent.  “It looks unlikely the central bank will increase rates
anytime soon,” Berg said. “The stimulus is working and it’s
the right stimulus but it takes time. Brazil’s economy is driven
strongly by domestic demand and credit and now you’re
repositioning for more growth in investment, exports. That
restructuring of the economy takes time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  