-- Brazil's Cohab Aboulafia Family Seeks Partners for Growth
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-12-03T02:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/brazil-s-cohab-aboulafia-family-seeks-partners-for-growth.html
Cainvest International Bank Ltd., the
wealth-management firm controlled by  Brazil ’s Cohab Aboulafia
family, plans to expand in Latin America by partnering with
family offices.  “We decided it’s the best way to offer proper service to
our clients and have a high-quality front office without needing
too heavy a structure,” Cainvest Chief Executive Officer
Charles Aboulafia, 30, said in an interview.  Cainvest has agreements with 10 family offices and plans to
add about 15 others, Aboulafia said, adding that the firm is
targeting assets under management of about $1 billion in two
years. The Grand Cayman-based firm agreed in April 2011 to
acquire Sul America International Bank Ltd., and has invested
about $30 million since then, mostly on technology for back-
office, custody and money-transfer operations.  “We will keep the same philosophy of our family owned
group and never take on debt or get leveraged,” Aboulafia said,
explaining that his grandfather, Charles Cohab, taught him that
too much debt “can break a company and leave clients with
losses.”  Cohab, 86, founded the family group in 1961 after leaving
 Syria  amid political persecutions, said Aboulafia, who worked at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before the New York-based firm
went bankrupt.  The Cohab Aboulafia family is Brazil’s second-biggest
producer of polyester tissue used in making shoes, furniture and
other products under the brand Trisoft. It exports to  Argentina ,
 Chile , Uruguay and  Paraguay .  Entrepreneur Relationships  “We are planning to grow in the wealth-management business
using relationships that we already have with our clients from
the industrial unit,” Aboulafia said. He declined to say how
much the firm manages now. Barreto & Partners and Countryserv
are two of the family offices Cainvest has joined with under the
new strategy, according to Aboulafia.  Cainvest targets clients with $1 million to $5 million to
invest, because they “aren’t as well-served by banks, which
prefer bigger tickets,” Aboulafia said.  Cainvest pays 25 percent of net revenue to the family
offices. If the family office brings clients to Cainvest, it
also receives a commission. The model was developed with the
help of Eduardo Oliveira, chief strategist at Cainvest and the
former CEO of wealth management at UBS Pactual and ex-head of
global markets at Deutsche Bank Brazil.  Oliveira will leave Cainvest at the end of the year with
his job “very well done,” Aboulafia said.  Cainvest said in July it obtained approval to be listed on
the Cayman Islands Stock Exchange as it sought capital for an
acquisition. “We lost the acquisition bid and now will seek
other opportunities,” Aboulafia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  