-- Bristol-Myers Drops Alzheimer’s Drug on Little Benefit
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-03T21:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/bristol-myers-drops-alzheimer-s-drug-on-little-benefit.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  ended
development of an experimental Alzheimer’s disease treatment
after the drug was shown not to be effective, the company said.  The drug, avagacestat, was in the second of three phases of
clinical development needed for U.S. regulatory approval.
Bristol-Myers, based in New York, said data from a completed
trial of the drug and a current study showed the therapy wasn’t
effective enough to move into the final phase.  “No new safety issues emerged in this interim analysis;
however, the efficacy observed did not justify further
development when evaluated in the context of all avagacestat
data,” the company said in a  statement .  Alzheimer’s is a neurodegenerative disease that robs
patients of their memory and ability to function. It affects 5.4
million Americans, according to the  Alzheimer’s Association , and
is the sixth-leading cause of death in the U.S.  Bristol-Myers’ drug targets brain plaque called beta
amyloid associated with the disease. Researchers have theorized
that eliminating the clumps or halting their formation might
stop the disease’s progression.  The company said it hadn’t given up on that theory, and has
another medicine in the first phase of development. Merck & Co.
and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  have products in the second and third phases
of clinical development. Another drug, developed by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Elan Corp. failed in trials this year.  Bristol-Myers  gained  less than 1 percent to $32.67 at 4
p.m. New York time. The company’s shares have declined 7.3
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  