-- Brown Seeks Sovereign Wealth to Back High-Speed Rail Line
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/brown-seeks-sovereign-wealth-to-back-high-speed-rail-line.html
California  is courting sovereign-
wealth funds, pensions and endowments for more than $50 billion
to build Governor Jerry Brown’s proposed bullet train to link
the state’s largest cities, the most expensive public-works
project in U.S. history.  High-speed rail ventures such as California’s, which has
weathered management shake-ups and fluctuating cost estimates,
pose attractive opportunities for such investors, who together
have $6 trillion in assets, said Andy Kunz, president of the
U.S. High Speed Rail Association, a nonprofit advocacy group
meeting this week in Los Angeles.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains running as fast as 220 miles an hour (354 kilometers an
hour). The $68.4 billion  project , linking San Francisco with Los
Angeles, is counting on $10 billion in bonds authorized by
voters, $3.3 billion committed by the federal government and as
much as $55.1 billion from private sources.  “We have active interest in and outreach to sovereign
funds and foreign consortia that are looking at us,” Jeffrey Morales, chief executive of the California High-Speed Rail
Authority, said Nov. 29.  In addition to sovereign wealth funds, or state-owned
investment pools, other potential investors include companies
that will build and operate trains and stations, he said.  “Pension funds are definitely a potential investor,”
Morales said. “They have been increasingly looking at
infrastructure as an investment opportunity.”  Modest Returns  Public works projects have become more attractive to
investors seeking stable, if modest, returns in a volatile
climate, said Bradley Morrow, a senior consultant for private
markets at  Towers Watson & Co. (TW) , a New York-based professional-
services company.  “It’s becoming more accepted as an asset class for
institutional investors in North America,” Morrow said,
referring to a range of capital projects and not rail
specifically.  To be sure, conventional water, sewer and electrical bonds
repaid through user fees, are less risky than a train whose
ridership is uncertain, said Burton Mulford, who oversees $1.85
billion in municipal debt for St. Petersburg, Florida-based
Eagle Asset Management.  “The mega-transportation projects have a potential for
significant cost overruns,” he said. “The feasibility studies
for this California project could be very optimistic for both
ridership and revenues.”  Cost Overruns  The most expensive public-works project in the U.S. was
 Boston ’s Big Dig, a highway tunnel system that cost $24.3
billion including interest and related obligations, according to
a financial  summary  presented by transportation officials to the
state House Committee on Post Audit and Oversight in July. The
program, which was plagued by overruns and structural defects,
was financed primarily by federal funds and debt backed by the
Commonwealth of  Massachusetts .  California’s nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office
labeled its state’s high-speed rail funding model “highly
speculative” in April. In July, the Legislature voted to sell
$2.6 billion in bonds approved by voters in 2008 toward the 800-
mile project.  However, lawmakers shelved Brown’s plan to earmark as much
as $500 million a year in proceeds from auctioning tradeable
carbon-emission permits.  California’s project is the only active high-speed rail
proposal in the U.S. after Congress cut off 2012 funds for such
projects. New Republican governors in Ohio, Florida and
 Wisconsin  abandoned proposals after taking office in 2011.  Calpers, Calstrs  Neither the California Public Employees’ Retirement System,
which is the largest U.S. pension, nor the California State
Teachers’ Retirement System, the second-largest, have committed
money to high-speed rail, according to spokesmen.  In 2011, the Calpers board voted to invest as much as $800
million in transportation, energy, natural resources, utilities,
water and communications in California during the next three
years. Calpers has a target of investing 2 percent of its $244.2
billion of assets in infrastructure.  A spokesman for Calpers, Joe DeAnda, and a spokesman for
the teachers’ fund, Ricardo Duran, declined to comment on
whether asset managers were considering high-speed rail, saying
their funds don’t speculate on possible investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  