-- Bulgarian Energy Holding Probed by EU Over Power Contracts
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-12-03T16:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/bulgarian-energy-holding-faces-eu-antitrust-probe-over-contracts.html
Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD faces a
formal antitrust probe by European Union regulators over
possible monopoly abuse in the electricity industry.  The European Commission is investigating provisions in
electricity supply agreements struck by the state-owned
company’s units that prescribe where power can be sold and may
prevent its resale outside  Bulgaria , the Brussels-based agency
said in an e-mailed statement today. Such restrictions may
hinder competition, the EU said.  Regulators are also examining BEH’s activities on the gas
market, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission, told
reporters in Brussels. That investigation is still at a
preliminary state, he said. The electricity probe focuses on
territorial restrictions in contracts since Bulgaria joined the
EU in 2007, he said.  The EU is separately probing OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural-
gas monopoly, over terms in its long-term gas supply contracts
with EU countries. The EU has a string of cases, including the
BEH probe, that are “helping to foster a more competitive
energy environment” in central and eastern  Europe , EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in a  speech  in
September.  “BEH will fully cooperate with the European Commission in
its effort to establish whether there is monopoly abuse on the
Bulgarian energy market,” the state holding company said in a
statement today. “The probe doesn’t mean the commission has
already established a final violation. BEH has done everything
possible to comply” with EU energy market regulations, it said.  Regulators visited the offices of BEH’s units Bulgargaz and
Bulgartransgaz as well as Bulgarian’s biggest private natural
gas distributor Overgas Inc. last year.  Overgas, which is partly owned by Gazprom, said at the time
that it had complained to the EU in November after
Bulgartransgaz blocked access to a high-pressure pipeline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  