-- Bullard Says Buying Securities Outright Risks Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-12-03T18:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/bullard-says-buying-securities-outright-risks-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said replacing Operation Twist’s swap of
Treasuries with outright purchases of the same amount of
securities would represent a policy easing that could risk
higher inflation.  “It is reasonable to think that an outright purchase
program has more impact on inflation and inflation expectations
than a Twist program,” Bullard said today in a speech in Little
Rock, Arkansas. “If the goal is to keep policy on its present
course, the replacement rate should be less than one-for-one.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which meets next week,
will consider whether to expand purchases of assets, or
quantitative easing, after its Operation Twist program of
swapping $45 billion a month in short-term Treasuries for long-
term debt expires this month. A number of Fed officials have
said an expansion will be needed to stimulate a slow economy,
according to minutes of the Oct. 23-24 meeting.  “Outright purchases are likely more potent than Twist
operations,” Bullard said to the  Little Rock  Regional Chamber
of Commerce. “This suggests somewhat less than one-for-one
replacement if the committee’s intent is to keep policy
unchanged.”  A measure of prices tied to spending advanced 1.7 percent
in October from the same month last year, less than the Fed’s
long-run goal of 2 percent, a Commerce Department report showed
last week. Excluding food and energy costs, the price gauge
increased 1.6 percent from a year earlier.  No Vote  Bullard, who does not vote on Fed monetary policy this
year, repeated he was wary of setting specific numerical
thresholds for unemployment and inflation that would lead to
policy changes.  The St. Louis Fed official said the central bank “cannot
meaningfully target unemployment,” citing a January 2012
statement by the FOMC. “The Committee needs to emphasize that
unemployment can remain elevated for reasons unrelated to
monetary policy,” he said.  Europe, for example, has suffered from persistently high
unemployed due to structural issues, Bullard said.  If targets are set, they should be “actual values for both
inflation and unemployment” rather than forecasts for
inflation, he said.  The Fed is considering tying its monetary policy to
specific levels for the  unemployment rate  and inflation. Central
bankers still need to resolve “a number of practical issues”
before a decision on quantitative thresholds can be made by the
FOMC, minutes of the Oct. 23-24 gathering showed.  Near Zero  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said last week the
central bank should keep  interest rates  near zero until
unemployment falls to 6.5 percent or below as long as inflation
is under 2.5 percent, aligning himself more closely with other
Fed officials.  The FOMC in October voted to continue buying $40 billion in
mortgage bonds each month, aiming to fuel economic growth and
reduce 7.9 percent unemployment.  After concluding a two-day meeting on Oct. 24, the FOMC
said it expects to keep the federal funds rate exceptionally low
through at least mid-2015, repeating a pledge from Sept. 13.  Bullard, who was the first policy maker to voice support
for asset purchases in 2010, has been viewed as a bellwether for
investors. His speeches and interviews moved the two-year
Treasury yield more than any other FOMC member last year,
according to a Macroeconomic Advisers report released Jan. 27.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  