-- Canadian Pacific Halts Coal-Expansion Plan From DM&E Deal
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-03T21:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/canadian-pacific-halts-coal-expansion-plan-from-dm-e-deal.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  will
delay indefinitely plans to expand its track network into the
Powder River Basin, which holds the largest coal reserve in the
U.S., as prices for the fuel deteriorate.  The railroad will take an after-tax charge of C$107 million
($108 million) on its option to build the 260-mile extension, a
right acquired with the 2007 purchase of the Dakota, Minnesota &
Eastern rail carrier. Hedge-fund manager  William Ackman 
criticized the deal this year as he sought to improve returns by
ousting the chief executive officer.  “The cost for  Canadian Pacific  to extend out its line to
the Powder River Basin was probably prohibitive,”  Cameron Doerksen , a Montreal-based analyst at National Bank Financial,
said in a telephone interview. “It was going to be a difficult
case to make even in a good coal market. It seems pretty obvious
that it was something that was unlikely to move forward.”  Coal prices have weakened in the U.S. as utilities switched
to cheaper natural gas produced by hydraulic fracturing of
shale. Coal carloads shipped by the biggest North American
railroads dropped from the previous year in each of the first
three quarters of 2012.  Canadian Pacific’s announcement today precedes an investor
meeting in New York where CEO  Hunter Harrison , Ackman’s pick to
replace  Fred Green , will outline plans for improvements at the
company, the least profitable of the large North American
railroads. Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP holds
a  14 percent stake  in the business.  Canadian Pacific said in a statement its decision was based
on “continued deterioration in the market for domestic thermal
coal, including a sharp deterioration in 2012.” The railroad’s
stock  declined  1.5 percent to C$91.35 at the close in Toronto.  The charge, which amounts to C$180 million on a pretax
basis, includes the option, engineering design costs and land,
the railroad said. The building rights offered an
“extraordinary growth prospect” when Canadian Pacific bought
DM&E, Green said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 