-- Cantor Acquires Ireland’s Dolmen and Plans to Hire 200 Next Year
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-12-03T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/cantor-acquires-ireland-s-dolmen-and-plans-to-hire-200-next-year.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, the New York-
based securities firm, bought Ireland’s Dolmen Stockbrokers and
plans to hire at least 200 staff at its brokerage arm next year
to take market share from rivals and grow in asset management.  Dolmen, a Dublin-based securities firm with 90 employees,
is the U.S. company’s first Irish acquisition, according to a
statement today from Cantor, which is applying to be a primary
dealer of government bonds in Ireland. Terms of the sale weren’t
disclosed.  “We are looking to be the No. 1 fixed-income dealer in
Ireland in a relatively short period of time,” Shawn Matthews,
chief executive officer of Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., the
company’s brokerage and investment-banking arm, said in an
interview. “We are still aggressively looking to expand. I can
see us adding at least 200 people over the next year.”  Cantor is hiring as other global financial firms shed more
than 88,500 jobs this year. Matthews said Cantor will offer
fixed-income and equity underwriting, trading, wealth-management
and pension services in Ireland as the country and its banks
recover from the sovereign-debt crisis, returning to markets for
the first time since the nation was bailed out.  Matthews said Cantor sees an opportunity in the aftermath
of the Irish housing bust through repackaging mortgages into
securities to get them off troubled lenders’ books.  “We are looking to go in there to solve part of that
issue,” he said. “I think the solution will come through
securitizations of real-estate loans.”  ‘Refinancing Mode’  Matthews said Cantor will keep building its fixed income
and equity businesses, and will also seek to expand in asset
management through acquisitions in the U.S. and  Europe . The 67-
year-old firm employs about 1,600 people worldwide, up from
1,400 last year, according to its website. It lost 658 of 960
 New York  staff in the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.  Dolmen CEO and co-founder Ronan Reid said Dolmen’s pretax
loss narrowed to 1.9 million euros ($2.5 million) in 2011 from
2.5 million euros a year earlier, while revenue rose 1 percent
to 12.4 million euros. Revenue in the first 10 months of 2012
has already exceeded last year’s total, partly on institutional
demand for fixed-income services, he said.  “Ireland Inc. is in refinancing mode,” Reid said in an
interview. The takeover “allows us to be able to participate in
that, with major global distribution.”  Hiring Plans  Last month, the country’s largest two lenders, Bank of
Ireland Plc and  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , each sold their first
public bonds since 2010. Ireland’s government was forced to seek
an international bailout in 2010 as the cost of rescuing its
banks became too much to handle. It re-entered the long-term
bond markets in July for the first time in almost two years.  Reid said the division may hire as many as 30 people over
the next two years, which would bring employment to 120 staff,
compared with Dolmen’s peak of 130 before the crisis. More Irish
acquisitions to “further diversify the client base” may
follow, he said.  Reid, who founded the firm with Paul McGowan in 1995, said
he has committed to stay as CEO of the unit for the next four to
five years, and that 14 or 15 other employees are likely to
become equity shareholders in Cantor Fitzgerald.  The Dolmen acquisition is the second purchase of an Irish
securities firm by a foreign company this year.  Investec Plc (INVP) ,
which owns a bank and money manager in South Africa and the
U.K., bought Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers in June in a deal
estimated to be worth 32.4 million euros.  Allied Irish, which was nationalized in the crisis, sold
its Goodbody Stockbrokers unit to Kerry, Ireland-based Fexco
Holdings Ltd. for 24 million euros almost two years ago.
Bloxham, another securities firm, was put into liquidation in
May amid a central bank probe into accounting irregularities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  