-- Chalco Plans to Build Indonesian Alumina Plant for Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-04T11:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/chalco-plans-to-build-indonesian-alumina-plant-for-supply.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
country’s biggest producer, is seeking to tap bauxite resources
and build processing plants abroad after  Indonesia , the largest
supplier to China, curbed exports.  The company plans to build an alumina facility with a
capacity of 1 million metric tons a year in Indonesia as the
first phase, President  Luo Jianchuan  said in an interview on
Nov. 30 in Chongqing. “We’re still doing a feasibility study”
and the earliest date for completion of the first phase is
2014-2015, he said, without specifying the cost.  Bosai Minerals
Group Co.  is also considering an investment.  Indonesia banned exports of some mineral ores starting in
May, except for mining business license holders that plan to
build local processing plants. Those shipments are subject to a
20 percent tax, according to government regulations. Indonesia
supplied 80 percent of China’s total bauxite imports in 2011,
data from the customs department showed.  Chalco said in August it signed an agreement with PT
Indonusa Dwitama to form a joint venture and develop the
southeast Asian nation’s biggest bauxite mine. The company has a
similar plan in  Laos , Luo said, without providing details.  “The current holdings of bauxite resources abroad by
Chinese companies are far from enough to meet demand,” said
Yang Yunbo, director of the light metals department at the China
Nonferrous Metals Industry Association. “Bauxite will be a
hurdle to sustainable development in the industry.”  Bosai’s Plans  Chinese  imports  of bauxite from Indonesia tumbled 55
percent in October from a year ago to 1.05 million tons, while
total imports of the ore fell 30 percent to 2.14 million tons,
data from the General Administration of Customs showed. Bauxite
is used to make alumina, which in turn produces aluminum used in
everything from window frames to beverage cans.  Bosai Minerals, a privately owned integrated aluminum
producer, may also invest $1 billion in an alumina project with
an annual production capacity of 2 million tons, as well as
power plants and port facilities, according to company Vice
President Liu Jianhong.  “Because the investment is big, we’re cautious in pushing
forward,” Liu said. “There are uncertainties regarding
Indonesia’s policies. If they change again to allow exports,
then the project will be a problem for us.”  The Indonesian  Supreme Court  annulled last month some
articles in Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Decree No. 7,
including article 21 that bans exports of mineral ores. The ban
is still in effect as the government hasn’t received
notification from the Supreme Court on its verdict, Energy and
Mineral Resources Minister Jero Wacik said on Nov. 6.  Worldwide Supply  Bosai has bauxite mines in  Ghana  and Guyana, and plans to
ship 2 million tons of the ore from Ghana and 1.5 million tons
to 2 million tons from Guyana to China each year, according to
Liu. “Our raw-material supplies can be secured in the medium-to
long-term,” Liu said. “So apart from meeting our own demand,
we can sell to other companies in  China .”  The company has an annual production capacity of 800,000
tons of alumina and 200,000 tons of aluminum, and plans to have
3 million tons of capacity for alumina and 1.25 million tons for
aluminum by 2015, according to its website.  Output of aluminum in China, the largest producer and user,
climbed to a record 1.75 million tons in August, and gained 11
percent from a year ago to 16.5 million tons in January to
October, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  Demand grew 5.8 percent in the first nine months from a
year ago to 14.4 million tons, said Wen Xianjun, vice chairman
of the association. That’s 5 percentage points lower than the
year-ago period and the slowest since at least 2000, said Wen.  Aluminum for three-month delivery fell 0.6 percent to
$2,107.75 a ton today after reaching $2,125 yesterday, the
highest level in two months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  