-- China Home Prices Expand Gains on Sentiment, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-03T08:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/china-home-prices-expand-gains-on-sentiment-soufun-says-1-.html
China ’s new  home prices  rose the most
in four months as smaller developers marketed more projects amid
interest from buyers concerned that prices will start rising
again.  Prices climbed for a sixth month, increasing 0.26 percent
to 8,791  yuan  ($1,412) per square meter in November from October,
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real estate website
owner, said in an e-mailed statement today, based on its survey
of 100 cities.  “Buyers’ sentiment improved as they saw home sales rise in
first-tier cities, which is a leading indicator,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK Securities
Research. “First-home buyers, who have been waiting and
watching the market, are begging to take action in case home
prices take off nationwide.”  China is unlikely to relax property curbs nor issue new
measures after the Communist Party unveiled the new generation
of leaders in November. The government’s property curbs have had
a “relatively good” effect and the government will
“steadfastly” enforce property controls, Housing Minister
 Jiang Weixin  said at a press conference in Beijing last month.  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index (SHPROP)  rose 1.6 percent
at the close of trading, the only gainer among the five industry
groups on the  benchmark , which fell 1 percent. It was also the
property gauge’s biggest two-day gain in a month.  The eastern city of Heze had the biggest gain in November,
increasing 1.97 percent, SouFun said. Home prices in Beijing
rose 0.7 percent from October, and increased 0.1 percent in
Shanghai.  Moody’s Investors Service last week revised China’s
property sector to “stable” from “negative,” on expectation
sales and access to funding will continue to improve in 2013.  More Sales  Property sales are expected to increase over the next 12
months, while the Chinese government is unlikely to impose
further tightenings, Franco Leung, an assistant vice president
of Moody’s, said in the report.  Home sales in Shanghai almost doubled last month from
October to 981,500 square meters, property consultant Shanghai
UWin Real Estate Information Services Co. said in a e-mailed
statement yesterday. A square meter is about 10.8 square feet.  China will speed up property tax reform over the next five
years, Shanghai Securities News reported on Nov. 29 citing
Finance Minister  Xie Xuren . The  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences  proposed imposing a property tax nationwide on homes
where the per-person space for each individual exceeds 40 square
meters, the official Xinhua News Agency reported last week.  The government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements in its more than two-year effort to curb the
 property market . It also imposed a property tax for the first
time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased construction of low-
cost social housing and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  Developers are “relatively optimistic” about sales in the
first half of next year as no new property curbs are expected,
according to CIMB’s Hu.  Home prices fell 0.46 percent last month from a year
earlier, according to today’s SouFun statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  