-- China Swaps Jump Most in Almost Three Weeks as Economy Improves
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-12-03T02:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/china-swaps-jump-most-in-almost-three-weeks-as-economy-improves.html
China ’s  interest-rate swaps  jumped
the most in almost three weeks on signs that the world’s second-
largest economy is recovering after a seven-quarter slowdown.  A manufacturing gauge rose to a seven-month high in
November, data released Dec. 1 showed. China may keep its annual
economic growth target at 7.5 percent next year, according to
Nine of 16 analysts surveyed Nov. 22-30 by Bloomberg News, while
six expect a decline to 7 percent and one sees an increase to 8
percent. Top economic officials meet this month to map out
policies for 2013 and may set the target that will be officially
announced in March at the annual session of parliament.  “Rates should be on a gradual uptrend, with more data
confirming the Chinese economy is bottoming out,” said  Frances
Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  Two-year swap contracts that exchange the one-year deposit
rate for a fixed payment climbed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.87 percent at 9:56 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the biggest
increase since Nov. 13. Buyers of the contracts receive the
current deposit rate for one year, after which the floating
payment is reset for the second year at the prevailing rate.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 50.6 in November,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said on Dec.1 in Beijing. That compares
with the 50.8 median estimate in a  Bloomberg News  survey of 28
analysts and 50.2 the previous month. A reading above 50
indicates manufacturing expanded.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for sales of
seven-, 14- and 28-day reverse-repurchase contracts this week,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The PBOC also asked banks to submit orders for 28- and
91-day repurchase contracts this morning, the trader said.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, was little changed at 3.41 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  