-- Chinese Company Admits U.S. Charges Over Nuclear Exports
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-03T18:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/chinese-company-admits-u-s-charges-over-nuclear-exports.html
A Chinese company agreed to pay
$2 million in fines after admitting it helped to export nuclear
reactor paint from the U.S. to  Pakistan  without a license.  China Nuclear Industry Huaxing Construction Co., which is
operated by the Chinese government, pleaded guilty in federal
court in  Washington  today to conspiring to defraud the U.S. and
violating U.S. export laws.  The Nanjing City, China-based company, known as Huaxing,
admitted that, without Commerce Department approval, it bought a
paint system from PPG Industries Inc. in 2006 used to coat the
inside of a nuclear reactor being built near Chashma, Punjab.  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  fined the company
$1 million and said it must pay another $1 million if it
violates terms of its five-year probation. Assistant U.S.
Attorney G. Michael Harvey told Sullivan the company was also
fined $1 million by the Commerce Department.  “The lesson here is clear: We will pursue violations of
U.S. export controls wherever they occur in the world,” U.S.
Attorney Ronald Machen said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
prosecute both individuals and corporate wrongdoers, and a
corporation’s status as foreign-owned, or even state-owned, will
not bar enforcement of those laws in U.S. courts,”  Pittsburgh-based PPG Industries and its Shanghai-based unit
agreed in December 2010 to pay $3.75 million in fines for
selling hundreds of gallons of an epoxy coating to Huaxing for
use in Pakistan after the company’s application for the license
was rejected in June 2006.  The company “will fully comply with U.S. laws going
forward to avoid a repeat of this situation,” Huaxing’s lawyer,
 Sotiris Planzos , told Sullivan.  The case is U.S. v. China Nuclear Industry Huaxing
Construction Co., 12-cr-00251, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 