-- China Needs More Investors Like Carson Block
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-12-03T22:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/china-needs-more-investors-like-carson-block.html
Nothing ruins a chief executive
officer’s year faster than hearing the name  Carson Block .  Allen Chan can attest to that. In April, he resigned from
Sino-Forest Corp., the Chinese forestry company he co-founded
two decades ago, after being targeted by Block’s Muddy Waters
LLC. The short-selling firm shot to fame by correctly betting on
declines in stocks of Chinese companies listed in North America,
much in the same way that David Einhorn rose to prominence for
being right on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  This hasn’t gone over well in China, where foreign critics
can trigger an intense level of nationalistic suspicion. When
Greenlight Capital Inc.’s Einhorn shorts  Japan , officials in
Tokyo, while not happy, move on. But when Jim Chanos of Kynikos
Associates Ltd. bets against  China , hostility abounds. In
September, a group of more than 60 Chinese entrepreneurs and
executives signed an open  letter  accusing Citron Research and
other short sellers of manipulating information and misleading
investors.  Rather than circle the wagons against Block, China should
realize that some good can come from his tactics. Many of
China’s companies need serious scrutiny.  One reason China could just join him and welcome domestic
short sellers is to go after dodgy U.S. companies that make a
mockery of capitalism.  Hewlett-Packard Co.’s accounting scandal is but the latest
reminder that U.S. practices are far from ideal. After Wall
Street’s crash and the shenanigans at Enron Corp. and WorldCom
Inc., Chinese have reason to do their own police work on the
U.S. The real benefit, though, is domestic.  Real Fire  I’m not defending all of the practices of short sellers.
Anyone who manipulates stocks or bonds by introducing false
information into the market should be scrutinized, too.
Sometimes, though, there really is fire where there is smoke.
Consider how many times Lehman Chairman Richard Fuld denounced
the traders who turned out to be right about his company. Or how
many times Sino-Forest executives dismissed Block as a complete
nut.  None of this means Muddy Waters is right about all of its
 strong-sell reports . And it might not matter, as Carson is de-
emphasizing his positions on China -- for now.  Singapore’s Sunny Verghese, CEO of Olam International Ltd.,
is Block’s latest fixation. No one knows whether Muddy Waters is
correct that the giant commodity trader is on the verge of
insolvency. All we know is that someone will end up with mud on
the face. But why turn away from China?  “China has gotten harder in the sense that the government
has really taken the side of the fraud,” Block told Bloomberg
News on Nov. 27. “The government is working with a number of
these companies to try to conceal records that are public. When
you are up against that sort of strength of the ability to
revise history, it becomes difficult. That is one of the reasons
we’re not that interested in China anymore.”  That’s why China’s top-down capitalism needs pressure from
the inside, from investors on the ground. At a time when
corruption is on the rise, China needs a chorus of homegrown
voices asking questions. It is too loaded and charged when the
criticism comes from the outside. Chinese should become
stakeholders in their system, not just shareholders.  China knows no bigger bull market than applications to join
the Communist Party. Why? The big money is in government. It’s
in dubious land grabs, insider trading and old-fashioned rent
seeking.  Big Scandals  The big scandals of 2012 bear that out. One surrounding
Chongqing politician Bo Xilai shined a bright light on the vast
wealth amassed by his extended family. In June, Bloomberg News
reported on the accumulated wealth of the family of Xi Jinping,
China’s next president. More recently, the  New York  Times
alleged that the family of departing Premier Wen Jiabao has made
billions of dollars.  China’s response to sensitive news reports is to silence
the messenger. Both the Bloomberg and Times websites were
blocked in China. Censoring cyberspace doesn’t change the fact
that Transparency International ranks China behind Tunisia,
whose leadership fell amid the Arab Spring movement, in its
 Corruption Perceptions Index .  Say a mainland investor thinks a state-owned company’s
balance sheet doesn’t add up. Or an economist doubts gross
domestic product or trade data. Would he or she feel safe airing
those views? Jack Welch can blab all he wants about U.S. jobs
data he thinks are cooked, though he’s wasting his breath. The
lack of dissenting views to challenge the conventional wisdom
doesn’t help China; it holds the country back.  China’s markets are so blatantly rigged in favor of the
political class that it impedes needed reforms. The will to
deregulate the economy, clean up banks and strengthen corporate
governance shrinks as overseas bank accounts swell.  What the Blocks of the world do, if they are acting
ethically, is question the status quo. They poke holes in
profits that look too good to be true, balance sheets that are
too opaque for comfort and executives who use mergers and
acquisitions to hide weaknesses or losses. China could do with
its own swarm of market players doing just that.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 