-- Clinton Warns Syria Chemical Arms Use Would Cross Red Line
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-03T11:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/clinton-warns-syria-chemical-arms-use-would-cross-red-line-1-.html
The U.S. will take action if it sees
evidence that  Syria ’s government is using chemical weapons
against the opposition, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said.  “I’m not going to telegraph in any specifics what we would
do in the event of credible evidence that the Assad regime has
resorted to using chemical weapons against their own people, but
suffice it to say we are certainly planning to take action if
that eventuality were to occur,” she said in  Prague  today.
“This is a red line for the United States.”  The secretary is in Europe for a trip that will include two
days of consultations with NATO partners on funding commitments
for  Afghanistan , the threat to Turkey from Syria’s civil war and
instability across the Middle East and North Africa.  She started her 38th visit to  Europe  as the top U.S.
diplomat with a stop in the Czech capital, where she is meeting
leaders of the Czech government and the opposition Social
Democrats.  The Czechs are sharing expertise on mitigating threats from
chemical weapons amid concerns that any such an arsenal may
exist in Syria, Clinton told reporters. The consultations have
been about what can be done “both at this time and post the
inevitable fall of the Assad regime,” she said.  ‘Strong Warning’  “So we once again issue a very strong warning to the Assad
regime that their behavior is reprehensible, their actions
against their own people have been tragic,” Clinton said. “But
there is no doubt that there is a line between even the horrors
that they have already inflicted on the Syrian people and moving
to what may be an internationally condemned step of utilizing
their chemical weapons.”  Turkey  has asked the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to
deploy Patriot missile batteries on its soil for the first time
in about a decade amid fears that Syria may launch a punitive
attack, which could include the use of chemical weapons, against
the country for backing Syrian rebels.  Russia , an ally of Syria, opposes the deployment. President
Vladimir Putin will arrive in Istanbul today in an attempt to
keep relations between the two countries from becoming hostage
to Syria’s 20-month civil war.  One of five permanent members in the United Nations
Security Council, Russia has used its veto three times to
protect the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
putting it at odds with Turkey, which has backed the rebels who
have been fighting to end Assad’s rule since March last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  