-- Clinton Heads to Brussels Amid Instability in Middle East
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-12-03T12:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/clinton-heads-to-brussels-amid-instability-in-middle-east.html
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton heads to Brussels today for consultations with NATO
partners on funding for Afghanistan, the threat to Turkey from
 Syria ’s civil war and instability across the Middle East and
North Africa.  The secretary started her 38th visit to  Europe  as the top
U.S. diplomat with a stop in the Czech Republic, where she urged
the country to reduce its dependence on Russian energy and told
reporters in Prague today that she hopes a bid by Westinghouse
Electric Co. for a $10 billion nuclear power plant expansion
“will receive the utmost consideration.”  While in Brussels, Clinton and outgoing U.S. Special
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan Marc Grossman will
meet Pakistani Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar and Army chief
General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani before a two-day gathering of
foreign ministers from members of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.  Over a year and half beginning in early 2011, the U.S. and
 Pakistan  suffered a series of crises in the relationship,
starting with the arrest of a CIA contractor for shooting two
Pakistanis and a furor in Islamabad over the White House raid on
Osama bin Laden’s compound.  The strains reached a boiling point with the accidental
killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers in a U.S. airstrike, which
precipitated a half-year closing by Pakistan of NATO supply
lines for the Afghan war.  Rebuilding Process  The meetings are part of a process of rebuilding the two
countries’ partnership by focusing on a handful of areas of
practical cooperation, said a U.S. diplomat who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  Clinton will propose specific ways in which the two sides
can work together more closely on counter-terrorism, improving
transit lines between Pakistan and  Afghanistan , promoting
reconciliation between insurgents and the Afghan government and
stopping roadside bomb attacks.  The U.S. is especially keen to improve market access and
commercial dealings with Pakistan, moving from a relationship
based on aid to one built on trade, the U.S. official said.  The NATO foreign ministers’ meetings on Dec. 5-6 will focus
in part on funding mechanisms for pledges by member countries to
support Afghan security forces before and after international
troops pull out in 2014.  Clinton will reiterate the message of “in together, out
together,” the principle that partners in the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force will keep their
commitments and support Afghan stability even as they withdraw,
another State Department official said.  Turkey Missiles  Also on the agenda for NATO are discussions about deploying
Patriot missile batteries in  Turkey , a member of the 28-nation
military alliance, for the first time in about a decade amid
fears that Syria may launch punitive missile strikes against the
country over its backing of rebels in the uprising that began
early last year.  Turkey asked NATO for the Patriot system, designed to
intercept aircraft or missiles, after weeks of talks about how
to shore up security on its 900-kilometer (560-mile) border as
the conflict in Syria deepens.  In Prague, Clinton warned Syria that the U.S. wouldn’t
tolerate the use of chemical weapons in the conflict.  ‘Red Line’  “This is a red line for the United States,” she told a
news conference alongside her Czech counterpart, Karel
Schwarzenberg. “I’m not going to telegraph in any specifics
what we would do in the event of credible evidence that the
Assad regime has resorted to using chemical weapons against
their own people, but suffice it to say we are certainly
planning to take action if that eventuality were to occur.”  Last week, Syrian warplanes attacked targets close to the
Turkish border as officers from the U.S.,  Germany  and the
Netherlands arrived to evaluate possible sites for Patriot
surface-to-air missile batteries.  Syria has called the Patriot plan “provocative,” and its
allies Russia and  Iran  have protested what they regard as a
first step toward implementing a no-fly zone or military action
against the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Russian
President Vladimir Putin is in Turkey today for meetings
including with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.  Turkey’s military has said the Patriots would be purely
defensive and not be used to launch attacks or enforce a no-fly
zone over Syria.  A State Department official traveling with Clinton said the
U.S. is supporting Turkey’s request for Patriots, and that the
provision of a missile defense system should not be seen as a
shadow effort to set up a no-fly zone or a safe haven for Syrian
rebels along the Turkish border.  Clinton’s visit to  Prague  also recognized the Czechs as a
NATO ally that has contributed troops to U.S.-led missions in
Afghanistan,  Iraq  and the Balkans. The Czechs are sharing
expertise on mitigating threats from chemical weapons amid
concerns that any such an arsenal may exist in Syria, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Prague at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  