-- Construction Spending in U.S. Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-03T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/construction-spending-in-u-s-increases-more-than-forecast.html
Construction  spending  climbed almost
three times more than forecast in October, reflecting broad-
based gains that signal the industry is poised to make a bigger
contribution to economic growth.  The 1.4 percent rise was the biggest since May and followed
a 0.5 percent advance in September, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington . The reading exceeded all 45
estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists, in which the
median projection was for a 0.5 percent increase. Home
construction jumped to the highest level since November 2008.  Healing in the residential real estate market, boosted by
rising property values and record-low borrowing costs, is
helping to sustain building projects. Still, the fiscal cliff of
tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect next year,
absent a deal negotiated by President  Barack Obama  and
 Congressional Republicans , may depress non-residential work as
government and businesses delay construction.  “We’re seeing fairly dramatic improvements in new housing
starts and good general housing construction activity over the
last several months, and that has really been propelling the
overall construction,”  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said before the report.
“Construction -- especially residential construction -- is in a
very sustainable recovery that should last a few years, absent a
misstep in Washington.”  Survey Results  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.5
percent to a 1.2 percent increase. September was initially
reported as a 0.6 percent advance and the Commerce Department
revised the August gain to 1.1 percent from a previously
reported 0.1 percent drop.  The value of all projects rose to $872.1 billion, the most
since September 2009.  The Commerce Department said superstorm Sandy had
“minimal” effect on the October data because it occurred so
late in the month. The agency said it couldn’t quantify any
impact.  Construction spending increased 9.3 percent in the 12
months ended in October before adjustments for seasonal
variations, today’s report showed.  Private construction spending climbed 1.6 percent from the
prior month.  Homebuilding outlays increased 3 percent to $294.2 billion.
Private non-residential projects rose by 0.3 percent.  Public Projects  Spending on public projects increased 0.8 percent from the
prior month. Federal construction jumped 10.7 percent, the
biggest gain since September 2010. State and local agency
projects fell 0.1 percent from the prior month.  The residential real estate market has shown signs of
further healing. Property values are picking up, with the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 cities showing home
prices rose in the year ended in September by the most since
July 2010, according to a Nov. 27 report.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes increased 2.1 percent
to a 4.79 million annual rate in October, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, according to data
from the Realtors’ group on Nov. 19.  Still,  new-home sales , logged when contracts are signed,
dropped 0.3 percent to a 368,000 annual pace last month
following a revised 369,000 rate in September that was weaker
than initially reported, the Commerce Department said Nov. 28.  Mortgage Rates  Cheaper borrowing costs continue to lure buyers who are
able to meet strict lending standards. The average rate on a 30-
year, fixed mortgage was at 3.32 percent in the week ended Nov.
29, near the record-low 3.31 percent from the prior period,
according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  American Woodmark Corp. (AMWD) , a Winchester, Virginia-based home
furnishing and remodeling company, is among businesses still
concerned about the housing outlook.  “Recent trends suggest to us that housing has finally
begun to emerge from its long, multi-year downturn,” Chief
Financial Officer Jonathan Wolk said on a Nov. 20 earnings call.
“However,  consumer confidence  and macroeconomic conditions
remain uncertain and difficult to predict and many consumers
remain unwilling or unable to make large-ticket purchases.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank will take action to speed growth and spur a rebound in a
housing market facing obstacles such as too-tight lending rules.  “We will continue to use the policy tools that we have to
help support economic recovery,” Bernanke said in a Nov. 15
speech in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  