-- Credit Suisse Informs Bank Clients of Negative Franc Rates
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-12-03T16:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/credit-suisse-informs-bank-clients-of-negative-rates-on-francs.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s
second-biggest bank, informed financial institutional clients
that it will start imposing negative  interest rates  on cash
balances held in Swiss francs, a bank official said.  Marc Dosch , a spokesman for the Zurich-based bank, declined
to name the other currencies affected by negative rates. Credit
Suisse said in the notice, distributed to bank clients via the
Swift system today, that it will communicate the currencies
involved, plus the thresholds and rates on an individual basis
to those customers during the next five business days.  “Due to the current market situation and after closely
monitoring the situation over the course of this year, we have
decided to start applying negative credit rates on cash clearing
accounts above a certain threshold” as of Dec. 10, according to
a notice confirmed by Credit Suisse. “We invite our customers
to keep cash balances as low as possible to avoid negative
credit charges.”  State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , two
of the world’s biggest custody banks, have already disclosed
plans to offer negative interest rates on francs and Danish
kroner.  Royal Bank of Canada  is also imposing negative rates on
some customers for those currencies. Depositors have turned to
Denmark and Switzerland as they hunt for currencies with less
risk than the euro, the fate of which depends in part on whether
cash-strapped nations such as  Greece  can pay their debts.  Under Pressure  “It tells us that banks are still under heavy pressure to
deleverage their balance sheets, as having a large amount of
Swiss franc deposits is likely bringing far too little return
for the amount of capital used,”  Sebastien Galy , a New York-
based foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA, said
in a note.  The Swiss franc weakened the most in almost three months
against the euro after the Credit Suisse comment on negative
interest rates. The franc depreciated as much as 0.4 percent to
1.2097 per euro, the weakest since Sept. 13, and traded at
1.2088 at 5:01 p.m. in Zurich.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, said it has been
monitoring the development of cash balances maintained in
current accounts of its third-party bank clients since August
2011 and levying charges in some instances.  “In cases where we see net inflows in cash clearing
accounts above a certain threshold, we continue to take
corrective action, by means of a temporary excess balance fee,”
the Zurich-based bank said in an e-mail. “We encourage our bank
clients to keep their balances in cash clearing accounts as low
as possible.”  Walter Meier, a spokesman at the  Swiss National Bank ,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  