-- Croat Credit Rating Well-Supported After Cut, Fitch Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-12-03T16:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/croat-credit-rating-well-supported-after-cut-fitch-says.html
Croatia’s credit rating is well-
supported after  Fitch Ratings  cut its outlook to negative from
stable over the government’s forecast for a wider budget gap
next year, an executive with the ratings company said.  “The rating is underpinned by a number of factors, such as
high GDP per capita, low inflation, well-capitalized banks,
European Union accession in the near future, and improved
government over the last 10 years,” Michele Napolitano, an
associate director at Fitch’s Emerging  Europe  Sovereign team in
 London , said today in a teleconference.  Fitch on Nov. 29 lowered Croatia’s outlook to negative from
stable, saying the 2013 budget proposal reduces the credibility
of its fiscal consolidation plan. It also affirmed the country’s
sovereign debt rating at BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  Croatia , which is set to become the European Union’s 28th
member in July 2013, is struggling to emerge out of a renewed
recession. The government on Nov. 19 said the  budget deficit 
will widen as the Cabinet repays debt and begins contributing to
EU coffers after entry in July.  It also cut the 2012 forecast to a 1.1 percent contraction,
citing an investment drought due to Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis.  The 2013 budget proposal remains “a negative surprise for
us,” Napolitano said. The budget “disappoints in areas of
fiscal credibility, its impact on debt dynamics, and its
unexpected increase of expenditures.”  ‘Rapid Consolidation’  The 11-month-old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ,
needs to push through a “more rapid” fiscal consolidation and
undertake public sector reforms, as well as to stabilize public
debt and start to reduce it, Napolitano said.  Fitch on Sept. 5 raised Croatia’s outlook to stable from
negative, citing the government’s progress in cutting costs and
narrowing the budget deficit.  “We were clear in September on what the plan was, and we
are a bit uncertain of what the current plan of the government
is, and we’d like to see a more coherent strategy to reduce
public debt levels,” Napolitano said.  Napolitano also said the government may spend less in
 capital investment  than it had planned, which would contribute
to narrowing the budget gap.  Public Debt  Fitch said Croatia’s public debt will peak in 2016 at 62
percent of gross domestic product, while the government said it
will peak in 2014 at 56 percent of GDP.  “Croatia is somewhat punished by the government presenting
the consolidated, rather than the stand-alone, budget, as many
countries in the region do not fully budget for extra-budgetary
users such as Croatian Highways or Croatian Waters,” said Petr
Grishin, a chief economist for central Europe at Moscow-based
VTB Capital. These state companies are responsible for half of
the additional deficit expected in 2013, in comparison to the
previous plan, Grishin said by e-mail.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Nov. 13 said Croatia’s
economy will shrink 1.5 percent this year, urging the government
to remove barriers to investment and employment in order to
return to growth in 2013. The European Commission said on Nov. 7
the economy will contract 1.9 percent in 2012.  Croatia is rated an equivalent Baa3 at Moody’s, the lowest
investment grade, level with Latvia and  Romania . It is rated
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  