-- Cuomo Takes Request for Federal Aid to White House, Capitol Hill
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/cuomo-takes-request-for-federal-aid-to-white-house-capitol-hill.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
pressed White House officials and congressional leaders to move
quickly to provide billions of dollars in federal aid to pay for
damage from superstorm Sandy.  Cuomo said at a Washington news briefing that he expects
President  Barack Obama  to submit an aid request to Congress by
the end of the week. The governor said Republican House Speaker
 John Boehner  assured him that legislators would act on it. Cuomo
said he didn’t discuss specific details with the speaker,
including whether aid would have to be offset by budget cuts.  “We’re not going to stop until it’s done,” Cuomo, a 54-
year-old Democrat, told reporters yesterday at the Capitol. “We
need help on this. These are very big numbers, even for New
York.”  Cuomo is joining forces with Governors  Chris Christie  of
New Jersey and Dannel Malloy of Connecticut in a unified quest
for almost $83 billion in federal funds to help rebuild the
battered region. Sandy ripped through the three states Oct. 29,
killing more than 90 people, flooding  New York City ’s  subway
system  and ravaging beach towns from New Jersey’s Atlantic City
to Bridgeport, Connecticut.  New York, where 305,000 homes and 265,000 businesses were
destroyed or damaged, has the largest request, almost $42
billion. That includes $9 billion to repair damage in New York
City and $4.8 billion for the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority  to fix the subway system. Another $9 billion would
help prevent flooding in the future, which Cuomo says is needed
as powerful storms become more frequent.  Subways Shut  In the past 15 months, New York City has been forced to
shut the subway system twice due to hurricanes, something it had
never done in its 108-year history. The flooding caused by Sandy
was the worst the system ever suffered. Better-protected
stations, construction plans that move generators from below
ground to higher areas and raised sea barriers would better
protect the city, Cuomo has said.  Getting help for the storm-battered states could be
complicated by the federal government’s own fiscal strains as
Obama and congressional Republicans race to prevent more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts from beginning
next month. U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat,
said last week that it could take time to get Congress to
approve all the aid that’s needed, given how tight funds are in
Washington.  First Trip  Yesterday’s visit marked Cuomo’s first official trip to
Washington as governor, though he’s no stranger there. He spent
eight years in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration in the
Housing and Urban Development Department, capping his time there
as head of the agency. The experience, which put him in charge
of helping deliver federal aid to areas suffering from natural
disasters, is one he has said he’s drawn on since Sandy.  It appears to be paying off. More than two-thirds of New
York registered voters say Cuomo’s done an excellent or good job
handling the storm and its aftermath, according to a poll
released yesterday by Siena College in Loudonville, New York.
That support included more than half of Republicans.  “ New Yorkers  are very impressed with the job Governor
Cuomo has done,” said  Steven Greenberg , a Siena pollster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  