-- CWC to Sell Monaco Unit to Batelco for $680 Million
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2012-12-03T10:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/cwc-to-sell-monaco-unit-to-batelco-for-680-million.html
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC) 
agreed to sell its Monaco and islands businesses to  Bahrain
Telecommunications Co. (BATELCO)  for $680 million. CWC shares rose the
most in more than two months.  The state-controlled company known as Batelco will acquire
CWC’s businesses in the Maldives,  Channel Islands ,  Isle of Man ,
Seychelles, South Atlantic and Diego Garcia, and 25 percent of
Compagnie Monagesque de Communications SAM, it  said in a
statement  on its website. Batelco has an option to buy the
remaining 75 percent in Compagnie Monagesque for an additional
$345 million within 12 months of closing the original deal.  CWC, which is still in talks to sell its Macau unit to
partner  Citic Telecom International Holdings Ltd. (1883) , is nearing
the end of disposals meant to concentrate its holdings around
 Latin America  and the Caribbean, Chief Financial Officer Tim Pennington said in an interview. Once the second phase of the
Monaco transaction is completed and Macau is sold, CWC will have
flexibility to make more acquisitions in the region, he said.  “Essentially, we will be that regional business,”
Pennington said. “It’s extremely good for us. It’s part of the
next step of our evolution.”  CWC shares jumped as much as 7 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Sept. 17 in London, where the company is
based. The stock was up 5.2 percent at 36.50 pence as of 10:07
a.m., giving CWC a market value of 923 million pounds ($1.48
billion).  Akira Partners and JP Morgan Chase & Co. were financial
advisers on the deal.  Macau Talks  CWC was formed in 2010 in a split that created Cable &
Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide, a fixed-
line company that was acquired by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  this year.  Batelco said it plans to raise as much as $1 billion of
debt through a  bond issue  and a term-loan facility to finance
the transaction. The company has appointed Citigroup Inc. and
BNP Paribas SA to arrange the financing.  Pennington said that the company is still negotiating with
Citic Telecom about its Macau business, and he believes others
would be interested in the asset. He declined to say when the
talks might conclude. Citic may pay as much as $750 million for
CWC’s stake in the Macau phone operator, two people familiar
with the matter said in October.  “We think that Macau is an extremely attractive
business,” Pennington said. “It’s got a great profile. It’s
got great operating metrics. We think lots of people are
interested.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  