-- Czech Central Bank Researcher Sees Quick Impact of Interventions
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-12-03T12:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/czech-central-bank-researcher-sees-quick-impact-of-interventions.html
The Czech central bank will use
interventions to weaken the koruna because of its quick impact
if more monetary easing is needed, the bank’s chief researcher
and statistician said.  Selling the currency as a monetary-policy tool, after
exhausting the room for cutting  interest rates , has a number of
advantages compared with other alternatives, Tomas Holub, the
head of the central bank’s monetary and statistics department,
wrote in an article in the Prague-based Euro magazine today.  The Czech economy shrank for a fourth consecutive quarter
between July and September, matching the longest decline on
record as the government’s budget-deficit cuts constrained
household spending. Weakening domestic demand is taming
inflation, which pushed the central bank in Prague to cut  rates 
to effectively zero and prompted talk of weakening the currency
should the economy require more policy easing.  “The main advantage is the proven and quick reaction of
the economy to depreciation of the koruna exchange rate,” Holub
said in the article posted on the bank’s website. While changes
in the “standard instrument, the interest rates,” translate
into the economy in 12 to 18 months, the transmission of
exchange-rate changes happens within a year, Holub said.  The Ceska Narodni Banka reduced the main two-week
 repurchase  rate to a record-low 0.05 percent on Nov. 1, almost
three-quarters of a point less than the euro-area benchmark.
Most Czech central bankers agree the main interest rate should
be kept at effectively zero until inflation risks rise
significantly, according to minutes from their last rate
meeting.  The koruna traded at 25.258 against the euro at 1:24 p.m.
in  Prague , 0.03 percent weaker from the previous session.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  