-- Daimler Sells Bonds as Credit Risk Falls to 6-Week Low in Europe
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-12-03T11:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/daimler-sells-bonds-as-credit-risk-falls-to-6-week-low-in-europe.html
The cost of insuring European
corporate debt from default fell to a six-week low on improving
confidence in the global economy, while Daimler GA and UniCredit
SpA sold debt as borrowing costs held near record lows.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped as
much as 10 basis points to 487, the lowest since Oct. 19, and
was trading at 489 at 10 a.m. in  London . Corporate bonds have
rallied, with yields falling to 1.9 percent on average from 3.3
percent at the start of the year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates Non-Financial Index.  Chinese manufacturing rose to a seven-month high in
November, adding to signs of economic recovery and helping
offset concerns that U.S. debt talks remain deadlocked.
Companies are still tapping bond markets to lock in cheap
borrowing rates before the holiday season slowdown, even after
pushing November issuance to the most ever for that month.  “Companies will likely keep issuing as long as they can in
December, given how low absolute yields are as well as
spreads,” said Robin Marshall, head of fixed income at Smith &
Williamson Investment Management Ltd. in London, which oversees
$19 billion. “The bank lending market seems to be almost closed
to new borrowers, so corporates are jumping through the capital
market window while it’s still open.”  Spreads Tighten  The yield premium on non-financial corporate bonds to
benchmark German government debt was little changed at 120 basis
points, or 1.2 percentage point, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show. The spread has tightened from 201 basis points at the
start of the year.  Sales of company bonds in euros rose to 22.4 billion euros
($29.2 billion) in November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg tracking issuance of non-financial borrowers.
Companies raised 168 billion euros this year, the most since the
record 221 billion euros in all of 2009.  Daimler, the owner of the Mercedes-Benz brand, is raising
about 250 million pounds ($401 million) from three-year notes,
according to a person familiar with the sale, in the carmaker’s
first sale of debt in the U.K. currency since May.  UniCredit in Milan is reopening its issue of 6.95 percent
lower-tier 2 subordinated due 2022, according to a person
familiar with the sale who asked not to be named because they’re
not authorized to speak about it. Banks divide  debt capital  into
tiers depending on the ability of the bonds to absorb losses,
with the most junior being Tier 1.  Returning Confidence  “For a peripheral bank to issue subordinated paper is
quite a dramatic turn of events and shows more of a return of
confidence in the market,” said  Brian Barry , a credit analyst
at Investec Bank Plc in London. “A lot of the uncertainties
that were present this year may not be as prevalent next year.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell two basis
points to 121, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. A
decline signals improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell three basis points to 157 and the
subordinated index declined four to 276.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  