-- Danish Economy Will Contract This Year, Governor Bernstein Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-12-03T12:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/danish-economy-will-contract-this-year-governor-bernstein-says.html
Denmark ’s Central Bank Governor Nils Bernstein said the economy will contract this year and lowered
his forecast for economic expansion in 2013 as households and
businesses in the Nordic country cut spending.  The change in gross domestic product will be “negative”
this year and the rate will grow 1 percent to 1.5 percent in
2013, Bernstein said today in a speech in Copenhagen. That
compares with the central bank’s Sept. 20 estimate of 0.3
percent growth in 2012 and 1.6 percent expansion next year.  The Danish economy is suffering from a burst real estate
bubble, which has pushed more than a dozen regional lenders into
insolvency since 2008. Denmark’s economy barely grew last
quarter, while a contraction in the three months through June
was deeper than previously estimated, the statistics office in
Copenhagen said last week.  “With the latest domestic GDP data the outlook is for
negative growth this year,” Bernstein said at the Danish Bankers
Association’s annual meeting. “The private sector is
consolidating in the wake of the financial crisis. This is
understandable, but it also holds down consumption and
investments.”  Denmark’s  third-quarter GDP  grew 0.1 percent from the
second quarter, the statistics office said Nov. 30. The
contraction in the second quarter was 0.7 percent, versus an
earlier reported 0.4 percent.  Losing Jobs  Bernstein said today Denmark’s competitiveness has dropped
by about 20 percent in the past decade as the country’s relative
wage costs have grown.  “We have lost and we are still losing production jobs in
the industries exposed to this competitiveness,” he said. “If we
want to improve employment there’s no way around improving
competitiveness.”  Denmark’s  gross unemployment rate  was 6.3 percent in
October, the statistics office said Nov. 29. That compares with
2.5 percent in July 2008.  Danske Bank A/S, the country’s largest lender, on Nov. 30
cut its 2012 forecast for the Danish economy to a 0.5 percent
contraction, compared with a previous estimate for 0.1 percent
growth. The economy will grow 0.7 percent in 2013, less than the
1.2 percent the bank predicted earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  