-- Danske Falls as Exane Sees Danish Writedowns: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-03T09:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/danske-falls-as-exane-sees-danish-writedowns-copenhagen-mover.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Denmark ’s biggest
lender, fell the most in five days in Copenhagen trading after
Exane BNP Paribas said slow Danish economic growth and high
 household debt  will result in more loan losses.  Danske fell as much as 0.9 percent, the most since Nov. 28,
making it today’s biggest loser in the  Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20
Index (KFX)  which rose 0.5 percent. Danske’s stock retreated 0.5
percent to 97.85 kroner at 10:43 a.m. in the Danish capital with
trading volume at 12.3 percent of the three-month daily average.  Denmark’s  gross domestic product  grew 0.1 percent last
quarter, while a contraction in the three months through June
was deeper than previously reported, the statistics office in
Copenhagen said Nov. 30. Exane said the Danish government and
local economists will have to revise down their “overly
optimistic” 2012 growth forecasts and repeated an underweight
recommendation on Danske shares.  “We don’t expect households to start consuming, having a
direct negative impact on GDP and Danish corporate earnings,”
 Andreas Hakansson , an analyst with Exane in  Stockholm , said in a
note. “We therefore don’t expect any real improvement in Danish
loan loss provisioning.”  Danske, which is based in Copenhagen, on Oct. 30 said
third-quarter impairments were little changed at 2.88 billion
kroner ($500 million), compared with 2.8 billion kroner in the
year-earlier period.  ‘Toxic Combination’  Denmark’s economy will next year face “a toxic combination
of too much debt and rising unemployment,” Hakansson said. The
country faces “adverse risk to house prices, bank provisions and
share prices,” the analyst said.  The Danish economy is suffering from a burst real estate
bubble, which has pushed more than a dozen regional lenders into
insolvency since 2008.  House prices  have fallen about 25 percent
and will continue to sink this year, according to the
government-backed Economic Council.  The private debt burden in Denmark swelled to 322 percent
of disposable incomes in 2010, Standard & Poor’s estimates.
While that’s backed by a high savings rate in the form of
pensions and home equity, those assets can be hard to access
when financial markets are stressed, central bank Governor Nils Bernstein has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  