-- Dell Gains After Goldman Says Leveraged Buyout Possible
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-12-03T21:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/dell-gains-after-goldman-says-leveraged-buyout-possible.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  advanced after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. upgraded the stock to buy and said the
company’s net cash balance could present an opportunity for a
leveraged buyout.  The shares rose 4.4 percent to $10.06 at the close, the
highest price since Sept. 24. The shares have declined 31
percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
risen 12 percent.  Dell, the No. 3 personal computer maker, is struggling as
companies wait to upgrade machines and consumers turn to
smartphones and tablets like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone. While
demand for PCs has declined, Dell’s net cash balance of $5.15
billion provides “some downside buffer as it produces
opportunity for an LBO or levered recap under the right
conditions,” said Bill Shope, an analyst at Goldman.  “Dell has become an attractive deep value play and we
would be buyers of the stock,” Shope said in a research report.
He raised his price target on Round Rock, Texas-based Dell to
$13 from $9, and had previously recommended selling the shares.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment on
the Goldman research. “Our focus is on long-term strategy,”
Frink said.  Dell on Nov. 15 forecast a fourth-straight quarter of
declining sales, indicating fiscal fourth-quarter  revenue  will
be $14 billion to $14.4 billion. That was less than the $14.5
billion average estimate of analysts.  PC shipments tumbled 8.3 percent in the calendar third
quarter from a year earlier, according to market researcher
Gartner Inc., and are  projected  to decline this year for the
first time since 2001, according to IHS iSuppli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  