-- Dollar-Funding Stress Little Changed, Money-Market Gauges Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-03T14:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/dollar-funding-stress-little-changed-money-market-gauges-show.html
Money-market indicators signaled
short-term dollar funding conditions were little changed.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.3105 percent, where it has held since Nov.
28, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS
spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend, was unchanged at
16.4 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread was stable at 19 basis points compared with
levels on Nov. 30, according to the second rolling three month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was little changed at 11.88 basis points yesterday. The
gap, a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor, widened in November for the first month since May.
The spread expanded 1.59 basis points to 11.94 basis points last
month, falling since it finished May at 35.31.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $27.8 billion to $1.0256 trillion in the week ended Nov.
28, according to Federal Reserve data.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market decreased to the lowest since September.
The three-month cross-currency basis swap touched 21.2 basis
points below Euribor, compared with 24.8 basis points on Nov.
30.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was
unchanged. The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one
another was 12.5 basis points.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.28 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.275 percent on Nov. 30,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That was little changed from
the day before. The rate was at 0.127 percent at the start of
the year.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.16 percent on Nov. 30. The rate opened
today at 0.17 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  