-- Euro Gains to Six-Week High as Greece Offers Debt-Buyback
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-03T17:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/dollar-falls-to-six-week-low-versus-euro-on-china-data.html
The euro rose to a six-week high
versus the dollar as a Greek offer to spend as much as 10
billion euros ($13 billion) to buy back  government securities 
eased concern the regions’ debt crisis is worsening.  The 17-nation euro gained as Greek bonds led advances in
debt from the euro area’s lower-rated nations, including Spain
and Italy. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  sank to a one-month low amid a
hardening of positions among U.S. lawmakers on how to avert the
so-called fiscal cliff. Credit Suisse Group AG informed certain
clients that it will start imposing negative interest rates on
cash balances held in Swiss francs, a bank official said.  “The euro will survive,” Adolfo Laurenti, deputy chief
economist at Mesirow Financial in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “ Europe  still has a lot of problems, but more and
more people are coming to the realization that these problems
are going to be around for a long time, but probably are not
going to lethal.”  The euro strengthened 0.6 percent to $1.3068 at 12:25 p.m.
 New York  time, after touching $1.3076, the most since Oct. 23.
The shared currency added 0.3 percent to 107.47 yen. The U.S.
currency dropped 0.3 percent to 82.25 yen.  Brazil ’s real advanced after policy makers intervened
following a plunge in the currency last week to a three-year low
on slower-than-forecast third-quarter economic growth. The
currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 2.1194 per dollar, after
strengthening the most since June 29.  Yen Shorts  The euro has fallen 1.6 percent this year among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes. The yen had the largest decline, dropping 9.5
percent. The dollar lost 2.5 percent.  The difference between wagers for a decline in the euro
versus the dollar and those on an advance -- so-called  net
shorts  -- was 66,693 in the week ended Nov. 27 from 91,400 in
the previous period, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. Net shorts for the yen  climbed 
to 79,466, the most since 2007, according to the data.  “The path of least resistance is north for the euro,”
 Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX Solutions LLC, an online
currency-trading company in Saddle River,  New Jersey , said in a
telephone interview. “You’ve got a general risk-on feeling out
there.”  Greece  invited holders of bonds to tender their securities
in a so-called modified Dutch auction, the Athens-based Public
Debt Management Agency said in a statement today on its website.
PDMA offered an average maximum purchase price for the bonds
maturing from 2023 to 2042 of 34.1 percent. The offer runs to 5
p.m.  London  time on Dec. 7.  Greek Bonds  “The euro is performing well as something has been put
together on the Greece front,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “The level of confidence on the debt front, which is
key for the euro, looks sound for now. One could also argue the
lack of agreement over the fiscal cliff is a sell for the
dollar.”  Europe’s currency may strengthen more than 3 percent
against the yen after ending last week above a key technical
level, UBS AG said, citing trading patterns.  Switzerland’s second-biggest bank said in a notice
distributed to bank clients via the Swift system today that it
will communicate the currencies involved in its plan to charge
negative  interest rates  on cash balances, plus the thresholds
and rates on an individual basis to those customers during the
next five business days.  “If you see a major move in euro-Swiss, you’ll just tend
to see demand for euros across the board,” said Molloy of FX
Solutions. “It will tend to support the euro against the
dollar.”  Swiss Rates  Europe’s common currency gained as much as 0.4 percent
against the Swiss franc, the biggest jump since September, and
rose to 1.2086 euros.  Yields on Spanish bonds due in 10-years fell to 5.2
percent, the lowest since March, while similar-maturity Italian
debt dropped to 4.4 percent, the lowest in a year.  The euro advanced versus most of 16 major peers as U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and House Speaker  John
Boehner  blaming the other for a standoff that may lead to more
than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts in January.  Geithner said in an interview aired yesterday on  CNN ’s
“ State of the Union ” that Republicans in Congress will be
responsible for hurting the economy if they refuse to raise tax
rates on the highest-income earners as part of a deal. Boehner,
a Republican, said on the “Fox News Sunday” program that the
White House is wasting time.  Dollar Level  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, declined 0.4 percent to 79.821, after falling to the
least since Oct. 31.  Australia’s currency fell to the least in a week as amid
speculation the  Reserve Bank  will lower borrowing costs at a
meeting tomorrow. The nation’s statistics bureau said  retail
sales  were unchanged in October after climbing in the previous
two months. The figure compares with economist predictions for a
0.4 percent advance.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a more than 90 percent chance RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 
will cut the cash rate target by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 3 percent tomorrow,  concurring  with 19 of
28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  