-- Duke and Duchess of Cambridge Are Expecting First Child
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-12-03T17:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/duke-and-duchess-of-cambridge-are-expecting-their-first-child.html
The Duchess of Cambridge, the former
 Kate Middleton , and her husband  Prince William  are expecting
their first child, who will be third in line to the British
throne.  The Duchess, 30, is in the very early stages of pregnancy,
their office at Clarence House in  London  said in a statement.
She was admitted to King Edward VII Hospital in central London
today with hyperemesis gravidarum, or acute morning sickness,
and is expected to stay there for several days.  The child will follow Queen Elizabeth II’s son, Prince Charles, and William in the line of succession. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  has pledged, together with the governments of the
16 other countries of which the queen is monarch, to overhaul
royal succession laws to allow a first-born daughter to ascend
to the throne before her younger brothers.  Current laws, including the 1700 Act of Settlement, give
male heirs precedence over their older sisters. The act also
excludes Roman Catholics or anyone married to a Catholic from
becoming king or queen.  “I’m delighted by the news that the Duke and Duchess of
Cambridge are expecting a baby,” Cameron said on Twitter.
“They will make wonderful parents.” Opposition Labour Party
leader  Ed Miliband  said in a statement: “This is wonderful news
for the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. The whole country will be
thrilled.”  Pregnancy Speculation  There had been speculation about a pregnancy after
William last week accepted a gift of baby clothing from a
well-wisher in Cambridge,  England . According to today’s
statement, the duchess will require a period of rest after
leaving hospital, suggesting her public schedule will be scaled
back.  Bets are already being placed on the name the couple will
give the child. Ladbrokes Plc made Elizabeth the favorite name
at 8-1, meaning a successful 1-pound ($1.6) bet would yield an
8-pound profit. John and Charles were the most popular bets for
a boy’s name, offering odds of 10-1. Dublin-based Paddy Power
made Mary, Victoria and John their joint favorites at 8-1,
followed by Diana, the name of William’s mother, and Frances.  The duke and duchess, who started dating when they were
students at St. Andrews University in  Scotland , married in
London’s Westminster Abbey on April 29 last year, with 1 million
people lining the streets of London and millions around the
world watching on television.  New Image  Kate has helped modernize the image of the royal family,
living with William before their marriage and being photographed
shopping in a supermarket in Anglesey, north  Wales , where the
couple live due to William’s job as a Royal Air Force search-
and-rescue helicopter pilot.  The duchess courted controversy in September after
photographs of her sunbathing topless while on holiday with her
husband at a private estate in the south of  France  appeared in
the French edition of Closer magazine. The royal family
successfully sued the publication for breach of privacy.  Kate was the first woman from outside royalty or the
aristocracy to marry so close to the throne for 350 years. When
William becomes Britain’s monarch, she will be queen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  