-- Duke Settles Probe, Principal Eyes Exits, RBS: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-12-05T20:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/duke-settles-probe-principal-eyes-exits-rbs-india-compliance.html
(Corrects to remove reference to bank exit from headline in
Principal item and first paragraph of story published Nov. 30
and included in this column in the Compliance Action section.)  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jim Rogers must step down by the end of next
year as part of a settlement with North Carolina regulators
stunned by a July boardroom coup.  The settlement, which lays out a series of executive
changes and employment and financial concessions, represents a
rebuke to the largest U.S. utility owner by market value.  Approval by the North Carolina Utilities Commission would
end its investigation into the ouster of former Progress Energy
CEO Bill Johnson and reinstatement of Rogers hours after the
company closed its $17.8 billion takeover of Progress.
Commissioners had just approved the merger and accused Duke of
misleading them with the CEO switch.  “This settlement agreement is an important step forward
for the company because it resolves one of our key near-term
priorities: bringing closure to the NCUC merger review
process,” Rogers said in a statement released after the close
of trading in New York Nov. 29.  Duke will create a special committee of the board comprised
equally of pre-merger Duke and Progress directors to choose a
successor for Rogers, according to a filing Nov. 29 with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The committee “will
make its best effort” to have a new chairman, president and CEO
of Duke in place by July 1, and no later than Dec. 31, 2013,
according to the settlement.  The agreement doesn’t affect a separate investigation by
North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper into whether Duke’s
actions violated state law,” Sam Watson, general counsel for
the commission, said in a telephone interview.  Johnson was named Nov. 5 to become CEO of the Tennessee
Valley Authority, a federal power agency.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  O’Malia Says CFTC to Vote on Swap Execution Facilities Dec. 12  Commodity Futures Trading Commissioner Scott D. O’Malia
said a vote on swap execution facilities is expected at a rule-
making open meeting planned for Dec. 12.  O’Malia made the comment in remarks prepared for a speech
at the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
conference in New York.  Commissioner O’Malia, a Republican, also foresees action on
the cross-border impact of Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules that
will focus on delayed compliance, according to his remarks at
the Sifma conference.  Fed, Treasury Seeking Comments on Bank Fund Transfer Definitions  The U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve said Nov. 29 they are
requesting comments on proposed changes to the definitions of
“funds transfer” and “transmittal of funds” under the Bank
Secrecy Act.  The changes are needed to update the definitions of
transfers and transmittals to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act,
the Fed and Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network said
in a joint  statement . Comments are due Jan. 25.  Bank Regulations Harming Credit Flow to Business, A&O Says  Tighter financial regulation around the world is
constraining bank lending to businesses, according to research
published today by Allen & Overy LLP, which polled its
regulatory and finance lawyers.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s incoming rules
and U.K. recommendations from the Independent Commission on
Banking may “have much wider economic impacts” than the
changes intend, including stifling credit, A&O said.  The law firm asked its employees whether new regulations
were having a positive, neutral or negative impact on the
availability of credit across 11 separate areas of finance,
including corporate lending, bonds and trade finance, in 13
countries.  The so-called Basel III rules would more than triple the
core capital that banks must hold as a buffer against
insolvency, while the U.K. recommendations suggest placing
firebreaks around British banks’ retail operations.  Compliance Action  Principal Weighs Leaving Savings and Loan Status  Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the seller of life
insurance and retirement products, is weighing an exit from its
status as a savings and loan holding company to limit U.S.
oversight.  The insurer filed a draft application to change its status
to avoid Federal Reserve regulation that may limit investing and
require the Des Moines, Iowa-based company to hold additional
capital. The company may operate its Principal Bank as a limited
purpose trust institution, which would still hold savings
products in individual retirement accounts and be supervised by
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Principal said.  The bank operates online with no physical branches and
Principal isn’t now seeking a buyer for the unit, said Susan
Houser, a company spokeswoman.  “Some of the Dodd-Frank provisions, such as the Volcker
rule, along with the unknowns of new capital requirements, could
have an outsized impact on Principal relative to any benefit of
Fed regulation,” Chief Executive Officer Larry Zimpleman said
on a Nov. 27 conference call with analysts.  Principal follows  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, in moving to limit oversight.  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  is weighing a similar move, and  Ameriprise Financial
Inc. (AMP) ,  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) , and  Allstate Corp. (ALL) 
have all retreated from the banking business.  “Principal will reduce the potential for restrictive
regulatory oversight as a bank and may free up some capital over
time,” Edward Shields, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP, wrote in a research note.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, insurers with thrifts are subject
to federal supervision -- including new capital standards --
that firms including MetLife have said are not suited to the
industry. The Volcker rule limits proprietary trading and
investing in private equity or hedge funds.  The rules are intended to prevent a repeat of the 2008
bailouts that the U.S. undertook as collapsing financial firms
threatened the global economy.  Fed regulation may have led to “reduced flexibility for
our other asset-accumulation, mutual fund and asset management
businesses,” Zimpleman said on the call.  Principal’s bank had about $2.2 billion in deposits as of
June 30 and 91 employees, according to Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. data. The bank expects to hold about 85 percent of that
sum after a change in status, Principal said.  Filing a draft application will allow the insurer to work
with the Fed to understand requirements for deregistering as a
savings and loan holding company, Houser said. If the draft
application is on track, Principal will file a formal
application, she added.  Principal embraced the bank in June when the company said
it benefits from the ability to hold customers’ government-
insured deposits as the clients develop retirement plans.  The deregistration process can take as little as a month or
as long as a year, depending on the complexity, said Kevin L.
Petrasic, a partner with law firm Paul Hastings LLP.  MetLife, regulated as a bank-holding company, reached a
deal last year to sell deposits to a unit of General Electric
Co. to exit banking. The deal is still awaiting regulatory
approval. The Fed has blocked MetLife’s plan to increase its
dividend or resume share buybacks.  Insurers “are very unhappy with being subject at a
corporate level to bank-type capital regulations, including
potential application of Basel III,” said Scott Harrington,
director of the Risk and Insurance Program at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School.  “You have insurers that have invested significant
resources in building these businesses, and now, if they sell
off to a non-insurance entity, you have to presume they’re going
to take a loss,” Harrington said.  Compass Group’s Massoud to Pay $1.4 Million in SEC Insider Case  A Connecticut-based investment manager will pay more than
$1.4 million to settle regulatory claims that he illegally
profited from inside information while working on the 2009 sale
of Patriot Capital Funding Group.  Compass Group Management Managing Partner Joseph Massoud,
whose firm was involved in the bidding process, made about
$676,000 on Patriot Capital shares he bought after gaining
access to an online data room for bidders, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a statement Nov. 30. Massoud, 44,
also agreed to be barred from the securities industry or serve
as a public-company officer or director, the SEC said.  Massoud bought 322,216 shares of Patriot Capital in
transactions spread across 15 trading days from May to July of
2009, the SEC said. After the firm was acquired and the share
price rose, Massoud sold all of the stock.  “Mr. Massoud is pleased to have been able to resolve this
personal trading matter,” Robert Anello, an attorney for
Massoud, said in a statement. “He has helped build significant
value for shareholders and investors over the last 15 years and
looks forward to future endeavors.”  ASX Offers Customers Trading, Clearing Revenue Rebate From 2013  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the operator of  Australia ’s main stock exchange,
will share with its customers 50 percent of revenue growth from
trading in cash equities and clearing starting Jan. 1 in a bid
to maintain market share.  ASX revenue growth through the end of June 2014 will be
shared 50-50 with customers and will be proportionate to each of
its customers contribution, according to a letter dated Nov. 28
from ASX Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper and sent to
clients. All participants are eligible for rebates and the
threshold will be reviewed after 2014, the letter said.  Traditional exchanges worldwide are losing market share to
so called dark pools and other alternative trading venues, such
as Chi-X Australia Pty, which last year started operating as
Australia’s sole stock-exchange competitor. As part of the
Australian government’s attempt to increase its presence as a
financial hub by opening up Asia-Pacific’s fourth-largest equity
market, the country is considering whether or not to allow ASX
to maintain its monopoly over the clearing and settlement of
trades.  The offer will operate for at least the coming three to
five years, Funke Kupper wrote.  RBS to Close Indian Division After Sale to HSBC Collapses  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
taxpayer-owned lender, said the sale of its Indian consumer and
commercial-banking operations to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  collapsed.  RBS will wind down the unit, the 81 percent taxpayer-owned
bank said in a statement Nov. 30. RBS announced the sale to
London-based HSBC for an undisclosed sum in July 2010.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King is pressuring U.K.
banks to raise capital levels by selling assets to guard against
loan losses. Banks are struggling to find buyers for assets: in
October,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  walked away from buying 316 branches
that RBS has to sell by 2014 to comply with a European Union
state-aid ruling after being bailed out by U.K. taxpayers.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester has cut assets by
more than 800 billion pounds ($1.28 trillion), eliminated 36,000
jobs and scaled back RBS’s securities and Irish units since
2008. RBS’s Indian unit has about 190 million pounds of assets,
31 branches and serves 400,000 customers, the bank said.  HSBC said in a separate statement that it remained
committed to the Indian market and would expand there through
its existing operations.  UBS Said to Be Close to Reaching a Settlement Over Libor-Rigging  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest lender, is close to
agreements with regulators to pay more than 290 million pounds
($465 million) to settle allegations traders tried to rig global
interest rates, a person with knowledge of the talks said.  An announcement may come as soon as next week, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. More than 25 people have already left UBS after the
lender’s own internal probe, another person said last month.  Global authorities are investigating claims that more than
a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmark such as
the London interbank offered rate to profit from bets on
interest-rate derivatives or make the lenders’ finances appear
healthier.  “UBS has been cooperating fully with the regulatory and
enforcement authorities in connection with Libor
investigations,” Mark Panday, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at
the Zurich-based lender, said in an e-mail, declining to comment
further because of ongoing discussions with authorities.  Regulators are focusing on whether UBS traders colluded
with other banks to influence rates in an effort to increase
profit, the person said.  For more, click here.  EU Says It Won’t Meet January Deadline to Implement Basel III  The European Union won’t be ready to legally implement
Basel III bank rules by the start of the year, Stefaan De Rynck,
a spokesman for the European Commission, said in Brussels today.  “The legal entry into force of CRD IV is no longer
realistic for January 2013,” he said, referring to the EU’s
draft law to apply the Basel capital and liquidity rules. Any
delay should be as “short as possible,” he said.  FBI Informant Led Agents on Insider Chase From Galleon to SAC  David Slaine, a former Morgan Stanley managing director and
ex-partner at the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund, told the FBI
that a money manager he knew paid off people to find out who
used Teterboro airport in New Jersey.  The small New Jersey airport is located close to many of
the world’s biggest drug companies. The trader was using the
information to profit quietly on trades of health-care stocks.  The bribed tipsters were watching for bankers who “were
coming in and out of Teterboro Airport,” agent David Makol
wrote in a summary of Slaine’s Aug. 18, 2007, conversation with
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, one of more than 200 they
had with him. “All the major players involved in the
pharmaceutical industry would come in and out of that airport.”  During the U.S. crackdown on insider trading over the past
five years, Slaine, 53, became a tip-mining machine as he worked
undercover, often wired for sound under FBI orders, from mid-
2007 until at least June 2009.  The government’s most productive informant in a broad
investigation of Wall Street insider trading, he was also among
the first to cooperate. His work led directly to the conviction
of 12 people and indirectly to a half-dozen more. His leads
helped prosecutors win judicial permission to wiretap the mobile
phone of Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was later
convicted.  U.S. agents used evidence he gathered to build cases
leading to executives at expert-networking firm Primary Global
Research LLC. He passed information about Steven A. Cohen’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP, and he took the witness stand to tell
jurors about secret recordings he made of traders now in prison.  An examination of Slaine’s work with the FBI, based on
hundreds of documents never before revealed, shows how the
bureau turned Slaine, how his cooperation deepened, how his
information created a domino effect of new investigations and
new informants, and how the case took a personal toll on Slaine.  For more, click here.  Societe Generale’s Lyxor Said to Seek Fund Withdrawal From SAC  Societe Generale SA’s (GLE)  Lyxor Asset Management unit has asked
to withdraw its clients’ funds from Steven A. Cohen’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP, a person with knowledge of the situation
said.  Lyxor’s investments with SAC are very limited, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
confidential. Officials for Lyxor and Societe Generale in Paris
declined to comment, while a spokesman for  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based SAC didn’t answer the phone outside of
business hours. The Wall Street Journal reported on Lyxor’s
plans late yesterday.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told SAC that
it is considering suing the $14 billion hedge fund for fraud
involving alleged insider trading by former portfolio manager
Mathew Martoma, who was arrested in November, three people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  SAC received the warning in November, Tom Conheeney, the
firm’s president, told investors on a Nov. 28 conference call
during which the firm discussed Martoma’s arrest. Cohen, who
spoke briefly during the call, said he acted appropriately when
he traded shares of two drugmakers four years ago on
recommendations from Martoma, according to two of the people.  “Mr. Cohen and SAC are confident that they have acted
appropriately and will continue to cooperate with the
government’s inquiry,” a spokesman for SAC Capital said last
month in an e-mailed statement. Cohen hasn’t been accused of any
wrongdoing.  Martoma’s lawyer, Charles Stillman, said in an e-mailed
statement last month that he expected Martoma to be fully
exonerated.  Courts  SEC Claims Chicago Private Equity Fund Manager Misled Investors  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Resources
Planning Group, a Chicago-based investment adviser, and one of
its owners, over claims they raised money for a failing private-
equity fund to pay off existing clients.  Joseph Hennessy collected more than $1.3 million from 2007
to 2010 on false claims that a fund he helped run was viable,
the SEC said in a  lawsuit  filed last week at U.S. District Court
in  Illinois . Hennessy used at least $641,000 to make partial
payments to customers holding promissory notes that he had
personally guaranteed, the SEC said.  James Kopecky, a lawyer for RPG, said in an interview that
the firm will fight the SEC’s claims.  “Resources Planning Group is a clean shop with no
disciplinary history, and they cater to investors who know what
they’re doing,” Kopecky said.  The SEC has stepped up its scrutiny of the private-equity
business following the 2008 financial market turmoil which
forced firms to write down the value of their holdings. After
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act authorized greater oversight of money
managers, the agency initiated a broad review of practices at
private-equity and hedge funds, including how assets are valued
and claims of unusually high performance.  Kevin Flynn, an attorney for Hennessy, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the allegations.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Resources
Planning Group, Inc., 12-cv-09509, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 