-- Heating Oil Falls on U.S. Factory Report, Budget Talk Progress
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-12-03T20:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/heating-oil-falls-on-u-s-factory-report-budget-talk-progress.html
Heating oil and gasoline declined as
U.S. manufacturing contracted in November and amid concern that
leaders in Washington will reach an impasse on budget talks.  Futures fell after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory  index  slid last month to the lowest level since July
2009. The U.S. is facing a so-called fiscal cliff of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases. Futures gained earlier as
China’s factory output reached a seven-month high.  “The market got a dose of cold water with the ISM numbers
and there seems to be a pretty wide impasse in Washington on how
to proceed” on the budget, said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  January-delivery heating oil dropped 0.45 cent to settle at
$3.0562 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange after
touching $3.0961. It was the first drop in three days.  Gasoline for January delivery fell 0.38 cent to settle at
$2.7265 a gallon after rising as high as $2.7627.  President  Barack Obama  is negotiating with congressional
leaders on a deal to avert $607 billion in annual tax increases
and spending cuts set for January. Obama, a Democrat, wants the
Republican-controlled House to agree to higher taxes on upper-
income Americans to help reduce the federal deficit. Republicans
want to cut spending on entitlements and other programs while
keeping current tax rates in place.  Futures rose earlier after China’s  Purchasing Managers ’
Index reached 50.6, according to the  National Bureau of
Statistics  and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. The
report followed signals last week of U.S. economic gains that
indicated increased fuel demand.  Economic Reports  Gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, up from a 2 percent prior estimate, revised
figures from the Commerce Department showed. Applications for
 jobless benefits  fell by 23,000 to 393,000 in the week ended
Nov. 24, according to Labor Department data.  The  index  of pending home resales climbed 5.2 percent in
October, after a revised 0.4 percent gain in September, the
National Association of Realtors reported.  “You have a lot of supportive data,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago. “The
ISM just slowed the momentum.”  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 0.4
cent to $3.387 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the lowest average since July 11. The pump price reached a 2012
high of $3.936 on April 4.  -- Editors:  Charlotte  Porter, Richard Stubbe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  