-- ECB Can’t Deliver Spain Spread Rajoy Wants, Wellink Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   M a r k   B a r t o n
-- 2012-12-03T08:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/ecb-can-t-deliver-spain-spread-rajoy-wants-wellink-says.html
Former European Central Bank policy
maker Nout Wellink said  Spain  can’t realistically expect
officials to narrow the bond spread with  Germany  to as little as
200 basis points, as he predicted “execution problems” with
the ECB’s bond program.  If Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy envisages “that the
maximum difference with the Germans is 200 basis points, then he
makes a mistake,” Wellink, the former Netherlands central bank
governor who retired from the post in 2011, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on Nov. 30. “Two hundred basis points
seems to me too much” to hope for, he said.  Spain is still resisting asking for aid, a prerequisite to
trigger the ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions program, its
new government bond-purchasing program. Rajoy said Nov. 6 that
Spain needs to know by how much its borrowing costs would fall
if it sought a bailout, signaling he favored a narrowing of the
spread to 200 basis points, half the current one.  “As far as I understood it, the ECB wants to deal with the
breakup risk of the system and there are other risks also,”
said Wellink, who served on the ECB’s Governing Council for more
than a decade. “These risks show up in interest-rate
differentials.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield was 5.3 percent at 9:16 a.m.
in  Frankfurt  today. That’s 394 basis points above the German 
security of a similar maturity.  Market Rally  Financial markets have rallied since the ECB pledged
sovereign-bond purchases in August to reduce the financing costs
of debt-strapped nations such as Spain and  Italy , and safeguard
the euro. The program would be run in tandem with  Europe ’s
bailout fund and countries have to agree to overhaul their
economies and structural deficits.  While the OMT has been “very instrumental in calming
markets,” Wellink said he also “sincerely” hopes it does not
need to be activated and envisaged “some execution problems
when it comes to using this instrument in practice.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has said the ECB would stop
buying immediately if a country reneged on its commitments, and
envisages that officials would also not buy bonds as long as the
so-called Troika comprising the European Commission, the ECB and
the  International Monetary Fund  are assessing a country’s
progress.  “It’s easy to say you stop intervening the moment the
Troika lands in the capital but it’s more difficult to forecast
whether you can stick to this promise because you don’t know
what’s going to happen during that period,” said Wellink, who
is the chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking.  Greek Story  There could be other problems that “depend on the
circumstances,” he said.  On  Greece , Wellink said that last week’s deal easing the
terms on emergency aid for the country “is not the end of the
story” and “we might need a new program in 2014.”  He also said he doesn’t “exclude” a debt writeoff by the
official sector “as a consequence of this package.”  “I see an increased willingness to solve the Greek
problem,” Wellink said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Barton  in London at 
 barton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  