-- Teens Not Overtreated for Mental Illness, Study Suggests
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-12-03T21:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/teens-not-overtreated-for-mental-illness-study-suggests.html
About 14 percent of U.S. teenagers
with mental disorders get medications for their conditions,
according to a study that researchers said contradicts previous
reports suggesting adolescents are overtreated with drugs.  Four million U.S. children and adolescents have a serious
mental disorder affecting how they function, according to the
 National Alliance on Mental Illness , based in Arlington,
Virginia. The findings published today in the  Archives of
Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine  show that American teens
aren’t getting more psychiatric medications than necessary
despite previous reports suggesting the contrary, the authors
said.  “It’s reassuring that the utilization seems to match the
needs of these kids,” said Benedetto Vitiello, the study author
and chief of the Child and Adolescent Treatment and Preventive
Intervention Research Branch at the National Institute of Mental
Health in Bethesda,  Maryland . “This paper does not suggest that
there is an excessive use. If anything, it may suggest at times
medications are used fairly sparingly and other treatments are
used instead of medications.”  Researchers in the NIH-sponsored study analyzed data from
10,123 kids ages 13 to 18 years who had participated in the
 National Comorbidity Survey Adolescent Supplement  from 2001 to
2004.  They found that among those diagnosed with a mental
illness, 14.2 percent were treated with medication, including
antidepressants, stimulants, antipsychotics and mood
stabilizers.  ADHD Treatment  Twenty percent of kids ages 13 to 18 diagnosed with
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, were using
stimulant medications such as Ritalin. About 14 percent of
teenagers diagnosed with depression were using antidepressants,
the study found.  The research also showed that 20 percent of teens with mood
disorders, 19 percent of those with eating disorders, 19 percent
of those with behavior disorders and 14 percent of those with
substance abuse disorders were given drug therapies.  Stimulants, the most common type of drug to treat ADHD,
include  Shire Plc (SHP) ’s Adderall XR, Johnson & Johnson’s Concerta
and Novartis AG’s Ritalin.  Only 2.5 percent of those who weren’t diagnosed with a
mental disorder were prescribed these medications and the
majority of them had evidence of psychological distress, the
authors said.  Additional studies are needed to look at more recent
numbers to make sure teen use of these medicines hadn’t changed
between now and when the survey was conducted,  Vitiello  said
today in a telephone interview.  David Rubin , an attending physician at the Children’s
Hospital of Philadelphia and an associate professor of
pediatrics at the University of  Pennsylvania , wrote in an
accompanying editorial that adolescents in the Medicaid health
insurance program may need to be watched as they may be
prescribed more medications because investments in other
treatment options are lacking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  