-- Egypt Premier Says Growth to Average 7% a Year This Decade
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-12-03T13:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/egypt-expects-economic-growth-to-average-7-a-year-this-decade.html
Egypt expects economic growth to
average 7 percent a year in the coming decade, Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil said today at a conference in Cairo.  The government forecasts gross domestic product growth to
reach 3.5 percent in the fiscal year through June 2013, Qandil
said, as the economy recovers after last year’s uprising that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Previous governments under Mubarak have
said the economy of the Arab world’s most populous nation needs
to grow by at least 7 percent to provide enough jobs.  Egypt last month reached a preliminary agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan, something
Qandil said is a vote of confidence for the nation. The IMF has
given the nod to an economic program that includes lifting
subsidies and reducing the budget deficit, targeted at 10.4
percent of gross domestic product for this fiscal year and 8.5
percent for the year through June 2014.  “I thought it was very important you got the IMF loan,
which provides some stability,” said  Erik Berglof , chief
economist with the European Bank for Reconstruction &
Development. The bank expects to invest in the country “in the
next month or so” and is watching how the political situation
develops, he said.  Mass Protests  Negotiations over the IMF loan were stalled for more than a
year during the unrest that followed last year’s uprising.
Tensions have boiled over into mass demonstrations in the past
week after President Mohamed Mursi announced new powers,
including immunity from judicial oversight, and called for a
referendum on a draft constitution on Dec. 15. The protests have
polarized Islamist supporters of the president and his secular
opponents.  “Investors always look for an attractive business climate.
One of the elements of this is stability, rule of law and
independence of the judiciary,” said Mona Zulficar, chairman of
EFG-Hermes Holding, the Arab world’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank. “With the crisis now with the independence of
the judiciary and crisis in rule of law, this is something that
the business community will be looking for a swift resolution
that would reinforce legal stability.”  European institutions including the EBRD, the European
Investment Bank and the European Commission plan to disburse
about 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) to  Egypt  in the current
fiscal year, European Union officials said at a Nov. 14 loan
signing ceremony in Cairo.  “We are quite optimistic about Egypt’s growth potential,”
said Berglof. “There are a number of issues that need to be
addressed. Subsidies are a big problem for us. We can’t invest
in companies that are based on subsidies. That’s an important
obstacle.”  Investment Minister Osama Saleh said today in an interview
that the country has achieved about 22 percent of the 276
billion Egyptian pounds ($46 billion) in investments the country
needs to achieve its growth target this current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  