-- EHarmony Founder Breaks Up With Investors to Reboot
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-12-03T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/eharmony-founder-breaks-up-with-investors-to-reboot.html
EHarmony Inc., the operator of a
website designed to help guide singles into happy marriages, is
ending some relationships of its own.  At age 78, Neil Clark Warren, who founded the company 12
years ago, is taking back control. Since becoming chief
executive officer in July after a series of CEO changes, he’s
fired 100 people, cut the board from nine to two and bought back
stock from  Sequoia Capital  and Technology Crossover Ventures,
which invested $110 million in 2004.  An initial public offering, which had been expected in
2010, is now off the table and Warren said in an interview he
has no interest in selling the  Santa Monica , California-based
company. Instead, the trained theologian and psychologist will
spend next year building EHarmony’s portfolio to add services
that help people find the right job, understand themselves and
build relationships to reduce loneliness. Gone from the company
are the business degrees, and in are social scientists.  “Building a relationship business is so different from
trying to build something with machines or widgets,” said
Warren, who’s been chairman of EHarmony’s board from the
beginning. “To put it in the hands of people that only want to
look at it as a source of business success, revenue success
doesn’t make sense anymore.”  Not that Warren views EHarmony and its $60 monthly
subscriptions as a nonprofit. If run correctly, he says the
company can be worth $1 billion in two years and $5 billion in
five years. With 14 percent of the U.S. dating-services market,
the company trails only  IAC/InterActiveCorp, (IACI)  parent of
Match.com, which has 24 percent, according to industry
researcher IBISWorld.  Brand Recognition  EHarmony, which targeted single Christians in its early
days, has plenty of brand recognition after spending $600
million to $700 million on advertising throughout its history,
according to Warren. The company claims its service has led to
at least 560,000 marriages.  Sales in the U.S. market are expected to increase 5.1
percent annually, on average, over the next five years to $2.6
billion in 2017 from $2 billion this year, IBISWorld said. The
business has gained entrants, with companies including
Plentyoffish Media Inc. and Zoosk Inc. tapping a younger
demographic, and Badoo Trading Ltd. going after consumers more
inclined to use smartphones than computers.  “There are 1,500 online dating sites in the U.S., so the
industry is highly competitive,” said Caitlin Moldvay, an
analyst at  IBISWorld  in Santa Monica.  Stable Relationships  Warren has to start by re-establishing stability. Greg Waldorf, one of the company’s founding investors and an alumnus
of  Stanford University ’s Graduate School of Business, resigned
as chief executive officer in January 2011 after five years on
the job. He was replaced on an interim basis by Greg Steiner,
the chief operating officer at the time.  In August of last year, Jeremy Verba, a graduate of  Harvard
University ’s business school, took over the top spot after
working at  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  A year later, Warren replaced Verba. Now,
it’s up to Warren to revive growth. He has seven full-time
psychologists on staff and has replaced many of the business-
focused executives with social scientists.  “We didn’t feel that our company had been run the way we
would’ve run it,” Warren said.  Sales growth slowed from 16 percent in 2008 to 6.3 percent
in 2010 and an estimated 3.8 percent this year to $275 million,
according to IBISWorld. EHarmony doesn’t disclose its finances.  After Warren’s return, EHarmony bought back the 30 percent
of the company it sold to  Sequoia  and TCV. It paid a “healthy
premium” to the $110 million the firms invested, Warren said.
Because he doesn’t want to sell the company and has no plans to
take it public, Warren said repurchasing the shares was the best
way for investors to make money. Seven board members resigned,
leaving only Warren and Greg Penner of Madrone Capital Partners.  Rich Targets  Warren sees multiple opportunities for growth. He estimates
that of the 120 million single people in the country, only 5
million are on a dating or relationship site, so just getting
more to gravitate to the Web will expand the market. Beyond
romance, Warren said EHarmony’s matching service can help lonely
people find friends nearby.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , by contrast, usually
connects individuals who already know each other.  Another service EHarmony plans to introduce in the first
half of 2013 is a job-searching site. It will be designed to
help people understand their strengths, passions and the type of
environment that best suits them, Warren said.  “We really want to try and help people get into jobs as
early as possible that really satisfy them at a deep level,” he
said. That philosophy led Warren to fire 100 of his own
employees after coming back, dropping the workforce to about
160.  Warren now has control and ownership of EHarmony, and he
plans to stick around for five years. That’s how much time he
has to build a $5 billion company with an unconventional
approach. He’s confident he can do it.  “I think I am more productive and wiser today than I’ve
ever been,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  