-- Heineken Revival in U.S. Starts With Multicultural Beer
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-12-03T23:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/heineken-revival-in-u-s-starts-with-multicultural-beer-retail.html
To get  Heineken NV (HEIA)  growing in the
U.S. again, Dolf van den Brink first gained control of some of
the imported beers Americans were drinking instead of Heineken.  Since becoming the third head of the Dutch brewer’s U.S.
business in two years,  Van den Brink  has found a path to growth
with imported Mexican brands including Sol and Tecate to meet
changing American demographics and tastes for beer.  “We weren’t in a good position in 2008, 2009,” said Van
den Brink, whose predecessor Don Blaustein left in August, 2009
saying he had a different view over how to expand Heineken in
the U.S. during the recession. “For 45 years, we were a single-
brand operation. We were set in our ways.”  After two years of declining volume in its Heineken brand
in the U.S., the Amsterdam-based brewer bought  Mexico ’s Fomento
Economico Mexicano SAB’s brewing unit early in 2010 for $7.4
billion, adding Dos Equis as well as Sol and Tecate to its
Dutch-led portfolio. He’s now focusing on reviving the company’s
namesake brew with new bottles, increasing advertising behind
the Heineken brand and tripling the sales force to get consumers
excited about James Bond’s beer again.  Progress in the U.S. mirrors the rest of the world, where
the 148-year-old brewer is increasingly realizing that drinkers
want more than its namesake ale. The company bought control of
its Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. venture this year to maintain
control over brews including Tiger beer, which it said it will
develop internationally.  ‘False Starts’  “They’ve had a lot of false starts trying to get it right
in the U.S.,” said  Ian Shackleton , an  analyst  at Nomura in
London. “We wondered if Van den Brink would be going in like
Streetfighter with a machine gun to get things done. He does
appear to have revitalized growth in the Heineken brand.”  The brand grew 3.2 percent in the past 12 months, according
to Nielsen data cited by Van den Brink, outpacing market growth
of 1.8 percent. According to Nielsen, Heineken’s U.S. market
share is growing faster in volume terms than competitors
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and MillerCoors LLC in the past three
months. The brand’s U.S. market share fell to 2.2 percent in
2011 from 2.7 percent in 2007, Euromonitor research shows.  The recent improvement is partly reflected in the company’s
 shares . Heineken has risen 42 percent this year in Amsterdam
trading, more than the 25 percent gain for  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , co-
owner of MillerCoors and its closest rival, and just trailing AB
InBev’s 44 percent advance.  Company Priority  “Heineken is, remains, will be the number one choice and
priority of the company, and needs to grow -- and thank God, it
is,” Van den Brink said in an interview in his office in White
Plains, New York. Still, “you can’t just stand on one leg these
days; you need a portfolio.”  The Heineken brand still represents about 42 percent of the
Dutch brewer’s volume in the U.S., where the company gets less
than 10 percent of  profit , according to Nomura estimates.  Van den Brink, who joined in 1998, is used to tough
challenges. Before taking the U.S. job, he spent four-and-a-half
years helping double Heineken’s market share in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, despite operating amid militant uprisings
in the African country.  His latest test hasn’t been much easier as Heineken has
fought head on with the likes of AB InBev, created four years
ago in a $52 billion merger, and the financial crisis has roiled
U.S. beer sales. Other brewers were more agile in selling their
beers, from creating new products to new packages, Van den Brink
said, leaving the smaller Heineken, which sells about 4 percent
of U.S. beer by volume, behind.  Draft Beer  To halt the decline in sales of the Heineken brand, the
executive has tripled the number of people selling the beer to
bars and restaurants, particularly in Heineken’s urban U.S.
heartlands such as New York. He’s also overseen a “significant
uptick” in advertising spending, and sought to capitalize on
what he sees as “headroom” in the draft beer market compared
with the crowded space for bottled beers.  The next step is the introduction in early 2013 of the new
bottle with leaner, taller packaging that Van den Brink says
will help make the brand look more modern.  Getting more from the company’s U.S.  employees  has also
been key to Van den Brink’s plan. All staff are trained to be
certified beer servers, from the CEO to receptionists, requiring
knowledge of storage and serving as well as beer styles and
history. The executive is also keen to empower employees to
speak up and take responsibility.  Staff Training  Meeting rooms in the White Plains office contain a set of
brightly colored laminated cards with captions like “All In --
Ask Me Why!” and “Challenge -- Have Another Solution.” He’s
remodeled the offices, making them lighter and more open-plan,
with glass doors and walls to aid an open culture, which he says
makes the company more agile and forward-thinking.  The results of Van den Brink’s work on the Heineken brand
are starting to become visible in an improving U.S.  performance .
Selling quantities were “broadly flat” in the three months
through August, according to analysis of Nielsen data by Sanford
C. Bernstein. In the month through Nov. 3, the lager’s volume in
the country rose 5 percent, the brewer has said.  Still, the executive isn’t placing all his eggs in one
basket. In addition to the resurrection of the flagship label,
the brewer needs the other brands to grow  sales  at between 20
percent to 40 percent a year, he said.  Brands such as Sol and Tecate are proving popular with
booming “multicultural” consumers in the U.S., he said,
particularly second- and third- generation Mexican immigrants.
In the three months through September, volume of the brands rose
9 percent from a year earlier, according to Nielsen data. The
Mexican brands represent about 50 percent of Heineken’s volume
and growth was improved primarily as mainstream beer brand
Tecate returned to growth.  Sol, Tecate  To gain Hispanic customers, Heineken has introduced the
 Tecate Michelada , a pre-mixed drink mirroring a popular Mexican
beverage of beer, lime, spices and a hint of chili.  “Mexico represents parties, fiestas,” said Nomura’s
Shackleton, giving the brands an edge over conventional brews.  Still, the U.S. may in future represent a smaller piece of
Heineken’s  profit  as the company expands in regions such as
Nigeria and southeast Asia, where it spent S$5.6 billion ($4.6
billion) in September to gain control of Asia Pacific Breweries.  That won’t loosen the resolve of Van den Brink, who
describes himself and his staff as having “green blood,” the
Heineken company color, according to Fortune Magazine, which
named him in a “40 under 40” business stars list this year.  “My main focus is, How do you keep people hungry?” he
said. “You don’t want complacency to step in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  