-- Lemann Becomes Brazil’s Richest as Beer Trumps Oil, Gold
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-12-03T11:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/lemann-becomes-brazil-s-richest-as-beer-trumps-oil-gold.html
Jorge Paulo Lemann , the banker who
now claims the title of  Brazil ’s richest man, built his fortune
by overseeing takeovers of two icons of U.S. consumer culture:
Budweiser beer and the Burger King fast-food chain.  The 73-year-old Swiss-Brazilian surpassed commodities
tycoon  Eike Batista  after shares of Anheuser Busch InBev NV, the
world’s biggest beer manufacturer, crested 67 euros in trading
Nov. 30. Since Burger King Worldwide Inc. returned to being a
publicly traded company in June, its stock is up 11 percent.
Lemann commands a net worth of $18.9 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , making him the planet’s 36th-
richest individual.  The 56-year-old Batista, who has made repeated vows to pass
 Carlos Slim  as the richest man on Earth, has an $18.5 billion
fortune. Shares of his six publicly traded natural-resource
startups have slumped this year, wiping out almost half of his
wealth since March. He ranks 38th in the world.  “The performance of the companies that Lemann controls has
been very strong,” said Chris Palmer, who helps manage $2.5
billion of assets as London-based director of global  emerging
markets  for Henderson Global Investors Ltd. “He’s built on the
success of his companies in Brazil and partnered with global
companies.”  Lemann and his two billionaire partners, Marcel Herrmann
Telles and Carlos Alberto Sicupira, orchestrated AB InBev’s $52
billion merger in 2008. Buoyed by steady demand for beer,
they’ve seen their fortunes climb more than 50 percent this year
after deals such as the $20.1 billion purchase of  Mexico ’s Grupo
Modelo SAB. Lemann’s 10 percent stake in AB InBev is his largest
asset, worth $14.6 billion as of the close of trading Nov. 30.  Tennis Career  “Money is simply a way of measuring if the business is
going well or not, but money in and of itself doesn’t fascinate
me,” Lemann said in January 2008, according to an interview
published in HSM Management magazine. He declined to comment for
this story.  The son of a Swiss businessman, Lemann was born in  Rio de
Janeiro  in 1939. He graduated from  Harvard University  with an
economics degree in 1961, and spent a brief period of time as a
business columnist at the Rio newspaper Jornal do Brasil before
moving on to work in the brokerage business.  At the same time, he pursued a professional tennis career.
He was a five-time Brazilian national champion and played in the
Davis Cup twice, once representing his home country and once
 Switzerland , where he maintains dual citizenship. He now lives
in a suburb of Zurich with his family.  Using Goldman  In 1971, Lemann bought a Rio-based brokerage called
Garantia. Using the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partnership model
as his inspiration, he quickly turned it into Brazil’s premier
investment bank. Sicupira and Telles joined him there in the
early 1970s; today, they share control of a Sao Paulo-based
family office and a New York-based buyout firm, 3G Capital Inc.  The partners made one of their longest-standing investments
in 1982, with the takeover of  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) , a discount-
retail chain that is now among the largest in Brazil. They
acquired Cia. Cervejaria Brahma seven years later, in their
first foray into the beer industry.  In 1998, following more than $100 million in trading losses
on restructured government debt, Garantia was sold to  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , netting the partners $675 million in cash and
stock. The “three musketeers,” as they are sometimes called,
turned their focus to acquisitions. They combined a series of
Latin American brewers into Brahma, which became Cia. de Bebidas
das Americas, known as AmBev, in 1999. Today, that company, a
unit of AB InBev, is Brazil’s biggest by market value, having
surpassed state-controlled oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA
last month.  Burger Buyout  Through buyout firm GP Investimentos, which they founded in
1993, they also bought, turned around and sold companies such as
railroad operator ALL America Latina Logistica SA. The trio
engineered AmBev’s $11 billion merger with  Belgium ’s Interbrew
NV in 2004, the same year they sold GP to junior partners. They
followed that up in 2008, with the $52 billion union with
Anheuser-Busch Cos.  The latest move by Lemann, Telles and Sicupira was the
leveraged buyout of Burger King in 2010 through 3G Capital. The
trio put up $1.5 billion cash, funded in part by Batista,
according to an official at the commodities tycoon’s EBX Group
Co. holding company, who asked not to be identified because the
investment is private. Earlier this year, they sold a 29 percent
stake of the fast-food chain for $1.4 billion to  William
Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP.  ‘Potential, Challenges’  Lemann has donated millions to educational causes,
sponsoring eponymous fellowships at Harvard, Columbia, Stanford
and Yale, among other universities.  “Jorge Paulo created a whole management culture in Brazil
that is extraordinary,” Batista told Bloomberg Markets magazine
in an interview last year. “He motivated employees by letting
them share the profits -- aggressive, but that leads to
results.”  At the time, Batista was richer than Lemann. His wealth
peaked at $34.5 billion at the end of March 2012, after he sold
a 5.63 percent stake in his commodities empire to Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala Development Co. for $2 billion. In June, amid a  bear
market  for commodities, Batista’s flagship  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  cut its initial production targets less than
five months after pumping its first barrel of oil. The move
sparked a selloff that spread to the rest of his publicly traded
companies. He’s lost $4 billion so far this year.  In an e-mailed response to questions, his EBX holding
company said it will speed up revenue growth starting in 2013
and 2014, and has close to $9 billion in cash. Batista declined
to comment on whether he can reclaim his post from Lemann.  Batista’s closely held ventures now account for the bulk of
his fortune. Based on the market value of his publicly traded
units at the time, the Mubadala deal valued his closely held
companies at about $10 billion. His stake in OGX is worth $4.1
billion.  “Eike has the potential for explosive returns, but it’s
also a business full of challenges,” said Palmer, of Henderson.
“Lemann’s wealth is compounding and it’s got dividends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  