-- EON Set to Announce Asset Swap Deal With Verbund Tomorrow
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-12-03T17:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/eon-set-to-announce-asset-swap-deal-with-verbund-tomorrow.html
EON SE and  Verbund AG (VER) , Germany and
Austria’s biggest utilities, will announce an agreement to swap
power-generation assets tomorrow, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The agreement to exchange E.ON stations in Germany for
Verbund’s stake in a Turkish power generator may be a pure asset
swap or include a limited cash payment, said the people, asking
not to be identified because the process is private.  EON, based in Dusseldorf, will take Verbund’s 50 percent
stake in Enerjisa Enerji AS, a venture with  Turkey ’s  Haci Omer
Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) , in exchange for power plants in Germany, a
deal first reported in September.  Josef Nelles, a spokesman for EON, and Beate McGinn, a
spokeswoman for Verbund, declined to comment on a possible
agreement. Suat Ozyaprak, a spokesman for Sabanci Holding, also
declined to comment.  EON wants to expand in Brazil and Turkey where energy
demand is expected to grow faster than in  Europe . The utility
acquired an 11.7 percent stake of Brazilian billionaire  Eike
Batista ’s  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  and set up a power-generation joint
venture earlier this year.  Enerjisa, in which Verbund bought a stake for $326.2
million in 2007, has plans to have 5,000 megawatts of power
capacity in Turkey by 2015 and a 10 percent share of the power
production market.  Wolfgang Anzengruber, chief executive officer of Verbund,
said in September that the utility isn’t a global player and
will focus on “core Europe,” according to an interview in the
Kurier newspaper. “Our target area is southern Germany,
northern  Italy , perhaps Switzerland,” he said.  The agreement marks the second time Verbund, Europe’s
fourth-biggest producer of hydropower, has taken over EON plants
in  Germany  after buying 13 hydropower stations along the Inn
River in southern Germany for more than 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) in 2009.  Energy Producer  Enerjisa Enerji, Turkey’s second biggest non-state energy
producer, was set up last year with 3.5 billion lira ($1.96
billion) of capital after a reorganization of businesses owned
by Verbund and Sabanci Holding. Enerjisa, which had 3.7 billion
liras of sales in 2011, has about 1,700 megawatts of generating
capacity, through its production unit Enerjisa Enerji Uretim AS.  In last year’s statement, the Enerjisa Enerji Uretim unit
was valued at 8.64 billion liras and Enerjisa Elektrik Dagitim
AS, which operates the power grid in Turkey’s capital Ankara, at
1.16 billion liras.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  