-- CSC to Sell Credit Unit to Equifax for $1 Billion
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-12-03T15:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/equifax-agrees-to-buy-csc-credit-unit-for-1-billion.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  agreed to
sell its credit services business to  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  for $1 billion
in cash, the second divestiture in six weeks as part of an
ongoing turnaround effort. Shares of both companies gained.  The transaction is expected to close by the end of the
year, and the proceeds will be used for share repurchases and to
fund the  pension plan ,  Falls Church , Virginia-based CSC said
today in a statement.  CSC Chief Executive Officer Mike Lawrie, named to the post
in February, has been moving away from traditional
infrastructure sales and focusing on industry software and
services. The company has cut jobs and worked to better manage
contracts with customers including  NASA  and the U.S. Navy.  “CSC is in the early stages of its turnaround,” said
Arvind Ramnani, an analyst at BNP Paribas, in an interview.
“They’re going to continue to get rid of assets that they don’t
see as part of the plan five years from now. Equifax is in the
business, and this can easily be core to what they have to
offer.”  The shares of CSC rose 4.1 percent to $39.62 at 10:34 a.m.
in  New York , and earlier reached $40.34 for the highest intraday
price since May 2011. Shares of Atlanta-based Equifax advanced
4.7 percent to $53.65, and earlier touched $55.52 for the
biggest increase since April 2009.  ‘Great Deal’  For Equifax, the transaction will generate incremental net
operating revenue next year of $115 million to $125 million, and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amoritization
of $105 million to $110 million, the company said in a separate
statement. The company said it has partnered with CSC’s credit
services unit since 1988.  “Equifax was already doing all the work, they were just
getting a minority revenue share,” said Carter Malloy, an
analyst at Stephens Capital Management. “Now they’re just
buying over the rest of the revenues. What this is is a very,
very low risk, 12 percent accretive deal for Equifax. It’s a
great deal.”  Richard Smith , Equifax CEO, said in October that he was
interested in working with Lawrie to negotiate a deal with CSC
for the credit-services unit.  Equifax, one of the most-commonly used consumer credit
agencies in the U.S., has data on more than 500 million
consumers and 81 million businesses worldwide.  The company has announced completion of 11 deals in the
past five years for a total value of $1.2 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average disclosed deal size has
been about $300 million.  Paring Operations  Lawrie said earlier this year that he plans to build out
the company’s cloud, cyber and big-data offerings into
businesses with as much as $1.5 billion in annual revenue.  CSC has worked to pare its operations to focus on
technology services, and in October said it had agreed to sell
the consulting and systems-integration services portion of its
business in  Italy  for an undisclosed sum.  The credit-services unit owns credit files in 15 states
representing 20 percent of the  U.S. population , CSC said. The
unit is the largest independent U.S. consumer credit reporting
agency and has been affiliated with Equifax for more than 20
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  