-- Merck Advances Alzheimer’s Treatment Into Next Trial
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-12-03T21:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/merck-advances-alzheimer-s-treatment-into-next-trial.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  moved an experimental
Alzheimer’s treatment into the next stage of testing as it aims
to become the first drugmaker with a medicine that slows the
progression of the mind-wasting disease.  The pill, called MK-8931, will be studied in 200 patients
with the early stages of Alzheimer’s, the  Whitehouse Station ,
New Jersey-based company said today in a statement. Merck could
have results from the study, the second of three stages required
to get U.S. regulatory approval, by late 2013, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York.  With the move, Merck enters the race to be the first
drugmaker to get a medicine on the market that modifies the
course of the disease.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  reported mixed results
from a late-stage study of its drug earlier this year and is
waiting to hear if U.S. regulators will require another trial to
win approval.  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  also has a treatment in
the final stages of testing and may have results next year.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said Nov. 30 that it had ended
development of its experimental Alzheimer’s disease treatment
after the drug was shown not to be effective. The medicine,
avagacestat, was in the second phase of testing.  If successful in its phase II study, Merck could begin a
larger 1,700 patient study by 2014, potentially putting Merck
and Lilly in a head-to-head race, Schoenebaum said. Merck’s drug
works differently than Lilly’s though both target the buildup of
plaque in the brain, a hallmark of the disease.  Merck rose less than 1 percent to $44.44 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  