-- Terror Groups in Africa Work With Al-Qaeda, General Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-03T19:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/terror-groups-in-africa-work-with-al-qaeda-general-says.html
Terror groups operating in  Mali ,
 Nigeria  and elsewhere in northern Africa are collaborating among
themselves and receiving training from al-Qaeda affiliates in
the region, according to the head of the U.S. Africa Command.  “We are seeing clear indications of collaboration amongst
the organizations,” Army General Carter Ham said today in
 Washington . The U.S. has seen evidence that Boko Haram, an
Islamic group in northern Nigeria, “is receiving financial
support, some training, probably some explosives from al-Qaeda
in the Islamic Maghreb, in a relationship that goes both ways,”
Ham said.  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  is among the best-financed
affiliates of the terrorist group, drawing its money from
kidnapping for ransom, drug-running and illicit trafficking in
tobacco and fuel, Ham said at an event organized by the Homeland
Security Policy Institute, a policy research group.  U.S. officials including Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
have said that despite gains against so-called core al-Qaeda in
 Afghanistan  and border areas of  Pakistan , the group and its
surrogates have spread in a wide swath of North Africa.  “Violent extremists and affiliates of al-Qaeda” were
involved in the Sept. 11 attacks on a U.S. diplomatic compound
in Benghazi,  Libya , that led to the death of Ambassador Chris
Stevens and three other Americans, Panetta said in a Nov. 20
speech.  Countering terror groups in north Africa must be more than
a military effort, Ham said. “The military is an essential but
non-decisive component in countering” ideology that drives
people in the region to support al-Qaeda affiliates, he said.  ’Safe Haven’  The absence of government and a lack of medical care and
economic opportunity are driving people toward extremist
ideology, Ham said.  “Northern Mali is a particular challenge at the moment”
with no government control in two-thirds of the country, which
has turned the area into a “safe haven for al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb,” he said.  Any military effort against rebels in northern Mali must be
led by the  African Union  or by the Economic Community of West
African States, also known as Ecowas, Ham said.  The African Union on Nov. 13 approved a plan to send more
than 3,000 troops to northern Mali to oust the rebels. The U.S.
is in discussions with the African Union and the  United Nations 
about the timing of the military action, which isn’t likely
before March, Ham said. A poorly planned mission earlier than
that would unsuccessful, he said.  The U.S. military is hampered in not being able to have a
military-to-military relationship with Mali’s armed forces
because the country’s interim government gained power through a
coup, Ham said. “That’s a pretty significant impediment.”  Human Intelligence  Africa  Command, established in October 2007, is the newest
of the military’s six regional commands. Because of the
relatively recent focus on Africa, U.S. military officials don’t
have the same depth of understanding about Africa that they have
concerning other parts of the world, Ham said.  “That causes us to be very reliant upon the U.S.
intelligence community broadly, including the civilian
components” such as experts from the State Department and
Department of Agriculture, Ham said. Special operations forces
also play a significant role because “they bring a higher
degree of cultural understanding” including language skills
that regular military troops may not have, he said.  “The area we are the weakest in Africa is probably human
intelligence,” Ham said. Geographic, linguistic and cultural
challenges make the gathering of human intelligence difficult,
he said. The Pentagon is looking at ways to broadly increase its
human intelligence collection capability, he said.  Panetta announced in October that President  Barack Obama 
will nominate Army General David Rodriguez to succeed Ham as
commander of the Africa Command.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  