-- EU Moves Ahead With Transaction Tax in Rejecting U.K. Changes
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-12-03T09:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/eu-moves-ahead-with-transaction-tax-in-rejecting-u-k-changes.html
The European Union has moved ahead
with a plan to design a financial-transaction tax for
participating nations, rejecting the U.K.’s requested changes to
the proposal, an EU official said.  The U.K. had sought a series of wording changes to the
European Commission’s proposal, according to documents obtained
by Bloomberg News. National ambassadors to the EU on Nov. 30
rejected those changes and opted to seek European Parliament
approval with the commission’s existing language, the official
said on condition of anonymity because the deliberations are
private.  All 27 nations and the EU parliament must agree for the
Brussels-based commission to design a tax for 11 willing nations
under so-called “enhanced cooperation” procedures. Skeptical
nations that won’t take part, such as the U.K. and  Poland , have
said they won’t allow the smaller group of countries to proceed
unless they know what to expect.  Accepting the U.K.’s wording request would have been an
unjustified step backwards on the proposal, a European
Commission official said.  The commission’s proposal says that the plan, as currently
offered, fulfills treaty requirements to avoid damage to the
single market or other nations. The U.K. amendments would have
stated that the final proposal “should” avoid such
discrimination, according to the documents.  Single Market  The U.K. suggested the changes as part of its efforts to
make sure the proposal doesn’t harm non-participating nations or
the EU’s single market, said a British diplomat who asked not to
be named in line with government policy. According to EU
documents, 16 nations wanted to advance the proposal while 10
objected and Cyprus, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency,
abstained.  Countries that have signed on to the transaction-tax plan
are  Belgium , Germany,  Estonia , Greece, Spain, France,  Italy ,
 Austria ,  Portugal , Slovenia and Slovakia. Once the commission
receives the go-ahead it can design the details of the proposal,
which will require unanimous support from participating nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  