-- EU Nations Eye New ECB Bank Supervisor Amid German Doubts
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-04T12:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/eu-nations-eye-new-ecb-bank-supervisor-amid-german-doubts.html
European Union finance ministers
tried to bridge bank oversight disagreements, a step that would
help sever links between banking woes and sovereign debt
plaguing the crisis-stricken  euro zone .  Germany  sought to shield its small banks,  France  pressed
for common standards and  Spain  wanted influence that reflects
the size of its banking market at a meeting of finance ministers
in Brussels today. No nation offered die-hard opposition to the
new supervisor, which EU leaders seek to establish at the
 European Central Bank  by the end of this year. Further
gatherings are possible before Dec. 31.  “We have to find a new solution,” said German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , reiterating his country’s concerns
about ECB independence and the role of national authorities. He
said the German parliament won’t allow the single supervisor to
proceed unless his nation’s regulators keep control of smaller
banks under most circumstances.  Governments are racing to meet a year-end deadline to set
up a joint supervisor at the Frankfurt-based ECB, which would be
mandatory for the 17 euro-zone nations and optional for other EU
members. ECB oversight is a required first step before banks can
directly tap the currency area’s firewall fund.  Direct Aid  Loans from the bailout fund, such as for Spain’s financial-
sector rescue, must currently pass through national authorities.
In addition to helping establish the new supervisor, euro-area
finance ministers must design guidelines for how the 500
billion-euro ($653 billion) European Stability Mechanism could
provide direct aid to banks and what conditions would apply.  “We should not lose sight of why this issue is urgent,”
said Portuguese Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar. The single
supervisor “is key to contain macrosystemic risk in the euro
area and avert catastrophic possibilities.”  Nations debated supervisory voting procedures, how ECB
oversight would apply to smaller banks and the role of national
regulators. They sought common ground on how the new supervisor
will work with non-euro countries.  “There must be equal terms for countries inside the euro
as well as for those outside,” Swedish Finance Minister  Anders
Borg  said. “We will not accept a solution that makes anyone a
second-tier member of the new supervisor.”  Treaty Change  Borg said finance ministers could choose to meet again this
month in a bid to wrap up work on the plan this year, as EU
leaders called for in October. He also broached a “technical
treaty change” to establish the new supervisor, a step ECB
lawyers have said won’t be necessary.  If finance ministers can’t agree on a deal, it may be
impossible for a political framework to be in place on Jan. 1.
EU leaders, who will meet Dec. 13-14 in Brussels, are set to
tackle broader issues of banking union while leaving oversight
details to the finance ministers.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said the central bank
questions whether national governments should take the lead in
choosing the chief of the new supervisory panel. “We urge the
council to reconsider,” he said during public debate today.  Schaeuble countered by saying bank supervision can’t be
subject to the same standards that apply to monetary policy.  Chinese Wall  “You can’t leave banking supervision with the independence
of the central bank,” he said. “The rights of the last
decision cannot be left to the Governing Council of the ECB --
then we would not have a Chinese wall. And that is very
essential.”  The new supervisor would oversee all banks in its coverage
area by Jan. 1, 2014, according to documents obtained by
 Bloomberg News . It would be phased in over the course of 2013,
and the ECB would have until July 2013 to design how it will
work with national regulators. The dates are provisional and
could change.  “Germany is making a mockery of its own quid pro quo for
shoring up the eurozone: greater centralization in exchange for
greater risk-sharing,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director
of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London . “When it comes to banks,
it wants neither.”  France wants the ECB to supervise all banks in the euro
zone, though “practical arrangements” will have to be found
for smaller, local banks, Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici 
said.  “Ultimately, it’s the ECB that should be responsible for
the totality,” Moscovici said. Financial problems “don’t only
come from banks regarded as systemic.”  Last-Resort Powers  Schaeuble indicated that Germany wouldn’t block last-resort
ECB powers over every euro-area financial firm.  “We are ready to accept a clear division of labor with the
right of the European banking supervision to take responsibility
in any case,” he said.  The plan should ensure that “the number of banking groups
that will be directly supervised by the center will be contained
within reasonable numbers,” Constancio said. While urging
changes to the schedule for phasing in the ECB’s new powers, he
called the proposal “very good.”  Officials aren’t trying to entice the U.K., home to
 Europe ’s biggest financial center, into the ECB-housed
supervisor because it has already said it doesn’t want to join.
The U.K. seeks to make sure the ECB doesn’t have an unfair
advantage at the European Banking Authority, a London-based
agency that sets technical standards and mediates disputes among
national regulators.  The  Czech Republic , which has no imminent plans to join the
euro, also wants to stay out of the bank-supervision project.
During public debate today, Czech Finance Minister Miroslav
Kalousek said his country would require assurance local
regulators will have “decisive” say on whether units of
foreign banks are regulated as branches or subsidiaries, a
position supported by  Bulgaria .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  