-- EU Renews Chamois-Leather Duty on China for U.K., Italian Makers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-12-03T11:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/eu-renews-chamois-leather-duty-on-china-for-u-k-italian-makers.html
The European Union renewed a tariff
on chamois leather from  China  for another five years to curb
import competition for British and Italian producers.  The EU reimposed the 58.9 percent duty on the soft leather,
which is used to dry cars and windows, in a bid to aid
Cambridge, U.K.-based Hutchings & Harding Ltd. and Turin-based
 Marocchinerie e Scamoscerie Italiane SpA . Their situation is
“very fragile and vulnerable” and China has “significant”
spare production capacity, according to the bloc.  The EU introduced the levy in 2006 to punish Chinese
exporters of chamois leather for selling it in  Europe  below
cost, a practice known as  dumping . Last year, when the anti-
dumping duty was due to lapse, the bloc opened a probe into
whether to renew the import tax, which automatically stayed in
place during the inquiry.  “Should measures be repealed, the Chinese exporting
producers would in all likelihood strive to regain any lost
market share in the union,” the 27-nation EU said in a decision
today in Brussels that is the outcome of the investigation. The
five-year renewal will take effect after being published in the
European  Official Journal  by Dec. 13.  China’s share of the EU market for chamois leather ranged
from 3 percent to 5 percent between 2008 and the 12 months
through June 2011, the bloc said. That’s down from as much as 30
percent before the duty was introduced six years ago.  Other countries that export chamois leather to the EU
include  India ,  Turkey  and  New Zealand , according to the bloc. In
the 12 months through June 2011, their shares of the European
market were 16 percent for India, 10 percent for Turkey and 7
percent for New Zealand, the EU said.  The renewal of the duty against China marks a victory for
the U.K. Leather Federation, which sought the longer trade
protection in a June 2011 request that led to the EU expiry
investigation. The federation represents more than half of EU
production of chamois leather, according to the bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  