-- EU Will Miss January Deadline to Implement Basel Overhaul
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-03T18:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/eu-says-it-won-t-meet-january-deadline-to-implement-basel-iii.html
The European Union said it will join
the U.S. in missing next month’s deadline to legally implement
an overhaul of Basel bank rules, as EU debate drags on over
issues including banker bonuses, liquidity rules and leverage
limits.  “The legal entry into force of CRD IV is no longer
realistic for January 2013,” Stefaan De Rynck, spokesman for
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said in
Brussels today, referring to the bloc’s draft law to apply the
Basel measures. Any delay should be as “short as possible,” he
said.  The EU’s recognition that the January deadline is defunct
follows calls from the European Banking Federation for a delay
to stop lenders facing unnecessary costs. The missed deadline
may also spare banks from having to apply proposed pay curbs to
next year’s bonus pools.  EU governments and lawmakers have struggled to agree on how
the bloc should apply the international rules, which were agreed
on by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The standards
more than triple the core capital that lenders must hold to
absorb losses, and were drawn up in response to the turmoil that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The so-
called Basel III measures are scheduled to phase in from Jan. 1,
2013, to 2019.  Operational Requirements  “While a delay in implementing CRD IV is to be expected,
it is important for firms planning their operational
requirements that there is clarity as soon as possible on when
this legislation is to be adopted,” Michael Lever, a managing
director at the Association for Financial Markets in  Europe ,
said in an e-mail.  Policymakers should seek “to promote a level playing
field” internationally and “avoid competitive distortions,”
Lever said.  AFME represents international lenders including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc .  Finance ministers from the EU’s 27 nations will discuss
tomorrow how negotiations on the draft law should advance,
according to a  note prepared  by Cyprus, which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU. Legislators from the European Parliament
and Cypriot officials are also scheduled to meet next week for
talks.  Political Deal  Even if a political deal is reached on the draft law by the
end of the year, this won’t leave enough time for it to be
formally adopted and codified as legislation, De Rynck said.  “If political agreement on the directive is not reached in
the next two months, it is unlikely that any bonus cap
provisions could be put in place ahead of the 2013 compensation
round.” Jon Terry, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
said in an e-mail.  The EU’s recognition that it won’t meet January’s legal
deadline follows an announcement last month by U.S. regulators
that they also won’t begin applying Basel III on schedule.  The  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency “do not expect that
any of the proposed rules would become effective” at the start
of next year, as they continue weighing views expressed during
the comment period, they said in a joint statement.  A total of 10 of the Basel committee’s 27 nations,
including  Japan , have so-far “completed legislation and
regulation” to begin phasing in Basel III starting on Jan. 1,
Svein Andresen, secretary general of the Financial Stability
Board, said in an e-mail.  Potential Losses  The EU is expected to complete its adoption of the measures
“very shortly,” Andresen said, while U.S regulators also take
their commitments “very seriously.”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  signaled last week
that U.K. banks may need to build up the capital they hold
against potential losses, and asked regulators to report back by
March on how lenders will comply.  Banks may need to make bigger provisions for future loan
losses and the cost of regulatory fines and customer redress,
King told reporters in  London .  He said that risk-weightings may also be inappropriate, as
he presented a report which said the  capital ratios  that they
are used to calculate may be overstated by as much as 35 billion
pounds ($56.4 billion) by the country’s four biggest banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  