-- EU Urges U.S., China to Help Speed Up Talks on Cutting Pollution
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-03T15:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/eu-urges-u-s-china-to-help-speed-up-talks-on-cutting-pollution.html
The European Union urged the U.S. and
 China  to step up their efforts on cutting greenhouse gases and
to accelerate talks about a new global climate treaty as this
year’s round of discussions entered its final week.  “It’s very important to see a strong U.S. involvement in
these negotiations,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard 
told reporters in Doha. “Since 1990, emissions in the EU
decreased by 18 percent, while in the U.S. increased by 10.8
percent. There’s this challenge for all of us to do even more.”  U.S. State Department envoy Todd Stern joined ministers
arriving from industrialized and developing nations in Doha
today for a United Nations conference on global warming. This
week, delegates from more than 190 nations will strive to agree
on an action plan for a treaty in 2015 that would cut greenhouse
gases.  Current pledges by governments are not enough to limit the
rise of temperature to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenhait) from pre-industrial times, the United Nations
Environment Program said today. Further warming may lead to
cataclysmic changes, international organizations have said.  In the U.S., where President Obama failed to deliver on his
promise to start a cap-and-trade program in his first term, the
administration is now working on policies that may help cut
 greenhouse gases  17 percent by 2020.  “We are making good progress, and I think we are on
track,” Stern told reporters today in Doha when asked if the
U.S. can meet its goal even if Congress doesn’t pass climate
legislation this decade.  International climate negotiations so far have been marred
by divisions -- largely between industrialized nations and
emerging economies such as China and  India  -- over issues
including the level of ambition in setting pollution-reduction
targets and financial aid for poor countries.  “What we expect from China, as well as from all other
countries, is that now we move together forward,” Hedegaard
said. “ The latest statistics we have seen show that emissions
are growing even more than the GDP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Doha at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  