-- Euro Trades Near 6-Week High
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-12-03T23:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/euro-trades-near-6-week-high.html
The euro traded 0.1 percent from a
six-week high versus the dollar before European Union finance
ministers meet in Brussels today amid optimism the region can
find solutions for its debt crisis.  The euro held a three-day gain against the yen after  Greece 
offered to spend as much as 10 billion euros ($13 billion) to
buy back government securities and as Spain said it expects
funds for bank recapitalization next week. The dollar remained
lower as U.S. lawmakers continue negotiations on how to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases.
Demand for  Australia ’s currency was limited on speculation the
central bank will lower interest rates today.  “Euro sentiment has brightened and there is reason to be
optimistic,” said Mike Jones, a currency strategist at Bank of
New Zealand in Wellington. “I still can’t help but think that
the missing ingredient for sustained gains is some improvement
in the economic data out of  Europe .”  Jones predicts the euro will be at $1.30 by Dec. 31.  The euro fetched $1.3056 as of 8:26 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.3054 yesterday, when it touched $1.3076, the most since Oct.
23. The shared currency was little changed at 107.30 yen from
yesterday, having risen 1 percent in the past three sessions.
The U.S. currency slid 0.1 percent to 82.19 yen. The so-called
Aussie traded at $1.0425 from $1.0421, after having fallen 0.5
percent in the past three days.  Greek Debt  Greece invited holders of bonds to tender their securities
in a so-called modified Dutch auction, the Athens-based Public
Debt Management Agency said in a statement yesterday on its
website. PDMA offered an average maximum purchase price for the
bonds maturing from 2023 to 2042 of 34.1 percent. The offer runs
to 5 p.m. London time on Dec. 7.  Euro-area finance ministers voiced confidence that Greece
will pull off a successful bond buyback as they met in Brussels
yesterday. “I’m confident it will go well,” French Finance
Minister Pierre Moscovici told reporters yesterday. “It seems
to be happening under satisfactory conditions.” Finance chiefs
from the European Union’s 27 nations will meet in Brussels
today.  In the U.S., House Republicans, rejecting President  Barack Obama ’s demand for higher tax rates, countered with a $2.2
trillion deficit-cutting plan that would trim Medicare and
Social Security and cap tax deductions for top earners. The
proposal, in a letter yesterday to Obama from House Speaker John Boehner and other Republican leaders, seeks $800 billion in tax
revenue in the next decade and would slow the growth in Social
Security cost-of-living payments.  Demand for Australia’s currency was limited as swaps trades
indicate a 93 percent chance the Reserve Bank will lower the
overnight cash-rate target today. Nineteen out of 28 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News expect a 25 basis point cut to 3
percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  