-- Ex-Greenberg Traurig Lawyer Files $200 Million Bias Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-03T23:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/ex-greenberg-traurig-lawyer-files-200-million-bias-suit.html
Greenberg Traurig LLP was sued for
$200 million by a former partner who claims that women at the
 law firm  are paid less and given fewer opportunities for
advancement than their male counterparts.  Francine Griesing, who worked as a Greenberg Traurig
partner in Philadelphia from April 2007 to January 2010, filed a
complaint in federal court in  Manhattan  today, seeking to
represent a class of current and former women partners at the
firm.  “GT, in short, pays women less, promotes them at lower
rates than men and virtually freezes them out from high-level
managerial positions,” Griesing said in her complaint.  The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in June
found “reasonable cause to believe” that the firm violated
federal law by underpaying women partners in the Philadelphia
office and retaliating against Griesing when she complained
about it.  In a statement, Hilarie Bass, a member of  Greenberg
Traurig ’s executive committee, called the suit “a financially
motivated publicity stunt” and said it lacks merit.  ‘Exemplary Record’  “Greenberg Traurig has an exemplary record of fairness and
advancement irrespective or gender, race or creed,” Bass said.
“Our history of recruiting, retaining, and promoting women and
our law firm reflects that.”  Bass said the firm today filed a petition in federal court
in Philadelphia to force Griesing’s complaint to arbitration.  Greenberg Traurig has about 1,750 lawyers in 35 offices
throughout the world, according to the firm’s website.  According to Griesing’s complaint, all the decisions about
partner promotion and pay are made by Greenberg Traurig’s male
chief executive officer, with input from an all-male
compensation committee. The firm assigns partners to one of
three levels: the “300 level,” which is the lowest, the “500
level” and the “1,000 level,” the highest, according to the
complaint.  “Shareholder level affects compensation; access to
development and growth opportunities; access to resources and
clients; and leadership opportunities,” she said.  According to the EEOC letter, which was obtained from a
spokeswoman for the law firm representing Griesing, Sanford
Heisler LLP, she received $50,000 less in base pay than a
comparable male partner who had been admitted to the partnership
at the 500 level. Griesing was assigned to the 300 level.  Less than 10 percent of the 1,000-level partners, who earn
about $1 million more per year than the others, are women,
Griesing said in her complaint.  Griesing also alleged that women “who have intimate
relationships with firm leaders” are paid and treated better by
the firm. She claims the firm retaliated against her for
complaining about discrimination within the firm and for filing
a complaint with the EEOC, according to the complaint.  The case is Griesing v. Greenberg Traurig LLP, 12-cv-8734,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  