-- Ex-Met Lenny Dykstra Gets 6 1/2-Month Prison Sentence for Fraud
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-04T06:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/ex-n-y-met-dykstra-gets-six-and-a-half-months-for-fraud-1-.html
Former  New York  Mets outfielder Lenny Dykstra received a six and a half-month prison sentence for
looting valuables worth hundreds of thousands of dollars from
his mansion after he had filed for bankruptcy.  Dykstra, 49, was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge
Dean D. Pregerson in Los Angeles. The former Major League
Baseball player is already serving a three-year  California  state
prison term for grand theft auto and a nine-month term for lewd
conduct and assault with a deadly weapon.  “I’m trying to understand who is Mr. Dykstra,” Pregerson
said. “There’s a spectrum of conduct that’s hard for me to
understand.”  Dykstra’s federal public defender, Hilary Potashner, told
the judge that drug and alcohol abuse were behind Dykstra’s
string of criminal conduct in the past few years, including the
bankruptcy fraud, his efforts to lease cars with false business
information and attempts to have sex with women who responded to
an ad for a personal assistant.  His drug addiction dated back to his days as a baseball
player when, after many injuries, he had to take painkillers to
“make it through the day,” Potashner said. His financial
difficulties tripped him up in the mid-to-late 2000s, the lawyer
told the judge.  ‘Different Person’  “He didn’t act like  Lenny Dykstra ,” Potashner said. “He
was a different person. He was making erratic, Id-driven
decisions.”  Dykstra had been “beaten to a pulp” in state custody and
had his front teeth knocked out because of his celebrity status,
the lawyer said.  Dykstra, dressed in a white prison jumpsuit, made a short
statement apologizing to the government and his family.  “I don’t think I’m a bad person,” Dykstra said. “I’m
looking forward to a new start.”  The judge said he decided to err on the side of a short
prison term and ordered Dykstra to perform 500 hours of
community service. The former baseball player won’t serve the
entire three years of his state prison term and is likely to be
released sometime next year.  ‘Celebrity Status’  Federal prosecutors had asked the judge to sentence Dykstra
to 2 1/2 years in prison, saying he had been “trading on his
celebrity status” and acted as if he was above the law.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Evan Davis said after the hearing
that the sentence is “less than what the government
requested.”  “It’s the judge’s job to make that decision,” he said.  In July, Dykstra pleaded guilty to bankruptcy fraud,
concealment of bankruptcy property and  money laundering . The
government alleged that after he filed for bankruptcy in 2009,
he stripped as much as $400,000 in valuables and fixtures from
the $18.5 million mansion north of Los Angeles he had bought two
years earlier from Hall of Fame hockey player  Wayne Gretzky .  According to the government’s sentencing recommendation,
Dykstra, who had won the  World Series  with the Mets in 1986,
went through a cycle of poor business decisions and substance
abuse after his retirement from baseball that eventually left
him broke and imprisoned.  Finances Deteriorated  The Southern California native sold a profitable car wash
business in 2007 when he bought the mansion just as the real
estate market started its decline, prosecutors said. A plan to
turn the mansion in a time-share went nowhere as did Dykstra’s
Players Club magazine, prosecutors said.  As his finances deteriorated, Dykstra’s substance abuse
increased, according to the government. Dykstra drank a liter of
vodka a day at times and took prescription painkillers including
Percocet, according to the government. When police searched his
home in 2011, they found cocaine, Ecstasy and human growth
hormone,  Los Angeles  authorities said at the time.  In April, Dykstra pleaded no contest to charges he told
women who came to meet him in response to ads he placed on
Craigslist for personal assistants and housekeepers that the job
also required giving him massages.  In one case, Dykstra removed the door handle to trap a
woman in his room and began masturbating, suggesting that the
job of personal assistant included performing sexual acts on
him, according to the government’s sentencing memorandum.  Baseball Memorabilia  In the federal bankruptcy fraud case, prosecutors said the
losses to his creditors were difficult to determine, such as the
market value of a used $50,000 stove Dykstra took from his
mansion and sold “out of the back of a truck for a few thousand
dollars.” They also accused him of illegally selling baseball
memorabilia that should have been part of the bankruptcy estate.  In his 2009 Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization filing,
Dykstra said he had $37.1 million in debts. The case was
converted to Chapter 7 liquidation later that year.  Dykstra, known as “Nails,” joined the Mets in 1985 and
helped the team win the World Series the following year. He
played for the  Philadelphia Phillies  from 1989 to 1996.  The outfielder finished second to  Barry Bonds  in National
League Most Valuable Player Award voting in 1993, when the
Phillies reached the World Series to face the  Toronto Blue Jays .
Dykstra had a career batting average of .285, with 81 home runs
and 404 runs batted in, according to baseball-reference.com.  The case is U.S. v. Dykstra, 11-00415, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 