-- Fed’s Rosengren Sees ‘Strong Case’ for More Asset Buying
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-12-03T20:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/fed-s-rosengren-sees-strong-case-for-more-asset-buying.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said he sees a “strong case” for the
central bank to buy bonds at the current monthly pace of $85
billion after its Operation Twist program expires.  “Given the tepid economic recovery, high unemployment, and
subdued inflation -- and the uncertainty around fiscal policy --
I believe an accommodative  monetary policy  is quite
appropriate,” Rosengren said today in a speech in New York.
“We want to see continued improvement in labor markets in the
near term, and monetary policy should encourage faster economic
growth to achieve that objective.”  Policy makers, who next meet Dec. 11-12, are considering
whether to step up record accommodation to offset the scheduled
expiration this month of Operation Twist, a program swapping
short-term Treasuries with longer-term debt. A “number” of Fed
officials said at their policy meeting in October that
additional monthly purchases of bonds may be warranted next
year, according to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s Oct. 23-24 gathering.  The central bank is buying $40 billion in mortgage debt
each month and has pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero through mid-2015 to boost growth and reduce 7.9
percent unemployment. The Fed has also been swapping about $45
billion of short-term Treasuries on its balance sheet for
longer-term debt under Operation Twist.  Below Target  “Given the effectiveness of this policy and the relatively
high  unemployment rate  and inflation that is running below our 2
percent target, I fully support the policy decisions to provide
stimulus through asset purchases,” Rosengren said at a workshop
on mortgage rates held at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  Stocks fell and commodities erased early gains as
contraction in U.S. manufacturing and concern about the budget
debate overshadowed optimism on  China’s economy . The  Standard &
Poor’s 500  slid 0.4 percent to 1,411.09 at 2:50 p.m. in New
York. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasuries were little changed
at 1.62 percent.  Including mortgage debt in the  central bank’s  first and
third rounds of asset purchases has “contributed to a stronger
economic outcome than we would have seen in the absence of these
approaches,” Rosengren said.  “If the purpose is to improve market functioning, or to
provide focused stimulus to an interest-sensitive sector in
order to stimulate aggregate demand, it may be that MBS
purchases are preferable to Treasury security purchases,” he
said. Because Treasuries are “often preferred during times of
crises,” their liquidity is less likely to be impaired.  Wider Gap  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said in opening
remarks for the workshop today that a wider gap between yields
on mortgage-backed securities and home loans is reducing the
potency of the central bank’s monetary stimulus.  While there is “solid evidence” the Fed’s monthly
purchases of $40 billion in housing debt have been effective in
lowering yields, “the impact of monetary easing on the economy
through housing and mortgage finance has been impeded to some
degree,” Dudley said today.  For the Fed’s stimulus to achieve its “full impact,” he
said, lower yields on mortgage-backed securities must pass
through to interest rates on home loans. “To the extent that
the primary-secondary rate spread widens, the reduction in pass-
through limits the full impact of the policy actions,” he said.  More Buying  The difference between yields on Fannie Mae mortgage bonds
lenders typically use to package new loans for sale and 30-year
new-loan rates is more than 1.2 percentage point, about the same
as when the Fed announced additional buying in September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bankrate.com. That’s
up from about 0.8 percentage point in March and compares with a
median of about 0.4 percentage point during the last decade.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in a speech
today that replacing Operation Twist’s swap of Treasuries with
outright purchases of the same amount of securities would
represent a policy easing that could risk higher inflation.  “It is reasonable to think that an outright purchase
program has more impact on inflation and inflation expectations
than a Twist program,” he said in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas . “If the
goal is to keep policy on its present course, the replacement
rate should be less than one-for-one.”  The Boston Fed chief said in response to audience questions
that there were “positive surprises” from the central bank’s
latest round of bond buying. Housing starts are “improving”
and consumers are refinancing their home loans, he said.  ‘Favorably Impressed’  “I’ve actually been favorably impressed” with the
results, he said. “So far, the benefits have outweighed the
costs.”  “The monetary policies designed to lower  mortgage rates 
and stimulate more activity in interest-sensitive sectors have
been effective, and are an important reason why the  U.S. economy 
has performed better than many of our developed-country peers,”
Rosengren said.  The Fed has so far decided that there’s a bigger benefit to
purchasing mortgage-debt outright, instead of pursuing an
Operation Twist-like program with its holdings of home-loan
bonds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  