-- Fed’s Dudley Sees Obstacle in Mortgage Bond, Rate Spreads
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-12-03T23:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/fed-s-dudley-sees-impediment-in-mortgage-bond-rate-spreads.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said a wider gap between yields on
mortgage-backed securities and home loans is reducing the
potency of the central bank’s monetary stimulus.  While there is “solid evidence” the Fed’s monthly
purchases of $40 billion in housing debt have been effective in
lowering yields, “the impact of monetary easing on the economy
through housing and mortgage finance has been impeded to some
degree,” Dudley said today in opening remarks at a workshop on
 mortgage rates  held at the New York Fed.  For the Fed’s stimulus to achieve its “full impact,” he
said, lower yields on mortgage-backed securities must pass
through to  interest rates  on home loans. “To the extent that
the primary-secondary rate spread widens, the reduction in pass-
through limits the full impact of the policy actions,” he said.  The central bank  announced its third round of large-scale
asset purchases on Sept. 13 to boost growth and reduce
unemployment stuck near 8 percent three years into the
expansion. Dudley said last week he is focusing on elevated
joblessness as he considers whether the Fed should increase its
asset purchases.  “The  unemployment rate  remains unacceptably high,” Dudley
said today. The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee ,
which meets Dec. 11-12, “will continue its purchases of agency
MBS, undertake additional asset purchases and employ its other
tools as appropriate until there is a substantial improvement in
the outlook for the labor market in a context of  price
stability .”  ‘Strong Case’  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said he sees a “strong
case” for the central bank to buy bonds at the current monthly
pace of $85 billion after the expiration of Operation Twist, in
which the Fed swaps $45 billion of short-term Treasuries for
longer-term debt.  “Given the tepid economic recovery, high unemployment, and
subdued inflation -- and the uncertainty around fiscal policy --
I believe an accommodative monetary policy is quite
appropriate,” Rosengren said today in a speech in New York.
“We want to see continued improvement in labor markets in the
near term, and monetary policy should encourage faster economic
growth to achieve that objective.”  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said replacing
Operation Twist with outright purchases of the same amount of
Treasuries would represent a policy easing that could risk
higher inflation.  ‘More Impact’  “It is reasonable to think that an outright purchase
program has more impact on inflation and inflation expectations
than a Twist program,” Bullard said today in a speech in  Little
Rock ,  Arkansas . He told reporters after his speech he would
favor outright purchases of about half the current rate of
Operation Twist.  Dudley said tighter mortgage underwriting standards and
challenges for homeowners wanting to refinance are blunting the
impact from Fed easing.  The  difference  between yields on Fannie Mae mortgage bonds
lenders typically use to package new loans for sale and 30-year
new-loan rates is more than 1.2 percentage point, about the same
as when the Fed announced additional buying in September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bankrate.com. That’s
up from about 0.8 percentage point in March and compares with a
median of about 0.4 percentage point during the last decade.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent today to
1,409.46 in New York, while the 10-year Treasury note yield was
little changed at 1.62 percent in New York trading, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index 
decreased to 49.5, the lowest since July 2009, from 51.7 a month
earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists
projected the index would ease to 51.4, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. A reading of 50 marks the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  