-- The Democrats’ Strange Zeal for Filibuster Reform
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-12-03T23:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/filibuster-change-could-benefit-republicans-too-ramesh-ponnuru.html
The filibuster makes hypocrites of
everyone in  Washington . In 2005, Harry Reid was the leader of
the minority party in the Senate. He said that it would be an
“abuse of power” to reduce the minority’s power with a simple
majority vote. Now he leads a Democratic majority, and he is
preparing to do exactly that.  Republicans have flipped in the other direction. In 2005,
they tried to use a majority vote to end filibusters against
judicial nominees, but now they are complaining about Reid’s
plans -- and borrowing his old rhetoric to do it. Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell lost his customary cool while
speaking about it last week.  At first and even second glance, it’s hard to see what the
fuss is about. The Democrats say that their reform, as they call
it, would preserve the filibuster while reining in abuses. The
minority could still make it impossible to pass a bill unless it
had 60 supporters, for example, but a bill would no longer need
that many votes to be taken up for debate.  What, then, are the Democrats so excited about
accomplishing? Liberal journalists have been railing against the
60-vote requirement that the modern use of the filibuster
creates ever since the Democrats took the Senate in 2007. Yet
the filibuster wasn’t able to stop them from enacting sweeping
health-care legislation that the public opposed. The Democrats
can list only a few recent examples of legislation that passed
the House, had majority support in the Senate and failed because
of a filibuster.  Democrats’ Objective  The key to the mystery is that passing more legislation
isn’t the Senate Democrats’ immediate objective. They know the
Republican House will block any partisan measure they pass. What
they want, first, is to set a precedent for changing the Senate
rules with 51 votes. That way, they can restrict the filibuster
more in the future should it become useful to do so -- and even
before then, Republicans will know, in case they use the
filibuster too often, that Democrats have the power to abolish
it.  Second, Democrats want to be able to confirm appointees.
The health-care law sets up a cost-cutting board, but President
 Barack Obama  hasn’t nominated anyone to it. One reason is
probably that he didn’t want a filibuster drawing attention to
an unpopular aspect of his record before the election.  Third, the Democrats want to shape the debate over bills.
By threatening to prevent the Senate from taking up a bill, the
minority can force the majority to let it offer amendments. If
the Democrats take away that power, the minority will have to
make an up-or-down choice on legislation it would prefer to
modify.  Fourth, they want more control over the Senate calendar.
The minority’s power to extend debate slows down the Senate and
forces the majority to discard low priorities. Republicans have
killed at least as much legislation by delaying tactics as they
have by raising vote requirements.  The standard assumption in debates about Senate procedure
is that in the long run, taking account of the fact that each
party gets control some of the time, liberals have an interest
in making it easier for the Senate to get things done.  Timothy Noah, a liberal opponent of the filibuster,
recently gave voice to this view: “Democrats are always going to
mind government inaction a lot more than Republicans, who
believe that he who governs best governs least. Washington
gridlock inherently promotes conservatism.”  Filibuster Value  That’s not quite right. When the federal government was
small, the filibuster helped to keep it that way because it
protects the status quo. If American politics ever changed so
much that most legislation aimed to pare back government,
however, the filibuster would protect the big-government status
quo. That day may seem impossibly far off, given the liberal
confidence and conservative pessimism of this post-election
period.  With the passage of the health-care law, however,
liberalism finally finished the project of building the American
welfare state. Its main job now is to protect and refine what
has already been won. Matthew Yglesias, another liberal writer,
said so at the time: “The crux of the matter is that progressive
efforts to expand the size of the welfare state are basically
done.”  If that’s right, then liberals have less to gain, and
conservatives less to fear, from making it easier to pass new
laws than either side now thinks.  Liberals who want to grease the skids for legislation and
conservatives who don’t are both betting that the next few
decades will go better for the former than the latter. That may
look like a good wager right now, but Harry Reid could one day
find himself on the wrong end of it, and sooner than he thinks.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  