-- First Solar, SunPower Expanding in Booming China Market
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-03T15:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/first-solar-sunpower-expanding-in-booming-china-market.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) ,
the two largest U.S. photovoltaic manufacturers, are expanding
in  China ’s booming solar market.  First Solar agreed to supply 2 megawatts of its thin-film
solar panels for a power plant in western China, the Tempe,
Arizona-based company’s first commercial demonstration project,
according to a statement today.  SunPower agreed today to invest $15 million in a joint
venture to build and install concentrating solar-power systems
in Inner Mongolia and other regions of China. The San Jose,
California-based company will own 25 percent of the venture and
Tianjin Zhonghuan Semiconductor, Inner Mongolia Power Group and
Hohhot Jinqiao City Development Co. will own the remainder.  The agreements may help the U.S. manufacturers boost sales
in China, which is expected to become the largest solar market
next year, said Sanjay Shrestha, an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets in New York. Chinese manufacturers dominate the global
photovoltaic industry, making up eight of the top 10 panel
companies by capacity last year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. First Solar was the second-biggest supplier,
followed by  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , which is based in Ontario and
has manufacturing operations in China.  “China has the potential to be a major market for solar
and this gets them a foot in the door,” Shrestha said today in
an interview. “You don’t want to ignore the Chinese market but
it’s difficult to say whether there will be any profit
opportunity.” He rates First Solar a buy and has the equivalent
of a hold on SunPower.  China is expected to install at least 3,980 megawatts of
solar panels next year, according to New Energy Finance,
vaulting it past Germany and  Italy , the top two markets this
year. Suntech Power Holdings Co., based in China, is the biggest
supplier.  First Solar rose 0.6 percent to $27.14 at 10:17 a.m. in New
York and SunPower slid 0.1 percent to $4.58.  France ’s  Total SA (FP) 
owns two thirds of SunPower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  