-- Fiscal Cliff Talks at Stalemate Over Dueling Tax Plans
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-12-04T13:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/fiscal-cliff-talks-stalled-over-1-6-trillion-tax-boost.html
Negotiations over the so-called
fiscal cliff are stalled as President  Barack Obama  and
Republicans trade offers on ways to avoid more than $600 billion
in U.S. spending cuts and tax increases for 2013 that will start
to take effect in January if Congress doesn’t act.  Here are questions and answers about what the fiscal cliff
means and what each side is demanding in the talks:  Who created the fiscal cliff?  Congress and Obama did. In 2010, they extended the George
W. Bush-era tax cuts for two years, meaning that tax breaks on
income, capital gains, dividends and estates will lapse at the
end of this year. In 2011, as part of a deal to raise the U.S.
debt ceiling, they set up $1.2 trillion in spending cuts to
occur over nine years, starting in January 2013. In 2012, they
extended a two-percentage-point reduction in the  payroll tax 
through Dec. 31. That confluence of events is designed to put
pressure on Congress to act on taxes, spending and the  budget
deficit .  If the cliff is so bad, why can’t Congress stop it?  They can, though lawmakers disagree on what to do. All
sides want to continue the tax breaks for individuals making up
to $200,000 a year and married couples earning up to $250,000 a
year. Republicans, who control the  House of Representatives  and
oppose  tax-rate  increases, see the cliff as leverage to push
Obama to cut spending on programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.
Democrats, who control the Senate, favor higher tax rates for
top earners and fewer cuts in social programs and entitlement
spending.  Where do the negotiations stand now?  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , sent a
letter yesterday to Obama outlining the framework of a House
Republican proposal. Within two hours, White House
Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  rejected the plan, saying
in a statement that it “promises to lower rates for the wealthy
and sticks the middle class with the bill.”  What do Republicans want?  They want to extend all of the expiring tax cuts on income,
capital gains, estates and dividends for one year and then
overhaul entitlement programs and the  tax code . The House has
passed bills that would extend the tax cuts and delay automatic
spending cuts that would affect defense programs. They say they
are willing to put revenue on the table without higher tax
rates.  What was their offer to Obama?  Republicans made a $2.2 trillion proposal yesterday that
called for $800 billion through a rate-lowering, base-broadening
overhaul of the U.S. tax code. They would reduce entitlement
programs by $900 billion and other spending by $300 billion.
They also would save $200 billion by changing a government
inflation measure that would affect tax brackets and slow
increases in Social Security benefits.  Are Republican leaders proposing an $800 billion tax increase?  Yes. Republican aides said the $800 billion revenue
increase would be scored conventionally, which means that it
wouldn’t rely on economic growth caused by the tax plan itself.
Obama and congressional scorekeepers would define that as a tax
increase. Previous Republican proposals have relied on fees and
other non-tax ways of raising revenue.  What does Obama want?  The president wants $1.6 trillion in tax increases over the
next decade. He has proposed $600 billion in spending cuts,
about $350 billion of which would come from health-care
programs. He also counts the $1 trillion in spending cuts
Congress passed in 2011, $800 billion in savings from winding
down the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and $600 billion in
interest savings, according to senior administration officials.
Leaving aside the administration’s call for measures to boost
short-term economic growth, which could take the form of tax
cuts or spending increases, this would result in $2.4 trillion
in spending cuts and $1.6 trillion in higher taxes.  What’s the $1.6 trillion in taxes Obama is talking about?  The administration’s plans call for a two-stage tax
increase that would raise taxes by $1.6 trillion over 10 years.
Right now, they want to let the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts expire
for top earners. That would push the top tax rate on  capital
gains  to 23.8 percent, the top rate on ordinary income to 39.6
percent and the top rate on dividends to 43.4 percent. The plan
would reinstate limits on personal exemptions and deductions.  What comes in stage two?  By Aug. 1, the administration wants Congress to pass a plan
that would enact the rest of the administration’s tax agenda --
about $600 billion in higher taxes. What the administration has
proposed in its budget beyond the immediate rate increases is
about $1 trillion in tax increases and about $360 billion in tax
cuts. That’s a net tax increase of more than $600 billion.  Some of the increases would make it more difficult for
U.S.-based companies to defer taxes on income earned overseas.
The cuts include a permanent extension of a  tuition  tax credit
and the credit for corporate research. The biggest increase
would reduce the value of top earners’ tax breaks by requiring
them to take such breaks as if they paid taxes in the 28 percent
bracket.  What’s not clear about the administration’s tax plans?  After the administration released its budget plan in
February, Obama called for a  corporate tax  rate cut that would
be paid for by using some of the same business tax increases
that are in the budget. Administration officials haven’t said
whether the business tax increases would go toward  deficit
reduction  or the rate cut.  Will taxes really rise by $1.6 trillion?  It’s doubtful. Obama’s plans include taxing dividends as
ordinary income and higher estate taxes.  Senate Democrats , when
they passed a bill earlier this year, didn’t endorse the
president’s version.  What’s included in Obama’s spending cuts?  The biggest item in Obama’s $350 billion in Medicare and
Medicaid cuts would save $137 billion by requiring drugmakers to
provide Medicare with the same rebates as they provide for low-
income Medicaid patients. Obama would save an additional $45
billion by cutting reimbursements for post-acute care, such as
rehabilitation hospital services and home-health calls for
recovering surgical patients.  What do Republicans want on spending?  Ideally, they want the plan advanced by House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, to provide
subsidies to Medicare patients to buy private insurance, and
turn Medicaid over to states by providing them with block
grants. In the future, Congress would designate a set amount for
an individual’s coverage, which over time could fall behind the
pace of rising health costs, meaning more out-of-pocket expenses
for beneficiaries. Short of that, Republicans have talked about
ideas such as raising the Medicare eligibility age.  Would both parties cut the deficit by the same amount?  They are close. Measured by the same yardstick, Obama wants
$2.2 trillion of deficit reduction and $200 billion of stimulus
spending. Republicans want $2.2 trillion of deficit reduction.
Those come on top of the $2.4 trillion from already enacted
cuts, war savings and interest savings.  Is the debt ceiling part of the negotiations?  Yes. The U.S. will reach the $16.4 trillion debt ceiling
this year, and Treasury can use so-called extraordinary measures
to extend the deadline until at least mid-February, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office . Republicans say they want
spending cuts equal to the size of a debt-limit increase. The
administration wants to remove the requirement that Congress
pass future increases.  Is there room for a compromise?  There is room between the two positions. Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the Finance
Committee, said he thought a tax increase of at least $1
trillion and “significant” spending cuts would be the path to
a deal. There isn’t much time left, and both sides have taken a
hard line on some of the most important issues, such as tax
rates and what tax increases or spending cuts would happen
immediately.  What’s the deadline?  Dec. 31. After that, the tax increases take effect and the
spending cuts start. Those policies can be reversed
retroactively.  Does anything have to happen before Dec. 31?  The alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system once
designed to affect the wealthy, is scheduled to affect about 28
additional million households for tax year 2012, up from about 4
million otherwise. Without legislation to prevent that, the
 Internal Revenue Service  has said it would delay tax filing
scheduled to start in January until at least late March for
about 60 million filers. Action isn’t required, though the
consequences of inaction are quick and severe.  What happens if the U.S. goes “over” the cliff?  The Congressional Budget Office projects that the economy
would go into recession in the first half of 2013 if the tax
increases and spending cuts occur and aren’t retroactively
resolved.  How will markets react if no agreement is reached by Jan. 1?  If history is a guide, stock markets have reacted
negatively to past hiccups before recovering. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 0.6 percent on Nov. 27 after
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said there
had been no headway made on a compromise beyond initial “happy
talk” from Republicans. It declined 0.5 percent in three
minutes on Nov. 29, erasing an earlier rally, after Boehner said
“no substantive progress” had been made toward a deal. It
recovered as Senator Chuck Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, said
there has been progress in talks, and the index ended the day
with a 0.4 percent gain.  Bond markets have gained on pessimistic news. The benchmark
10-year Treasury note yield fell for the fifth of six weeks
ending Nov. 30 as Obama warned on that day of “prolonged
negotiations” ahead on deficit reduction, while Boehner said
“right now, we’re almost nowhere.” The yield on the 10-year
note fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point last week
to 1.62 percent in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices and was 1.63 percent at 8:26 a.m. today in New York. The
yield fell to a record low of 1.379 percent in July and a 2012
high of 2.4 percent in March.  What is sequestration and how does it work?  Sequestration is the official name for the automatic
spending cuts, half of which would be in  defense  programs. The
cuts are across-the-board, giving agency officials little
discretion on how to achieve them. Defense programs would face a
9.4 percent cut and most other agencies would be cut by 8.2
percent, the administration said earlier this year.  Is it really a cliff or is it more of a slope?  A slope may be a better metaphor. Most of the effects --the
higher income tax rates and the spending cuts -- would occur
gradually during 2013 and not deliver an immediate economic
shock.  Are other pieces of the fiscal cliff not getting as much
attention as the income tax increases and spending cuts?  Yes. The cliff also includes a scheduled cut in doctors’
reimbursements under Medicare, less expansive  unemployment
insurance  and the lapse of business tax breaks for items such as
 wind energy , multinational companies’ overseas finance, income
and short-line railroad track maintenance.  Are there some tax increases that don’t depend on fiscal cliff
negotiations?  Yes. A 3.8 percent increase on income earned from
investments, rents and so-called passive activities is set to
take effect Jan. 1 as a result of the 2010 health-care law.
Republicans opposed the law and had hoped to repeal it if Obama
was defeated for re-election. There’s also a 0.9 percentage
increase on wages scheduled for next year as a result of the
same legislation. Both surtaxes apply to individuals earning
more than $200,000 a year or couples earning more than $250,000.
An excise tax on medical devices also will take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  