-- Fitch Again Blasts S&P Grades on Credit Suisse Mortgage Debt
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-12-03T22:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/fitch-again-blasts-s-p-grades-on-credit-suisse-mortgage-bonds.html
The AAA ratings assigned by Standard
& Poor’s in a mortgage-bond deal by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are
too high,  Fitch Ratings  said for the second time this year.  The amount of protection for a top-rated slice of the $330
million transaction “is not sufficient in Fitch’s view to fully
address the risks associated with the pool, including
concentrations in geographies whose  property prices  remain well
above what Fitch believes are sustainable values,” the New
York-based ratings firm said today in an e-mailed statement.  Rating companies have stepped up their public criticism of
competitors’ grades on securitized debt after investors and
lawmakers accused them of lowering standards to win business as
issuers practiced so-called ratings shopping during the credit
boom. A  report  by a Senate panel last year described the
industry as engaging in “a race to the bottom,” before the
bubble began to burst in 2007 and sparked a global financial
crisis.  “We believe the market benefits from a diversity of
opinion on credit risk,”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for New York-
based S&P, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our ratings reflect
our opinion of the creditworthiness of the securities in the
transaction.”  Katherine Herring , a spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in  New
York , declined to immediately comment on the Fitch statement.
The transaction priced Nov. 30, according to a person familiar
with the offering who asked not to be identified, citing a lack
of authorization to speak publicly.  Loan Issuance  Issuance of U.S. home-loan securities without government
backing peaked at $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006, before
freezing in late 2008 and 2009. Deals in 2010 and 2011 packaged
$909 million of new loans, before sales accelerated this year to
about $3.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse (CS)  joined  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  this year as the
only issuers in the so-called non-agency market.  In the latest Credit Suisse deal, Fitch said that the 5.8
percent of so-called credit enhancement, or protection for
investors against defaults on the underlying loans, on a slice
granted AAA ratings was 15 percent lower than in any prime deal
offered top grades by Fitch since 2008.  The rating company said that it applied “stresses” of
more than 20 percent to home prices for loans in six of the top
10 metropolitan areas represented in the pool, including the one
including Arlington and Alexandria,  Virginia  and  Washington .  Soured Debt  S&P assumes that AAA rated bonds backed by a typical pool
of prime mortgages can withstand 45 percent declines in  home
prices  without taking losses, according to its criteria
published in 2009. “In many respects, this pool has
characteristics that are, from a credit perspective, better than
our archetypical pool,” S&P said in a Nov. 30 statement.  Fitch said the transaction also included “notable
changes” related to obligations that require originators or
Credit Suisse to repurchase soured debt that fails to match its
promised quality. The deal allows the so-called  representations
and warranties  to expire after 36 months, it said.  In March, Fitch blasted a $730 million mortgage-bond deal
issued by Credit Suisse and graded by S&P and DBRS Ltd., saying
the credit enhancement was too low and it was concerned about
the appraisals of  MetLife Inc. (MET) , which made some of the loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  