-- Florida Debt Shrinking Most in Decades Fuels Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/florida-debt-shrinking-most-in-decades-fuels-rally-muni-credit.html
Governor  Rick Scott ’s veto pen helped
reduce  Florida ’s debt in back-to-back years for the first time
in at least three decades. Lawmakers say it might be time to
reverse course.  The cuts are driving bonds of the fourth-biggest state to
the best performance in almost a decade. Debt of Florida and its
localities has earned 9.2 percent this year, beating the 8.9
percent return for the $3.7 trillion municipal market,  Standard
& Poor’s  data show. Florida also beat the market in 2011,
leaving it on a pace to outperform in consecutive years for the
first time since 2003.  Of the five most populous states, Florida alone saw its
debt fall in the period, said John Sugden, director of U.S.
public finance at S&P. The drop to $26.2 billion as of June 30
from $28.2 billion in 2010 followed Scott’s move to limit new
issuance last fiscal year to the lowest since 1990, as well as
reduced demand for infrastructure spending and refinancings that
saved $1.1 billion.  “It’s a pretty rare achievement for an administration to
bring down the actual level of debt,” said John Hallacy, head
of municipal research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New
York . “What’s interesting is you’d see this in bad times when
you’d think issuing debt would raise proceeds to employ
people.”  Financing Debate  While the state’s  unemployment  rate, at 8.5 percent, is
down from 11.4 percent in the first quarter of 2010, it is still
above the national average. Florida’s economy might have
benefited had it financed more building of roads and schools,
Hallacy said.  Scott, 60, a former chief executive officer at  HCA Holdings
Inc. (HCA)  elected in the Tea Party wave of 2010, vetoed more than
$474 million in new bond authorizations from the 2011-12 budget.
The state’s $410 million in new issuance that year was the
lowest in two decades, said  Ben Watkins , the state’s bond
finance director. The state hasn’t cut debt for two straight
years since at least 1982, Watkins said.  The Republican governor’s approval rating has been above 39
percent just twice in 16 polls by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University  since he took office.  “The governor continues to be concerned about the long-
term debt obligations held by the state’s taxpayers,” Melissa
Sellers, his communications director, said by e-mail. Scott
“will consider any proposal for new debt through additional
bonding based on the financial risk posed to Florida taxpayers
and the return on investment of their tax dollars.”  ‘Getting Better’  Florida isn’t alone in curtailing borrowing.  California 
Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, curbed debt sales when he took
office last year, trimming new general-obligation bonds in the
past two years to $7.5 billion, from $30.8 billion the prior
two.  In Florida, after two years of austerity and signs of
economic recovery, lawmakers should consider financing more
building with new debt, said state Senator Anitere Flores, a
Miami Republican who has been on the budget committee for two
years.  “Things are getting better,” Flores said in an interview.
“It’s probably time to really look at the projects we haven’t
gotten to in the last couple of years.”  Taxes on real-estate deals have helped push the state’s
general fund 3.4 percent above estimates during the first four
months of its fiscal year, which started July 1.  No Rule  State House Speaker Will Weatherford said he’d consider new
borrowings on a “case-by-case basis.”  “I don’t have a hard-and-fast rule that we’re not going to
increase debt,” said Weatherford, a Tampa-area Republican.  The state issued $888 million of new debt in the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2011, after averaging $2.2 billion from 2002
to 2010, as lawmakers approved less money to buy conservation
land and for higher-education construction.  The decline in debt has coincided with a diminishing yield
penalty for Florida municipalities. The extra yield investors
demand on general-obligation debt of the state and its local
issuers has averaged 0.56 percentage point this year, the least
since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Florida’s performed pretty well,” said  Michael Schroeder , president and chief investment officer of Naples,
Florida-based Wasmer, Schroeder & Co., which manages $3.1
billion in muni bonds. “It’s trading much tighter than it did
at the peak of the foreclosure crisis.”  Moving Out  An outflow of residents contributed to reduce the need to
take on more debt, Schroeder said.  The number of people leaving Florida outnumbered those
moving in from 2006 to 2010, according to Atlas Van Lines data.
Nicole Johnson, a credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service,
said part of the debt drop is a result of the state finishing a
school construction program.  Florida still ranked sixth in terms of gross tax-supported
debt in Moody’s 2012 state debt medians report, trailing only
California, New York,  New Jersey ,  Illinois  and  Massachusetts .  Scott’s emphasis on spending cuts also led to less
issuance, said Senate President Don Gaetz, a Republican from the
Panhandle.  “We have a debt-averse governor,” Gaetz said.  Scott has cited the state’s credit rating as reason for
shrinking the debt load.  Florida, with 19 million people, is one of just eight
states with the top general-obligation grade from both S&P and
Fitch. Moody’s grades it Aa1, second-highest.  Following are pending municipal sales:  NEW YORK CITY plans to issue $850 million of tax-exempt
general obligations as soon as Dec. 11, according to the city’s
Office of Management and Budget. Proceeds will refund debt.
(Added Nov. 30)  ALABAMA FEDERAL AID HIGHWAY FINANCE AUTHORITY is set to
borrow $337 million of federal highway grant-anticipation bonds
as soon as this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds
will help finance roads and bridges, according to bond
documents. (Updated Dec. 3)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  