-- Forget the Cliff, Fix the U.S. Tax System
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   &   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-12-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/forget-the-cliff-fix-the-u-s-tax-system-stevenson-and-wolfers.html
Spoiler alert: The “fiscal cliff”
will be resolved. At the 11th hour, saner heads will prevail, a
deal will be struck, and the  U.S. Congress  will steer the
economy away from its date with destruction. Congressional
compromise will ensure that the scheduled tax increases and
spending cuts are pared back and phased in only gradually.  The real danger, then, is not that we’ll fall off the
cliff. It’s that Congress will solve the problem badly, missing
a once-in-a-generation opportunity to design a better tax
system.  Current rhetoric suggests that Congress will employ the
same design principles that undergird our current shambolic tax
system: populist politics, lobbying pressure, last-minute
compromises and policy inertia. The result is likely to be a
deal that tinkers at the edges and may even make the system
worse.  Instead, imagine if simple economic insights were used to
give us a better system. What would it look like?  One important insight is that there’s no difference,
economically speaking, between the government giving you an
extra dollar or choosing to tax away one fewer dollar. Yet the
budget process treats the two very differently. If the
government wants to send you a regular check, it must first
obtain the funds through an appropriations bill subject to
annual scrutiny. If the government wants to spend money by
giving you a tax break, the expenditure need only be approved
once. The result is a complex  tax code  riddled with ineffective
tax preferences for a mind-boggling array of activities.  Better System  A better system would require Congress to reauthorize each
tax expenditure annually, a reform that would help eliminate
wasteful loopholes and simplify the system. Just capping
deductions at $25,000, as lawmakers are currently considering
doing, isn’t enough. It’s Congress at its least courageous,
refusing to ask the harder question of which tax breaks make
sense.  Nearly all economists agree that the tax break for mortgage
debt is a bad idea. It encourages people to take on more debt
than they can afford and favors owners over renters. By
contrast, the tax break for charitable contributions makes
sense. It subsidizes something of value to broader society, and
there’s  evidence  that it achieves its goal of stimulating
giving. By simply capping deductions, Congress would reduce the
incentive to give without eliminating the incentive to get too
deep into debt.  Other tax breaks simply don’t work very well. Recent
 research , for example, suggests that we get very little bang for
our buck by making retirement savings tax-deductible. Hence, we
should consider revisiting the billions of dollars our
government spends every year on retirement-savings incentives.  More generally, we should question the idea of using
deductions rather than credits. For example, the charitable-
giving deduction is effectively a government matching grant: The
government matches each contribution with an amount defined by
the contributor’s tax bracket.  As a result, a family wealthy enough to be in the 35
percent bracket gets a bigger grant than a middle-class family
in the 15 percent bracket. It would be far  simpler  and fairer if
the government just matched everyone’s charitable contributions
at a rate of, say, 20 cents per dollar.  A more equitable system would also do a better job of
taxing families. Currently, the number of earners in a family
has no bearing on how it is taxed. Yet the two-earner family
often has to pay for child care, meal preparation and laundry,
while the single-earner family has someone with an extra eight
hours in the day to help meet those needs.  Level Field  Failing to recognize the value of work done in the home is
just one way the tax system implicitly subsidizes single-earner
families, creating a disincentive for many to join the formal
workforce. By shifting from levying taxes on households to
levying them on individuals, the government could put different
kinds of families on a more level playing field.  If we modernize our tax system, we shouldn’t need to
maintain the backup mechanism known as the alternative minimum
tax. Originally designed to make sure the highest earners pay
some tax, the AMT has instead become a burden on middle-class
families, negating much of the benefit they would have received
from the Bush tax cuts. Instead of applying a temporary fix
every year to prevent the AMT from doing too much damage,
Congress should abolish it.  Finally, economics tells us that the official ceiling on
federal debt should be eliminated. By giving Congress a regular
opportunity to default, the arbitrary limit raises the cost of
financing the national debt.  Think about it : If you imposed a ceiling on how much of
your credit-card balance you were willing to pay, would your
bank continue to lend to you at the same rate, if at all? No
wonder  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the government’s credit
rating after last year’s debt-ceiling standoff.  We should raise the bar on our policy makers. Avoiding the
fiscal cliff with yet another Rube Goldberg fix isn’t good
enough. Taxpayers should insist on real reforms that respect the
basic principles of economics and of common sense.  (Betsey Stevenson is an associate professor of public
policy at the  University of Michigan . Justin Wolfers is an
associate professor of business and public policy at the
 University of Pennsylvania , and a non-resident senior fellow of
the  Brookings Institution . Both are Bloomberg View columnists.
The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writers of this article:
 Justin Wolfers  at  jwolfers@umich.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@umich.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  