-- HBOS Failed Because of Incompetence, Former Chief Crosby Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-12-03T19:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/former-hbos-chief-executive-crosby-sorry-for-collapse-of-bank.html
Former HBOS Plc Chief Executive
Officer James Crosby said incompetent lending brought the bank
down and apologized to Parliament for its failure.  “The corporate banking loans and the impairments did bring
it down,” he said under questioning by a committee of lawmakers
in  London  today. Asked a number of times by Andrew Tyrie, the
panel’s chairman, whether incompetent lending destroyed the
bank, he responded by saying “correct.”  HBOS’s assets more than doubled to 681 billion pounds ($1.1
trillion) between 2001 and 2008 as the U.K.’s biggest mortgage
provider increased lending to entrepreneurs and real estate
developers. About 40 percent of the bank’s 117 billion-pound
corporate loan book was allocated to real estate and commercial
property.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , which purchased HBOS in
2008, had to seek a 20 billion-pound bailout that gave the
government a 43 percent stake.  “I’m very sorry for what happened to the bank,” Crosby,
who was CEO from 2001, when HBOS was formed out of the merger of
Halifax Plc and Bank of Scotland Plc, until 2006, told the
Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards in London today.
“It would be wrong for me to disassociate myself.”  Crosby, 56, the Financial Services Authority’s former
deputy chairman, said he would not today expect to be accepted
as a so-called approved person by that organization. To fulfill
some roles at banks and other financial companies in the U.K.,
such as  directors or partners , the regulator must deem an
applicant acceptable.  HBOS ‘Problems’  “I don’t expect that if I apply that I would be approved,
given my history,” he said. “I think I’m too closely
associated with the problems of HBOS for that to be the case.”  Asked by lawmaker Pat McFadden whether he should forfeit
the knighthood he was awarded in 2006, after former Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc CEO Fred Goodwin was stripped of his in
January, he said it would not be up to him to decide. He said he
understood public anger relating to the cost of rescuing banks.  “When I was awarded that knighthood, it was a huge
honor,” he said. “I am in no doubt that my reputation and my
achievements will never again be seen in the same light.”  Crosby quit his FSA job in February 2009 after allegations
that he fired a whistle-blower when he ran HBOS. He denied those
claims today.  Paul Moore, the whistle-blower, wrote in testimony to the
Treasury Select Committee that KPMG LLP, the accounting firm
that reviewed his allegations, didn’t question key witnesses and
wasn’t sufficiently independent. Moore also said Crosby’s
positions at HBOS and the FSA created a conflict of interest
because the regulator may have been “constrained” in its
dealings with him and HBOS.  HBOS, which was bailed out amid the 2008 financial crisis,
set risk targets for its corporate bank that weren’t met,
Anthony Hobson, chairman of the bank’s audit committee from 2001
to 2008, said on Nov. 20 in a submission to the commission.  Former CEO  Andy Hornby  in a session after Crosby today said
he “bitterly” regretted not foreseeing the year-long seizure
of the wholesale credit markets that led to HBOS’s demise. “We
missed the big piece,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  