-- Fossil-Fuel Subsidies of Rich Nations Five Times Climate Aid
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-03T16:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/fossil-fuel-subsidies-of-rich-nations-are-five-times-climate-aid.html
Rich countries spend five times more
on fossil-fuel subsidies than on aid to help developing nations
cut their emissions and protect against the effects of  climate
change , the Oil Change International campaign group said.  In 2011, 22 industrialized nations paid $58.7 billion in
subsidies to the oil, coal and gas industries and to consumers
of the fuels, compared with climate-aid flows of $11.2 billion,
according to calculations by the Washington-based group.  The data underline the steps developed nations may be able
to take to cut their emissions as ministers from 190 nations
meet in Doha to discuss measures to curb global warming.
Eliminating the subsidies would reduce incentives to pollute and
help rich nations meet their pledge to provide $100 billion a
year in climate aid by 2020, said Stephen Kretzmann, the founder
of Oil Change International.  “Measures that encourage inefficient use of energy, such
as fossil fuel subsidies, must be eliminated,” Maria van der Hoeven, executive director of the  International Energy Agency ,
said in a statement released by her office in Paris today.
“ Carbon emissions  must be dramatically reduced, and the energy
sector must play a key role in this.  The subsidies enable consumers to fuel cars and heat their
homes more cheaply. The International Energy Agency estimates
they totaled $523 billion last year, mainly from support paid
out in developing countries. Production subsidies make it
cheaper for oil and gas companies to extract the fuels. Leaders
of the Group of 20 nations agreed at a meeting in Pittsburgh in
2009 to phase out fossil-fuel subsidies in the ‘‘medium term.’’  U.S. Reaction  U.S. and European Union envoys in Doha agreed that fossil
fuel subsidies should be phased out. The U.S. is pushing the
issue meetings of the Group of 20 nations.  ‘‘It’s an important issue,’’ said Todd Stern, the lead U.S.
State Department official at the talks in Doha. ‘‘There are a
lot of entrenched interests. There are different kinds of
interests.’’  European Union Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  told
reporters in Doha she didn’t mind what forum subsidies were
discussed ‘‘as long as we start phasing out’’ their use.  Aid is a keystone of climate agreements, and developing
nations from  Barbados  to  China  have complained in Doha about the
lack of transparency surrounding $30 billion of so-called fast-
start finance that industrialized nations pledged to pay for the
three-year period ending in 2012. They’re also calling for a
‘‘roadmap’’ setting out how the $100 billion goal will be met.  Funding the Problem  ‘‘You can’t say you’re serious about fighting climate
change until you stop funding the problem,” Kretzmann said in
an interview in Doha, where envoys at United Nations climate
talks are entering a second week of talks. “It should be
possible to phase out producer subsidies and use part of that
money for climate finance to help cushion the blow of removing
consumption subsidies in  developing countries .”  Of the 22 nations examined, Slovenia and  Finland  paid out
more than 50 times in subsidies what they gave in climate aid,
the data show. U.S. subsides were the highest at about $13.1
billion, or five times its $2.5 billion of climate aid in 2011.  A U.S. official said by e-mail today that while the current
administration has been seeking to eliminate about $4 billion in
annual fossil fuel subsidies, Congress has yet to act.  U.S. Financing  While Congress has approved almost $7.5 billion in fast-
start finance over the three years, at an average of about $2.5
billion, its actual contribution in 2011 was $3.2 billion,
according to a document from the U.S. delegation in Doha.  Oil Change International, set up in 2005, used fast-start
finance data from the World Resources Institute, taking annual
averages to produce 2011 figures. It analyzed  figures  on fossil
fuel subsidies from the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development’s website.  Items included in the OECD data for the U.S. include tax
exemptions and reductions for producers and for consumers,
including farmers and low-income households. It includes federal
measures, as well as some state-level programs.  OECD’s Caution  “Caution is required in interpreting the support amounts
and in aggregating them,” the OECD says on its website. That’s
because, among other reasons, different countries use different
tax rates for fossil fuels, so the subsidy resulting from a  tax
exemption  could appear relatively higher in a high-tax nation,
Jehan Sauvage, an OECD analyst, said in an e-mail response.  Australia  paid $8.4 billion in subsidies, while  Germany  and
the U.K. paid $6.6 billion each. A U.K. government spokesman
said in an e-mail that, in the absence of a common G20
definition for what constitutes a fossil-fuel subsidy, Britain
doesn’t have any inefficient fossil-fuel subsidies that
encourage wasteful consumption.  Japan  had the best record, with aid of $5 billion exceeding
fossil fuel subsidies of $439 million, according to the campaign
group.  Kretzmann said progress since nations made the pledge at
the G20 meeting in 2009 has been “minor.” While reporting of
subsidies has improved, “everyone in the G20 gets to pick their
own definition of a fossil-fuel subsidy,” he said.  “As far as we can tell, there has been no single subsidy
in the G20 that’s been phased out as a result,” Kretzmann said.
“Overall, we think there’s roughly $1 trillion spent on fossil
fuel subsidies globally, and that’s before you get into health
costs, climate-change adaptation costs and military costs for
protecting oil supplies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  