-- Free Carbon May Chop Renewable Costs, EON’s Schaefer Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-12-03T14:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/free-carbon-may-chop-renewable-costs-eon-s-schaefer-says.html
Europe  should consider cutting costs
for consumers by rewarding renewable power and energy efficiency
through the region’s carbon market rather than through expensive
subsidies to utilities, the head of  EON SE (EOAN) ’s trading unit said.  Clean-electricity producers should be granted free European
Union carbon allowances instead of receiving higher electricity
rates for wind and solar installations, Klaus Schaefer, chief
executive officer of EON Energy Trading SE, said Nov. 21 in an
interview in Amsterdam. Using permits to promote low-emitting
power would probably reduce the attractiveness of some solar
technologies that currently cost consumers at least 10 times
more than prices suggested by the carbon market, he said.  The bloc provided $50 billion of renewable-energy support
in 2011, the highest level in the world and more than double the
U.S.’s $21 billion, according to International Energy Agency
estimates from Nov. 12. Much of that money was in the form of
subsidies on prices for green electricity produced in market
segments such as solar and wind. Funds might be better spent by
offering such producers extra allowances for every ton of carbon
dioxide they avoid emitting, according to Schaefer.  “If you really want to specifically subsidize certain
parts, give them more than one allowance,” Schaefer said.
“Treat them a bit better than other means of avoiding carbon
dioxide, but nevertheless integrate them into the system.”  National Control  The bloc’s carbon market works by capping the number of
emission allowances available and allowing those who need more
to buy from those who have too many. Still, giving more away for
free would reduce the number available for sale by nations,
potentially cutting their revenue. Georg Oppermann, an EON
spokesman, declined to detail Schaefer’s idea, saying more
analysis was needed.  Cutting the cost of energy systems and climate protection
is challenging because nations rather than EU lawmakers control
 energy policy , according to a June report part funded by the
 European Investment Bank .  “We need more, and not less, of Europe to prevent us from
losing ourselves in a confusing, inefficient and expensive
patchwork quilt of regulation and subsidies,” Schaefer said
Nov. 23 in a blog on the utility’s website.  Schaefer’s suggestion would need to overcome jurisdictional
limits, Pierre Dechamps, adviser to  Jose Manuel Barroso ,
president of the European Commission, said Nov. 29.  “Conceptually speaking it may make sense,” Dechamps said
in an interview in London. “I don’t think it’s easily
feasible.”  Different Picture  Jos Delbeke, director general for climate at the European
Commission in Brussels, said in June that the bloc hasn’t wasted
an excessive amount of money on renewable energy, whose benefits
also include security of supply and the creation of new markets
and technology, as well as carbon-emission reduction.  “If you attribute the costs on these dimensions, then you
come into a different picture,” Delbeke said. “I am not saying
we should not rationalize our subsidies. It’s not contradictory.
I’m all in for that. The cost of renewables is coming down.”  The EU is now considering changes to its carbon market to
fix a glut of emission permits, which will be one of its few
chances to mend the program and show it can help stimulate
economic recovery, said Daniel Rossetto, managing director of
Climate Mundial Ltd., a London-based consulting company that
works in carbon markets.  Wasted Subsidies  “This is the opportunity that sits on the table today and
we are at risk of overlooking,” Rossetto said Nov. 27 in an
interview. He was until March an  executive director  in the
environmental markets unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Some of the subsidies for renewable energy have led to
overcapacity in power markets and may have been wasted, Schaefer
said. Europe can only afford renewables that are financed as
cheaply as possible, he said, citing solar incentives as too
expensive.  EON said reducing emissions by installing so-called PV
solar technology costs about 100 euros ($129) for every metric
ton of carbon dioxide, compared with a price of 6.03 euros for
carbon permits on today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London. That would be the lowest close for the contract ever.  Better Investment  The bloc should be very careful about introducing new
subsidies, such as so-called capacity payments designed to
reward utilities that keep plants open just in case they are
needed, Schaefer said.  “If we accept the fact that we have overcapacity across
Europe already right now, it means there is capital that could
have been invested to the benefit of Europe in a better way,”
he said.  EU carbon permits have fallen 57 percent in the past two
years, prompting governments to impose other measures to
incentivize green power. The U.K. has created a disincentive for
fossil fuels based on a so-called carbon floor price as it seeks
to encourage nuclear power, for instance.  “What we’ve seen is that the renewable energy targets,
energy efficiency rules and complementary measures are eating
into demand for allowances,” Abyd Karmali, head of carbon for
Bank of America Corp. in  London , said Nov. 2 by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  