-- LG, DuPont, Bank of America, GM: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-03T13:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/lg-dupont-bank-of-america-aero-intellectual-property.html
Three  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  patents for
front-end-loading washing machines were infringed by Daewoo
Electronics Corp., a U.S. jury found.  Jurors in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, also
decided Nov. 30 that the three LG patents were valid, after
hearing evidence in a week-long trial during which lawyers
rolled out washing machines and displayed gears and metal
moldings.  “People like LG try to make a better mousetrap,” Richard
Stroup, a lawyer for LG, told jurors during the trial. Daewoo
infringed those efforts, he said.  LG sued Daewoo in 2008, alleging infringement of its
patent-protected inventions for washer drum-drive components.
Daewoo claimed that LG’s patents weren’t valid and were
therefore unenforceable. Both LG and Daewoo are based in Seoul.  “Daewoo independently developed its washing-machine
technology,” attorney Mark Whitaker, representing Daewoo, said
at trial.  A possible trial on damages wasn’t immediately scheduled by
U.S. District Judge Richard G. Andrews, who presided over the
case.  John I. Taylor, a spokesman for LG Electronics USA Inc.,
and Daewoo attorney Rodger D. Smith II, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment on the verdict.  In dispute were patents 6,460,382, 6,914,363, and
7,418,843.  The case is LG Electronics Inc. v. Daewoo, 08-CV-828, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  DuPont ‘Fraud’ in Monsanto Seed Case Unsealed by U.S. Judge  DuPont Co., the most valuable U.S. chemical maker, lied to
a federal court and investors about its right to use  Monsanto
Co. (MON)  seed technology as a central part of its defense in a patent
lawsuit, a judge ruled.  DuPont “knowingly perpetrated a fraud against the court,”
according to a Nov. 16 order by U.S. District Judge Richard Webber unsealing sanctions he levied last December that limited
the company’s defenses in the lawsuit brought by Monsanto.  E-mails from DuPont executives and lawyers show they knew
the company didn’t have an agreement allowing it to combine
Monsanto’s Roundup Ready soybeans with a second trait, while
telling the court and public for years that it had such a right,
Webber ruled. Because the sanction order was sealed, DuPont has
“been able to continue their public relations spin,” the judge
wrote.  Webber will decide whether to uphold or increase the $1
billion award to Monsanto made in the patent case by a federal
jury on Aug. 1 after 40 minutes of deliberations.  DuPont today asked Webber to unseal more documents that
show “we told the truth,” Thomas L. Sager, DuPont general
counsel, said in a statement. “The sanctions ruling is dead
wrong,” he said.  Monsanto sued DuPont in 2009, claiming the company was
infringing a patent for seeds that are genetically modified to
tolerate application of the herbicide Roundup. Monsanto argued
that DuPont wasn’t allowed to combine its own seed trait with
Monsanto’s Roundup Ready trait.  DuPont in turn accused Monsanto of trying to monopolize the
seed market. Webber split the dispute, with the patent issue
tried first and the antitrust case scheduled for trial next
year.  After ruling in December that DuPont had misled the court,
Webber prevented the company from arguing to the jury that it
acted within the terms of a 2002 licensing contract. The judge
also ordered DuPont to pay some of Monsanto’s legal bills.  Webber, in his November order, said he provided the
Department of Justice’s antitrust division with a copy of his
fraud findings in February. The department announced last month
it dropped its investigation into possible anti-competitive
practices in the seed industry.  “DuPont, its employees, and its counsel throughout this
litigation have adhered to the highest ethical standards,”
DuPont said in an earlier statement. “All of the company’s
representations to the court or the public regarding its claims
and defenses in this case have been accurate.”  Webber’s orders “speak for themselves,” said Kelli Powers, a Monsanto spokeswoman, who declined to comment further.  The case is Monsanto Co. v.  E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. ,
09cv686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri ( St.
Louis ).  Gene Patents Draw U.S. High Court Review in Biotechnology Test  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to consider whether human
genes can be patented, taking up an issue that has split the
medical community and will shape the future of personalized
health care and the biotechnology industry.  The justices said Nov. 30 they will hear a challenge to
 Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on genetic material used in tests
for breast and ovarian cancer. Doctors, researchers and patients
are opposing the patents, arguing that Myriad’s monopoly over
the genes is blocking clinical testing and research.  The nation’s highest court will hear arguments, probably in
March, and rule by the end of June.  Biotechnology companies say they have been getting patents
on genes for 30 years -- and can’t attract investment dollars
unless they can protect their research from competitors. A study
published in 2005 by Science magazine found that 20 percent of
human genes had some level of patent protection.  Any move to change that system, “particularly with the
deeply settled reliance interests of the technology and
investing communities at stake, should be addressed to Congress,
not the courts,” Salt Lake City-based Myriad argued in court
papers that urged rejection of the appeal.  Those supporting the challenge to Myriad’s patents include
the American Society of Human Genetics, the  American Medical
Association  and  AARP , which represents older Americans.  Myriad’s supporters in the litigation have included the
 Biotechnology Industry Organization  and the U.S. unit of
Novartis AG, Europe’s biggest drugmaker.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Bank of America Application Points to Social-Impact Bonds  Bank of America Corp.  is seeking a U.S. trademark on a
phrase to be used to describe social-impact bonds, according to
a filing with the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said in its
application that it plans to use the mark with “financing
services;  project financing ; funds investment; capital
investment services; project financing for socially beneficial
programs.” The phrase is “Anything a Society Truly Wants Can
Be Financed and Achieved.”  In the U.K., frustrated by the difficulty of finding money
to fund social programs, a group called  Social Finance  created a
way to tap into private capital.  The idea is that nonprofit organization wanting to fund a
project issues a “bond” that investors buy. The money raised
funds the program, the results are measured and then, if certain
metrics are met, the government refunds the investor -- with a
return.  That group raised 5 million pounds ($8.1 million) to fund a
pilot program at the prison in Peterborough. Inmates are offered
an array of support services when they leave the prison, and
their ability to stay out of prison is measured against the
general U.K. prison population. If the recidivism rate falls by
7.5 percent, the government is to repay the investors a share of
the long-term savings.  In a January  opinion article  in the Washington Post, James Q. Wilson, the late Ronald Reagan professor of public policy at
Pepperdine University in California, cited social-impact
financing as a better way to reduce  income inequality  than
taxing the wealthy.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Networks Ask Appeals Court to Shut Down Aereo Online Service  Television networks including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC asked an appeals court to shut down  Aereo
Inc. , the online TV service backed by  Barry Diller , claiming it
violates their copyrights.  The broadcasters, which also include News Corp.’s Fox
Television and  CBS Corp. (CBS) , made oral arguments today in federal
appeals court in Manhattan, seeking to overturn a lower-court
judge’s refusal to put New York-based Aereo out of business.
They said the judge erred in relying on an appeals court ruling
in a case involving a  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  video recorder.  The networks sued in March, claiming Aereo infringed their
copyrights by capturing over-the-air signals and retransmitting
them without a license to subscriber smartphones and computers.  “Cablevision was a storage service, not a retransmission
service,” Bruce Keller, a lawyer for the networks, told the
three-judge appeals panel Nov. 30. “Aereo is a retransmission
service by its own design. Without a license, it violates
copyrights. It sells our broadcasts, our performances, to its
customers.”  Aereo said in court papers that its service gives
individual subscribers access to broadcast programming and lets
them record it using remotely located individual antennas and
digital video recorders. That constitutes a private performance
under the law, according to Aereo.  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in Manhattan in July
denied the networks’ motion for an injunction, ruling that
Aereo’s retransmissions weren’t public performances requiring a
license under copyright law.  Aereo has argued that providing a copy of a program through
an individual antenna that transmits to one subscriber and no
others constitutes a private performance. Using one antenna to
gather a signal before redistributing it to many subscribers
would constitute a public performance requiring a license.  Before the service began, Aereo received support from
Diller’s digital media company  IAC/InterActive Corp. (IACI) , which led
a $20.5 million round of financing. Diller, who is on Aereo’s
board, once ran  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting. Chet Kanojia is
the founder and chief executive officer of Aereo.  The appeals are American Broadcasting Cos. v Aereo,
12-2807, and WNET v. Aereo, 12-2786,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court cases are
American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-1540, and WNET v. Aereo,
12-1543, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  ‘Monty Python’ Producer Seeks More Royalties for ‘Spamalot’  The producer of “Monty Python and The Holy Grail” is
looking for more than a shrubbery from the 1975 film’s six stars
in a London lawsuit over a profit-sharing agreement tied to the
hit musical “Spamalot.”  Mark Forstater  is entitled to a larger share of the
royalties from the musical based on the film, which has been “a
huge international commercial success,” with runs on Broadway
and in London’s West End, his lawyers said at a London hearing.  Forstater, who was declared bankrupt in June, should be
treated as the “seventh Python” for financial purposes, Tom
Weisselberg, his attorney said in court Nov. 30. Three of the
founders of the comedy troupe, Michael Palin, Eric Idle and
 Terry Jones , are scheduled to testify at the trial, which is
expected to last five days.  “Spamalot” grossed $168 million before it closed at New
York’s Shubert Theater in January 2009, according to the
Broadway League, a trade association of landlords and producers.
The six Pythons each earn between $500,000 and $800,000 in
royalties per year, according to a 2009 interview with Roger
Saunders, the London manager of  Python (Monty) Pictures Ltd .  Saunders couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  In the film, King Arthur gathers his knights for a quest to
find the Holy Grail. Along the way, they encounter blood-thirsty
villagers looking for witches to burn, French soldiers who toss
cows and insults at them over battlements, and a huge knight who
demands a shrubbery in order to let them pass.  Between 1975 and 2005 Forstater received one-seventh of
half the merchandising and spinoff income from “Grail,” his
lawyers said in documents filed at the U.K. court. Lawyers for
the Pythons argued he should get a smaller proportion.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-GM Engineer, Husband Found Guilty of Trade Secrets Theft  An ex- General Motors Co. (GM)  engineer and her husband were
found guilty of stealing  trade secrets  on hybrid-car technology
from the automaker to help develop such vehicles in China.  A federal court jury in Detroit reached the verdicts Nov.
30 after a trial that started Nov. 5. Jurors began deliberating
yesterday.  The U.S. claimed Shanshan Du, the ex-GM employee, copied
the Detroit-based company’s private information on the motor
control of hybrids and provided documents to her husband, Yu
Qin. Prosecutors accused Qin of using the data to seek business
ventures or employment with GM’s competitors, including the
Chinese automaker Chery Automobile Co.  Qin was convicted of all seven counts. Du was convicted on
three counts, including conspiracy to possess trade secrets
without authorization. She was acquitted on wire fraud charges.  General Motors contended that the secrets are worth more
than $40 million, prosecutors said. Lawyers for both defendants,
who pleaded not guilty, argued that the information didn’t
consist of trade secrets, wasn’t stolen and was useless for
other companies.  The U.S. alleged that Du, an electrical engineer who worked
at GM from 2000 to March 2005, sought assignment to the
company’s hybrid work project to gain access to information on
the motor control of such vehicles.  The U.S. claims that Du began providing GM documents to her
husband for use in a company they had started, Millennium
Technology International. Du copied material and Qin developed a
plan to sell hybrid vehicle technology through a joint venture
in China, the U.S. said.  The process accelerated after GM sought Du’s resignation in
late January 2005, according to the indictment. Prosecutors said
at the beginning of the trial that 16,262 GM files were found on
Du’s computer.  After Du left the company, the couple uploaded GM documents
containing secret information onto a computer at their home, the
U.S. claimed. In July or August 2005, Qin “communicated with
others, by e-mail and in person, about collaboration on a new
business venture which would provide hybrid vehicle technology
to Chery,” the U.S. said in court papers.  The U.S. also alleged that Qin destroyed evidence during
the government’s initial investigation. In May 2006, the U.S.
said, the defendants dumped bags of shredded documents in a
Dumpster behind a grocery store.  The case is U.S. v. Qin, 10-cr-20454, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 