-- Great Lakes States’ Asian Carp Case Toss by U.S. Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-03T23:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/great-lakes-states-asian-carp-case-toss-by-u-s-court.html
States surrounding the Great Lakes
lost a lawsuit that sought to force the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers to stop Asian carp from possibly migrating into the
lakes from the Mississippi River basin.  U.S. District Judge John Tharp in  Chicago  today dismissed
the suit filed two years ago by Michigan,  Wisconsin ,  Minnesota ,
 Ohio  and  Pennsylvania , ruling their demand to sever the lakes
from the basin was trumped by federal laws that require the Army
Corps. to keep connections navigable between the water bodies.  “It is not the province of the courts to order parties to
take action that would directly contravene statutory mandates
and prohibitions,” Tharp said in his 46-page decision.  Two varieties of the carp, bighead and silver, entered the
Mississippi River system after being brought to the U.S. in the
ballast water discharged by ocean-going ships and to cleanse
fish ponds and sewage lagoons. The fish grow as big as 100
pounds (45 kilograms) and feed on plankton that native species
need to survive, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.  The states sought the closing of locks at the mouths of the
Chicago and Calumet rivers, where they meet Lake  Michigan , as
well as installation of permanent screens, grates and other
measures to stop the alleged migration they claimed threatens a
$7.09 billion sport fishing and tourism industry.  Chicago, the third-most populous U.S. city, abuts the
southwestern shore of the lake.  Reviewing Decision  “We are reviewing this decision and considering our
options,” Joy Yearout, a spokeswoman for Michigan Attorney
General Bill Schuette, said in a phone interview.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said the government is pleased with the court’s
decision.  Among the options Tharp made available is for the states to
say they won’t file an amended complaint, in which case he’ll
issue a final order of dismissal enabling them to appeal
immediately.  The states also named as a defendant the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, an independent
governing body responsible for managing water resources over an
883.5 square mile area with a population of 5.25 million,
according to its website.  Illegal Action  “Neither the MWRD or the Corps has the authority to close
off the waterways in Chicago,” David St. Pierre, the executive
director of the district, said in a phone interview. “We simply
can’t do it. It would be illegal for us to take that action.”  While environmental traces of carp DNA have been found in
Calumet Harbor, a small body of water adjacent to Lake Michigan,
no traces of the fish have been found in the Great Lakes, St.
Pierre said.  Tharp gave the states until Jan. 11 to try to replead their
case in a way that doesn’t accuse the defendants of failing to
do something that by law they’re required to do.  “Many organizations, including the Corps, are actively
working to stop Asian carp from migrating in to the Great Lakes
watershed,” wrote Tharp. “The plaintiffs acknowledge that the
defendants and others are taking steps to prevent Asian carp
from reaching Lake Michigan, but they argue the defendants are
not doing enough.”  The case is State of Michigan v. U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, 10cv4457, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  