-- Greece Makes Buyback Offer as Merkel Floats Writeoffs
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-12-03T10:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/greece-makes-buyback-offer-as-merkel-floats-writeoffs.html
Greece  offered 10 billion euros ($13
billion) to buy back bonds issued earlier this year as the
bailed-out nation attempts to cut a debt load that may threaten
future international aid.  Greek bonds rallied after the so-called modified Dutch
auction was announced today by the Athens-based Public Debt
Management Agency. PDMA offered an average maximum purchase
price for the bonds maturing from 2023 to 2042 of 34.1 percent,
based on information in the statement. The offer runs until 5
p.m. London time on Dec. 7.  Success of the buyback is crucial to releasing aid that’s
been frozen since June. The offer was part of a package of
measures approved by euro-area finance ministers last week to
cut the nation’s debt to 124 percent of gross domestic product
in 2020 from a projected 190 percent in 2014. The deal may
enable Greece to retire about 30 billion euros of debt,
Citigroup strategist  Valentin Marinov  wrote in a comment.  The average price “is higher than previously published or
announced,” said Spyros Politis, chief executive officer of
Athens-based TT-ELTA AEDAK, which oversees about 300 million
euros of assets and owns Greek government debt. “At the moment
it looks as if it will be successful, or if they miss the
target, they will miss it by a small margin. Anything that
reduces the overall debt burden is good.”  The bid to ease Greece’s debt curden underscores a move
away from austerity-first measures European leaders have
embraced since the financial crisis began in 2009. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday opened the possibility that
 Germany  may ultimately accept a write-off of Greek debt,
previously a taboo in the biggest contributor to euro bailouts.  Bonds Rise  Greek bonds rose for a third day, pushing the 10-year yield
below 15 percent for the first time since the nation’s debt was
restructured in March. The yield on the 2 percent securities
maturing in February 2023 fell 151 basis points, or 1.51
percentage points, to 14.63 percent at 9:45 a.m. London time,
leaving the price at 39.31 percent of face value.  Investors who join the buyback will receive payment in six-
month bills from the European Financial Stability Facility, the
Greek debt agency said.  The  International Monetary Fund  set the 2020 debt-cut
target as a condition for continuing to fund a third of Greece’s
bailout program. IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said
after the euro-area finance ministers’ meeting that the fund
will examine the results of the buyback before deciding whether
to approve disbursement of additional aid.  The buyback accounts for 11 percentage points, or more than
half of the 20 percentage points of the planned drop.  Deepening Recession  While Greece has gotten pledges for 240 billion euros of
aid, the funds have been blocked since June as the government
tries to get its bailout program back on track after it was
disrupted by two elections and a deepening recession.  The buyback will target 62 billion euros of new bonds
issued after the debt swap, according to a Nov. 27 draft of a
report by the so-called troika comprising the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the IMF. Greek banks
hold about 15 billion euros of the new bonds, while the
country’s pension funds hold 8 billion euros.  Finance ministers plan to make a formal decision on
Greece’s 34.4 billion-euro disbursement by Dec. 13. Deutsche
Bank AG and Morgan Stanley International were appointed to
manage the buyback, according to the PDMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ; 