-- Greece Offers 10 Billion-Euro Debt Buyback to Unlock Aid
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-12-03T13:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/greece-offers-10-billion-euro-debt-buyback-key-to-securing-aid.html
Greece  offered 10 billion euros ($13
billion) to buy back bonds issued earlier this year as the
bailed-out nation attempts to cut a debt load that may threaten
future international aid.  Greek bonds rallied after the so-called modified Dutch
auction was announced today by the Athens-based Public Debt
Management Agency. PDMA offered an average maximum purchase
price for bonds maturing from 2023 to 2042 of 34.1 percent of
face value and an average minimum of 32.1 percent, based on
information in the statement. The offer runs until 5 p.m. London
time on Dec. 7.  Success is crucial to releasing aid that’s been frozen
since June. The offer was part of a package of measures approved
by euro-area finance ministers last week to cut the nation’s
debt to 124 percent of gross domestic product in 2020 from a
projected 190 percent in 2014. The 10 billion-euro buyback may
enable Greece to retire about 30 billion euros of debt,
Citigroup strategist  Valentin Marinov  wrote in a comment.  The average price “is higher than previously published or
announced,” said Spyros Politis, chief executive officer of
Athens-based TT-ELTA AEDAK, which oversees about 300 million
euros of assets and owns Greek government debt. “At the moment
it looks as if it will be successful, or if they miss the
target, they will miss it by a small margin. Anything that
reduces the overall debt burden is good.”  Hedge Funds  The bid to ease Greece’s debt burden underscores a move
away from austerity-first measures European leaders have
embraced since the financial crisis began in 2009. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday opened the possibility that
 Germany  may ultimately accept a write-off of Greek debt,
previously a taboo in the biggest contributor to euro bailouts.  The buyback is aimed at the 62 billion euros of new bonds
issued when Greece restructured its privately held debt in
March. Greek banks hold about 15 billion euros of the bonds,
while the country’s pension funds have 8 billion euros,
according to a Nov. 27 draft report by the troika of the
European Commission, European Central Bank and International
Monetary Fund. Hedge funds hold as much as 22 billion euros,
Nomura analysts Dimitris Drakopoulos and Lefteris Farmakis
estimated in a Nov. 30 report.  Hedge funds with Greek bonds include Dan Loeb’s Third Point
LLC and Louis Bacon’s Moore Capital Management LLC, according to
letters to investors and a person with knowledge of the matter
who asked not to be identified because the firms are private.  Bonds Rise  Greek bonds rose for a third day, pushing the 10-year yield
below 15 percent for the first time since the nation’s debt was
restructured in March. The price has more than doubled since a
post-restructuring low of 13.3 percent on May 31.  The yield on the 2 percent securities maturing in February
2023 fell 142 basis points, or 1.42 percentage points, to 14.71
percent at 1:22 p.m.  London  time, raising the price to 39.055
percent of face value.  Investors who join the buyback will receive payment in six-
month bills from the European Financial Stability Facility, the
Greek debt agency said.  The IMF set the 2020 debt-cut target as a condition for
continuing to fund a third of Greece’s bailout program. IMF
Managing Director Christine Lagarde said after the euro-area
finance ministers’ meeting that the fund will examine the
results of the buyback before deciding whether to approve
disbursement of additional aid.  The buyback accounts for 11 percentage points, or more than
half of the 20 percentage points of the planned drop.  ‘Debt Relief’  The buyback is “symptomatic of the half-rescues which have
characterized euro-zone policy makers’ response to the Greek
crisis,”  Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in London, said in an e-mail. The latest fix fails “to
address the core of the problem: the pressing need for large-
scale official sector debt relief to help secure Greece’s
membership of the euro zone.”  While Greece has gotten pledges for 240 billion euros of
aid, the funds have been blocked since June as the government
tries to get its bailout program back on track after it was
disrupted by two elections and a deepening recession.  The Bank of Greece, the nation’s central bank, said today
it expects the economy to return to growth in 2014, and warned
that any delay in implementing economic reforms and budget
measures could threaten that forecast.  “Exiting these Greek PSI bonds makes sense given the
remaining considerable execution risks in the Greek program
which we think will challenge Greece’s political stability in
2013,” Royal Bank of  Scotland  wrote in a note today.  Finance ministers plan to make a formal decision on
Greece’s 34.4 billion-euro disbursement by Dec. 13. Deutsche
Bank AG and Morgan Stanley International were appointed to
manage the buyback, according to the PDMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ; 