-- Greek Economic Recovery Plan ’Plausible’, Bank of Greece Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-12-03T14:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/greek-economic-recovery-plan-plausible-bank-of-greece-says.html
Greece’s efforts to reduce its debt
load and the commitment of European Union leaders to support the
country may help its economy recover faster than expected, the
Bank of Greece said.  “These are positive developments, which create plausible
expectations of a recovery of the  Greek economy ,” the Athens-
based central bank said in its monetary-policy report published
today. If Greece implemented all measures it committed to
consistently and speedily, its economy could recover even
faster, it said.  Greece, in a fifth year of recession, announced a 10
billion-euro ($13 billion) offer today to buy back bonds issued
earlier this year, a crucial step for the release of bailout
funds that have been frozen since June. The offer was part of a
package of measures approved by euro-area finance ministers last
week to cut the nation’s debt to 124 percent of gross domestic
product in 2020 from a projected 190 percent in 2014.  Uncertainties and risks still exist and any delays in
implementing reforms “will push the recovery back, with
consequences that will be far more severe than anything that has
so far happened,” the central bank said.  The economy will shrink as much as 4.5 percent next year
before returning to growth in 2014, with unemployment seen at
over 26 percent in the two-year period, the  Bank of Greece (TELL) 
predicted. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecasts contractions of 4.5 percent in 2013 and
1.3 percent in 2014.  Economic Outlook  While boosting exports and speeding up state-asset sales
are important parts of building a sustainable growth model and
creating jobs in Greece, uncertainty relating to downside risks
for the global economy could “weigh heavily” on the country’s
economic outlook, the central bank said.  Continued financing under two bailouts from the EU and
International Monetary Fund, with total pledges of 240 billion
euros, is a crucial element determining whether Greece can
overcome its crisis, the Bank of Greece said.  The funds have been blocked since June after two elections
and a deepening recession threw the reform program of Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras’s government off track.  “The strong reassurances of our partners that  Greece  will
remain in the euro area are a major step forward,” the bank
said in its report. “Regaining confidence fully will require a
sustained and stronger effort to make up for lost ground and
convince that the recession has a visible end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  