-- Guyton Marries Art to Tech, Sells Piece for $780 Thousand
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/guyton-marries-art-to-tech-sells-piece-for-780-thousand.html
Wade Guyton runs pieces of linen,
some 50 feet long, through massive inkjet printers.  Marrying traditional painting and technology, his work
earned him a solo retrospective at the Whitney Museum of
American Art, no small feat for someone whose first  New York 
show was just over five years ago.  Guyton’s work is also climbing in the art market: One of
his paintings sold for more than $782,000 at Sotheby’s recent
contemporary auction.  We met as he was photographing the exhibition. Wearing a
black T-shirt, jeans and Nike high tops, Guyton, 40, took a
break from the camera and walked me through the galleries.  Tarmy: When I came to the show, the people around me
weren’t sure if these sofas were artworks or not.  Guyton: I wanted a place to sit in the museum. That was one
thing that came up early on in our discussion about the
installation.  They were saying, “Can we have benches in the show?” and
I said, “If we’re going to have furniture, I’m just going to
bring it from the studio and make it part of the show.”  The backs of the sofas mimic the seam of the paintings: all
of the paintings are folded in half and put through a printer.  EBay Chairs  Tarmy: So you can sit on these couches, but the Breuer
chairs over there are works of art?  Guyton: That is really funny. I bought those chairs on  EBay (EBAY) 
-- it was an Enron liquidation sale. I meant to take them apart,
but when I got them to my show in Zurich, they looked so good
with the space, I decided I didn’t need to.  Tarmy: If only Enron knew how valuable their chairs could
be!  Guyton: The funny thing is that we shipped them to the show
in Zurich as furniture. If I had broken them here and put them
in a crate to Zurich, it would have cost much more than to ship
five $50 dollar chairs.  Tarmy: You’re primarily considered a painter, though?  Guyton: My work has entered into a discussion about
painting, but I don’t think of myself as a painter even though
I’m making these things that are, arguably, paintings and fit
into a history of painting.  I didn’t study painting, and when I’m making them I don’t
think I’m thinking as a painter. But the work is out there, and
they’re being bought and sold and collected and shown as
paintings, so they inevitably enter into that discourse.  Art Prices  Tarmy: How much do your pieces sell for at this point?  Guyton: I think there’s a big difference between the
primary market and the secondary market, which is much higher. I
don’t really know how that happens -- it doesn’t involve me at
all.  Tarmy: You don’t follow your own market price?  Guyton: Not closely. I know people have been spending a lot
of money -- I think someone bought something the other day for
two or three hundred thousand dollars.  I mean, it doesn’t affect me. To me, it just seems like
people have way too much money.  Tarmy: Do you know your own collectors?  Guyton: I have this great collector in  Ohio  named Andy
Stillpass. He commissioned a fire painting for his fireplace.
And he also owns other pieces of mine. He’s really playful, and
lives in the work.  A lot of people just put the art in storage. He’s amazing,
and he has relationships with artists.  Fire Commission  Tarmy: Do many people commission work from you?  Guyton: No, I was sitting around with him drinking, and we
both thought a fire painting over his fireplace would be
perfect. And so that became a commission.  Otherwise, I don’t think I’ve done any other commissions.  Tarmy: What are some of the reactions you’ve had to the
show?  Guyton: There was just a student group in here. The teacher
asked if I could answer a few questions, and this one girl was
like, “What do all of your paintings mean?”  I was like, “You’re going to have to tell me what they
mean to you.”  And she says, “I think that this painting is about how the
government burns down all the trees and is making the country
really terrible.”  I was like “Oh, my God, wow! OK. That’s really
provocative.”  She was young, I mean, under 10. I was like “Really?
That’s what you think when you’re looking at this?”  Tarmy: What are some common misconceptions about your work?  Guyton: I think the misconception is that all of these are
just happy accidents, and that the work is just “Oh, whatever
happens, happens.”  And I think that’s a fine interpretation. It kind of
enrages people, and if you want to believe that, it’s OK.  But I’m not really fetishizing the accident. I’m working to
produce something that has rules or parameters, where things
sometimes go wrong. So accidents occur, and they end up being in
the work, but they’re not the goal of the work.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 