-- Iberdrola’s Galan Plans Wind-Farm Sales in Europe to Reduce Debt
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-03T10:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/iberdrola-s-galan-plans-wind-farm-sales-in-europe-to-reduce-debt.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the Spanish utility
downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  last week, is negotiating sales
of wind farms in France,  Germany  and  Poland  as part of a plan to
divest 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of assets before 2015.  The wind-park sales will take Iberdrola more than halfway
toward its goal, the cornerstone of a program to cut debt by 5
billion euros in the period, Chairman Ignacio Sanchez Galan said
in an interview. It already earned about 400 million euros from
asset sales and is targeting a further 600 million to 800
million euros within five months, he said.  Iberdrola is trying to reduce  borrowings  to boost its debt-
to-earnings ratio and avoid a further downgrade after S&P
lowered its corporate  credit rating  to BBB from BBB+ on Nov. 28.
By divesting assets in markets deemed “non-core,” the utility
can shore up its balance sheet without hurting profit at home or
in its other focus areas of  Latin America , the U.S. and the U.K.  S&P cited concern that potential delays in securitizing the
tariff deficit, the gap between costs and revenue in  Spain ’s
power system, may harm the company. Iberdrola and its domestic
peers have for years booked more revenue than they were
permitted to collect as successive administrations kept power
prices low, allowing 24 billion euros of debts to accumulate.  S&P’s concern proved unfounded when the government within
days securitized 1.75 billion euros of utility debt, meaning it
converted that amount into bonds, Galan said. Even so, the
deficit will widen by 5 billion euros this year, he said late
yesterday in Doha, where he’s attending United Nations climate
talks.  Debt Reduction  Iberdrola, seeking to cut borrowings to 26 billion euros
from the current level of more than 30 billion euros, intends to
meet its debt-reduction plan by using asset sales,  cash flow  and
securitization into tariff-deficit bonds, Galan said.  Iberdrola’s  shares  have lost 25 percent in the past year,
including a 5 percent decline last week, making the Bilbao-based
utility a cheaper target for any potential acquirers. Galan said
he addresses this possibility every day with the government.  “We are concerned and we transmit to them our concern,”
he said. “We are speaking the whole day, 24 hours a day, seven
days a week with the government. They are creating a lot of
noise which is affecting the regulatory stability and
predictability.”  Even with the slide in shares, there are no obvious suitors
for Iberdrola because most euro-zone utilities face “continuous
political interference,” Galan said. “They are all in the same
situation.”  European Reform  The chairman pointed to draft legislation being debated by
Spanish lawmakers that would impose a tax of 6 or 7 percent on
power production. The U.K. also has had two years of debates on
electricity-market reform, while utilities in France and Germany
are suffering more than Iberdrola, he said, without singling out
the government policies at fault.  Other asset sales at Iberdrola will include “non-
strategic” natural-gas businesses such as its stake in Gas
Natural Mexico, which it agreed to sell in September, and
financial holdings it has in other companies, Galan said.  Iberdrola also has a stake in a U.K. nuclear venture with
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA. While it isn’t trying to sell out of that project,
“if there are good offers, we are a company with a very open
mind,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Doha via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 