-- Microsoft Analyst Sherlund Sees No Growth in PC Market
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-12-03T18:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/microsoft-analyst-sherlund-sees-no-growth-in-pc-market.html
The market for traditional personal
computers has no growth left because people are increasingly
using mobile devices to connect to the Web, said Rick Sherlund,
an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. covering  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   As consumers shun personal computers in favor of
smartphones and tablets, the PC market will contract by 1.2
percent to 348.7 million units this year, according to IHS
ISuppli, the first annual  decline  since 2001. The recent debut
of Windows 8, the latest version of Microsoft’s flagship
operating system, hasn’t delivered a sales boost, according to
NPD Group Inc.  “Windows 8 is off to a very rough start, not all the
hardware is out yet, not all the hardware vendors have done a
good job yet,” Sherlund said today in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Sherlund recommends buying Microsoft shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said last week that it
has sold 40 million software licenses since Windows 8, went on
sale on Oct. 26. Some of that tally includes versions shipped to
corporate customers with multiyear contracts, making it a poor
indicator of consumer demand.  NPD  said  U.S. retail sales of PCs running Windows have been
weak, with revenue declining 21 percent since the latest
software release, compared with the same period a year earlier.  Surface Tablet  The decrease has been fueled by a 24 percent drop in sales
of notebook computers as many customers opt for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad or tablets powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s software instead of
Windows, NPD said. The report excluded Microsoft’s own stores,
where the company’s Surface tablet is sold.  “People just don’t need PCs the way they used to,”
Sherlund said. “They’ve got alternatives now for accessing the
Internet. They’ve got smartphones and tablets, so there’s really
no growth left in the traditional PC market.”  Microsoft said last week that it will charge a minimum of
$899 for its Surface Pro tablet, the version that has an  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  chip, and is targeted at corporate customers or those who
want to use older Windows programs. The high price has analysts
such as Wes Miller at Directions on Microsoft concerned it will
put off tablet shoppers.  In order to better compete with Apple and Google, Microsoft
is moving to a new software development system for Windows that
would involve issuing smaller, more frequent updates on more of
an annual cycle, according to people familiar with the matter.
The first such update is planned for next year.  It will take another quarter or two until Windows machines
with compelling features and prices to reach consumers, Sherlund
said in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  