-- Time Warner Cable Threatens to Drop Low-Rated Networks
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-12-03T21:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/time-warner-cable-threatens-to-drop-low-rated-networks.html
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ’s IFC and WE TV are
among the networks at risk of being dropped by  Time Warner Cable (TWC) 
Inc. now that Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt is taking a
harder line on renewing channels with low ratings.  Distribution on Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S.
cable company, “is not a birthright,” Britt said today at a
UBS AG conference in New York. Networks with low ratings should
be on alert that the cable company will either move them off
expanded basic packages or drop them completely, Britt said.  Time Warner Cable’s programming costs have risen about 30
percent since 2008, leading to a 15 percent increase in cable-TV
prices, Britt said. The trends are unsustainable because prices
are rising too quickly for many people to afford, he said.  “If you have a network that is getting hash-mark ratings
and no real sign it’s going to get any better, we’re going to
have a different kind of conversation than we might have had
five, six or 10 years ago,” Britt said.  IFC and WE TV’s contract with Time Warner Cable is expiring
soon, the New York-based cable company  said last month . AMC’s
two other channels, the flagship AMC network and the Sundance
Channel, are covered under a separate contract and will continue
to be carried on Time Warner Cable. AMC airs shows such as “Mad
Men,” “The Walking Dead” and “Breaking Bad.”  ‘Bridezillas,’ ’Portlandia’  WE TV, a network aimed at women, features shows such as
“Bridezillas” and “Obsessed with the Dress.” IFC, originally
known as the Independent Film Channel, airs “Portlandia” and
R. Kelly’s “Trapped in the Closet.”  Georgia Juvelis, a spokeswoman for New York-based AMC, and
 Maureen Huff , a Time Warner Cable representative, declined to
comment. AMC CEO Josh Sapan will speak at the same UBS
conference tomorrow morning.  Shares of Time Warner Cable, which ranks second to Comcast
Corp. in U.S. cable subscribers,  gained  0.3 percent to $95.14 at
the close in New York. The stock has climbed 50 percent this
year. AMC, up 41 percent this year, rose 0.4 percent to $53
today.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV
provider, also has complained about AMC’s programming costs and
low ratings. It dropped AMC’s channels for more than three
months before agreeing to bring them back in October as part of
a lawsuit settlement with  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  and AMC.  Dropping low-rated networks can be a tricky decision
because their owners often bundle them with higher-rated
channels. That forces cable companies to pay for all of them or
lose access to networks they would otherwise want to keep.  NBC Universal ’s Style channel, for instance, is tied to E!,
which draws higher ratings. Both networks are also up for
renewal soon on Time Warner Cable, the company has said.  In an interview, Britt declined to say how Time Warner
Cable would deal with this challenge.  “We’re going to have to do things where we can,” he said.
“Stay tuned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  