-- IMF Halts Congo Loans Over Failure to Publish Mine Contract
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-12-03T14:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/imf-halts-congo-loans-over-failure-to-publish-mine-contract-2-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
it halted the  Democratic Republic  of Congo’s $532 million,
three-year loan program after the government failed to publish
details of a 2011 mining deal.  The lender, based in  Washington , had asked the government
make public the contract for the June 2011 sale by state-owned
copper miner Gecamines of its 25 percent in the Comide Sprl
copper project to a British Virgin Islands company called
Straker International Corp. The government only published notes
on the sale, which the IMF deemed insufficient, Oscar Melhado,
the IMF’s resident representative in Congo, said in a phone
interview today from the capital, Kinshasa.  “We applied the concept of strict conditionality because
we believe that transparency in the mining sector is key for the
country,” he said. Congo will lose out on three loan
disbursements worth a total of about $225 million, he said.  Congo, a Central African nation the size of Western Europe
with a population of about 68 million people, is the world’s
poorest country with per capita gross domestic product of $349,
according to IMF data. The United Nations Development Programme
ranked Congo the least-developed country in the world last year
and it remains near the bottom of Transparency International’s
Corruption Perceptions Index.  Dan Gertler  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , listed in  London , became
Comide’s biggest shareholder in 2010, when it purchased 50.5
percent of Camrose Resources Ltd. from Dan Gertler, an Israeli
mining investor who still owns part of the project.  Mining began in November 2011 at the site, which has
reserves of 10 million metric tons of copper at a grade of 1.77
percent, and total resources of 34.7 million tons of copper with
an average grade of 2.02 percent copper and 0.23 percent cobalt,
according to ENRC.  Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said the government had
published all the information the IMF requested about the
project and called its decision to halt the loan program
“unconsidered.” The Comide deal resolved “old litigation”
between Comide’s partners and the government had no part in it,
he said in a mobile-phone text message today.  “It’s regrettable that this program was canceled in this
manner,” Kabwelulu said.  The funds from the IMF loan were to be used to shore up
Congo’s foreign-exchange reserves. Under the terms of its accord
with the IMF, the government agreed to publish all contracts
related to oil, mining and forestry to improve transparency in
its revenue collection from those industries.  Request for Extension  According to the note on the sale published on the Mines
Ministry’s website on Nov. 21, Gecamines undertook the Comide
deal to resolve “a technical litigation,” the ministries said,
without explaining the term. Straker didn’t pay Gecamines for
the stake, according to the note.  Gecamines may receive 25 percent in another mining company,
Goma Mining Sprl, in return for its shareholding in Comide. As
part of the arrangement, Goma Mining took over part of a Comide
mining permit as well, according to the note. Goma Mining
already has another permit adjacent to Comide.  The note didn’t say who owns Straker International or Goma
Mining. ENRC said Goma Mining wasn’t related to Comide,
according to a statement e-mailed by the company’s external
communications agency Nov. 29.  130 Contracts  Melhado said Congo previously published more than 130
contracts under agreements with the IMF and  World Bank . In May
2011, the government also signed a decree requiring that
contracts for any cession, sale, or rental of the state’s
natural resources to be made public within 60 days of their
execution.  Congo had asked the IMF for a sixth-month extension to
complete the program, which was set to expire Dec. 10, according
to Melhado. The fund denied the request because of the problems
with the Comide contract and because it wouldn’t provide enough
time to reform Congo’s state-owned companies, he said.  “The extension for six months was not enough for all the
reforms that we’d like to support the government to implement,
particularly in the domain of reform of key public enterprises,
and in particular Gecamines,” he said. “On the side of the IMF
we are ready to re-engage immediately if we are requested by the
DRC’s government.”  Gecamines’ sale to Straker came to light in May through a
copy of Comide’s board minutes obtained by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Goma at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  