-- History Shows Why Germany Should Help Greece
-- B y   J o h n   S f a k i a n a k i s
-- 2012-12-03T23:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/history-shows-why-germany-should-help-greece.html
Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
has at last opened the door to the possibility of writing off
Greek debts, but only several years from now. As they decide on
the right thing to do, Germans should take a close look at their
own history.  As Merkel indicated in her Dec. 2  interview  with Bild, a
German tabloid, for the country to trigger the unraveling of the
euro area by letting  Greece  default would damage its own
economic and political interests. The economies of trading
partners in  Europe  might collapse, costing Germany far more than
the Greek debt forgiveness it refused.  More than this, Germany should recognize that it has a
moral obligation to help, just as the U.S. and its allies,
including Greece, helped Germany after World War II. This is a
largely forgotten history that, if recalled, might counter the
false narrative of virtuous Germans and feckless Greeks that has
hardened popular opposition to bailouts.  Under the aegis of the U.S., the introduction of the
deutsche mark in 1948 wiped out most of Germany’s domestic debt,
both public and private, which amounted to roughly four times
the country’s 1938 gross domestic product. This move helped
Germany to start afresh and begin the economic miracle at which
we all still marvel.  German Bailout  Germany was granted a waiver on its external debt,
including the deferral of interest payments, from 1947 to 1952
as the Marshall Plan was implemented. In 1953, the U.S. also
imposed the  London Debt Agreement  on its wartime allies, which
wrote off Germany’s external debt.  Albrecht Ritschl , an economic historian at the  London
School  of Economics, estimated earlier this year that the total
debt forgiveness  West Germany  received from 1947 to 1953 was
more than 280 percent of the country’s 1950 gross domestic
product, compared with the roughly 200 percent of GDP that
Greece has been pledged in aid since 2010.  Greece also contributed to the postwar German debt relief.
Signatories to the London agreement, including Greece, agreed to
defer settlement of war reparations and debts incurred after
1933 until a conference to be held after Germany’s
reunification. Although Germany paid compensation to individuals
in the 1960s, the conference never took place and many Greeks
think that more was due.  The bailout of Germany was at least as controversial as the
Greek one today. Just like Greece, Germany’s tax system in the
1950s was imperfect. Difficulties in changing it had led to
revenue shortfalls in the interwar period.  Throughout the negotiations, discontent was voiced in the
 U.S. Congress , where legislators objected to taxpayer money
being written off. The German Bundestag initially rejected the
London agreement, with many legislators disagreeing on the
treatment of postwar repayments to  France , because they thought
this would legitimize what they considered to be French
occupation of German territory. It took U.S. pressure to push
the agreement through at a second Bundestag vote.  The 1953 agreement reduced the repayable amount of
Germany’s external debt by 50 percent and spread out its payment
by three decades. It allowed Germany to return to international
 capital markets  and join the  International Monetary Fund ,  World
Bank  and the  World Trade Organization . While the rest of Western
Europe in the 1950s struggled with debts of about 200 percent of
GDP, West Germany, because of the restructuring, enjoyed a debt
 of less than  20 percent of GDP.  Stable Europe  Germany relinquished some sovereignty in this process, but
it owes its economic success since then to the massive haircut
that it was granted in 1953, as well as to the determination of
the U.S. leadership -- and to a lesser extent its allies -- to
rebuild Germany. That generosity provided Germany with an escape
route from an unsustainable debt situation, and it provided the
allies with a stable and prosperous neighbor through the  Cold
War  and beyond.  Today, Germany should have the same foresight. A long-
lasting debt-relief deal that removes uncertainty over Greece’s
place in the euro area would trigger a virtuous cycle,
encouraging much-needed foreign investment and growth. In doing
so it would reduce deficits in Greece, while at the same time
remove doubts about  Spain ,  Italy  and the viability of the euro.  Critics accuse Greece of being dilatory, anti-reformist,
corrupt and crony-capitalist. They’re right. Germany’s Konrad Adenauer was a visionary and a leader, traits that Greece’s
politicians lack. Greece does now need to step up and reform,
and at least Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his fragile
government are making slow progress, in contrast to the hapless
dithering of  George Papandreou .  The rhetoric of blame in Germany ignores that Greek society
has reached the limits of endurance, meaning that additional
taxes can’t be levied nor salaries cut without inciting social
unrest. The rise of the neo-fascist Golden Dawn party, which
ranks third in recent opinion polls, is a menace to democracy.  Countries can change in crisis, as Germans should know all
too well. Germany’s inter-war experience, marked by harsh
reparations after its defeat in World War I and unyielding
creditors, led to social unrest and the rise of fascism. The
 Marshall Plan  and debt forgiveness after World War II were
designed by the U.S. to avoid a repetition of that bitter
experience. They helped to forge a different Germany and a
different Europe.  In 1953, West Germany was reassured that its debt would
remain manageable. Foreign policy interests preceded pure
returns on capital and West Germany was safeguarded. It helped
that the  Soviet Union  was on the other side of a fence that
Germany’s wartime foes wanted to strengthen. The  Marshall Plan 
and the London agreement made Germans confident that the U.S.
and its allies would safeguard German prosperity.  Reassure Greeks  A similar agreement with Greece would reassure its people
that the excruciating measures they are being asked to accept in
the short term will eventually pay off. As it stands, Greece
today does not feel safeguarded.  Delaying a meaningful, long-term debt solution means that
Greece’s growth prospects continue to dwindle as the economy
implodes. At the core of Germany’s negotiating position in 1953
was the awareness that growth and exports had to be fostered in
order for the country to be able to pay off debt. Harsh
repayment terms wouldn’t have helped achieve that end. This is
why the U.S. in 1953 forgave most of Germany’s Marshall Plan
loans.  After the war, everything ultimately depended on the U.S.
In the euro crisis, everything depends on Germany. Time is
running out for Germany to do the right thing and show it’s
willing to do what’s necessary to support Greece and the
currency that binds Europe.  (John Sfakianakis is a Greek economist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
John Sfakianakis at  jsfakia@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  