-- Japan Capital Spending Gains More Than Forecast Last Quarter
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-12-03T02:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/japan-capital-spending-gains-more-than-forecast-last-quarter-1-.html
Japanese companies increased  capital
spending  more than economists predicted in the three months to
September, indicating a contraction in the world’s third-largest
economy may be short-lived.  Capital spending  excluding software rose 2.4 percent in the
period from a year earlier, after rising 6.6 percent in the
previous quarter, the Ministry of Finance said in  Tokyo  today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a 1 percent gain.  A government report last week showed October production
unexpectedly rose the most in 10 months, signaling some
resilience in an economy hurt by declines in exports and
domestic consumption. The government will use today’s report to
revise preliminary gross domestic product data that showed an
annualized 3.5 percent contraction in the third quarter.  “There’s a possibility that the GDP figure may be revised
up slightly,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities  Japan  Ltd. and a former BOJ official. “However, the
picture won’t change. Japan’s economy will probably shrink in
the fourth quarter,” as global growth has slowed and domestic
demand has weakened, she said.  The yen was little changed after the report. As of 10:32
a.m. in Tokyo the currency was 0.1 percent higher at 82.43 per
dollar. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was 0.5 percent higher,
heading for its seventh advance in eight trading days.  Companies in the transport equipment, food and chemicals
industries contributed to the advance in capital expenditure in
the quarter, the ministry said after the data were released.  Japan’s industrial production increased 1.8 percent in
October from the previous month. The increase was driven by
output of electronic parts for devices, including smartphone
displays and memory chips for export to  Asia , the trade ministry
said.  “Though we can’t be sure yet whether the economy’s decline
is stopping, it’s possible that Japan’s recession could end in
the current quarter,”  Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at
Daiichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said before the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  