-- Jets’ Ryan Hasn’t Picked Starting Quarterback for Jaguars Game
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-03T18:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/jets-ryan-hasn-t-picked-starting-quarterback-for-jaguars-game.html
New York  Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said he
hasn’t decided who will start at quarterback against the
 Jacksonville Jaguars  after benching  Mark Sanchez  in a win over
the Arizona Cardinals.  Ryan said today at a news conference that he might make a
decision by tomorrow night on who will start the Dec. 9 game at
Jacksonville, Florida.  “I definitely need a little more time,” Ryan said. “I’m
comfortable and confident with all three quarterbacks. All three
guys have proven they can win in this league.”  Sanchez was replaced in the third quarter yesterday by  Greg McElroy , who led the team to a touchdown in his first National
Football League drive as the Jets won 7-6.  With regular second-string quarterback  Tim Tebow  sidelined
with cracked ribs, McElroy was 5-of-7 passing for 29 yards and a
1-yard touchdown pass to Jeff Cumberland at MetLife Stadium in
East Rutherford, New Jersey. Sanchez, who has started since his
rookie season in 2009, completed 10 of 21 pass attempts for 97
yards against Arizona, throwing three interceptions before being
benched.  McElroy, a 24-year-old who was picked by the Jets out of
the University of Alabama in the seventh round of the 2011
draft, made his NFL debut yesterday. The team’s 10-play, 69-yard
scoring drive came on his first possession.  “I just thought that at the time it was the right move,”
Ryan said. “Sometimes you have better days than others. It’s
just something I felt needed to be done and gave our team the
best opportunity to win and that’s why I made that move.”  Sanchez Statistics  The 26-year-old Sanchez has completed 55 percent of his
passes this season, throwing for 12 touchdowns and 13
interceptions. His 2,436 yards passing ranks 22nd in the league
of 32 franchises.  Tebow has been Sanchez’s backup and been used in the Jets’
wildcat offense, rushing for 87 yards on 29 carries. He’s also
completed six of seven pass attempts.  The 25-year-old Tebow was traded to the Jets in March after
leading the  Denver Broncos  to a playoff appearance last season.  Tebow, who cracked his ribs in a Nov. 11 loss at the
 Seattle Seahawks , was medically cleared to play yesterday but
not activated because he wasn’t 100 percent ready, Ryan said.  The Jets are 5-7 and probably need to win their remaining
four games to have a shot at a playoff berth. The New England
Patriots (9-3) clinched the American Football Conference East
Division title yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  