-- Jonathan Auerbach, Broker at Investing Frontiers, Dies at 70
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-12-03T17:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/jonathan-auerbach-broker-at-capitalism-s-frontiers-dies-at-70.html
Jonathan L. Auerbach , who explored
new frontiers for investors as co-founder of Auerbach Grayson &
Co., a brokerage that specializes in international trading, has
died. He was 70.  He died on Nov. 29 at Beth Israel Medical Center in New
York, his co-managing director, David Grayson, said today in an
interview. The cause was lung cancer, which had been diagnosed
in September.  Founded in 1993, New York-based  Auerbach Grayson  provides
research and executes trades in international securities for
U.S. mutual funds, hedge funds, pension funds and other
institutional investors, utilizing a global network of brokerage
partners. It operates in 130 markets and was among the first
foreign brokers to do business in Russia, Egypt, South Africa
and Iraq, among other nations.  The firm kept doing business through wars and riots in
places such as Sri Lanka and the Middle East, according to “How
to Run the World: Charting a Course to the Next Renaissance,” a
 2011 book  by Parag Khanna.  “Even when they’re bombing in Gaza, they’re trading in
Ramallah,” Auerbach said, according to the book.  Khanna wrote: “By providing access to capital where it is
needed most, Auerbach is an agent of development for the
connected age.”  Libya Optimism  In March, speaking from Bucharest, Auerbach said on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock” that he was traveling to
Tripoli, by way of Kiev and Frankfurt, to help open Libya as a
market for investors.  “They have a stock exchange, and the first day of trading
was last Friday,” Auerbach said in the interview. “There are
12 listed companies, a couple of banks and some real estate, and
they traded about $300,000. So I’ll be meeting not only with the
government people, to talk about access, but also will be
talking to some stock brokers to set up our connectivity into
the market so that we can start to trade it.”  “You know, we started trading in Iraq about two years ago
now, and it works,” Auerbach said. “And I don’t see any reason
why Libya is not going to work.”  Asked about concerns that the revolutions of the so-called
Arab Spring would usher in new autocratic regimes, he said:  “I just tell everybody, ‘Don’t listen to the noise.’ Every
one of these countries has had millions of people who have made
their choice, and that is to have transparency, rule of law, and
really empowerment of the private sector. Talking to senior
executives recently in Egypt, to a person, every one of them
said for the first time in their business they don’t look over
their shoulder when they make business decisions.”  Parents, Upbringing  Grayson  said that “in recent years, Jon had developed a
special affection for Africa and was traveling there three or
four times a year.”  Jonathan Lewis Auerbach was born on Nov. 25, 1942, in
Philadelphia to Joseph and Judith Auerbach. He grew up in New
Hampshire and the Boston area and also spent part of his
childhood in Dusseldorf, Germany, when his father worked for the
U.S. Army, Grayson said.  His  father  was a partner in the law firm of Sullivan &
Worcester and a professor at Harvard Business School, both in
Boston. His mother was a reference librarian at the Harvard
Graduate School of Design in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Career Path  Auerbach graduated from Yale University in 1964. He served
in the U.S. Army, according to a  biography  on the company
website.  He began his career on Wall Street in 1966, according to
the profile. In the early 1970s, he was senior vice president
for capital markets at UBS-DB, a joint affiliate of Union Bank
of Switzerland and Deutsche Bank AG.  He was managing director for capital markets at Dillon Read
& Co.’s London office from 1984 to 1986, then opened his own
firm, J.L. Auerbach & Co. in London, according to a 1988 United
Press International article. In 1988 he returned to New York to
be chairman of Cresvale International Inc., a member of the
Cresvale Group, a specialist in international equity-related
securities.  At the midtown Manhattan office of their 75-person firm,
Auerbach and Grayson shared an office and faced each other at an
old-fashioned partner’s desk.  “We’d hold our daily meetings and talk about business,
life, children,” Grayson recalled.  Auerbach’s wide-ranging interests included art, theater,
film, environmental advocacy and vintage-car road rallies. In
May, he and one of his sons took part in a New York-to-Vancouver
leg of the  Trans-America Challenge  in his 1951 Chrysler New
Yorker, according to a death notice in the New York Times.  Auerbach’s survivors include his wife, Annie Luce; four
children, Gabrielle, Jake, Nick and Sasha; and his father,
according to the death notice. A previous marriage, to
Jacqueline Ann Zuccaire, ended in divorce, according to a Times
wedding announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  