-- Kinder Morgan’s $110 Million El Paso Settlement Approved
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-12-04T06:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/kinder-morgan-s-110-million-el-paso-settlement-approved.html
Kinder Morgan  Inc., the biggest U.S.
pipeline provider after buying El Paso Corp., won a Delaware
court’s approval of a $110 million settlement of investor
lawsuits over the 2011 acquisition.  Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine in Wilmington said
yesterday in court that the accord provided a “very large
monetary settlement” of El Paso shareholders’ claims they were
shortchanged in the $21.1 billion buyout by Kinder Morgan and
that El Paso financial adviser  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  had
conflicting interests in the deal.  The settlement comes after Kinder Morgan officials said in
October that third-quarter profit rose on increased natural gas
transportation charges stemming from utilities burning more gas
in  power plants . Net income jumped 76 percent to $379 million
from $215 million a year ago, the company said on Oct. 17.  Under the terms of the settlement, Houston-based Kinder
Morgan is paying the $110 million to El Paso shareholders while
Goldman Sachs agreed to forgo its $20 million fee in the
acquisition to help fund the accord, according to court filings.
At yesterday’s hearing, Strine also approved $26 million in
legal fees and expenses for investors’ lawyers.  “We are pleased to have the matter resolved,”  Larry Pierce , a Kinder Morgan spokesman, said in an e-mail.  David Wells , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on approval of the settlement.  Questions Raised  Kinder Morgan closed its acquisition of Houston-based El
Paso in May, two months after a judge refused to block a
shareholder vote on the takeover. Pierce said earlier this year
that 95 percent of El Paso’s shareholders voted to accept
Kinder’s offer, which provided a 47 percent premium.  Strine concluded in March that investors shouldn’t be
denied the right to decide whether to accept the offer “despite
the disturbing nature of some of the behavior leading to its
terms.” Strine allowed investors to proceed with damage claims
against Kinder Morgan, Goldman Sachs and former El Paso managers
over their handling of the deal.  Goldman Sachs’s role in Kinder Morgan’s buyout of El Paso
drew investors’ and the judge’s ire because of the bank’s ties
to both companies.  Pension Funds  Pension funds from  Louisiana ,  Florida  and  New York  that
invested in El Paso argued Goldman Sachs bankers helped  Richard Kinder , the firm’s chief executive officer, take the pipeline
operator private in 2006. At one time, Goldman Sachs had
designees in two Kinder Morgan board seats because of its
ownership stake in the energy company.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, also
had advised El Paso over the years, the investors said in court
papers. When Kinder approached its rival about a takeover, El
Paso called in Goldman Sachs to help.  The pension funds’ lawyers argued Goldman Sachs had a
financial incentive to advise El Paso’s managers to accept a
lower price than they might have negotiated.  In June, Goldman Sachs officials sold more than 36 million
of its shares in Kinder Morgan at $31.88 each to net about $1.2
billion, the Wall Street Journal reported. Pierce of Kinder
Morgan and Wells of Goldman Sachs said yesterday that the
investment firm has completely sold its stake in the pipeline
provider.  Legal Fees  Along with forgoing its adviser fee, Goldman Sachs
officials dropped demands that Kinder Morgan cover the
investment firm’s legal fees in the case, according to court
filings.  The settlement also resolves El Paso shareholders’
conflict-of-interest claims against former CEO  Douglas Foshee .  Investors accused Foshee of approaching Kinder about
pursuing a management-led bid for El Paso’s energy-exploration
unit while negotiating the potential purchase of the whole
company.  Foshee never informed El Paso’s board or investors that he
and a group of executives were considering buying the unit,
investors argued in court papers. In his ruling clearing the way
for the El Paso shareholder vote, Strine criticized Foshee’s
decision to approach Kinder officials about the unit.  Four El Paso shareholders objected to the settlement,
according to court filings. Some of the objectors said the
accord didn’t provide enough compensation for shareholders while
others objected to the $26 million in fees and expenses sought
by plaintiffs’s lawyers. Strine rebuffed the objections after
finding settlement was a “substantial achievement” for El Paso
investors.  The judge said the settlement of the El Paso buyout suits
should be a primer for company executives, directors and their
advisers on how to identify and handle potential conflicts in
future deals.  “This should not have gone down how it did,” the judge
said.  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  