-- Kiss Me Kate, The Changeling, Mister Tom: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-12-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/kiss-me-kate-the-changeling-mister-tom-london-stage.html
The  Chichester Festival  is staging an
onslaught on London’s West End.  Along with the hit Chichester productions already now in
London, “Singin’ in the Rain” and “Yes, Prime Minister,” two
more have just arrived. “Kiss Me, Kate” is at the Old Vic, and
“Goodnight Mister Tom” is at the Phoenix.  Both of them fly the flag for the 50-year-old festival,
founded by Laurence Olivier, which is based near the south coast
of  England .  The Cole Porter backstage musical “Kiss Me, Kate” comes
to the Old Vic boards with a lively dose of hoofer energy from
director Trevor Nunn. Based on “The Taming of the Shrew,” it
tells of a sparring couple of actors, recently divorced, who are
trying to perform a musical version of Shakespeare’s play.  The hit numbers keep coming. “Always True to You in My
Fashion,” “Too Darn Hot,” “Brush Up Your Shakespeare” and
“So in Love” are all standards of the Great American Songbook.  Nunn doesn’t tinker too much with it. He preserves the 1948
backstage setting, keeps a clear focus on the narrative, and
lets choreographer Stephen Mear go to town on the dance numbers,
which all crackle with energy.  A bit of tinkering and snipping might still have helped in
a few places. One of the early dialogue scenes lacks snap, and
there are a few too many encores in some of the songs. Even with
tunes and lyrics this great, you can occasionally have too much
of a good thing.  Leading Lady  It’s a minor gripe. The cast all have superb voices and
deliver bags of pep when it counts. Hannah Waddingham sizzles as
the outspoken and vampish leading lady Lilli Vanessi, and Alex
Bourne shows off his ringing warm baritone as her ex-husband
Fred.  Holly Dale Spencer is amusing as the airhead sexpot Lois,
and Clive Rowe and David Burt give laugh-out-loud turns as a
couple of gangsters who inadvertently find themselves onstage in
the production.  There’s excellent work from star musical director Gareth
Valentine too, and the band sounds tip-top.  Olivier, a great champion of musical theater, would have
been proud. Rating: ****.  ‘Mister Tom’  The other Chichester production to arrive is the family
show “Goodnight Mister Tom,” based on the book of the same
name by Michelle Magorian.  Set during the early days of World War II, it tells of
William, an awkward little  London  boy who is evacuated to rural
Devon. He’s billeted on a grumpy old misanthrope called Tom
Oakley.  No prizes for guessing the outcome. They change each
other’s lives for the better, of course. Fortunately the manner
in which it happens, involving a disturbing rescue sequence from
William’s mentally ill mother, is neither sentimental nor
predictable. There’s darkness and grief along with healing.  Angus Jackson’s inventive minimalist staging thunders along
like an express train. A door frame conjures up a whole room.
Birdsong indicates spring. A little heap of golden leaves means
autumn. A quick lighting change creates a busy railway platform.  Tom’s sheepdog Sammy (a puppet operated by Elisa de Grey)
comes close to stealing the show. Every twitch of the head,
every sniff, every little whimper, is beautifully observed. That
he, or rather she, doesn’t upstage everyone, is a tribute to
Oliver Ford Davies’s beautifully restrained performance as old
Tom.  In a triple-cast-performance, I saw 11-year-old Ewan Harris
as William. Though he had a touching frailty, I didn’t quite
believe in him as a deprived and scarred waif. He’s got plenty
of time to find more meat in the role, and I hope he does.  With its message of the power of hope, it’s a fine option
for a family outing this Christmas. Rating: ****.  ‘The Changeling’  There’s not much hope to be found in the plot of “The
Changeling” (1622), an enjoyably grisly Jacobean tragedy now
playing at the Young Vic.  In order to get an unwanted fiance out of the way,
Beatrice-Joanna asks her hideous servant De Flores to murder
him. De Flores then requests sexual favors as the price of his
silence, and the violence spins out of control.  Director Joe Hill-Gibbons uses contemporary costumes, cuts
the  play  to a zippy couple of hours (without interval), and
employs a carnivalesque style in which everything is exaggerated
for comic effect. A scientist is portrayed as a mad professor.
His creepy assistant appears in a misshapen fat suit. A lusty
wife appears in a skin-tight dress with fake breasts.  If some depth and darkness is lost, the gain is a show full
of blood-curdling laughter, quick action, and ferocious energy.  The one mistake is the final suggestion that everything
we’ve been watching has taken place in a madhouse. It’s a rather
tired and unhelpful trope in modern stagings of Jacobean drama.  Sinead Matthews (Beatrice-Joanna) and Zubin Varla (De
Flores) hold it all together beautifully, and their descent into
violent co-dependency gives some real substance to the jokey
tone of the production. The rest of the cast throw themselves
into the gory goings-on with relish. Rating: ****.  “Kiss Me, Kate” is at the Old Vic, 103 The Cut, London,
SE1 8NB. Information:  http://www.cft.org.uk/  and
 http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628.  “Goodnight Mister Tom” is at the Phoenix Theatre, 110
Charing Cross Road, London, London, WC2H 0JP. Information:
 http://www.phoenixtheatrelondon.co.uk/  and +44-844-871-7615 or
 http://www.goodnightmistertom.co.uk .  “The Changeling” is at the Young Vic, 66 The Cut, London,
SE1 8LZ. Information:  http://www.youngvic.org , +44-20-7922-2922.  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Martin Gayford 
on art and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 