-- Kobe Bryant Eyes Post-NBA Life Minus Jordan’s Ownership Role
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-12-03T13:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/kobe-bryant-eyes-post-nba-life-minus-jordan-s-ownership-role.html
Kobe Bryant has been compared with
Michael  Jordan  throughout his playing career while winning
championships, awards and scoring titles.  Bryant probably won’t be following in Jordan’s footsteps in
one aspect, saying he can’t envision being involved in the
ownership of a National Basketball Association team.  “I don’t know if ownership is really for me, I’d go
crazy,” Bryant said in an interview with  Stephanie Ruhle  on
Bloomberg Television’s  “Market Makers.” “If a player misses
a game because he has a broken fingernail I’d lose my mind. I
wouldn’t be able to take it.”  Bryant, 34, is in his 17th season with the Los Angeles
Lakers, the franchise he’s helped win five championships, one
short of Jordan’s total with the Chicago Bulls. Jordan now is
the majority owner of the  Charlotte  Bobcats.  Bryant said he sees a “light at the end of the tunnel”
when it comes to his playing career. He said he would like to
remain involved with the Lakers, where fellow guard Magic Johnson won five NBA titles in Los Angeles before becoming part
owner.  “I feel a sense of pride that I have played for this
organization,” Bryant said. “I want to see this organization
be successful when I am gone. So it’s about helping them and
doing whatever I can to set them up for the next generation.”  Bryant last week launched his new shoe, the Nike Kobe 8,
and is the  fourth-highest earning American athlete , with $20.3
million in salary and $28 million in endorsements, according to
Sports Illustrated. He said that whatever he ends up doing after
his playing career, he’ll remain close to basketball.  ‘Inspire Generation’  “I’ll be around the game and hopefully my brand can live
on past my career and I can be a part of the game in that sense
and inspire another generation,” Bryant said. “Whether that’s
through advertising or grass-roots marketing.”  Bryant has been with  Nike Inc. (NKE)  since 2003, when he signed
with the world’s largest athletic-shoe maker along with LeBron James after the end of Jordan’s playing career. Bryant said Nike
Chairman  Phil Knight  is a worthy member of the Basketball Hall
of Fame, even though he’s never played or coached.  “Growing up when I watched all the Michael Jordan
commercials or Charles Barkley commercials as a kid, I did not
differentiate between a Nike commercial and an NBA commercial,”
Bryant said. “What he did for the game of basketball was
elevate it globally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  