-- Korea Won Falls on North’s Rocket Test Plan; Bonds Steady
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-12-03T06:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/korea-won-falls-on-north-s-rocket-test-plan-bonds-steady.html
South  Korea ’s won snapped a two-day
advance as concern its communist neighbor will launch a rocket
outweighed better-than-expected exports data. Bonds were little
changed as a report showed inflation slowed in November.  North Korea will test a long-range rocket this month
between Dec. 10 and Dec. 22, the nation’s state-run news agency
reported on Dec. 1. The Pyongyang regime placed the first stage
of a long-range rocket on the launch pad in the country’s
Northern Province, Yonhap News reported, citing an unidentified
government official in  Seoul . South Korea’s government said on
Dec. 1  exports  expanded 3.9 percent in November from a year
earlier, the most since February. That exceeded the median
estimate for a 1.6 percent increase in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Concerns that North Korea may launch a rocket seems to be
affecting markets, given that the won isn’t appreciating even
after export data beat estimates,” said Cho Young Bok, a Seoul-
based currency trader at Daegu Bank.  The won closed at 1,083 per dollar in Seoul compared with
1,082.85 on Nov. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in
exchange rates used to price options, declined 19 basis points,
or 0.19 percentage point, to 4.91 percent. It touched 4.88
percent, the lowest since February 2008.  “Export data should have supported the won, but
expectations that figures would be good were already reflected
in recent gains and the government is showing strong will” to
stem the currency’s appreciation, said Lee Jung Hyun, a Seoul-
based currency dealer for  Industrial Bank of Korea. (024110)   Intervention Risk  Officials are reviewing further foreign-exchange
regulations after tightening rules on currency forwards, Kim
Seok Dong, chairman of the Financial Services Commission said
last week. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in October the
government performs “smoothing operations” to counter volatile
currency swings.  South Korea’s  consumer prices  increased 1.6 percent in
November from a year earlier, after climbing 2.1 percent the
previous month, official data showed today. Economists forecast
an inflation rate of 2 percent, a Bloomberg survey showed.  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent bonds due
September 2017 held steady at 2.91 percent in Seoul, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year bond yields rose one basis
point to 2.85 percent. The one-year interest-rate swap was
little changed at 2.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  