-- N.J.’s Mountain Lakes Surprised by S&P Suspension of AAA Rating
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/n-j-s-mountain-lakes-surprised-by-s-p-suspension-of-aaa-rating.html
The mayor of Mountain Lakes, New 
Jersey, where more than half the households earn $150,000 or 
more, was surprised when the borough had its AAA credit rating 
removed by Standard & Poor’s after it didn’t respond to requests
for information.  S&P on Nov. 14 warned Mountain Lakes, which is about 25
miles (40 kilometers) west of  Manhattan , that it would suspend
the top grade unless it received timely answers about finances.  “We did ask just for some updated current-year
information,” Nicole Ridberg, an S&P analyst, said in a
telephone interview Nov. 30. “We asked for additional
information regarding future debt and their local economic
activity. We just never got a response.”  S&P said it may reinstate the rating once Mountain Lakes
supplies the data. The New York-based company left phone
messages and sent e-mails asking for the information beginning
in August or September, Ridberg said.  Mayor Charles Gormally said yesterday he wasn’t aware of
any issue with S&P until he received a Bloomberg News reporter’s
e-mail for comment on Nov. 30.  “I’m not familiar with what they requested or what was
furnished,” he said in a phone interview.  Robert Tovo, the borough manager, said he also learned
about the suspension from the e-mail. He said he received two e-
mails from S&P and thought the company was drumming up business,
not seeking information.  Contact Plans  “It read to me as though it was a solicitation for S&P to
do more business with the borough,” Tovo said yesterday. “In
the past, we’ve always used Moody’s.”  D. Timothy Roberts, the borough’s chief financial officer,
will contact S&P this morning, Tovo said. Roberts didn’t respond
to an e-mail and phone message requesting comment on the rating
Nov. 30.  In July, Pinnacle Foods Group LLC, maker of Duncan Hines
products and Birds Eye frozen foods, moved its headquarters from
Mountain Lakes to neighboring Parsippany, said Chris Spina, a
spokesman for Pinnacle. The company employs more than 4,300
people in North America, according to its website.  While the borough may receive less tax revenue because of
Pinnacle’s departure, the area has “a diverse regional base”
where workers can find employment elsewhere or travel to
Parsippany to continue working at the food company, Ridberg
said.  “Obviously, we haven’t spoken to them, so we’re not sure
about the loss in taxation and things like that,” Ridberg said.  Mountain Lakes had about $6.3 million of long-term debt as
of Dec. 31, 2011, according to financial documents. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the locality Aa1, its second-highest
grade, David Jacobson, a spokesman for the ratings company, said
in an e-mail.  The borough’s median household income was $155,139 in 2010,
according to U.S. Census data. Of its 1,293 households, 685
earned at least $150,000.  Mountain Lakes has “good economic indicators” and is
“very wealthy, but it’s just making sure that we have that
updated information,” Ridberg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  