-- Nanos Poll Finds Canada Confidence Falls for Second Month
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-12-03T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/nanos-poll-finds-canada-confidence-falls-for-second-month.html
Consumer confidence  fell for a second
month as Canadians were less confident about keeping their jobs,
according to a Nanos Research poll.  The Nanos Economic Mood Index -- an aggregate of survey
responses on the outlook for the economy,  job security , personal
finances and real estate -- fell to 101 in November from 102.6
in October.  Measures calculating personal finances and employment
security deteriorating to their worst since the first half of
this year, adding to evidence the country’s economy has stalled.
 Statistics Canada  reported last week the country’s economy
expanded at its slowest pace in more than a year.  “The current financial state of Canadians is
deteriorating,”  Nik Nanos , president of the Ottawa-based
polling company said, suggesting “there could be some
turbulence in  Canada  related to unemployment and consumer
spending in the coming months.”  Canada’s gross domestic product expanded at an annualized
0.6 percent from July through September, the slowest in more
than a year, the nation’s statistics agency reported Nov. 30.
A Bloomberg News survey of economists forecast 0.8 percent
growth. The agency also revised its second-quarter GDP growth
figure to 1.7 percent from 1.9 percent.  Canada’s job picture has also worsened, with  employment 
growing at a monthly average of 14,500 in the second half of
this year, down from 25,800 in the first six months of 2012.  The balance of opinion between those who say their jobs are
secure and those who believe they are not fell to 29.7 in
November from 36.7 a month earlier. The net perception between
those who say their personal finances are better off over the
past year against those who believe they are worse off fell to
negative 16.1 from negative 11.1 in October.  Future Optimism  A deterioration of “pocketbook” measures was offset by an
improvement in expectations measures, the Nanos poll found.  Canadians’ net perception of the economy’s prospects turned
positive in November, with the balance of opinion between those
who say the economy will be stronger in the next six months
against those who believe it will be weaker improving to 2.8 in
November from negative 0.5 a month earlier. Net perceptions of
future real estate values also improved from a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  