-- Netflix Drops Most in a Month After Redbox Service Report
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-12-03T22:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/netflix-drops-most-in-a-month-after-redbox-service-report.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  fell the most in more
than a month following a report that said  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ’s joint-streaming venture with  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  will undercut
the world’s largest subscription service.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos,  California , fell 7 percent to
$76 at the close in New York, for its biggest decline since Oct.
24. Before today, the stock had gained 18 percent this year.  Verizon’s and Coinstar’s Redbox Instant service could
charge subscribers $6 a month for a basic streaming plan,
according to a Nov. 29  report  by GigaOM, a technology Website.
That compares with a $7.99 month subscription charged by
Netflix. GigaOM said the details of the Redbox Instant service
were available on an unencrypted support page for the venture’s
 Website . The page now requires an access code.  Redbox Instant, 65 percent owned by Verizon, will compete
with Netflix and Amazon.com Inc. for the growing number of
consumers who watch movies and television shows online and on
devices like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. The U.S. market for
subscription streaming rose fivefold to $1.1 billion in the
first half of 2012 from a year earlier, according to data from
the Hollywood studio-backed Digital Entertainment Group.  Netflix had 29.4 million streaming customers globally as of
Sept. 30. Amazon, the Seattle-based online retailer, offers free
two-day shipping and access to 30,000 movies and TV shows for
$79 a year. It doesn’t disclose its subscribers.  Netflix spokesman Jonathan Friedland declined to comment on
the GigaOM report. Patrick Mason, a spokesman for Redbox Instant
at GolinHarris, a public relations agency, didn’t immediately
return a phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  In addition to a monthly subscription and an allotment of
DVDs from Coinstar’s almost 40,000 kiosks, Redbox Instant will
offer a la carte movie rentals online and purchases for
download, Eric Bruno, Verizon’s senior vice president of
consumer product management, said in an interview in September.
The service was announced earlier this year and plans to start
by the middle of December, according to Bruno.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  