-- New York Times Looks to Cut 30 Newsroom Positions
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-03T21:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/new-york-times-looks-to-cut-30-newsroom-positions.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. told employees that he is seeking “significant
cost savings” throughout the company’s media group, including
buyouts that would encourage news employees to retire early.  “These are financially challenging times,” Sulzberger
said in a memo to employees. “The advertising climate remains
volatile and we don’t see this changing in the near future.”  The Times has struggled with an industrywide slump in
newsprint advertising, leading to  six straight years  of
shrinking sales. While the New York-based company has had
success getting readers to sign up for online subscriptions,
that hasn’t made up for the advertising decline.  Sulzberger is looking to cut 30 newsroom positions,
Executive Editor Jill Abramson wrote in a separate note to
employees. She will have to eliminate staff if enough people
don’t volunteer, she said. The Times has a total of about 1,100
newsroom employees.  The company’s new chief executive officer, Mark Thompson,
presided over a cost-cutting effort at the British Broadcasting
Corp. Under his leadership, the commercial-free network --funded
by fees from U.K. television viewers -- eliminated jobs and
moved offices and production to cheaper locations. The  BBC  has
cut more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in spending since
2008.  Business Side  At the New York Times, the business side of operations has
already been reduced by more than 60 percent in recent years,
Abramson said. While the Times newsroom lost around 100
positions in 2008 through buyouts and eliminations, “the
newsroom has been spared the worst of it,” she said. New hires
for digital operations also has offset some of those
eliminations, according to Abramson.  “We must make some difficult decisions to lower our
costs,” Sulzberger told employees. “Our business-side
colleagues will continue their efforts to find staff reductions
and other efficiencies, but it is now impossible not to look
also within the ranks of our news operations.”  Shares of the company  were little changed in  New York 
trading today, closing at $8.12. The stock has climbed 5 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  