-- Newmont Names Goldberg as Chief Executive to Replace O’Brien
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-12-03T21:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/newmont-appoints-goldberg-as-chief-executive-to-replace-o-brien.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the largest
U.S. gold producer, appointed Gary Goldberg to replace  Richard O’Brien  as chief executive officer from March 1.  O’Brien, 58, will retire from the Greenwood Village,
Colorado-based company’s board at the same time, Newmont said
today in a statement. He has led Newmont since July 2007.
Goldberg joined Newmont as chief operating officer in December
2011 from Rio Tinto Group, where he was CEO of its industrial-
minerals unit.  The change “is a reflection of succession planning, more
than anything else,”  Omar Jabara , a Newmont spokesman, said by
phone today. “It’s something we’ve been preparing for for some
time.”  Newmont’s announcement comes amid a wave of management
changes as gold producers struggle to contain costs that are
rising at a faster pace than the gold price.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,
the world’s biggest gold producer, said June 6 it was
“disappointed” by its share-price performance and fired Aaron Regent as CEO, replacing him with Chief Financial Officer Jamie Sokalsky.  Goldberg’s appointment appears to have been planned for
some time, said  George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Goldberg, who joined Newmont as COO and
executive vice-president, was promoted to COO and president of
the company in July.  “It looks to me as if Gary Goldberg has been groomed for
this position,” Topping said today in a phone interview. He
hasn’t changed his recommendation or valuation of the company as
a result of the CEO change.  Newmont fell 3 percent to $45.68 at the close in New York.
 The shares  have declined 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  