-- News Corp. Names Darcey as Head of U.K. Newspaper Unit
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-12-03T15:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/news-corp-names-darcey-as-head-of-u-k-newspaper-unit.html
Rupert Murdoch’s U.K. newspaper unit,
reeling from a phone-hacking scandal, named its third chief
executive officer in less than 18 months as the parent company
prepares to split into two.  Mike Darcey, 47 years old and currently chief operating
officer at pay-TV operator  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
will replace CEO  Tom Mockridge , who plans to step down by the
end of the year, the company said. Mockridge last year took over
from Rebekah Brooks, who quit over the hacking and bribery
scandal and faces a criminal trial next year.  News Corp., bowing to pressure from shareholders, agreed in
June to break off the publishing assets, which are growing more
slowly than its Fox entertainment businesses. The company today
named Wall Street Journal editor Robert Thomson to lead the
publishing spinoff. Darcey’s task will be to make sure the U.K.
publishing business moves on from the scandal, said  Warren
Johnson , a London-based media consultant at  W Communications .  “Getting someone from a trusted and untarnished bit of
their organization makes sense,” Johnson said in an interview.
“He’s someone from outside the news business but still within
the company so he understands how  News Corp. (NWSA)  works.”  Dropped Takeover  News Corp., based in New York, owns about 39 percent of
BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator. The company bid 7.8
billion pounds ($12.5 billion) for the rest of BSkyB it didn’t
own and then dropped the offer amid the phone-hacking
revelations.  BSkyB rose 1.3 percent to 769 pence in London as of 3:02
p.m. while News Corp. gained 0.9 percent to $24.87 in New York.  Mockridge resigned because he wasn’t “comfortable” with
the role offered to him amid the separation of Murdoch’s
publishing businesses from entertainment, he told staff in an e-
mail.  Darcey, who took over as BSkyB COO in November 2006, also
sits on the boards of National Geographic Channels International
and the U.K. unit of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Nickelodeon TV business. He
is also chairman of the board of trustees of the Royal
Television Society. Before joining Sky in 1998, he had worked as
an economic advisor for 11 years.  Police Probe  News International has been embroiled in government and
police probes over phone-hacking at its best-selling Sun daily
and the News of the World tabloid, which has been shut down.  News Corp. has spent more than $315 million on civil
settlements, legal fees and other costs related to the scandal.
More than 80 people have been arrested for intercepting voice
mail and bribing public employees. Results from a press-ethics
probe last week recommended Britain set up an independent media
regulator in response to wrongdoing by journalists.  In addition to being an outsider to the phone-hacking
debacle, Darcey brings digital expertise to News International,
which is struggling like many of its peers to adapt to online
formats amid declining print-based revenue and the migration of
readers to the Internet, said Douglas McCabe, a media analyst at
 Enders Analysis  in  London .  “There are big changes at all these businesses in order to
be able to operate in a digital world, and that’s where Mike’s
expertise will be brilliant,” he said. “Sky is one of most
forward-thinking media platforms in the world.”  BSkyB said it will divide Darcey’s role among other members
of the executive team and isn’t currently searching for a
replacement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  In addition to operating the Wall Street Journal and Times
of London, News Corp.’s publishing spinoff will include
newspapers in the U.S., U.K. and  Australia , as well as the
HarperCollins book division, education and marketing assets.
News Corp. plans to complete the breakup by the middle of next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  