-- News Corp. Will Use Fox Name as Breakup Proceeds
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-03T21:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/news-corp-moves-ahead-with-split-gives-names-for-new-companies.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , moving ahead with a plan
to split into two companies, appointed Wall Street Journal
editor Robert Thomson as head of the new publishing entity and
said it would call the entertainment-focused business Fox Group.  The publishing business, which includes the Journal and the
Times of London, will retain the News Corp. name, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. As part of the split,
the company will cease publication this month of the Daily, an
iPad publication  that struggled  to catch on with readers.  News Corp. agreed in June to break off its slower-growing
publishing assets from its Fox television and film businesses
after coming under pressure from shareholders.  Rupert Murdoch ,
the billionaire founder of News Corp., will remain CEO of the
Fox side, with Chase Carey serving as chief operating officer
and  James Murdoch  working as Carey’s deputy.  “The challenges we face in the publishing and media
industries are great, but the opportunities are greater,”
Murdoch said in the statement.  News Corp. shares  were little changed in  New York  trading
today, closing at $24.53. The stock has climbed 38 percent this
year.  The Daily’s editor-in-chief, Jesse Angelo, will become
publisher of News Corp.’s New York Post. Paul Carlucci, now the
Post’s publisher, will focus exclusively on his role as chairman
of News America Marketing.  ‘College of Murdoch’  Thomson ascends to the CEO job after serving as managing
editor of the Journal and editor-in-chief of News Corp.’s Dow
Jones. Gerard Baker, a fellow Times of London alumnus who is
currently Thomson’s deputy, will take over as managing editor.  Putting Thomson in charge of the publishing spinoff will
help Murdoch preserve his vision for the company, said  Ken Doctor , an analyst at Outsell Inc., a Burlingame, California-
based research firm.  “Robert Thomson has been well-schooled in the College of
Murdoch,” said Doctor, who covers the publishing industry.
“They have long worked closely, and, in a sense, this is a
continuation of that partnership.”  In choosing Thomson, Murdoch passed over  Tom Mockridge , CEO
of News International, the company’s U.K. publishing group.
Mockridge now plans to step down by the end of the year, News
Corp. said. Mike Darcey, currently chief operating officer at
pay-TV operator  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , will replace
Mockridge.  Career Journalist  Murdoch  appointed Thomson , a fellow Australian, to run the
Journal in 2007 and named him head of Dow Jones the following
year. Thomson, 51, had served as editor of the Times of  London ,
where he bolstered Internet readership. Before that, he was
editor of the U.S. edition of the Financial Times.  The new job would entrust the management of a global media
corporation to a career journalist, rather than an experienced
CEO. Thomson has worked in newspapers since 1979, when he began
as a copyboy at the Herald in  Melbourne .  Thomson will need to reinvigorate a business suffering from
shrinking profit and a scandal at its U.K. newspapers. Even so,
the operation will have a clean balance sheet, with no debt and
“very large reserves of cash,” Murdoch said when the plan was
proposed in June.  Murdoch will remain chairman of both entities after the
spinoff. That means the outspoken 81-year-old will continue to
loom large at the new business, Doctor said.  “There’s little room between Murdoch as chairman of the
new company and Thomson as CEO,” he said.  Phone Hacking  In the new role, Thomson will have to confront a lingering
scandal in the U.K. News Corp. closed its News of the World
newspaper in July 2011 in response to public anger over
revelations that journalists accessed messages on a murdered
schoolgirl’s mobile phone nearly a decade earlier. The
investigation spawned parallel probes of computer hacking and
bribery and led to the arrests of more than 80 people, including
the unit’s former head of security and its top lawyer.  Mockridge had replaced Rebekah Brooks last year as head of
the U.K. division in the wake of the scandal, so Darcey’s
appointment means the unit has named three CEOs in less than 18
months.  In addition to operating the Wall Street Journal and Times
of London, the spinoff will include other newspapers in the
U.S., U.K. and  Australia ; as well as the  HarperCollins  book
division; the education and marketing assets; and the Australian
TV business. News Corp. plans to complete the breakup by the
middle of next year, though Thomson will begin working as
incoming CEO on Jan. 1.  Executive Changes  Murdoch also announced the appointment of Bedi Ajay Singh,
the former finance chief for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., as chief
financial officer of the publishing company. Paul Cheesbrough,
News Corp.’s chief technology officer, will take that same role
at the spinoff. Gerson Zweifach, who serves as News Corp.’s
general counsel, will handle that job for Fox Group and -- for
one year -- the publishing company as well.  News Corp. acquired the Wall Street Journal as part of its
purchase of Dow Jones in 2007.  Of News Corp.’s newspapers, the
Journal has the most growth potential, and Thomson’s ascension
signals that the publication will be the heart of the spinoff,
Doctor said.  The paper has pioneered the use of online video,
advertising and tablet computers among news organizations, he
said. It also was an early convert to paid Internet
subscriptions, an approach copied by the  New York Times Co. (NYT)  and
other rivals.  The Wall Street Journal is the largest circulating weekday
newspaper in the U.S., with 2.29 million readers, according to
the most recent figures from the Alliance for Audited Media. The
paper’s circulation gained 9.4 percent from a year earlier.  “It has global business potential, while all the regional
papers, each in their own ways, are constrained by being non-
global players,” Doctor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at +1-212-617-6783 or
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at +1-212-617-4143 or
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  