-- Nobel Prize to Get Hedge Fund Boost After Awards Sink 20%
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-12-04T10:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/nobel-prize-money-to-get-hedge-fund-boost-after-awards-sink-20-.html
The  Nobel Foundation , which this year
lopped 20 percent off its cash prizes, is planning to invest
more money through hedge funds to boost its returns and restore
the award to its previous size.  “When we look at the analysis we see that we can get more
return with less risks by doing that,” Executive Director Lars Heikensten said in an interview at the Nobel Foundation’s
Stockholm headquarters yesterday. “If we can choose hedge funds
that we trust, then we can get better returns for given risks.”
The fund “probably shouldn’t” be fully invested in debt
securities, he said.  The Nobel foundation, created in 1900 at the request of
Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  to award prizes in physics,
chemistry, medicine, peace and literature, this year cut the
cash amount of its prize for the  first time since 1949 . The move
followed a decade of poor returns, exacerbated by the onset of
the global financial crisis.  The foundation had 2.97 billion kronor ($448 million) in
investments at the end of 2011, corresponding to an 18 percent
slump from its 2007 level, according to its website. The decline
prompted a cut in this year’s prize amount to 8 million kronor,
from 10 million kronor to safeguard Nobel’s capital.  ‘Difficult Decision’  “It was a difficult decision to take, since Nobel when he
wrote his will made clear he wanted his money to be used for
prizes,” said Heikensten, a former governor of the Swedish
central bank.  An economics prize was created by Sweden’s Riksbank in
1968. Alvin E. Roth and Lloyd S. Shapley shared the award this
year for their work on matching supply and demand. Previous
laureates include  Milton Friedman  and  Paul Krugman . The 2012
peace prize went to the European Union.  “We live in difficult times and had not been as successful
as one would have wanted in the last 10 years,” Heikensten
said. The foundation “had in fact been spending more every year
on average than” it had been earning, “and we had to do
something,” he said.  The fund has returned 1.5 percent to 2 percent, on average,
over the past 10 years, below the 3.5 percent to 4 percent
needed to keep its capital stable, according to Heikensten.  Chasing Returns  Average hedge fund returns don’t suggest the Nobel
Foundation will be much better off. The HFRX Global Hedge Fund
Index, a measure of hedge fund performance, has gained 2.4
percent in the first 11 months of this year. The MSCI world
index of global stocks returned 11 percent in the same period,
though it fell 26 percent between the end of 2007 and the end of
2011.  In 2011, 47 percent of the Nobel foundation’s  invested
capital  was in equities, down from 67 percent in 2007, according
to its website. Over the same period, stakes in alternative
investments rose to 33 percent from 12 percent, driven by an
increase in allocations to  hedge-funds  and private equity funds
to 24 percent, from 6 percent in 2007. Fixed-income investments
were at 20 percent, versus 21 percent in 2007.  While the average return on the foundation’s total
investments stood at 0.6 percent in those five years, the
equities portfolio had a loss of 2.4 percent.  Nobel’s Will  Alfred Nobel signed his will in 1895, a year before his
death, stipulating that most of his estate of more than 31
million kronor -- about 1.7 billion in today’s money -- should
be converted into a fund and invested in “safe securities.”  Following two world wars, the foundation changed its
investment policy with the backing of the Swedish government in
the 1950s, after the total amount managed fell. Since then, it
has been allowed to invest in bonds, secured loans, real estate
and most types of stocks. This, together with a tax-exemption in
1946, helped the Nobel Foundation reverse the trend of declining
assets under management and the real value of the prize amount
in kronor terms was restored by 1991.  The Nobel Foundation  is also trying to cut costs and has
approached suppliers of its lavish award banquet -- held each
year on Dec. 10 in Stockholm City Hall, after the prizes are
announced -- in an effort to negotiate price cuts as steep as 20
percent. The roughly 1,300 guests include the Swedish royal
family.  The state of the foundation’s finances is “definitely not
a crisis,” he said. “We could have gone on like that for 30
years, but it’s better to start doing something in good time.”  Cost Cuts  The Nobel Foundation wants to cut annual costs by about 20
percent to match the reduction in the prize money, Heikensten
said.  The foundation has also brought in external advisers and
will cut the number of investment alternatives to as low as 20,
from 40 previously. That will make investing more manageable,
Heikensten said. All the measures together will help bring
returns to 3 percent, he said.  “It will depend on the world economy, and the situation is
difficult, but I think it should be achievable,” Heikensten
said. “We definitely don’t want the prize to go down, and I
think we should have the ambition to keep its value in real
terms in Swedish kronor, which has been the case since 1901 --
that’s the minimum ambition one should have,” he said.  The 10 million kronor paid to laureates last year is
equivalent to 123 percent of the inflation-adjusted amount first
awarded in 1901. This year’s prize, in real terms, was less than
the original award for the first time since 1990, according to
information available on the Nobel Foundation’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  