-- Nokia Siemens Sells Optical Network Business to Marlin
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-12-03T13:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/nokia-siemens-sells-optical-network-business-to-marlin.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the phone-
equipment venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , agreed to sell
its optical networks business to Marlin Equity Partners as part
of its plan to reduce costs and focus on mobile broadband.  As many as 1,900 employees, mainly in Germany, Portugal and
China, will transfer to a new company, Nokia Siemens said today
in an e-mailed statement, without giving a sale price. The deal
may be worth 200 million euros ($261 million), depending on the
value of patents included, said Robert Jakobsen, a Jyske Bank
A/S analyst in Silkeborg,  Denmark .  Nokia Siemens, based in Espoo, Finland, and French rival
Alcatel-Lucent SA are among telecommunications-gear providers
that are cutting jobs and costs as the slowing global economy
crimps spending on mobile-network infrastructure. In October,
Nokia Siemens posted its first quarterly sales increase and
profit since last year, helped by demand for long-term
evolution, or LTE, networks that allow faster data speeds.  “Our strategic focus on our core markets has enabled us to
concentrate our energy and investment in areas such as LTE,”
Nokia Siemens Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Suri said in the
statement.  Nokia Siemens said a year ago it would cut 17,000 jobs, or
about 23 percent of the total, to become sustainably profitable.
In October, the company said it had reduced its workforce by
14,300 from a year earlier.  Consolidation Ahead?  The deal with Los Angeles-based Marlin will probably close
in the first quarter of 2013, and Marlin will help provide the
funds to build a “leadership position´´ for the new company,
Nokia Siemens said. The business will be based in Munich.  Of the 10 or so largest companies in the optical networking
industry, no more than half will survive, Herbert Merz, the
designated CEO of the new business, said in an interview. The
business, which has annual sales of 400 million euros to 500
million euros, will try to boost revenue until it is level with
larger rivals Huawei Technologies Co., Alcatel-Lucent and  Ciena
Corp. (CIEN) , Merz said, declining to comment on profitability.  ‘‘That’s not possible through organic growth only, but you
cannot plan acquisitions,´´ Merz said. ‘‘We are not in
negotiations with anyone right now, but there are strategic
options for consolidation in our industry, and we don’t rule out
any of them.´´  Profit Target  The sale of the optics business would help bring Nokia
Siemens closer to its cost-cutting goal and boost its profit
margin, said  Janardan Menon , an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.
in  London . On Oct. 18, Nokia Siemens projected an adjusted
fourth-quarter operating margin of 4 percent to 12 percent.  The company vies with Huawei for the second spot in the
global wireless-gear market behind  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  of  Sweden . Nokia
and Siemens aim to make the venture a more standalone business
after they abandoned talks with private-equity companies in July
2011 as the buyout firms failed to come up with a compelling
offer. The parents said two months later Nokia Siemens would
‘‘become a more independent entity.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  