-- Norwich Beats Sunderland to Extend Unbeaten Premier League Run
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-03T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/norwich-beats-sunderland-to-extend-unbeaten-premier-league-run.html
Norwich beat Sunderland 2-1 yesterday
to extend its unbeaten run in English soccer’s Premier League to
eight matches. The Canaries climb to 12th in the standings.  Sebastien Bassong and Anthony Pilkington scored for the
hosts at their Carrow Road stadium, with  Craig Gardner  getting
the only goal for Sunderland, which remains 17th.  Norwich has won four and tied four of its last eight games
after opening the season with a seven-game winless run in the
league. Sunderland now has one victory in its last nine league
matches.  “It’s a massive win for us,” Pilkington told  Sky Sports .
“We’re going in the right direction and this is a great place
to be at the moment.”  Norwich is tied with Liverpool on 19 points after 15 games,
although the Reds have a superior goal difference. Sunderland,
with 13 points, is one point above the relegation positions.  Manchester United  tops the Premier League after the
weekend’s matches with 36 points following a 4-3 win at Reading
two days ago.  Manchester City  was held to a 1-1 tie by Everton
and is three points back.  Norwich got the opening goal after eight minutes, with
Bassong getting the final touch on a Robert Snodgrass free kick.
It was the Cameroon defender’s second goal in three games.  Danny Rose had one of Sunderland’s first opportunities
after 28 minutes with a low shot from the edge of the penalty
area that was easily saved by goalkeeper Mark Bunn.  Doubled Lead  The home team doubled its lead after 37 minutes. Pilkington
collected a long pass from Bradley Johnson, cut inside a
defender and struck a low shot into the far corner of the net.  Sunderland replied just before halftime with a 20-yard
effort from Gardner. Bunn got the tips of his fingers to the
shot, but was unable to keep it out.  The visitors provided more attacking threats after the
interval, while Norwich also had chances to increase its
advantage.  Goalkeeper Simon Mignolet tipped away a Pilkington shot in
the 57th minute, then at the other end of the field Gardner hit
a post from a free kick with Matt Kilgallon firing the rebound
over the bar.  Stephane Sessegnon shot straight at Bunn as Sunderland
continued to push forward and also had an overhead kick that
missed its target.  Two Chances  Grant Holt  had two chances for Norwich, getting the ball
stuck under his feet on one and hitting another over the bar.  “We’ve scored two good goals and right at the end of the
first half we’ve conceded a sloppy goal,” Pilkington said. “We
didn’t think they were in it too much and it’s made the second
half difficult. But we’ve shown how strong we are again.”  Norwich held on for a fourth straight home victory.  Two days ago, Chelsea lost 3-1 at West Ham, Tottenham
defeated Fulham 3-0, and West Bromwich Albion was beaten 1-0 by
Stoke.  Last-place Queens Park Rangers tied 1-1 against  Aston
Villa , Liverpool beat Southampton 1-0, and Arsenal suffered a 2-
0 defeat at home against Swansea. Newcastle hosts Wigan in
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 