-- Northern Illinois Makes BCS; Notre Dame Plays Alabama for Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-03T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/notre-dame-alabama-to-play-for-college-football-s-championship.html
Northern Illinois University made
Bowl Championship Series history by earning a spot in the Orange
Bowl, while the universities of  Notre Dame  and  Alabama  will play
for college football’s national title.  Notre Dame (12-0) and Alabama (12-1) finished as the top
two teams in the final BCS standings released last night and
will play for the championship Jan. 7 in Miami.  The other four BCS bowl matchups also were determined, with
Northern Illinois becoming the first team from a conference
without an automatic qualifier berth to get in one of the
sport’s biggest postseason games without going undefeated. The
Huskies (12-1) won the Mid-American Conference championship and
will face Florida State (11-2), the Atlantic Coast Conference
champion, in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 1 in Miami after finishing
15th in the final BCS standings.  “It’s a dream come true,” said NIU junior quarterback
Jordan Lynch, who leads the nation with 1,771 yards rushing and
4,733 yards of total offense. “We’re hungry and we can’t wait
to play. We’re going to play our hearts out.”  The University of  Florida  (11-1) finished third in the BCS
standings and will meet Big East Conference champion Louisville
(10-2), ranked 21st, in the Jan. 2 Sugar Bowl.  Fourth-ranked Oregon (11-1) will face No. 5 Kansas State
(11-1) in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 3, while sixth-ranked Stanford
(11-2), the Pacific-12 champion, plays Big Ten winner  Wisconsin 
(8-5) in the Rose Bowl on New Year’s Day.  By climbing six spots in the final BCS rankings and into
the top 16, Northern Illinois earned an automatic spot in a BCS
game because the Huskies were ranked ahead of the Big Ten and
Big East champions. Northern Illinois’s lone loss this season
was an 18-17 setback against  Iowa , which went 4-8 and tied for
last place in the Big Ten’s Legends Division.  Huskies Questioned  ESPN college football analyst Kirk Herbstreit questioned
the Huskies’ candidacy, saying they don’t measure up with the
seven undefeated teams from outside the major conferences that
previously have played in BCS bowl games.  “You have to be a team that stands out,” Herbstreit, a
former quarterback at Ohio State, said on the network. “What
has Northern Illinois done this year to make you say, ‘Remember
2012?’ The quarterback had a great year and I love MAC football,
but to put them in the BCS is an absolute joke to the rest of
these teams who are more deserving.”  Rules allow a maximum of two teams per conference to
participate in the BCS bowls. With Alabama and Florida already
representing the  Southeastern Conference , seventh-ranked  Georgia 
(11-2), No. 8 Louisiana State (10-2), No. 9  Texas A&M  (10-2) and
No. 10  South Carolina  (10-2) were automatically excluded from
BCS consideration.  Oklahoma Out  The biggest loser in Northern Illinois making the BCS mix
may have been the University of  Oklahoma , which went 10-2 and
claimed a share of the Big 12 title while only losing to Notre
Dame and Kansas State. The Sooners will instead play in the
Cotton Bowl on Jan. 4 in Arlington,  Texas , against Texas A&M.  “It was a matter of Northern Illinois meeting the
threshold by their performance all season,” BCS executive
director Bill Hancock said on a conference call.  The BCS title game will match two of the sport’s most
acclaimed programs, with Notre Dame and Alabama combining for
1,691 wins and each winning eight Associated Press national
championships in the past 70 years. Alabama will be seeking its
third BCS crown in four seasons, while Notre Dame is playing for
the national title for the first time since 1988.  The popularity of the two teams may lead to a worldwide
betting handle of more than $2 billion on the BCS championship
game, Las Vegas oddsmakers have estimated.  Irish Invasion  “Alabama and all their fans will be in Miami and Notre
Dame will invade as well,” Notre Dame coach  Brian Kelly  said on
a media conference call. “It will be great for college football
to have both teams.”  Alabama, whose lone blemish this season was a 29-24 loss to
Texas A&M, opened as an 8 1/2-point favorite. The Crimson Tide
captured last year’s BCS championship with a 21-0 victory
against  Louisiana State University .  Notre Dame and Alabama have met twice before in bowl games.
The national championship was at stake in their December 1973
Sugar Bowl showdown, when coach Ara Parseghian’s Notre Dame
squad won 24-23 against an Alabama team coached by Paul “Bear”
Bryant. The schools met again the following postseason, in
January 1975, with Notre Dame defeating Alabama 13-11 in the
Orange Bowl.  “We have a special respect for Notre Dame, all that
they’ve done and all the tradition they have,” Alabama coach
Nick Saban said. “This is a really good team, a great matchup
and a little bit of old-fashioned football.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  