-- Nudist Artist Loses Out as Turner Goes to Elizabeth Price
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-12-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/nudist-artist-loses-out-as-turner-goes-to-elizabeth-price.html
The  Turner Prize , the U.K.’s top
visual-arts award, last night went to  Elizabeth Price , whose
films splice together footage of such unrelated topics as 1960s
girl bands and a fire in a furniture stockroom.  Price, the surprise winner, defeated  Spartacus Chetwynd , a
nudist performance artist who uses puppets, costumes and props
to stage playful rituals. She also beat Paul Noble, whose
meticulous pencil drawings are dotted with letters of the
alphabet and with excrement.  The winner, a 46-year-old blonde wearing black chiffon,
collected her prize from actor Jude Law in a televised ceremony.
They each made a scathing attack on U.K. government plans to
switch to the new English Baccalaureate qualification, or EBacc,
which doesn’t include the arts in its curriculum.  Law said the U.K. was living through a moment when “fewer
and fewer schools will provide learning opportunities in the
arts, thanks to an act of government cultural vandalism.”  Price recounted her own childhood at a state-funded
comprehensive school in Luton, north of  London . She said it was
unbearable that others should be denied the chance.  “The idea of young people not making art is a really,
incredibly depressing idea,” she said. “We’ll end up with an
art that only speaks about a very narrow area of experience.”  Chetwynd, who once inhabited a nudist colony and was the
most eccentric of the four contestants, learned of her defeat
sitting on a black leather sofa near the podium. She was flanked
by her performers, who wore plastic bags and face paint.  Fishnet Top  Chetwynd herself sported a fishnet top with a matching
brassiere. She held her bewildered-looking newborn baby, who
squealed when his mom’s name was read out from the shortlist.  The fourth and final contender was video artist Luke
Fowler, who for the Tate Britain exhibition that accompanied the
prize giving, showed a 93-minute movie on the life of the late
Scottish psychiatrist R.D. Laing.  The jury said they “admired the seductive and immersive
qualities of Price’s trilogy of video installations” and her
merging of genres: “from archival footage and popular music
videos to advertising strategies.”  The Turner Prize is given to “a British artist under 50
for an outstanding exhibition or other presentation of their
work in the 12 months preceding April 24, 2012.” The prize
money is 25,000 pounds ($40,260) for the winner and 5,000 pounds
each for the other three shortlisted.  This year’s jury, steered by Tate Britain Director Penelope Curtis, lost one of its five members when Michael Stanley,
director of Modern Art Oxford, died last September. He was not
replaced.  Masked Stuckists  Picketing the awards ceremony, as they do every year, were
a handful of masked artists known as the  Stuckists , who favor
figurative painting and excoriate the conceptual art that, they
say, is championed by Tate.  “Elizabeth Price is a wannabe documentary maker who has a
place on late night TV, when no one’s watching,” said the
movement’s co-founder Charles Thomson in a release e-mailed
before the winner announcement. He made equally disparaging
remarks about the other three contestants.  Created in 1984 to recognize the U.K.’s up-and-coming
contemporary artists, the Turner Prize often perplexes public
and press. In 2001, it went to Martin Creed, whose body of work
included a gallery light switch that went on and off at five-
second intervals.  Other winners include Damien Hirst, Grayson Perry, and Mark Wallinger, who in 2007 won the prize for his recreation of a
real-life Iraq war protest by Brian Haw in London’s Parliament
Square.  Price was commissioned to do a video work for the Bloomberg 
SPACE in London's Finsbury Square this year. The work was shown 
from June to August and is now being considered by the Tate for 
its permanent collection.  Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/britain/turnerprize/ .  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Richard Vines  on food,  Hephzibah Anderson  on books,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at   farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 