-- Obama Says U.S. Must Maintain Arms-Reduction Effort With Russia
-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2012-12-03T22:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/obama-says-u-s-must-maintain-arms-reduction-effort-with-russia.html
President  Barack Obama  appealed to
Russian leaders to maintain joint efforts aimed at ensuring that
nuclear material doesn’t fall into the hands of terrorists.  At an event to mark the 20th anniversary of a program set
up with the goal of securing and dismantling nuclear weapons and
materials left in former Soviet republics, Obama said the threat
of unsecured weapons material hasn’t receded.  “Nuclear terrorism remains one of the greatest threats to
global security,” the president said in remarks to the Nunn-
Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction symposium at the National
Defense University in  Washington . “Let’s work with Russia as an
equal partner.”  The program was initiated under a 1992 law sponsored by
former Georgia Senator Sam Nunn, a Democrat, and Indiana Senator
Richard Lugar, a Republican, who Obama hailed as “two
visionaries.”  The law led to the deactivation of 7,610 nuclear warheads
and the elimination of all nuclear weapons from Ukraine,
Kazakhstan and  Belarus , according to Lugar’s website.  Russia in October said it won’t renew its participation in
the program, which provided financing, mostly from the U.S., to
disarm and safeguard nuclear and chemical weapons in the former
Soviet Union. Russia wants to take more control over securing
its nuclear arsenal. The agreement is scheduled to expire next
May.  Russian President Vladimir Putin has disagreed with Obama
over U.S. plans to put part of a missile-defense system in
Eastern Europe. The U.S. has said it is aimed at thwarting
attacks from rogue states such as  Iran . Russia contends it would
alter the strategic balance.  The arms-reduction program had a budget of $508 million in
fiscal 2012, and the Obama administration asked for $519 million
for this fiscal year. The program has expanded beyond the former
Soviet Union to include countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan,
Pakistan and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  