-- Olam’s Lightning Lawsuit Helps in Bid to Win Investors
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-12-03T12:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/olam-s-lightning-lawsuit-helps-in-bid-to-win-investors.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , whose shares
have fallen 9.5 percent since short seller Carson Block said it
might fail, sued him for defamation two days later. He responded
with a 133-page report that called the commodity trader an
emperor with no clothes.  “The fight’s not just in the courtroom, which may take a
long time to play out,” said Nicholas Hanna, a lawyer at Watson
Farley & Williams LLP in  Singapore . “The immediate fight is who
wins over the market.”  Olam has replied more aggressively to Block and his Los
Angeles-based research firm  Muddy Waters  than their previous
targets. Besides the lawsuit, the Singapore-based company has
rebutted allegations of accounting flaws in a 45-page response
and held several meetings with investors, analysts and the
media. Its shares have regained ground after falling 21 percent
in U.S. trading the day of Block’s first comments.  “The frustrating thing in this whole exercise is that when
you throw so much mud, something will stick,” Olam’s Chief
Executive Officer Sunny Verghese, who bought 1 million Olam
shares on Nov. 30, said in an interview.  The company will offer $750 million in bonds and as much as
$500 million in warrants to existing shareholders in a bid to
reassure investors, it said today in a statement after halting
its stock. Its second-biggest shareholder, Singapore’s state-
owned investment company Temasek Holdings Pte., has agreed to
buy any rights not taken up by other shareholders, Olam said.  ‘Lingering Doubts’  The transaction will be aimed mainly at repaying borrowings
and will address any “lingering doubts” about Olam’s
liquidity, CEO Verghese said at a press conference in Singapore.  Block, a 36-year-old former lawyer, first said on Nov. 19
that he was selling Olam shares short -- borrowing them to
profit by buying them at a lower price later. He told Bloomberg
Television on Nov. 27, after issuing his report on the world’s
second-largest rice trader, that  Muddy Waters  prepares to
litigate all its reports.  “If we have to defend it in court, then we’ll defend it in
court,” Block said. “It’s the nature of the game.”  Verghese, 53, said Nov. 28 that Olam will take all legal
steps to get redress, noting that might require getting hold of
 hedge funds  he believes are behind Block and Muddy Waters.  Muddy Waters  said  two days later that it’s not working in
concert with a group of hedge funds and demanded that Verghese
retract and apologize for comments it said were defamatory.  Block’s Comments  Block’s first comments against Olam at a conference in
 London  were slanderous, libelous and malicious falsehoods, Olam
said in a lawsuit filed Nov. 21 at Singapore’s High Court.  Even serving the lawsuit on Block and Muddy Waters will
take time as they aren’t in Singapore, and should Olam
eventually win its case, enforcing a judgment in the U.S. will
be difficult because of its free-speech protection laws,
according to  David Tan , an associate professor at the  National
University  of Singapore’s law faculty.  Defamation and malicious falsehood complaints by companies
in Singapore have succeeded before, with Judge Andrew Ang noting
in a 2008 ruling that defendants have to respond with precision
even to an ambiguous claim.  In the case brought by WBG Network (Singapore) Pte against
rival health products seller Meridian Life International Pte,
Ang found that Meridian’s defense of fair comment failed because
its statement wasn’t based on fact.  Silvercorp Metals  Defamation cases against short sellers in the U.S. have had
less success. In state court in  New York  in August,  Silvercorp
Metals Inc. (SVM)  lost its lawsuit against two websites that accused
it of potentially committing accounting fraud.  The Chinese silver miner, which claimed it was subject to
false, defamatory statements as part of a scheme to drive down
its stock, is appealing Justice Carol Edmead’s decision to
dismiss the complaint as the statements were “constitutionally
protected opinion.”  Muddy Waters, by issuing such a long and detailed report,
is either prepared for a hard-fought battle or feels that they
are beyond reach, according to  Gideon Benaim , a reputation
protection lawyer at Michael Simkins LLP in London.  People sue for defamation more to vindicate their
reputation in the court of public opinion than for money, he
said.  “Whether Olam can recover costs or damages may be of
little significance to them,” said Benaim.  Sino-Forest  Olam has sued Block and Muddy Waters much faster than
previous targets such as Sino-Forest Corp., the Chinese timber
company that slumped 74 percent before eventually filing for
 bankruptcy protection  in March.  Sino-Forest, which rebutted fraud allegations, didn’t sue
for defamation until nine months after Muddy Waters first made
them, at the same time it filed for bankruptcy. Block had said
the lawsuit was without merit.  Other companies Block has bet against and reported on
including  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  and New Oriental Education &
Technology Group have seen their shares recover. Olam is the
first company Muddy Waters has issued a report on since  New
Oriental (EDU) , and isn’t China-focused like earlier targets.  Block says he’s no longer interested in betting against
Chinese stocks because he thinks the government is protecting
fraudulent companies.  Olam’s shares climbed 4 percent on Nov. 29 after Temasek
said it has maintained its position in the company and Verghese
told journalists and analysts that it had more than S$10 billion
($8.2 billion) of liquidity and its customers are supportive.
The stock rose 1 percent to close at S$1.575 on Nov. 30.  Olam’s Bonds  Olam’s 5.75 percent bonds due September 2017 were quoted at
85.7 cents on the dollar today, the first increase since Nov.
21, according to Bloomberg prices.  Thirteen out of 20 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend
investors buy Olam shares. Five have hold ratings while two
including Religare Capital Market’s Vincent Fernando advise
shareholders to sell their stock.  Fernando, who cut his rating from buy on Nov. 28, said it
would be hard for Olam to fully disprove concerns until it can
show positive free  cash flow . Other analysts including UOB Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd.’s Eugene Ng mostly dismissed Block’s
statements.  “The difficulty for any company embroiled in such
allegations is that even if the company is ultimately proven
right, the damage has been done,” said Gareth Hughes, Hong
Kong-based Asia head of dispute resolution at Ashurst LLP.  Block, named one of 50 most influential people in finance
by Bloomberg Markets in 2011, also has his credibility at stake.  Verghese impugned Muddy Waters’ integrity by repeatedly
calling them manipulators and his comments went beyond the right
to free speech, the research firm said on Nov. 30.  “Particularly given that Olam was apparently lightning
quick to file its own defamation suit against us,” Muddy Waters
said. “We reserve the right to take appropriate legal action.”  The case is Olam International Ltd. v Muddy Waters LLC,
 Carson Block . S987/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  