-- London House Prices Fall Amid Tax Levy Concerns, Hometrack Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-12-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/london-house-prices-fall-amid-tax-levy-concerns-hometrack-says.html
London house prices fell in November
for the first time in a year as the prospect of a new tax on the
most-expensive homes deterred buyers, Hometrack Ltd. said.  Prices in the capital fell 0.2 percent from October,
dragged down by a 1.2 percent drop in central London, the
property researcher said in a statement today. Values in England
and  Wales  declined 0.1 percent. A separate report by the
 Engineering Employers’ Federation  showed a measure of
manufacturing output slid to a three-year low in the fourth
quarter.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne may confirm in
his autumn statement on Dec. 5 that he is introducing levies on
homes valued at 2 million pounds ($3.2 million) or more. The
Treasury has been consulting on proposals announced in the March
budget to levy an annual charge of as much as 140,000 pounds on
properties owned by offshore companies and to charge capital-
gains tax on the sale of luxury homes by non-residents who
aren’t naturalized.  “Fears of an announcement in the forthcoming autumn budget
statement of a possible annual charge on high-value homes” are
weighing on  London  house prices, Richard Donnell, director of
research at Hometrack, said in the statement. The report points
to “a continued slowing of the housing market.”  Business Secretary Vince Cable said Nov. 18 that his
Liberal Democrat party and its Conservative coalition partners
were close to an agreement on taxing the wealthy and that a levy
on expensive properties is the “obvious” place to look for
revenue. Another option is for the government to increase stamp
duty on home purchases after the Tories rejected calls for a
one-time “mansion tax” or a new local-authority tax band,
analysts say.  Price Declines  Home prices in England and Wales have fallen in each of the
past five months, leaving them 0.3 percent lower than a year
earlier, Hometrack said.  In the rental market, 59 percent of tenants said that while
they’d like to buy, they’re unable to afford a new home,
according to a survey by property website operator Rightmove Plc
published today. It said 61 percent of landlords plan a rent
freeze over the next 12 months, and increases will slow to about
2 percent from the 4.5 percent average of the last three years.  Osborne should take steps to help first-time buyers and
invest 14 billion pounds in infrastructure projects to stoke the
recovery, Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club said in a statement today.  First-Time Buyers  For the housing market, “an easy and relatively cheap
solution to get things moving again would be to reinstate the
stamp-duty holiday for first-time buyers, or even abolish it
altogether,” said Andrew Goodwin, senior economic advisor to
the ITEM Club. An exemption on purchases of homes costing less
than 250,000 pounds expired in March and the limit now stands at
125,000 pounds.  Construction projects needed are those “for which all of
the planning and logistics have already been completed, and
where all that is missing is the funding to put the shovel in
the ground” in areas such as transportation and hospitals,
Goodwin said.  Osborne’s statement comes amid signs the U.K.’s recovery
from recession is struggling to gain traction. Services shrank
0.5 percent in September from the previous month, while retail
sales dropped 0.8 percent in October and jobless claims rose at
the fastest pace in more than a year.  Still, a Lloyds Bank survey published today showed its
measure of business expectations for trading prospects rose 9
points to 35. A gauge of perceptions on the wider economy held
at 17.  The EEF’s index of total output fell to zero in the fourth
quarter from 4 in the third quarter, its report said. A measure
of new orders was negative for a second quarter, at minus 4, and
a gauge of export new orders dropped to minus 8. The EEF
surveyed 391 companies between Nov. 2 and Nov. 23.  Uncertain Prospects  “In the short-term, growth prospects for manufacturing as
a whole continue to look uncertain,” with the sector set to
contract 1.2 percent this year and grow 0.7 percent in 2013, a
cut from its previous forecasts, the report said. The turmoil in
the euro region, Britain’s biggest export market, has acted as a
drag on manufacturing growth.  “We’ve seen growth ebb away during the course of the year
and many manufacturers are steeling themselves for a
continuation of tough trading conditions in the next few
quarters,” EEF Chief Executive Officer Terry Scuoler said in a
statement. “This week the chancellor must send a strong signal
to industry that it is getting a firm grip on the levers of
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  