-- London Black-Cab Crisis Opens Road to Mercedes Minivans
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-12-03T13:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/london-black-cab-crisis-opens-road-to-mercedes-minivans.html
London ’s black taxis, built to the
same design for 54 years, are following red phone boxes and
Routemaster buses toward extinction as their manufacturer fights
bankruptcy. Some cabbies say rival models don’t measure up.  Manganese Bronze Holdings Plc, which has made taxis in
Coventry,  England , since 1948, entered administration last month
after a Chinese tie-up failed to yield savings needed to secure
the future and 400 of its cabs, called TX4s, were recalled with
steering faults.  Ready to take over the market are the Mercedes-Benz Vito
and  Nissan Motor Co (7201) ’s NV200. Based on commercial vans, the
models could end five decades in which the Manganese silhouette
has become known to millions from films, books, postcards and a
star turn in the 2012 Olympics.  “That isn’t a London cab and never will be,” Michael
Beere, a  taxi driver  for 14 years, said on a rank outside the
Liverpool Street railway station while stabbing a finger at
silver Vito. “It’s a people-carrier.”  London has almost 23,000 licensed taxis -- those that can
legally be hailed in the street. About 1,400 new ones are
registered each year, according to Manganese Bronze, a market
worth about 50 million pounds ($80 million) annually. The
company says it has supplied more than 100,000 of the taxis over
the past five decades.  Turning Circle  Known as hackney cabs from their origin as horse-drawn
coaches, their drivers must pass a four-year “Knowledge” test
to demonstrate an encyclopedic understanding of 25,000 streets
and 20,000 landmarks across the U.K. capital.  Regulations first developed by London’s Public Carriage
Office in 1906 and updated just a few times since require cabs
to have a 28-foot (8.5 meter) turning circle, 51 inches of
internal headroom, separate passenger and driver compartments
and a ramp for wheelchair access. The Manganese TX4 meets those
specifications. The only other car to do so is the Vito, sold as
a cab since 2008.  After assembly in Vitoria,  Spain , the Vito is shipped to
Coventry where a company called  Eco City Vehicles Plc (ECV)  makes
changes to meet London’s requirements. While only about 7
percent of London taxis are Vitos, the car’s share of new
registrations is higher.  The Vito captured 23 percent of sales last year, or 355
versus 1,074 for the TX4. In the first half of 2012, the Vito’s
share jumped to 38 percent of the market, or 324 taxis. That
boosted Evo’s revenue to 16.4 million pounds for the period.  “Manganese Bronze has traded on the idea of being an icon
for a long time,” said Chief Executive Officer Peter DaCosta.
“I don’t believe the icon is the cab. It’s the cab driver.”  Nissan Challenge  Next year, Nissan will introduce a  modified version  of the
NV200 that meets London’s licensing rules and includes cab-
friendly modifications such as extra-durable interiors.  Nissan says drivers will prefer the NV200 because it
achieves the 28-foot turning circle required of a London cab
with a standard front-wheel steering system. The Vito, by
contrast, reaches the tight radius with rear wheels that also
turn when the car is moving slowly. Nissan could also benefit
from having supplied engines to the final version of the fabled
FX4, which Manganese Bronze built for 39 years until 1997.  “We’ve got ambitious plans to be a very prominent
player,” said David Jackson, who heads the NV200 cab program.
The troubles faced by Manganese, he said, could spur Nissan to
accelerate introduction of the cab, currently scheduled for the
second half of next year.  Electric Drive  Nissan also plans to use taxi sales as a springboard for
electric technology on which it has spent 4 billion euros ($5
billion) with partner  Renault SA. (RNO)  A battery-powered NV200 may
enter production in Spain by 2014, boosting London Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s plan to make the city’s cabs  all-electric  by 2020.  Manganese Bronze is fighting for survival after going into
administration -- a form of creditor protection -- on Oct. 30
after the discovery of defects in steering boxes provided by
Chinese supplier Gangyang.  Another Chinese company,  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) ,
has a 20 percent stake in Manganese following a 2006 joint-
venture deal under which the U.K. company buys China-made
components and body parts for assembly in Coventry. The Chinese
partner is allowed to build cabs for sale across  Asia .  The steering problems led to a recall and production
freeze, cutting off  cash flow . More than 150 jobs have since
been cut from a workforce of 274 and Manganese’s stock has been
suspended since Oct. 11 after dropping 69 percent for the year.  Olympic Spotlight  The latest crisis follows a succession of shocks including
a 4,400-car recall after engine fires in 12 TX4s, threatening to
overwhelm a company that hasn’t posted a profit since 2007. The
business suffered a pretax loss of 3.6 million pounds in the
first half of 2012 as revenue dropped 11 percent.  “These problems arose because Manganese is an old-style
manufacturer,” said Steve McNamara, general secretary of the
Licensed Taxi Drivers Association. “They’re building a cab in a
shed really and just don’t have enough resources or money.”  Still, toppling Manganese remains difficult, given the
loyalty of many cabbies to a brand so familiar and enduring that
it was chosen to take center stage at the closing ceremony of
the 2012  Olympic Games , when the Spice Girls performed on top of
five TX4s.  Fault Solved  “I’ve looked at the Nissan and Mercedes and the trouble is
they are converted models,” said John Dixon, 63, a cab driver
for 26 years. “A London taxi shouldn’t be an everyday car. In a
Vito you are just the same as everyone else.”  Manganese Bronze’s survival prospects were boosted on Nov.
15 when the company said it had solved the steering fault and
that recalled cabs would be back on the road by mid-December.  Administrator Matthew Hammond, a partner at accountants
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Birmingham, said some potential
purchasers have come forward, lured by a global reach that last
year saw  Azerbaijan  order 1,000 taxis to be built in  China .  A short period in administration will provide a fresh
start, and in London some cabbies are unlikely ever to accept
alternatives to a vehicle they view as a professional
“qualification” setting them apart from the crowd, Hammond said.  “They have a different view of themselves in a black cab
than in a van,” he said. “I’m hopeful that investors will take
the company forward so it can continue to make cabs for this and
the next generation of drivers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  