-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Near Two-Week High; Bulls Boost Bets
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k
-- 2012-12-03T12:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/top-oil-market-news-crude-near-two-week-high-bulls-boost-bets.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Crude Trades Near Two-Week High as China Manufacturing Improves  Crude traded close to the highest level in almost two weeks
in New York as China’s official manufacturing index rose to a
seven-month high, signaling economic recovery in the world’s
second-biggest crude consumer.  TOP MARKETS STORIES  Oil Bulls Boost Bets as U.S. Economy Strengthens: Energy Markets  Hedge funds raised bullish oil bets for a second week as
U.S. stockpiles fell to the lowest level in a month and the
country’s economy showed signs of strengthening.  Hedge Funds Raised ICE Brent Oil Net-Long Futures and Options  Hedge funds and other money managers raised bullish bets on
Brent crude by 11,016 contracts in the week ended Nov. 27,
according to data from ICE Futures  Europe .  Lebanon to Allow Oil and Gas Exploration to Lighten Debt Burden  Lebanon plans to open its offshore territory to oil and
natural-gas exploration next year as the most indebted state in
the Arab world seeks to alleviate its fiscal burden.  OPEC Comments Signal Unchanged Quotas at Vienna Meeting (Table)  Most OPEC ministers and officials say the oil market is
balanced, signaling little desire to alter output targets when
they meet next month in Vienna.  REFINERIES
Map global refinery outages  Con Edison Shuts Gas Pipe at Scarsdale Plant: NRC Filing  Consolidate Edison Inc. shut down a natural gas
transmission mainline in Scarsdale, New York, citing the
potential for a leak, according to a filing with the National
Response Center.  CVR Energy Has Emissions at Coffeyville Refinery, Filing Shows  CVR Energy Inc. released sulfur dioxide at its refinery in
Coffeyville, Kansas, during maintenance, according to a filing
with the National Response Center. The release at 6:13 p.m.
local time yesterday wasn’t secured and is being investigated,
the filing showed.  Citgo Has Emissions at Lemont Plant in  Illinois : NRC Filing  Citgo discharged sulfur dioxide from its flare stack
because of an upset at a unit in Lemont, Illinois, according to
a filing with the National Response Center.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Iraq’s Kurds to Raise Oil Output to 250,000 B/D in 2013: Barzani  Kurdish northern region to produce 1m b/d in 2015,
Nechirvan Idris Barzani, the Kurdistan Regional Government Prime
Minister, said at a conference in Erbil in northern Iraq today.  Urals Crude Supported by Drop in Primorsk Exports, JBC Says  Tighter export program could support differentials on the
European sour crude market in the coming weeks, JBC Energy says
in e-mailed note.  Iraq to Ship 23 Basrah Light Oil Cargoes First Half of December  Iraq  will ship 23 cargoes of Basrah Light crude from the
Persian Gulf in the first half of December, a loading program
obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  Dubai Oil Timespreads at Lowest Level in Six Weeks: Asia Crude  Middle East oil timespreads, the price difference for
prompt supplies compared with later deliveries, are trading at
the lowest in six weeks.  Asia Jet Fuel Slumps to Discount; Shell Sells: Oil Products  Asia’s jet fuel regrade dropped to the first discount
compared with gasoil since January, signaling it is unprofitable
to make aviation fuel over diesel. Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold
gasoline, jet fuel and fuel-oil cargoes.  Indian Oil Issues Tender to Buy Crude for Loading in February  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, issued a
tender to buy crude for loading in February, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Woodside to Pay Up to $2.3 Billion for Israel Natural Gas Stake  Woodside Petroleum Ltd., operator of Australia’s Pluto
liquefied natural gas project, will pay as much as $2.3 billion
for a stake in Israel’s largest natural gas field to partners
including Noble Energy Inc.  Fossil-Fuel Subsidies of Rich Nations Five Times Climate Aid (2)  Rich countries spend five times more on fossil-fuel
subsidies than on aid to help developing nations cut their
emissions and protect against the effects of climate change, the
Oil Change International campaign group said.  China Plans to Import More Than 35% of Natural Gas Needs by 2015  China  may rely on imports for more than 35 percent of its
natural gas supplies by 2015, up from 15 percent in 2010,
according to estimates by the National Energy Administration
from the nation’s five-year plan.  Diamonds Dug in Gusty Arctic Too Remote for Diesel Fuel: Energy  The four windmills dug into northern  Canada ’s tundra that
power Rio Tinto Group’s $5.2 billion Diavik diamond mine are the
world’s first designed to work in gusts as cold as 40 degrees
below zero.  Shepherd Energy Hedge Fund Halts Oil Trading to Focus on Power  Shepherd Energy AB, a Swedish investment company that
manages a hedge fund specialized in energy, plans to stop oil
and emissions trading to focus on Nordic power.  BP ‘Confident’  Oman  Khazzan Tight-Gas Project to Proceed in 2013  BP Plc is “very confident” it will reach an agreement to
develop its Khazzan tight-gas project in Oman and expects to
reach a “declaration of commerciality” next year, BP’s
regional president for the Middle East said.  OTHER MARKETS  Equities Advance on China Data; Dollar Weakens on Debt Stalemate  European stocks reached a 17-month high and commodities
gained after Chinese manufacturing data added to signs of
economic recovery. The dollar slid to a six-week low versus the
euro as U.S. debt talks remained deadlocked.  Hedge Funds Increase Bullish Bets Most Since August: Commodities  Hedge funds increased bullish bets on commodities by the
most since August as evidence that China is accelerating
outweighed concern that U.S. lawmakers have yet to resolve an
impasse over automatic spending cuts and tax rises.  N. Korean Rocket Plans Proceed as Japan Warns Against Launch (1)  North Korea is proceeding with plans to test a long-range
rocket this month in defiance of international condemnation that
included Japanese warnings to shoot it down if necessary.  Obama Counts on Re-Election Clout to Win Fiscal Cliff Stalemate  President  Barack Obama ’s stance on the so-called fiscal
cliff talks is a bet that his re-election gave him the political
clout to force Republicans to accept higher taxes on upper-
income Americans as a step toward reducing the deficit.  Clinton Warns  Syria  Chemical Arms Use Would Cross Red Line (1)  The U.S. will take action if it sees evidence that Syria’s
government is using chemical weapons against the opposition,
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said.  SPORTS  Jets Win Behind McElroy While Broncos, Pats Clinch NFL Divisions  Third-string quarterback Greg McElroy led the New York Jets
to a 7-6 win against the  Arizona  Cardinals yesterday after Mark
Sanchez was benched, while the Denver Broncos and New England
Patriots both won to clinch National Football League division
titles.  Chiefs Overcome Misery to Win Day After NFL Teammate’s Slayings  The  Kansas  City Chiefs overcame “our misery for a few
hours” with a victory at their stadium where teammate Jovan
Belcher killed himself a day earlier.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch  Contract  ----   ----  ----   ----  --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       88.97  +0.06  +0.1  Nymex      Jan.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.36  +0.13  +0.1    ICE undefined
Gasoil ($/Ton)         953.75  +0.75  +0.1    ICE      Jan.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       273.92  +0.89  +0.3  Nymex      Jan.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.59  +0.03  +0.9  Nymex      Jan.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.22  -0.79  -0.7    OTC   21 Days
Heating Oil            306.54  +0.47  +0.2  Nymex      Jan.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.00  -0.2
Gold ($/Oz)          1,712.70  -1.0
MSCI World Index     1,318.97  +0.3  Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  