-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Rises on Stronger China Manufacturing
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-12-03T07:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/top-oil-market-news-crude-rises-on-stronger-china-manufacturing.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Advances to Two-Week High as China Manufacturing Strengthens  Oil rose to the highest price in almost two weeks in New
York as the strongest Chinese- manufacturing reading in seven
months signaled an economic recovery in the world’s second-
biggest crude consumer.  Oil Bulls Boost Bets as U.S. Economy Strengthens: Energy Markets  Hedge funds raised bullish oil bets for a second week as
U.S. stockpiles fell to the lowest level in a month and the
country’s economy showed signs of strengthening.  TonenGeneral Said to Shut Kawasaki Oil Refinery Crude Unit  Co. shut one of three crude distillation units at its
335,000 barrel-a-day Kawasaki refinery on Nov. 29 after a
malfunction in a fluid catalytic cracker, according to two
people with knowledge of operations who asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  Husky Energy Reaches Tentative Deal With Lima Refinery Union (3)  Husky Energy Inc. reached a tentative contract agreement
with workers that would end six months of labor strife at its
Lima, Ohio, oil refinery.  China October Refinery Output Grew For 4th Month, Xinhua Says  Oct. refinery throughput grew 6.7% y- o-y to 39.9 million
tons, Xinhua reports citing National Development and Reform
Commission data.  South Korea ’s November Crude Oil Imports Rise as Prices Increase  South Korea, the world’s fifth- largest oil importer,
purchased 11 percent more crude in November compared with a year
ago as prices increased.  Formosa Petrochemical Plans Mailiao CDU, Cracker Maintenance  Co. tentatively plans to halt No. 1 CDU, No. 2 RDS, No. 2
RFCC in March for regular maintenance, president Tsao Mihn says
by phone  Chevron Says Brazil Ban Lifted, Is Working to Resume Output  Chevron Corp., the second-biggest U.S. oil company, said
it’s working to resume oil production at a project off the coast
of  Brazil  after a court dismissed a ban on operations.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Con Edison Shuts Gas Pipe at Scarsdale Plant: NRC Filing  Consolidate Edison Inc. shut down a natural gas
transmission mainline in Scarsdale, New York, citing the
potential for a leak, according to a filing with the National
Response Center.  CVR Energy Has Emissions at Coffeyville Refinery, Filing Shows  CVR Energy Inc. released sulfur dioxide at its refinery in
Coffeyville,  Kansas , during maintenance, according to a filing
with the National Response Center. The release at 6:13 p.m.
local time yesterday wasn’t secured and is being investigated,
the filing showed.  Citgo Has Emissions at Lemont Plant in  Illinois : NRC Filing  Citgo discharged sulfur dioxide from its flare stack
because of an upset at a unit in Lemont, Illinois, according to
a filing with the National Response Center.  Western Refining at Five-Year High on Oil Discount: Dallas Mover  Western Refining Inc., the owner of refineries in Texas and
 New Mexico , rose to the highest in five years as oil produced in
Midland, Texas, continued to sell at a record discount to the
U.S. benchmark.  Texas Oils Weaken as Phillips 66 Works to Start Borger Refinery  Texas oils declined as Phillips 66’s refinery at Borger,
Texas, remained shut for maintenance longer than expected,
cutting demand for crude.  Phillips 66 Borger Said to Be Starting Units After Maintenance  Phillips 66’s Borger refinery in Texas is restarting
process units after finishing maintenance and should be
producing fuel at full capacity in about a week, a person
familiar with operations said.  Western Refining at Five-Year High on Oil Discount: Dallas Mover  Western Refining Inc., the owner of refineries in Texas and
New Mexico, rose to the highest point in nearly five years as
oil produced in Midland, Texas continued to sell at a record
discount to the U.S. benchmark.  Motiva Port Arthur Crude Unit Said to Receive Oil in 10 Days  Motiva Enterprises LLC may put oil into the 325,000-barrel-
a-day crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery in the next
10 days after finishing integrity testing, a person familiar
with operations at the refinery said.  Az-Zawiya Refinery Resumes Operations Today, Libya Radio Says  Az-Zawiya oil refinery resumed operations after a two-day
halt when protesters prevented fuel trucks from leaving the site
near Tripoli, a state-run radio station reported.  Shell Restarting Unit at Alberta Scotford Oil Upgrader Facility  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. restarted a unit at its Scotford oil
upgrader facility in  Alberta , the company said in a message left
on a community hotline.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 1.8 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
 Japan  rose 1.8 percent to 11.28 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  N. Korea Proceeds With Rocket Plans as Japan Warns Against Test  North Korea  is proceeding with plans to test a long-range
rocket this month in defiance of international condemnation that
included Japanese warnings to shoot it down if necessary.  Analyzing Crude Futures as Brent Trading Overtakes WTI  Brent crude may overtake West Texas Intermediate oil as the
most-traded commodity because of its benchmark status for global
energy prices,  Bloomberg News  reported. Bloomberg tools show how
the number of traded contracts for North Sea oil has jumped
while its U.S. counterpart has declined.  U.S. Stocks Erase Drop Before Index Changes as Commodities Gain  U.S. stocks erased losses in the final 15 minutes as
investors bought shares before changes to MSCI Inc. indexes and
weighed developments in budget negotiations. Commodities rose.
Treasuries were little changed.  Fossil-Fuel Subsidies of Rich Nations Are Five Times Climate Aid  Rich countries spend five times more on fossil-fuel
subsidies than on aid to help developing nations cut their
emissions and protect against the effects of  climate change , the
campaign group Oil Change International said today.  Oil Caps First Monthly Gain Since August on Economic Optimism  Oil capped its first monthly increase since August on
signals that economic expansion in the U.S. is accelerating.  Woodside to Pay $696 Million for 30% Stake in Leviathan (1)  Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-largest gas
producer, agreed to pay an initial $696 million to secure a
stake in Israel’s largest natural gas field from partners
including Noble Energy Inc.  Macquarie Said to Pull Out of Bidding for Total’s TIGF Network  A group led by Macquarie Group Ltd. has pulled out of
bidding for Total SA’s French gas network, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  China Plans to Import More Than 35% of Natural Gas Needs by 2015  China  may rely on imports for more than 35 percent of its
natural gas supplies by 2015, up from 15 percent in 2010,
according to estimates by the National Energy Administration
from the nation’s five-year plan.  China Power-Station Coal Falls for Second Week as Supply Rises  China’s benchmark price for thermal coal fell for a second
week to the lowest since the end of September as inventories at
the port of Qinhuangdao increased.  Diamonds Dug in Gusty Arctic Too Remote for Diesel Fuel: Energy  The four windmills dug into northern Canada’s tundra that
power Rio Tinto Group’s $5.2 billion Diavik diamond mine are the
world’s first designed to work in gusts as cold as 40 degrees
below zero.  OTHER MARKETS  Commodities Gain With Asia Stocks on China Data; Dollar Weakens  Commodities rose to a six-week high and Asian stocks gained
after manufacturing data added to signs  China’s economy  is
recovering. The dollar slid to a six-week low versus the euro as
U.S. debt talks remained deadlocked.  Dollar Touches 6-Week Low Versus Euro on Fiscal Cliff Concerns  The dollar fell to a six-week low against the euro as
concern U.S. lawmakers won’t be able to avoid the so-called
fiscal cliff damped demand for the currency.  Yen Rally Signaled as Shorts Overshoot on Abe: Chart of the Day  Bets the Japanese yen will fall have climbed to record
levels that have historically been followed by rallies in the
currency, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Asian Stocks Swing From Gains, Losses on China Data, U.S. Budget  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses as Chinese
manufacturing data added to signs of recovery while U.S.
lawmakers continue to debate over a budget compromise to avert a
so-called fiscal cliff.  All Markets Gain for Second Time This Year on Recovery Signs (1)  For the second time this year, stocks, bonds, commodities
and the dollar posted monthly gains amid optimism central bank
stimulus programs are bolstering growth in the world’s biggest
economies.  Hedge Funds Increase Bullish Bets Most Since August: Commodities  Hedge funds increased bullish bets on commodities by the
most since August as evidence that China is accelerating
outweighed concern that U.S. lawmakers have yet to resolve an
impasse over automatic spending cuts and tax rises.  Gold Climbs as ETP Holdings Extend Gain to Record; Silver Rises  Gold rallied from its biggest weekly drop in more than five
months as investor holdings in exchange- traded products
advanced to a record and a decline in the dollar boosted demand.
Silver gained.  Vietnam  Says China Must Avoid Trade Weapon in Maritime Spat (1)  Vietnam said China should avoid using trade as a weapon in
maritime disagreements after diplomatic tensions led to a slump
in exports from Japan when Chinese consumers boycotted the goods
of its Asian neighbor.  Geithner Fight on Fiscal Cliff Invokes Pragmatism of Dodd-Frank  When U.S. senators were picking apart the Obama
administration’s plan for a stand-alone consumer- protection
bureau during negotiations on the financial-rules overhaul,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  agreed to put it under
the  Federal Reserve  to ensure that Republican lawmakers wouldn’t
kill it.  SPORTS  Accordia Golf Said to Approach Goldman Sachs to Counter PGM Bid  Accordia Golf Co., a Japanese golf course operator,
approached companies including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as
potential investors to counter an uninvited takeover bid, three
people with knowledge of the matter said.  McDowell Wins Tiger Woods’s World Challenge for Second Time  Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland won golf’s World
Challenge, an event hosted by  Tiger Woods , for the second time
in three years.  Napoli, Inter Win to Keep Pressure on Juventus; Real Betis Wins  Napoli and  Inter Milan  won yesterday in Italian soccer’s
Serie A to maintain the pressure on leader Juventus, while Real
Betis climbed to fourth in Spain’s La Liga.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch  Contract  ----   ----  ----   ----  --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       88.89  -0.02   0.0  Nymex      Jan.
 Brent Crude  ($/Bbl)    111.37  +0.14  +0.1    Ice undefined
Gasoil ($/Ton)         954.25  +1.25  +0.1    Ice      Jan.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       273.74  +0.71  +0.3  Nymex      Jan.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.61  +0.05  +1.3  Nymex      Jan.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.14  -0.87  -0.8    OTC   21 Days
Heating Oil            306.72  +0.65  +0.2  Nymex      Jan.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.02  -0.2
Gold ($/Oz)          1,712.70  -1.0
MSCI World Index     1,316.25  +0.1  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  