-- OPEC Comments Signal Unchanged Quotas at Vienna Meeting
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-12-03T09:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/opec-comments-signal-unchanged-quotas-at-vienna-meeting.html
Most OPEC ministers and officials say
the oil market is balanced, signaling little desire to alter
output targets when they meet next month in Vienna.  The following table is a compilation of recent comments
from officials in the 12 nations of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which supplies about 40 percent
of the world’s oil. The group is due to elect a new secretary-
general at the Dec. 12 meeting and may renew or change its
output ceiling of 30 million barrels a day, which was reaffirmed
in June without individual country quotas.  OPEC has pumped above that target all year, with total
crude output falling to 30.95 million barrels a day in October,
according to a Nov. 9 report by its secretariat that cited
secondary sources for the data. That’s still 1.25 million a day
more than the average amount that OPEC estimates is required of
it in 2013.  ALGERIA  The country is unlikely to ask for a cut in OPEC oil output
limits, Ali Hached, adviser to the energy and mines minister,
said Oct. 23.  The oil minister will decide on the production policy at
the meeting, he said. “In any case the market is very well
supplied,” Hached said.  ANGOLA  The market is adequately supplied,  Angola ’s national
representative to OPEC said Nov. 27.  “If prices will be as they are at the moment, around $110
a barrel, something like that, I think the situation will keep
unchanged,” Luis Neves said in an interview in Cape Town. “The
idea is to achieve prices that are fair not only for us, OPEC,
as exporters but also” the buyers, he said. “At the moment it
does seem like the market is well balanced, so there is no need
for cuts.”  ECUADOR  Ecuador doesn’t see any need to change current output
levels at the Vienna meeting, Non-Renewable Natural Resources
Minister Wilson Pastor told reporters Nov. 28 in  Quito . The
country is OPEC’s smallest producer.  IRAN  Iran  hopes the average price of OPEC crudes will increase
“in next days,” Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi told the state-run
Fars news agency Nov. 19. He said global demand will increase as
winter approaches in the northern hemisphere.  IRAQ  OPEC doesn’t need to discuss its output quota now, but will
possibly need to in coming years, Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in an interview in Abu Dhabi on Nov. 11.  The country’s production rose to 3.35 million barrels a day
in September, from 2.73 million one year earlier, and maintained
the same rate last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  KUWAIT  A stable price for Brent crude of $100 to $110 a barrel is
comfortable for producers and consumers, Sami Rushaid, the
chairman of Kuwait Oil Co., said Sept. 18.  “The danger for oil markets is fluctuations and
volatility,” Rushaid said in an interview in Dubai. “The oil
market needs stability.”  Kuwait will keep production at about 3 million barrels a
day for the next year or so, he said. Output at this level would
make Kuwait the second-biggest producer in OPEC after Saudi
Arabia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  LIBYA  Libya’s parliament approved a new cabinet at the end of
October that includes Oil Minister Abdulbari al-Arusi, who has
made few public statements since then.  Output from the holder of  Africa ’s biggest  crude  reserves
has returned to just under the pre-conflict level of 1.6 million
barrels a day, the former oil minister, Abdul-Rahman Ben Yezza,
said on Sept. 24 at a conference in Tripoli.  NIGERIA  Nigeria’s monthly output dropped to 1.95 million barrels a
day in October, from 2.06 million barrels the month before, as
the country experienced the worst flooding in about 50 years,
the International Energy Agency said in a Nov. 13 report.  The country is still expanding production capacity and
plans to an oil exploration licensing round by the end of this
year, and a larger one in 2013, Nigerian Oil Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 25.  QATAR  “Supply is fine,” Qatari Energy Minister Mohammed al-Sada
told reporters in Doha today. “I don’t see any supply issues at
the moment and the stocks levels are healthy.”  “Supply is at very comfortable levels and it’s reflected
by the reserves worldwide,” he said.  SAUDI ARABIA  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said on Oct. 9 that
he wants to see the Brent oil price near $100 a barrel.  “We will work towards moderating the price,” al-Naimi
told reporters in  Riyadh  ahead of a regional conference of oil
ministers. “We will meet the market demands fully.”  Al-Naimi reconfirmed that Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil
exporter, has a crude production capacity of 12.5 million
barrels a day. The kingdom’s output this year has ranged from
9.7 million barrels a day to 10.1 million barrels, depending on
demand, he told reporters after the meeting.  U.A.E.  United Arab Emirates Oil Minister Mohamed al-Hamli said
Nov. 13 in Abu Dhabi that the world oil market is balanced,
which helps satisfy customer demand, Wakalat Anba’a al-Emarat,
the Emirates news agency, reported. Al Hamli said the U.A.E. is
committed to see a stable and well-supplied world oil market and
fair prices for both producers and consumers so as to fuel
global economic growth, according to the WAM report.  VENEZUELA  Venezuelan Energy and Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said on
Nov. 7 that the country’s current oil production capacity is 3.1
million barrels a day, and that current production levels will
be maintained to defend oil prices in 2013.  OPEC SECRETARY-GENERAL  Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri said Nov. 13 he doesn’t
expect the producer group to cut oil production at its next
meeting because markets are adequately supplied.  “I don’t see it at this time,” El-Badri said, responding
to a question about whether OPEC would reduce supply. “The
market is very well supplied. Everybody is happy,” he said in
an interview in  London  while attending the Oil & Money
conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Doha at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  