-- Host England to Play Australia, Wales in 2015 Rugby World Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-03T17:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/host-england-drawn-against-australia-in-2015-rugby-world-cup.html
Rugby World Cup host England will
have to get past two-time winner  Australia  and Six Nations
champions  Wales  in the 2015 event after the teams were grouped
in today’s draw in London.  The trio will be in Pool A in the four-yearly tournament,
along with two teams yet to qualify. England and Australia met
in the 1991 and 2003 World Cup finals, while Wales reached the
semifinals last year.  “Those two sides are going to be extremely tough,”
England coach Stuart Lancaster told reporters. “Wales we know
very well and Australia’s track record in the World Cup is known
to everyone.”  The top three teams in each of the four groups at last
year’s World Cup in New Zealand automatically qualified for
England 2015, with the final eight teams coming from global
qualifying tournaments. The 12 teams in today’s draw were seeded
according to the current International Rugby Board world
rankings.  Defending champion New Zealand, which 14 months ago won its
first title in 24 years, was drawn with Argentina and Tonga in
Pool C. Two-time champion South  Africa , Samoa and  Scotland  are
in Pool B, with 2011 runner-up France, Ireland and  Italy  in Pool
D in the 20-team championship.  Seven of the remaining places will come from qualifying
tournaments and will be filled by two teams each from  Europe  and
the Americas, and one each from Africa, Asia, Oceania. The final
place will go to the winner of a playoff between teams from
Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa.  Earlier Matches  The draw came two days after fifth-ranked England upset No.
1 New Zealand 38-21 in its final autumn Test match at Twickenham
in London. The victory ended the All Blacks’ 20-match unbeaten
run and was  England ’s first over the world champion since 2003.  England beat Australia on its home field in the 2003 final
in Sydney, while the Wallabies won the title in 1991 and 1999.
Australia defeated England 20-14 on Nov. 17 as part of its
autumn European tour.  Wales followed its World Cup success by winning this year’s
Six Nations in a Grand Slam sweep. The Welsh dropped all three
of their autumn Tests, including a last-minute loss to Australia
two days ago, to fall to No. 9 in the world rankings. That meant
they’d be drawn with two strong teams.  “We put ourselves in this position and situation,” Wales
coach Warren Gatland said. “Our experience of 2011 is that if
you come out of a tough group, it sets you up for the
quarterfinals and semifinals. The tougher the group, the
better.”  Though England and Wales play every year in the Six
Nations, they’ve never been pooled together in the world
championship.  Spice, Intensity  “When you play a derby it adds a little bit more spice and
intensity to the game,” England captain Chris Robshaw said.
“It will be great for the tournament as both sets of fans are
passionate.”  The winner of Group A will play the runner-up in Group B in
the quarterfinals. The winner of that game would not have to
face New Zealand until the final, should the All Blacks win
their pool as expected.  The other quarterfinals will have the second place from
Group A taking on the Group B winner, the top team from Group C
meeting the Group D runner-up and the Group D winner playing
Group C’s No. 2 team.  The 2015 Rugby World Cup kicks off Sept. 18, with the final
being played Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 