-- Low Mississippi’s Ripple Effect Imperils 20,000 U.S. Jobs
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-12-03T17:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/low-mississippi-s-ripple-effect-imperils-20-000-u-s-jobs.html
The trucks begin lining up early at
the  Growmark Bussen Terminal  south of downtown  St. Louis , their
driver-side doors bearing the names of farm towns such as Ste.
Genevieve, Missouri, and Bunker Hill,  Illinois .  They come to get fertilizer made in  Russia , the  Middle East 
and other places that was shipped to the  Gulf of Mexico  and then
up the river. The farms are rushing to get their supplies before
dropping water levels may shut the flow of cargo, which would
threaten next season’s crops.  “Worst-case scenario, we run very short of supplies when
they’re needed for planting,” said Joe Dillier, plant-food
director for Bloomington, Illinois-based Growmark Inc. His
company is stockpiling as much urea and potash as it can in its
warehouse.  The rush is on to keep customers supplied, workers employed
and commerce alive in communities that rely on the nation’s
busiest waterway. The usual dry season, combined with the worst
drought in 50 years, may push water levels so low in coming
weeks it will halt traffic in a section south of St. Louis, near
the river’s midpoint. Shippers want President  Barack Obama  to
declare a state of emergency.  “Given the number of jobs at stake if commerce on the
 Mississippi  is crippled, and especially given the ripple effect
on local economies up and down the river, the administration
cannot afford to remain silent on this critical issue,” said
Tom Allegretti, president of  American Waterways Operators .  Job Risks  At risk are more than 20,000 jobs -- from dockworkers to
truckers and coal miners -- and $130 million in wages and
benefits if the river is closed for two months, the group
estimates. More than $2.3 billion of agricultural products, $1.8
billion in chemicals and $1.3 billion worth of petroleum
products normally ship in December and January, the group said.  The ripples would spread from the banks of the river --
where rocks that haven’t been exposed to air in decades are
drying in the sun -- out to fields and factories of the Midwest.
That includes companies such as  Knight Hawk Coal LLC  of Percy,
Illinois, about 66 miles (106 kilometers) southeast of St.
Louis.  The family-owned Knight Hawk employs 400 people and has
another 300 contractors, including about 140 truck drivers. The
company has never had layoffs since it opened in 1997, said
 Andrew Carter , vice president of sales and distribution.  Reduced Volume  A blocked Mississippi could change that.  “We’re hoping we can only make a 30 percent cut in our
volume,” Carter said. “That involves trucking 100 miles to the
Ohio River instead of 25 miles to our dock. That’s probably
going to double my costs” and endanger jobs, he said. Rail is
also an unsatisfactory alternative because of higher freight
costs, he said.  The disruption comes just as farmers are focusing on
getting their crops out of grain bins and into global markets
and preparing for planting early next year, said Jack McCormick,
who raises corn, soybeans and wheat near Ellis Grove, Illinois,
about 50 miles southeast of St. Louis.  Because the 2,300-mile-long  Mississippi River  is such a
cheap and dominant transportation route for the area, local
farmers send “almost all our crop to export,” he said. “When
a country buys grain, it comes from here.” This is in contrast
to  Iowa  growers, for example, who may sell corn to an ethanol
plant in their state or a Nebraskan supplying Nebraska ranchers.  Increased Costs  The loss of river traffic both drives down revenues, as
grain elevators don’t want products they can’t sell, and it
raises costs, he said. Trucking it toward Cairo, Illinois, where
the Mississippi would stay open, rather than the nearby
Kaskaskia River tributary to the Mississippi will add about a
dime in expense a bushel to corn that’s selling for about $6 a
bushel. “Diesel’s costing $4 a gallon,” he said.  The longer that fertilizer shipments are disrupted, the
more a Mississippi shutdown will affect next year’s planting,
said Kirk Liefer, who grows corn, soybeans and wheat near Red
Bud, Illinois, 20 miles (32 kilometers) north of Ellis Grove.  The  Army Corps of Engineers  is dredging downstream from the
Growmark Bussen Terminal, hauling up silt to keep the channels
as open as possible. Lawmakers and shippers have appealed to the
agency to go further, to blast the massive limestone rock
formations, known as pinnacles, that stud the riverbed near the
Illinois towns of Thebes and Grand Tower and obstruct vessels at
low water. They also want the limit on water released from the
Missouri River to be raised to permit more to reach the
Mississippi.  Legal Mandates  The Army Corps maintains it’s following legal mandates on
Missouri water flow, though it has agreed to complete a review
of what can be done by this week. It has also pledged to hasten
the pinnacle removal project that had been scheduled to begin in
February.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said last week that
President Barack Obama is exploring “all possible options” to
maintain traffic. Lawmakers including U.S. Senators  Tom Harkin 
of Iowa and  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, both Democrats, have
called for the administration to take action.  Officials from states along the Missouri River wrote their
 own letter  to Obama last week, arguing the Army Corps has no
authority to increase that river’s flow to help the Mississippi.
Such a release “will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the
people and many businesses in the states we represent,” wrote
the entire North Dakota congressional delegation, along with its
governor and officials from  South Dakota ,  Montana  and  Kansas .  Different Projections  Without action, the Mississippi will be too shallow to
navigate in coming days, though projections differ. The  Army
Corps  says navigation will be impaired by Dec. 11 and a record
low-water mark will be set on Dec. 22. The American Waterways
Operators and the Waterways Council Inc., a trade group based in
Arlington,  Virginia , says traffic will be impaired Dec. 10 from
St. Louis south about 180 miles (290 kilometers) to Cairo, where
it meets the Ohio River.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  last week lowered its
forecast for farm profits by 6.7 percent to $114 billion because
of rising costs, mainly for livestock feed. River disruptions
further lower profits by raising transportation costs for
farmers who already lost crops to this year’s drought, which may
continue at least through February, according to the government,
Liefer said.  Dry Soil  “It’s in the back of everyone’s mind. We’re going into our
second consecutive winter without a lot of water in the soil,”
Liefer said. “Everything the river brings up here is vital.”  Faced with unpalatable alternatives, some suppliers may
simply decide not to move products at all. Without barges, there
may be no viable alternative to moving grain downstream or
fertilizer north, said Jon Samson, executive director of the
American Trucking Associations’ Agricultural and Food
Transporters Conference. The economics means such bulk freight
may end up sitting in storage until the river reopens, he said.  “If their barges are stuck, there’s no place to go with
their feed,” Samson said. “The cost of moving it by truck, as
opposed to barge, from the North Midwest, all the way down to
 Louisiana  is going to be exponentially more.”  Those choices will be made case-by-case, based on
everything from the pace of government action to rainfall,
Dillier said.  “We’ll be making those decisions over the next couple
weeks,” he said. “Not being able to get to St. Louis is a big
deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  