-- Panasonic Swings Ruin Funds’ Appetite for BBB Debt: Japan Credit
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-12-03T01:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/panasonic-swings-ruin-funds-appetite-for-bbb-debt-japan-credit.html
Offerings of Japanese corporate bonds
without an A rating dried up last month, as swings in prices of
debt in  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp Corp. spoiled investor
appetite for riskier securities.  No notes rated BBB+ or lower by domestic assessors were
offered in November, the first time in a year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Such borrowers raised 13.4 billion yen ($163
million) the previous month, including a 7 billion yen sale by
Daikyo Inc. The yield on Panasonic’s securities due 2016 reached
as high as 3.54 percent, before dropping to 1.89 percent on Nov.
30, according to JS Price data.  Japan’s corporate notes slumped to a 0.07 percent loss last
month, the worst return since August, as company notes worldwide
gained 0.32 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.
Panasonic led the declines with a 4.4 percent drop after a
worse-than-expected loss forecast, prompting investors to scan
the market for the next negative surprise.  “You have companies like Sharp and Panasonic, which just
two years ago were major market players with solid AA ratings,
slipping” in the rankings, Tetsushi Nagato, a  fund manager  and
credit analyst at Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Ltd.,
said in a telephone interview from  Tokyo  Nov. 28. “This is not
a market environment where you can justify buying BBB notes.”  Panasonic’s Debt  Panasonic has 930 billion yen of bonds  outstanding , or 1.5
percent of Japan’s corporate bond market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Japan Securities Dealers Association.
The  Osaka , Japan-based maker of household appliances and flat-
screen televisions last sold bonds March 2011 when it raised 500
billion yen, in Japan’s biggest sale of corporate bonds.  The offering included 200 billion yen of 0.752 percent
five-year notes priced to yield 19 basis points more than
government debt, the data show. The spread soared to as high as
330 basis points Nov. 8, before falling to 174.5 on Nov. 30,
according to JS Price data.  Sharp has 395 billion yen of notes  outstanding , including
200 billion yen of convertible bonds due September, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds were quoted at 63.7 yen
per face value 100 yen as of 9:35 a.m. in Tokyo today, according
to Tokyo Stock Exchange prices.  “Overall, investors’ view toward credit is becoming more
severe,” Masanori Azuma, managing director for  capital markets 
at Nomura Securities Co., Japan’s biggest brokerage, said in a
telephone interview Nov. 29. “That’s because electronics makers
and power companies, whose credit used to be regarded as
excellent, have worsened, and the spreads widened as a result.”  Japanese Corporates  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, United Urban
Investment Corp. sold 4 billion yen of 0.69 percent five-year
bonds, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. said in a statement on Nov.
30. Central Glass Co. offered 10 billion yen of 0.72 percent
five-year debt, according to Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  Sanken Electric Co., a chip manufacturer rated BBB+ by
Japan’s Rating & Investment Information Inc., started marketing
a sale of about 4 billion yen in three-year bonds Nov. 29,
according to a person familiar with the matter. The Saitama,
Japan-based company told investors it plans to price the notes
to yield 140 to 160 basis points more than the yen swap rate
this week, the person said, asking not to be identified as the
information is private.  Japan ’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.03
percent loss so far this quarter, compared with a 0.23 percent
return for sovereign notes, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Company debt worldwide has gained 1.43
percent.  Sovereign Yields  Yields on Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bonds
touched 0.695 percent on Nov. 30, the lowest level since June
2003, and were one basis point higher at 0.71 percent at 9:42
a.m. today. The Japanese securities  yielded  92 basis points less
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with 100 a year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign debt fell 8 basis points to 67.4 last month, their six
straight monthly decrease, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. A drop in the
contracts signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Kansai Electric  Bonds of  Kansai Electric  Power Co., which supplies power to
Japan’s second-biggest metropolitan area, handed a 1.5 percent
loss last month, second only to Panasonic, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. The Osaka-based utility’s  rating  has
been cut a total three steps to A+ by R&I since the March 2011
earthquake and tsunami, which crippled the Fukushima atomic
plant.  Japan last month delayed a decision on the future of Kansai
Electric’s Ohi nuclear plant, whose two reactors are the only
ones running in the country, as seismologists under the Nuclear
Regulation Authority debated whether an earthquake fault line
under the station is active or not. The company is the nation’s
utility most dependent on atomic power.  Top-rated issuers are taking advantage of the vacuum made
by the riskier borrowers. Toyota Industries Corp., a parts-and-
assembly affiliate of Japan’s largest carmaker, raised 30
billion yen in a three-part offering Nov. 22, including 10
billion yen of five-year 0.265 percent bonds priced to yield 8
basis points more than government debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The manufacturer is rated at AA by R&I,
the data show.  Fujifilm Offering  Fujifilm Holdings Corp., a copier maker graded AA by R&I,
raised 130 billion yen in its first offering of non-convertible
bonds Nov. 27, making it the nation’s biggest sale by a non-
financial company since March. The three-tranche offer included
60 billion yen of 0.33 percent five-year notes priced at a 15
basis-point spread, the data show.  “A handful of blue-chip names are able to attract very
strong demand,” said Nomura’s Azuma. “They command tight
spreads.”  Panasonic reversed on Oct. 31 its full-year profit goal,
forecasting a deficit 30 times bigger than analyst estimates as
TV sales slumped. The net loss will be 765 billion yen in the 12
months to March 31, compared with a 50 billion yen profit
estimated earlier and a 772 billion yen deficit the previous
year, the company said at the time.  Moody’s Investors Service changed its outlook on the
company to negative the following day and  downgraded  it by two
levels to Baa3 on Nov. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
rating is the credit assessor’s lowest investment rank.  Index Exclusion  Sharp’s notes are ranked BB by R&I, two steps below
investment grade, the data show. The company was ousted in
August from the Nomura Bond Performance index, which is tracked
by some of the country’s largest investors, after R&I cut its
bond rating to BBB.  The yen depreciated to 82.84 per dollar last month, the
weakest since April 4, and traded at 82.38 as of 9:47 a.m. in
Tokyo. The Japanese currency lost 9.3 percent this year, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The decline
in the currency is boosting the earnings prospects of the
nation’s exporters.  “When corporations dependent on overseas demand show
prospects for revival,” full-scale sales of BBB bonds will
resume, said Nagato at Schroder. “Investors need to know that
even at a BBB rating there is some sense of stability in debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  