-- Pena Nieto Assumes Mexico’s Presidency Vowing Security, Growth
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-12-03T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/pena-nieto-assumes-mexico-s-presidency-vowing-security-growth.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
took office pledging to reduce crime, erase the  budget deficit 
and spur competition in communications industries, where the
world’s richest man has a near monopoly in phone service.  Wearing the green, red and white presidential sash, the 46-
year-old president said in his inaugural address Dec. 1 that
he’ll create a national crime prevention program after more than
57,000 people were killed in drug warfare since 2006 under his
predecessor,  Felipe Calderon . He called for austerity in
 government spending  while saying infrastructure investments
should be accelerated.  “It’s time for us to break the myths and paradigms and
everything else that has limited our development,” Pena Nieto
said at the National Palace before dignitaries including U.S.
Vice President  Joe Biden  and Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala .
“It’s now up to us to take advantage of this platform to boost
growth and achieve the most important economic objective --
improve the economy for Mexican families.”  Pena Nieto takes over a $1.2 trillion economy analysts
forecast will grow 3.8 percent this year, more than Brazil yet
less than other Latin American countries including Colombia and
Peru. He said his government will bring “21st century”
development to  Mexico , promising a wider social safety net, more
passenger railroads and less debt from state governments that he
said put public finances in danger.  Insufficient Growth  “The nation hasn’t grown sufficiently,” Pena Nieto said.
“Mexico hasn’t achieved the advances that the people demand and
deserve.”  As part of his economic agenda, Pena Nieto vowed to seek
bids for two new broadcast television networks in a nation
dominated by  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO)  and TV Azteca SAB. He also said
there should be more competition in the telephone industry, even
as billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest person who
controls 80 percent of Mexico’s landlines and 70 percent of its
mobile-phone lines through America Movil SAB, attended the
speech.  Pena Nieto said access to high-speed Internet should be a
constitutional right. He also urged steps toward universal
social security, including pensions for all citizens over 65 and
 life insurance  for women who head families, calling for both
programs to start next year. At the same time his government
will propose eliminating the budget deficit for 2013. Mexico’s
Congress passed a budget for this year that forecast a deficit
of 0.4 percent of gross domestic product.  Policy Costs  “I was a bit stunned to see so many ideas floated,” said
 Carlos Ramirez , an analyst with the Eurasia Group, in a phone
interview from  Washington . “But they’re going to cost a good
amount of money. Who knows where they’re going to get it.”  Markets rallied following Pena Nieto’s July 1 election.
Yields on Mexican peso debt due in 2024 tumbled 41 basis points,
or 0.41 percentage point, to a record 5.10 percent on July 20,
before ending last week at 5.52 percent. The yield will fall to
near 5 percent next year as Pena Nieto gets lawmakers to back
reform proposals that include tax and energy overhauls,
according to Benito Berber, a Latin America strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York .  The peso has rallied against the dollar, surging 7.6
percent this year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Mexico’s stock market has also climbed since Pena
Nieto’s election victory, with the  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  rising to a record
on Oct. 18.  The president didn’t give details on his campaign plans to
open up the  energy industry , dominated by state-owned  Petroleos
Mexicanos , to more private investment. Crude production at the
company has fallen for seven straight years and Pena Nieto has
said in the past that he favors accelerated development of shale
gas reserves and deep-water oil deposits.  ‘Trapped Growth’  “We need to find a way to unleash that trapped growth
potential in the economy, and that’s why those reforms are so
critical,” said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., before the speech. Investors are looking to see that
the ruling party “will be willing and able to reach across the
aisle to achieve meaningful reforms,” he said.  In the hours before the Dec. 1 swearing-in, several hundred
protesters fought with police at barricades around Congress,
with rioters hurling bottle rockets and officers spraying tear
gas to disperse them as eight people were injured. A group of
marchers rammed a truck into a police barricade and separate
protests along Mexico City’s main business boulevard, the Paseo
de la Reforma, left dozens of storefronts shattered.  Opposition Charges  Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI,
ruled Mexico for 71 years until 2000. Opponents, including
supporters of election runner-up  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador ,
have warned that Pena Nieto’s administration may return to the
corruption and cronyism that marked the PRI’s prior rule.  The incoming leader also said he’ll send constitutional
amendments to Congress to consolidate state and federal penal
codes and to improve education by basing teachers’ promotions on
their performance and creating national standards for school
evaluations.  “Enrique Pena Nieto wants to drive the economy with great
responsibility,” Luis Videgaray, who became finance minister
Dec. 1, told reporters on inauguration day. “Families’
economies, and not only the larger macroeconomic numbers, should
improve.”  Education Shortfall  Mexico’s education system ranks  last  out of 34 countries
for enrolled high school-age students, behind regional rivals
Chile, Argentina and Brazil, according to a 2011 study by the
Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The study included non-OECD members.  Some of Pena Nieto’s stated goals are similar to ones
pushed by Calderon’s  National Action Party , or  PAN , over the
past six years, many of which were blocked by Pena Nieto’s
party. Gustavo Madero, the PAN’s president, reiterated on Nov.
24 that his party will work with the PRI to achieve the
overhauls that it worked for under Calderon.  “In a country’s life, six years is a short time,” Pena
Nieto said. “But 2,191 days are sufficient to put down roots
concerning what, starting now, should be our goals -- making
Mexico a prosperous nation and one of opportunities and well-
being for all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  