-- Pennsylvania Step May Help Republicans Win Electoral Vote
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-12-03T21:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/pennsylvania-proposal-may-help-republicans-win-electoral-votes.html
A Pennsylvania lawmaker’s plan to
divvy up electoral votes based on a presidential candidate’s
public support may be just the first of many state legislative
moves to alter the way the nation chooses a leader.  State Senate Majority Leader Dominic Pileggi, a Republican
from Chester, wants to replace the winner-take-all system, which
gave President  Barack Obama  Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes,
with one that divides them to reflect the proportion of public
support for each candidate. His method would have given 12 votes
to Obama and eight to Republican  Mitt Romney  this year.  “Anyone who voted for  Governor Romney , and many
Pennsylvanians did, does not have any reflection of that vote in
the electoral college vote,” Pileggi said. “This is a proposal
that is not party specific or partisan in any way, but just an
attempt to have the popular vote reflected in the electoral
college vote.”  Pileggi’s proposal, which he asked senators in a memo to
cosponsor, may be the first of a spate presented to lawmakers
nationwide. Daniel P. Tokaji, a law professor at  Ohio State
University  in Columbus and associate director of its  Election
Law @ Moritz  center said he wouldn’t be surprised to see
Republicans and Democrats seeking ways to “game the system”
ahead of the 2016 presidential election.  Narrower Margin  If all states had used Pileggi’s method, the final outcome
Nov. 6 wouldn’t have changed, though it would’ve narrowed
Obama’s margin of victory, according a preliminary legislative
analysis of the proposal. The president would’ve won 281
electoral votes to Romney’s 256. Obama won, 332 to 206.  Next year, at least 36 states will have one-party  control 
of legislatures and governor’s offices, including Pennsylvania,
according to MultiStates Associates Inc., a lobbying firm in
Alexandria,  Virginia .  “It’s never too early for partisan gamesmanship among
partisan politicians,” Tokaji said.  Pileggi plans to introduce the bill next month. Last year
he pushed a bill to carve up electoral votes based on results
from congressional districts, to no avail.  Adopting a proportional method of allocation would lessen
 Pennsylvania ’s importance as a swing state in national politics,
Tokaji said. While Republicans control the Legislature and the
governor’s office, voters have backed Democrats for president
since 1992.  Partisan Motive  “Why would Pennsylvanians want to dilute their own state’s
influence?” Tokaji said. “It doesn’t make any sense unless
their goal is to advance the Republicans’ chance to win the
White House. The motivation behind it is entirely partisan.”  Pileggi said he didn’t know how the state could have less
importance, given the “very little campaigning” by Obama and
Romney there. “The point is not what party is advantaged,” he
said. “The point is, how do you best reflect the wishes of the
citizens of Pennsylvania. And it’s not best done by the current
winner-take-all system.”  Michigan ,  South Carolina  and Virginia also had bills
pending in 2011 and this year that would have altered their ways
of tallying the votes, by allocating them based on congressional
districts, according to Wendy Underhill, a policy specialist at
the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  Maine, Nebraska  U.S. states cast  Electoral College  votes based on the size
of their congressional delegations, with 270 required to win the
presidency. Only two -- Maine and  Nebraska  -- don’t use a
winner-take-all system favoring the candidate with the most
popular support. The method was set up as a compromise between
having Congress elect the nation’s leader and letting citizens
make the choice directly.  Maine and Nebraska award their electoral votes partly based
on results in each congressional district. Pileggi, backed by
Republican Governor Tom Corbett, first proposed shifting to a
district-based system in September 2011. His  bill  met with
criticism from Democrats, who said it aimed to boost the
Republican candidate’s chances, and it never reached the floor.  A Corbett spokesman,  Kevin Harley , said the governor hasn’t
seen Pileggi’s proposal yet and had no comment on it.  Under the lawmaker’s proportional plan, two electoral votes
would go to the statewide winner. The remaining 18 would be
parceled out based on the percentage of the popular vote cast
for each candidate. Since Obama  won  52 percent Nov. 6, he would
have gotten 52 percent of 18, rounded up to 10, plus the two
awarded to the state victor.  If Pileggi’s plan passes, Pennsylvania would be the only
state to use such a formula, according to the council of
legislatures. None considered such an approach in legislative
sessions this year or last, Underhill said.  The Keystone State did make a significant change in its
election law this year, passing a measure requiring people to
present photo identification to vote. The provision was
suspended for Nov. 6 and faces a legal challenge from the
 American Civil Liberties Union , which claims the law unfairly
burdens minorities, the elderly and the poor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  