-- Pine River’s Kuhn Sees ‘Golden Age’ for Mortgage Hedge Funds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-12-03T18:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/pine-river-s-kuhn-sees-golden-age-for-mortgage-hedge-funds.html
Hedge funds that trade mortgage bonds
are benefiting from less competition from Wall Street trading
desks and the portfolios of government-supported  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , Pine River Capital Management LP’s Steve Kuhn said.  More “mistakes” are developing in the relative prices
between different securities as regulators rein in investment
banks’ proprietary trading and the two mortgage finance
companies’ ability to capitalize on their cheap funding, said
Kuhn today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with Erik Schatzker and  Stephanie Ruhle .  “These were the policemen that kept prices in line,” said
Kuhn, the head of fixed-income trading at Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based Pine River who manages a hedge fund that’s gained 32
percent this year. “It’s the golden age of the relative value
hedge fund.”  Hedge funds focusing on mortgages, which Kuhn said are also
benefiting by poaching talented employees from Wall Street
dealers,  returned  20.2 percent through October this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
 average  of 2.6 percent for all hedge funds and a 12.3 percent
rise in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  index of stocks in the period.  Mortgage bond returns have outpaced those of other assets
as the U.S. housing market rebounded, homeowner  refinancing 
remained constrained after real estate’s slump since 2006 and
the  Federal Reserve  expanded its  purchases  of government-backed
debt, reducing yields.  Returns on senior-ranked, subprime securities from 2005
through 2007, the years that produced the most defaults, average
39 percent this year, according to Barclays Plc index data. The
debt lost 5.5 percent last year.  A year ago, Kuhn described the bonds as “cheap” in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  While the opportunity is “certainly not as good as it was
last year,” Pine River expects it can make more than 10 percent
on the debt next year, he said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ; or
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ; or
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  