-- PPR Names Alexander Wang Creative Director of Balenciaga Brand
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-12-03T14:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/ppr-names-alexander-wang-creative-director-of-balenciaga-brand.html
PPR SA (PP)  named Alexander Wang creative
director of its Balenciaga fashion and accessories brand to
replace Nicholas Ghesquiere, who quit last month.  “Wang has responsibility for designing the brand’s women’s
and men’s ready-to-wear and accessories collections, as well as
for Balenciaga’s image,” PPR said today in an e-mailed
statement. His appointment is immediate.  Ghesquiere left Balenciaga by mutual consent on Nov. 30
after 15 years at the Paris-based label. Wang, who has his own
 label , is known for sporty, urban designs. For spring 2013, he
showed a black-and-white collection of long, short-sleeved
shirts, shorts and revealing dresses. Wang will continue to run
his own closely-held fashion house, PPR said.  The designer’s appointment may signal PPR wants to make
Balenciaga more commercially relevant, according to Luca Solca,
head of luxury goods research at Exane BNP Paribas in  London .  While Balenciaga may attract more critical acclaim than
other PPR brands such as  Stella McCartney  and Bottega Veneta,
“the real question is how to turn potential consumer interest
into sales,” said Solca by e-mail. “Wang seems to be the
answer to this question. He is credited with the ability to
capture the core traits of a brand and turn them into products
that appeal to the street.”  PPR doesn’t break out Balenciaga’s results, grouping it
with other luxury brands including  Alexander McQueen , Boucheron
and Stella McCartney. These labels and three others had combined
sales of 738 million euros ($962 million) in 2011, accounting
for 15 percent of PPR’s luxury revenue.  ’Steady Pace’  Balenciaga, founded by Cristobal Balenciaga in 1919 and
established in Paris in 1936, “kept up a steady pace of growth
in 2011,” posting a “very high sales increase for  leather
goods  and gains in all of its markets,” PPR said in its 2011
reference document.  Still, the brand’s growth has been dwarfed by  Bottega
Veneta , which PPR also bought in 2001. At the time, Bottega
Veneta and Balenciaga had combined revenue of less than 65
million euros, according to PPR Chief Executive Officer
Francois-Henri Pinault. Last year, Bottega Veneta had sales of
683 million euros.  The designer “will use his creativity and his own research
to reinterpret and immortalize the distinctive, modern and
extremely innovative style imposed by Cristobal Balenciaga,”
PPR CEO Francois-Henri Pinault said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  