-- Proulx, ‘M. Butterfly’ Author, Drummer Win $50,000 Grants
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-12-04T23:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/proulx-m-butterfly-author-drummer-win-50-000-grants.html
(Corrects filmmaker Margaret Brown’s biographical
information in the fifth paragraph of a story published Dec. 3.)  Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist Annie Proulx, playwright David Henry Hwang and virtuoso jazz drummer
 Jack DeJohnette  are among the 54 winners of the 2012  United
States Artists  fellowships.  The $50,000 grants announced today in  Los Angeles  went to
visual artists, architects, writers and musicians ranging in age
from 31 to 81.  The Ford,  Rockefeller , Prudential and  Rasmuson  foundations
helped establish the USA Artists program in 2005 with $22
million in seed money.  An endowment fund was set up in 2010 by the four nonprofits
and the Omaha-based Todd and Betiana Simon Foundation. The
grants program has so far raised $10 million toward the $50
million fund.  Other winners include  New York  architects  Jesse Reiser and
Nanako Umemoto ; modern-dance choreographer  Trisha Brown ; Alabama
native and documentary filmmaker Margaret Brown; Brooklyn-based
performance artist  Coco Fusco ; master banjo player  Tony
Trischka ; and visual artist  Edgar Heap of Birds , who examines
American Indian issues in his work.  Hwang, the author of “M. Butterfly,” said it “was an
amazing feeling” when he learned that he had won the no-strings
attached grant. He said he will use it to set up a
transportation fund for his future productions.  “It’s wonderful that an organization such as United States
Artists has picked up the slack,” Hwang said by phone,
referring to the decline in arts funding in recent years.  Candidates are nominated each January by an anonymous panel
of people in the arts and then apply for grants. Past recipients
include cartoonist Chris Ware, fashion designers Kate and Laura
Mulleavy of  Rodarte , the novelist Sapphire and choreographers
Benjamin Millepied and Bill T. Jones.  “It’s a fascinating mix of people,” Katharine DeShaw,
executive director of the Los Angeles-based United States
Artists, said by phone. “We have well-known leaders in their
fields, and then there are people like Tony Trischka, who’s the
greatest banjo player in the world, but a lot of people don’t
know him.”  The list of winners includes such emerging talents as
Alaska-based multi-genre artist Nicholas Galanin, Sarajevo-born
fiction writer and MacArthur Foundation “genius” grant winner
 Aleksandar Hemon , filmmaker Lee Issac Chung and edgy performance
artist Guillermo Gomez-Pena.  According to DeShaw, the awards can be a career booster for
artists who are rising stars in their field. About 91 percent of
those selected use the money to further their work.  “Some artists are getting book deals or get on the tenure
track where they teach because of the grants,” DeShaw said.
“The validation for some artists is becoming more important
than the cash.”  A complete list of the grant winners can be found at
 http://www.unitedstatesartists.org .  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and  Elin
McCoy  on  wine .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 