-- Renault Set to Revive Alpine Brand to Challenge Porsche
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-12-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/renault-set-to-revive-alpine-brand-to-challenge-porsche.html
Renault SA (RNO) , which is losing sales
faster than any other European carmaker, is pinning a turnaround
in part on the revival of a sports-car brand that’s been dormant
for almost two decades.  The plan relies on a partnership with Caterham Group, a
British manufacturer of offbeat track cars that typically have
exposed front wheels and roll bars rather than roofs. For
enthusiasts of Renault’s mothballed Alpine marque, the key
factor is just getting the brand back on the road.  “Alpine fans have been waiting for this for 20 years,”
said Gerard Bailly, 60, a brasserie owner in Dole in eastern
 France  who has two Alpine cars and runs a club for the brand.
“Of the 35 people in my club, at least half will buy it.”  Renault, which also makes budget Dacia vehicles, is
shifting upmarket, mimicking the strategy of  Volkswagen AG. (VOW) 
 Europe ’s biggest automaker relies on Audi for 48 percent of
operating profit, even though the upscale brand accounts for
just 14 percent of deliveries. Renault’s goal is to carve out a
niche in the luxury-car market, which could in turn give its
mass-market models an edge.  “It’s a good idea to introduce Alpine as there will be a
halo effect” for Renault’s other models, said Neil King, an
automotive analyst at research company Euromonitor
International.  The move follows similar steps by  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and
 Fiat SpA (F)  to attract wealthy buyers. With auto demand in Europe
contracting for the fifth straight year to the lowest level in
17 years, mass-market carmakers are looking for ways to boost
revenue as the effects of the debt crisis weigh on demand.  ‘Live Embers’  Renault halted Alpine production in 1995 after four decades
because of poor profitability. Sales peaked at about 2,000 cars
a year in the 1980s. The cooperation with Caterham, Renault’s
Formula One racing partner, is aimed at spreading costs that
could approach 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), according to an
estimate from Bankhaus Metzler.  “Alpine and everything that goes with it has high
emotional and business value,” Bernard Ollivier, chief
executive officer of Renault Alpine, said in an interview in his
office near Paris, where photos of rally cars adorn the walls
and a miniature Alpine A110 stands on the desk.  While production ended years ago, “generations of people
have seen this car,” said Ollivier, who vows that the revived
brand will be profitable. “They represent live embers. You just
need to blow on them to make them burn again.”  Two Versions  Renault and Caterham will each own 50 percent of the Alpine
venture, according to an agreement signed last month. Both
companies will introduce their own versions within three to four
years. Alpine vehicles are set to cost slightly more than the
Renault Espace minivan, the carmaker’s most expensive car at
35,700 euros. That  price range  would put Alpine in competition
with the Toyota GT86, BMW Z4 and Audi TT.  “Renault’s new Alpine may end up looking like the poor
man’s Porsche Boxster,” said Philippe Houchois, a London-based
analyst with UBS. “There’s some room for that.”  For now, any sales boost would be welcome. The French
carmaker’s European deliveries plunged 18 percent through
October, outpacing the industrywide 6.9 percent slump as the
market heads for its worst drop in 19 years. The Boulogne-
Billancourt-based company has suffered more than most as it
seeks to hold incentives in check to protect profit.  Peugeot, France’s largest carmaker and the second-largest
in Europe, was prompted to seek 7 billion euros in government
loan guarantees for its banking arm as sales tumble and cash
reserves dwindle.  Luxury Ambitions  Renault is already indirectly active in the luxury-car
market through its alliance partner  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which owns
the Infiniti brand. Renault also shares technology with
Mercedes-Benz parent  Daimler AG (DAI)  as part of a partnership.  Still, establishing an upscale brand can take decades.
Audi’s rise to become the world’s second-largest luxury brand
began in the 1980s when Volkswagen Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  was
in charge and spearheaded Audi’s technology push.  In addition to reviving Alpine, Renault is considering
turning its Initiale Paris insignia, which is used for high-end
special editions, into full-fledged luxury brand. The push for
wealthy drivers faces growing competition from other mass-market
European carmakers. Peugeot is expanding its upscale Citroen DS
line, and Fiat is bolstering  Alfa Romeo  with nine models,
including the 4C sports car.  Volatile Market  Alpine vehicles will be produced at Renault’s factory in
Dieppe on the Normandy coast, the historical home of the brand.
The plant, which currently assembles racing vehicles and other
limited-run models, employed 322 people at end of June.  The new brand faces volatile demand. The entry-level
sports-car market is driven chiefly by new models and can swing
wildly depending on the confidence of its customers, which are
more sensitive to the economy than buyers of Ferraris and
Lamborghinis. Sales in the segment last year totaled 46,900
vehicles, 71 percent below the 2006 peak.  Demand is forecast to bounce back and average 115,000
vehicles through 2016, buoyed by cars including the revamped
Porsche Boxster and Cayman, both of which were unveiled this
year, according to IHS Automotive.  To make Alpine a viable player in a market that appeals to
driving aficionados rather mere car buyers, Renault will have to
be careful to keep the brand authentic.  “They should keep the Renault logo off and only leave the
Alpine one,” said brand-enthusiast Bailly. “When Fiat bought
Ferrari, they never put their Fiat logo on Ferrari cars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  