-- Russian Manufacturing Grew for 14th Month in November, HSBC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-12-03T08:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/russian-manufacturing-grew-for-14th-month-in-november-hsbc-says.html
Russian manufacturing expanded for a
14th month in November, marking the strongest quarterly
improvement since the first three months of 2011, after new
export orders increased, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index eased to 52.3 after rising
to 52.9, a five-month high, in October, HSBC said today in an e-
mailed statement, citing data compiled by London-based Markit
Economics. A level above 50 signals an expansion, while below
that shows a contraction.  Rebounding sales overseas will counter stalling domestic
demand and bolster prospects for reversing an economic slowdown.
The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter expanded in
the third quarter at the weakest pace since a recovery began at
the start of 2010, with retail sales unexpectedly slumping in
October as unemployment increased for the first time since
January. New export orders increased after a “marginal”
decline in October, according to HSBC.  “Although output growth eased, it still remained robust,
with improvements in the new export orders index from
contraction to growth pointing to the likely stabilization of
growth rates in Russian manufacturing in the coming months,”
Alexander Morozov, HSBC’s chief economist in Moscow, said in the
 statement . “The survey effectively dismisses the concerns about
downside risks to economic growth that the Russian central bank
voiced recently.”  The Micex Index of 30 stocks was little changed at 1,405.28
as of 12:08 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble depreciated less than 0.1
percent to 30.9001 per dollar.  No Revision  Russia’s government doesn’t yet see any reason to revise
its growth forecasts of 3.5 percent for this year and 3.7
percent in 2013, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters
Nov. 30 in Moscow.  Analysts last month forecast that Russia’s economic growth
would slow to 3.5 percent next year, down from a median
projection of 3.7 percent in a Bloomberg survey in October, as
the euro area slides into a recession, sapping demand for
commodities. Russian trade in goods with the European Union
accounts for almost 49 percent of the total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  