-- Saputo to Buy Dean’s Morningstar for $1.45 Billion
-- B y   K e v i n   O r l a n d
-- 2012-12-03T21:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/saputo-to-buy-dean-s-morningstar-for-1-45-billion.html
Saputo Inc. (SAP) ,  Canada ’s largest dairy
processor, agreed to buy  Dean Foods Co.’s (DF)  Morningstar Foods unit
for $1.45 billion to expand in the U.S.  The acquisition will be financed through a new  bank loan 
and is expected to close by the end of the month, Montreal-based
Saputo said today in a statement.  Saputo, which got about 53 percent of its revenue in Canada
in its most recent fiscal year, is gaining a maker of creams,
ice-cream mixes, sour cream and cheese to add to its namesake,
Armstrong, Dairyland and Rondeau products. Morningstar had C$1.6
billion ($1.6 billion) in revenue in the 12 months through Sept.
30, Saputo said.  Dean has been focusing more on its  WhiteWave Foods Co. (WWAV) 
business, which makes Silk soy milk and International Delight
coffee cream, and said in September that it was considering
selling Morningstar. The unit made up about $1.3 billion, or 10
percent, of Dean’s $13 billion in sales last year and 15 percent
of operating income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  WhiteWave conducted an initial public offering in October,
raising about $391 million, 22 percent more than it had sought.
Dean still owns about 88 percent of WhiteWave.  WhiteWave said today in a statement that it agreed to sell
some of its assets to Morningstar for $60 million, net of taxes,
in connection with the takeover by Saputo.  Deal Valuation  Saputo increased 3 percent to C$47.41 in Toronto. Dean
Foods, based in  Dallas , rose 2.3 percent to $17.53 in  New York .  The takeover values Morningstar at about 7.9 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization after
accounting for an election to treat the deal as an asset
transaction for tax purposes, Saputo said.  The transaction is the largest takeover of a dairy company
globally this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
There have been more than 60 transactions in that industry in
the past 12 months totaling about $5.8 billion. That compares
with 58 deals worth about $4.9 billion in the same period a year
earlier. The median buyers paid in a survey of six similar deals
in the past year was 13 times Ebitda, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  provided financial advice to Dean,
while Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Dechert LLP
served as legal advisers. Rabobank and Rothschild Inc. were
Saputo’s financial advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  