-- Scene in D.C.: Led Zeppelin, Letterman at Kennedy Center Honors
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-12-03T16:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/scene-in-d-c-led-zeppelin-letterman-at-kennedy-center-honors.html
Robert De Niro  opened last night’s
Kennedy Center Honors by calling honoree Dustin Hoffman a
“colossal pain.”  De Niro joked about his “Wag the Dog” co-star’s penchant
for perfectionism while Liev Schreiber and Naomi Watts offered
more traditional praise.  “I heart Dustin Hoffman,” said Watts, playing off their
2004 collaboration, “I Heart Huckabees.”  Barack and  Michelle Obama  sat in the presidential box for
the 35th annual event, which toasts artists who have made
extraordinary contributions in various disciplines. The ceremony
will be broadcast Dec. 26 on CBS.  The other honorees were  David Letterman ,  Buddy Guy , Natalia Makarova and  Led Zeppelin  members Jimmy Page,  Robert Plant  and
John Paul Jones.  Bonnie Raitt got the crowd to their feet with “Sweet Home
Chicago” in her tribute to bluesman Guy. Actor Morgan Freeman
and musician Tracy Chapman expressed their affection for the
guitarist and singer.  Judith Jamison, a 1999 honoree, introduced a video about
fellow dancer Natalia Makarova. A string of ballerinas from the
American Ballet Theatre saluted the Russian prima donna by
performing some of her more famous roles.  Tina Fey  Tina Fey ,  Alec Baldwin  and Jimmy Kimmel lauded Letterman.
Referencing his habit of embarrassing the guests on his couch,
Fey called Letterman “professor emeritus of the ‘Here’s Some
More Rope Institute.”’  The program concluded with Foo Fighters, Lenny Kravitz and
Kid Rock belting out Led Zeppelin hits in honor of the British
band. ActorJack Black suggested holding a “Zepathon,” a
nonstop playing of all the Led Zeppelin albums in a row. Ann and
Nancy Wilson from Heart performed the group’s classic “Stairway
to Heaven.”  Before the program started, I asked various guests about
their favorite honorees. Obama adviser David Axelrod, in a
rakish red tie, said he was a fan of Guy, a fellow Chicagoan.
Senator  Rob Portman , Ohio Republican, said he loved Hoffman’s
film “Rain Man” because the film is set in Cincinnati.  Senator  Claire McCaskill , Missouri Democrat, said she
enjoyed Letterman’s late-night laughs.  After the tributes, guests dined in the Grand Foyer where a
giant bust of President  John F. Kennedy  looms.  Caroline Kennedy  His daughter, Caroline, wearing her mother’s diamond
starburst pin at the waist of her gown, held court nearby
welcoming guests.  The dinner consisted of free-range chicken with sweet-
potato puree and spinach, served with William Hill Chardonnay
2011.  W. James McNerney, Jr., chief executive of the evening’s
underwriter,  the Boeing Co. , was present, as was Kennedy Center
Chairman and Carlyle Group Co-Founder David Rubenstein.  Others in attendance included film director Rob Marshall,
actress Glenn Close, Senator Barbara Boxer, California Democrat,
and Representative Darrell Issa, California Republican.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Katya Kazakina  on art and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 