-- Schaeuble, Moscovici Exclude Easy Aid for Irish, Portugal
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-12-03T18:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/schaeuble-moscovici-exclude-easy-aid-for-irish-portugal.html
Germany and France ruled out offering
easier bailout terms to Ireland and  Portugal , saying that
financial markets would view concessions as a sign that their
aid programs are skidding off track.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and French
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said it would be a mistake for
the two countries to demand the lower  interest rates  and longer
repayment times that were granted to Greece last week.  Greece is a “very unique case,” Schaeuble said before a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers in Brussels today. “For
Ireland and Portugal, which are on the verge of regaining access
to markets, it would be a devastating signal and I would really
advise them not to pursue this point any further.”  European leaders are counting on the return to markets by
Ireland and Portugal to show that the crisis-fighting strategy
has shielded the rest of Europe from the fallout from  Greece ,
the continent’s most debt-ridden country.  Greece, still struggling to pay its bills after 240 billion
euros ($314 billion) in loan pledges and history’s biggest
writedown of privately held debt, was on Nov. 27 granted extra
time to cut its  deficit  in addition to the easier loan terms.  Different Cases  Moscovici, testifying jointly with Schaeuble to a European
Parliament committee today, said Ireland and Portugal are
“clearly not in the same situation” as Greece, the country
where the crisis started.  The aid programs are also different. Greece was the only
country to obtain bilateral loans, in its first package. Its
second package tapped the European Financial Stability Facility,
also used for Ireland and Portugal.  The concessions to Greece came at a price, with creditor
governments demanding additional economic reforms and claiming
unprecedented control over how disbursements are spent.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  signaled that easier
terms may be too much to ask for, saying Greece was saddled with
“onerous” conditions to obtain them. Still, he said, Ireland
will see “if there’s something in the Greek deal that offers us
another element.”  Noonan called two points -- the reduction in EFSF lending
rates and a 15-year extension of maturities -- “an interesting
idea.” Portugal is pursuing similar concessions, based on a
July 2011 pledge by European leaders to treat aid recipients
equally.  “We will see within the euro group in what terms Portugal
and Ireland may benefit from that principle of equal
treatment,” Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said
in  Cape Verde  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  