-- Scotland’s EU Membership at Risk From U.K., Sturgeon Says
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-12-03T18:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/scotland-s-eu-membership-at-risk-from-u-k-sturgeon-says.html
Scotland ’s membership of the European
Union is threatened more by the U.K. government than by its bid
for independence, according to Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon.  “The biggest threat to EU membership isn’t independence,
it’s euro-skepticism within the U.K. government,” Sturgeon said
in response to questions after a speech at Strathclyde
University in Glasgow today. “Scotland’s rightful place is in
the EU, playing a positive role in that organization.”  Sturgeon’s Scottish National Party is campaigning for an
independent Scotland before a referendum planned for 2014. Her
task is to convince people that breaking away from the U.K. is
the right move when many of the questions being asked about the
economy, defense and the country’s status within the EU won’t be
answered before the vote.  In an Ipsos MORI poll for the London-based Times newspaper
in October, 30 percent of respondents supported Scottish
independence compared with 58 percent opposed to it.  Euro-skeptic Conservatives are putting increasing pressure
Prime Minister David Cameron to hold a referendum on whether
Britain should stay in or leave the 27-nation EU. Last month,
with the support of the opposition Labour Party, they passed a
motion in Parliament calling for an inflation-adjusted cut in
the EU’s seven-year budget.  Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond agreed in October to
an investigation into allegations he misled voters in a March
BBC interview over the advice he’d sought on whether an
independent Scotland would automatically remain in the EU.  Opinion Sought  U.K. lawmakers on the House of Lords Economic Affairs
Committee wrote to European Commission President Jose Manuel
Barroso last month asking for his opinion on whether an
independent Scotland would have automatic membership in the
event of independence.  In September, Barroso said any new state wanting to join
the EU would have to apply for membership, adding that
that was not a comment on the Scottish independence campaign.  “When the people have spoken we will emerge as one
nation,” Sturgeon said in her speech to members of civic
groups. “We will explain how it will be done and the new states
that have emerged since the Second World War show it can be
done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  