-- Serbia’s Richest Man Miskovic Faces Probe Over Acquisitions
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-03T14:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/serbia-s-richest-man-miskovic-faces-probe-over-acquisitions.html
Serbia ’s richest man Miroslav Miskovic faces a probe over his business as the government is
reviewing the sale of 24 companies after  criticism  from the
European Parliament.  Miskovic, 67, the owner of closely held Delta Holding, will
be questioned by the police and the Prosecutor’s Office for
Organized Crime, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic told B92
broadcaster in Belgrade today. Delta Holding has interests in
real estate and retail and its annual sales are equivalent to
about 9 percent of Serbia’s economic output in 2010.  “This is just the first in a series of interrogations,”
Selakovic said, adding that the initial questioning will focus
on Miskovic’s land-buying business and possibly will expand to
his acquisition of food retailer C market in 2005 and
involvement in a road-building company.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, in office since July
27, wants to step up its fight against corruption in an effort
to win a date to start European Union accession talks by March
2013. Serbia became an EU candidate in March and the date for
entry talks is conditional on normalizing ties with  Kosovo , its
former province that unilaterally declared independence in 2008.  The European Parliament adopted a resolution on Serbia’s EU
integration process in March, calling on the Serbian authorities
“to review immediately the controversial privatization and sale
of 24 companies,” as the European Commission has expressed
serious doubts concerning their legality. The list of
controversial privatizations includes the sale of steelworks
Sartid AD to  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  and the sale of Mobtel mobile
phone operator to  Telenor ASA (TEL)  in 2006.  Miskovic entered the Forbes list of billionaires in 2007
and has been ranked among the wealthiest people in eastern
 Europe . His wealth was estimated at $2.8 billion in 2010 by
Forbes and Polish magazine Wprost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  