-- Shell to Offer LNG to Power Ships, Trucks on Cheap U.S. Gas
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-12-03T13:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/shell-to-offer-more-lng-to-power-ships-trucks-on-cheap-u-s-gas.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is expanding
plans to make liquefied natural gas a fuel for ships and trucks
as Europe’s largest energy producer looks to profit from the
cheapness of U.S. gas compared with oil.  Shell, where gas production overtook oil for the first time
this year, will increase LNG-for-transport projects to more than
5 million tons a year over the next decade, said Shell Chief
Financial Officer Simon Henry. That’s equivalent to about
120,000 barrels of oil a day, or 4 percent of the company’s
global production in the third quarter.  Shell will offer about half the volume to the trucking
industry in Canada and the U.S. and the rest to shipping in the
 Great Lakes ,  Gulf of Mexico  and the Baltic Sea.  “This is a global opportunity,” Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser   said  last month in  New York . “The current gas
equivalent price per kilometer is double-digit percentage lower
than for diesel in the U.S.”  Gas prices  in the U.S. plunged to a decade low this year
after companies ramped up output from shale deposits to make the
nation the world’s largest producer. Today, U.S. crude oil costs
four times more than natural gas on a per barrel basis, allowing
Shell to profit from LNG transport projects even after the costs
of turning gas into a liquid.  “Because cost of the equipment, the engines and the
liquefaction and distribution is rapidly coming down, we do see
better opportunities than we’ve actually thought originally,”
Henry said. “The world is refining long, but diesel short by
large because the world’s refining complex is producing too much
gasoline and not enough diesel,” creating an opportunity for
LNG to power vehicles.  Green Corridor  Shell is working on the  Green Corridor  project with Flying
J Inc. to supply 250,000 tons of LNG a year to trucks along the
900 mile (1,600 kilometer) highway from  Alberta  to the Pacific
coast in  Canada . It’s also developing a plan to provide LNG fuel
to the shipping industry with the help of its Norwegian
distributor  Gasnor  and the  Gate LNG  terminal in Rotterdam, Voser
said.  “What we are doing is developing multiple options that
would be actually probably just a little bit more than the 5
million tons,” Henry said on a conference call last month.
“There are also opportunities for our own drilling rigs, our
own mining trucks, our own demand is quite significant.”  New Regulation  The Hague-based company is targeting European Union marine
customers before new environmental regulations are introduced in
2015. It’s already operating an LNG-propelled barge transporting
petroleum products along the Rhine River, the first time such
vessels have been used on inland waterways.  In EU shipping “we see LNG playing a leading role,” Voser
said.  Shell plans to start fuel production at its first small-
scale gas liquefaction plant at Jumping Pound near the Canadian
Green Corridor route’s halfway point next year. In June, it
agreed with  TravelCenters of America LLC (TA)  to sell LNG to heavy-
duty trucks in the U.S.  “We’ve been surprised how quickly interest has
accelerated,” Henry said. “We are already looking at the Great
Lakes Corridor and the  Gulf coast  for shipping and for
trucking.”  China  has already developed capacity to offer 6 million
tons of LNG a year for transportation, Henry said.  “This has been done under the radar by Chinese
companies,” he said. “They found the way of giving away free
buses to customers” to create demand, which “can grow quite
quickly because of the price arbitrage.”  LNG Demand  Shell expects the world’s demand for LNG to rise five times
to 500 million tons a year in 2025 from 2000. Producers will
need to invest $50 billion a year in the new capacity over 15
years to meet demand for the fuel.  Gas “long-term demand growth remains firm, driven by
Asia,” Jefferies International Ltd. wrote in a Nov. 27 report.
“In  North America , projects to export low-cost gas to premium
markets are now becoming a reality, which should add
considerable value to the otherwise stranded resource that has
been unlocked from the continent’s shale.”  Shell is also examining several projects in the U.S. part
of its integrated marketing approach. It’s reviewing plans to
build a gas-to-chemicals plant in  Pennsylvania  to use ethane
from Marcellus Shale and to export LNG from Freeport site on the
U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  coast. In Canada, Shell is developing a
project to export 12 million tons of LNG a year from Kitimat,
British Columbia.  “We are probably two years at least away from a final
 investment decision  on LNG export and chemicals,” Voser said.
“We’ve got some decisions to make on how much capital to
allocate to these opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  