-- Shepherd Energy Hedge Fund Halts Oil Trading to Focus on Power
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-03T10:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/shepherd-energy-hedge-fund-halts-oil-trading-to-focus-on-power.html
Shepherd Energy AB, a Swedish
 investment company  that manages a hedge fund specialized in
energy, plans to stop oil and  emissions trading  to focus on
Nordic power.  Total net asset value rose 1.22 percent in the first 10
months from a year earlier, according to the fund’s latest
 monthly report . Results from emissions trading and oil weighed
down an 8.6 percent gain in electricity trading, Arne Oesterlind, a  fund manager  at Shepherd Energy, said today by
phone from Stockholm.  “Our best performance comes from trading power,” he said.
“Excessive price movements have prompted us to withdraw from
trading oil, while narrow price ranges and too little volatility
for emission permits have caused us to pull out.”  Nordic power funds have seen returns fall amid  Europe ’s
struggle to tame its debt crisis, with Sweden’s Adapto Advisors
AB ceasing trading in its two-year-old Adapto Energy Fund in
June following investor withdrawals. NK Funds AS in Bergen,
 Norway , closed its Nordic Power trading fund in August after
price volatility led to losses. Shepherd Energy doesn’t disclose
data on invested capital.  “We are not as big as we were historically,” Oesterlind
said. “The Nordic power market has been challenging and
jittery, often with a lack of clear price trends, and with
contrarian movements, although the past six months have again
been more driven by traditional weather factors.”  The fund, which has sought funds from institutional and
wealthy private investors since 2004, aims for annual net
returns of 12 to 15 percent, according to its website.  “Nordic power is where our team’s competence is, and we
are more likely to achieve our return goals now that we focus on
electricity, also including  Germany ,” Oesterlind said. Fund
managers include Mattias Hellberg and Andreas Edlund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  