-- Shui On Markets Dollar Debt After Spreads Narrow for Second Week
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-12-03T03:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/shui-on-markets-dollar-debt-after-spreads-narrow-for-second-week.html
Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  is marketing
dollar-denominated bonds after debt costs for Asian borrowers in
the U.S. currency fell for a second consecutive week.  The Shanghai-based developer controlled by Hong Kong
billionaire Vincent Lo plans to sell perpetual notes yielding
about 10.5 percent via one of its units, a person familiar with
the matter said. The average yield premium on Asian dollar bonds
fell 4.6 basis points last week to 265.1 basis points more than
Treasuries, an HSBC Holdings Plc index shows.  Prospects for  China ’s property developers are improving as
the region’s largest economy, which appointed new leaders last
month, reports data showing manufacturing gained in November
while  house prices  increased for a sixth month. Asian bond risk
rose today after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  hardened their positions over the
fiscal cliff, ahead of data that may show U.S. employers added
about half as many jobs in November as the prior month.  The Chinese data is “a good boost to this week’s trading,
as it reinforces the point we’re seeing a post-leadership
changeover recovery,” said Owen Gallimore, a Singapore-based
credit trading desk analyst at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  While positive data will encourage companies to sell
bonds, investors are expected to be cautious ahead of U.S.
employment figures and uncertainty about the so-called fiscal
cliff, he added.  U.S. politicians are struggling to avert more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts that are slated to
come into force next year.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose one basis point to 111.5 as of 8:40
a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The benchmark slid to 111.4 on Nov. 30, its lowest since July
last year, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Shui On is selling its perpetual notes, which the company
can repurchase after five years, via unit Shui On Development
Holding Ltd., said the person familiar with the matter, asking
not to be identified because the details are private.  Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Standard Chartered
Plc and UBS AG are managing the sale, the person said.  China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index, a gauge of the
manufacturing industry, was 50.6 in November, the highest in
seven months, data released by the National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing on Dec. 1
showed.  House prices gained 0.26 percent in November, rising for
the sixth month,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest
real estate website owner, said in an e-mailed report today.  Japan Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped two basis points to
164 as of 8:58 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The
gauge is headed for its lowest since April 9, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia was little changed at 130 as of
10:48 a.m. in Sydney, after declining last week to its lowest
level since March, according to ANZ and CMA prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  