-- Skeletons Dance With Graveyard Humor in London Death Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-12-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/skeletons-dance-with-graveyard-humor-in-london-death-show.html
The one item that isn’t lacking in
“Death: A Self Portrait” at the Wellcome Collection is skulls.  Most of the 300 or so artworks on display contain at least 
one head-bone, as well as sundry toe-bones, knee-caps and shin-
bones. Some contain dozens of death’s heads.  The result is both monotonous and, in a gruesome fashion,
highly entertaining. It also makes some interesting points. The
skull is as close as human cultures come to a universal symbol.  Death is of course, in common with taxation, the fate of
all of homo sapiens. Of this fact, the bare grinning cranium is
the most obvious sign, and in the past -- even a century ago --
it and other representations of earthly transience were
ubiquitous.  The effect is of a danse macabre, a carnival of death, as
presented by artists from many different times and places.  Exhibits on show --  selected from some 1500 mortality-
related images and objects collected by Richard Harris, a former
print dealer from  Chicago  -- range from a 19th-century Japanese
painting of “Frolicking Skeletons,” via Tibet and (naturally)
 Mexico , to Andy Warhol.  All that’s missing is Damien Hirst’s diamond-encrusted
skull “For the Love of God,” though recent art is presented by
several works including a huge festive-looking chandelier by
Jodie Carey, “In the Eyes of Others” (2009). On closer
examination, it turns out to be made up of artfully interlaced
vertebrae and other skeletal remains.  Fatal Dance  At the heart of the  show  -- if that’s the correct
anatomical metaphor -- are works related to the European
traditions of the Dance of Death. Many medieval churches and
cemeteries contained paintings of cheery, mobile skeletons,
capering with varying degrees of ghoulish humor and sometimes
playing a fiddle or other instrument, leading everyone, young
and old, rich and poor into the fatal dance.  Hamlet’s comic backchat with the grave-diggers is a
literary equivalent to these grimly jolly pictures, with the
same message: death is sad and also funny.  At the  Wellcome , there are multiple specimens of visual
graveyard humor, among them extraordinary French postcards in
which, for example, the empty eye-sockets of a skull become the
heads of a pair of kissing lovers.  In 17th-century Dutch still-life pictures, a skull was
depicted alongside flowers, a memento mori (or reminder of
death) among these representations of beautiful, passing life.
More unnerving, and more recent, is “Skull Walking Cane”
(1988), photographed by Robert Mapplethorpe the year before he
died of AIDS.  Bleakest Section  The section of the show that is lightest on skulls is also
the bleakest.  Devoted to “Violent Death,” it’s dominated by three of
the most powerful representations of cruelty and slaughter in
all of art: Jacques Callot’s “Miseries and Misfortunes of War”
(1633), Goya’s “The Disasters of War” (1810-20) and Otto Dix’s
“The War” (1924).  In these, for the most part, bones and skeletons are
replaced by atrocities. There’s little even in documentary
photography of carnage as terrible as some of the scenes of the
Napoleonic Wars depicted by Goya in a few etched lines.  This brings out the paradox of the exhibition. For all its
sinister significance, there’s something companionable, almost
friendly about the skull. That’s why it works so well as costume
or mask for Halloween and the Latin American Day of the Dead
(some of which are on show). Neither of those shows any sign of
losing popularity.  Even given this, and the best efforts of movie directors
makers and sensation-seeking contemporary artists, you leave the
show thinking that in the modern world death is a fact of which
we are quite literally losing sight.  “Death: A Self Portrait” is at The Wellcome Collection, 183
Euston Road,  London , NW1 2BE until Feb. 24, 2013.  Information:  http://www.wellcomecollection.org  or
 http://bit.ly/OgxKC2   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Warwick
Thompson  on London theater and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 