-- SL Green Agrees to Buy Brooklyn, NY, Apartment Building
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-12-03T22:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/sl-green-agrees-to-buy-brooklyn-ny-apartment-building.html
SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , New York
City’s biggest office landlord, agreed to buy a recently
completed apartment building in  Brooklyn  for its first
residential investment in the borough.  The 84-unit property in the Williamsburg section is atop a
commercial condominium that the New York-based real estate
investment trust bought in 2010, SL Green said today in a
statement. The price, seller and address weren’t disclosed.  SL Green has been seeking to expand into New York
residential property and tap into the rising market for
apartments. In January, it joined Stonehenge Partners in a $193
million deal to acquire seven retail and multifamily properties
in  Manhattan ’s Midtown and Upper East Side neighborhoods.  “We’re taking a very measured approach to getting our toes
wet in apartments,” SL Green President Andrew Mathias said
today during an investor presentation. The company hopes
multifamily housing “will become a meaningful piece of our
business,” he said.  The Williamsburg property, which includes 72 apartments and
12 townhouses, is three blocks south of the  L subway line ,
according to the statement. The three-bedroom townhouses each
have 1,850 square feet (172 square meters), a ground-level
garden and rooftop terrace. The statement didn’t make clear
whether the units would be rented or sold.  The property’s retail portion includes a Duane Reade
drugstore, an HSBC Bank branch, and a 142-car garage.  ‘High Returns’  The acquisition of a new building “will give us the high
returns associated with new construction without any
construction risk,” Brett Herschenfeld, SL Green senior vice
president, said in the statement.  The deal is expected to be completed by the end of March,
the company said. Rick Matthews, an SL Green spokesman, declined
to comment beyond the statement.  Rents for one-bedroom apartments in Williamsburg rose 11
percent in the 12 months through October to $3,332 a month,
according to the brokerage  MNS . Rents for two-bedroom units rose
17 percent to $4,155.  SL Green Chairman Stephen L. Green became known in the
1980s as “king of the Bs” for his strategy of buying older,
so-called Class B offices that he renovated and later sold for a
profit. After becoming a REIT in 1997, the company traded up to
such properties as the Graybar Building near Grand Central
Terminal; and 1515 Broadway, the Times Square home of  Viacom
Inc. (VIAB) , owner of Paramount Pictures and  MTV .  ‘Very Complementary’  The company’s “main focus is still office,” Mathias said.
“We’re still finding a lot of great office to do. But
residential is very complementary to our skills, and it’s
something that we want to grow.”  SL Green projected 2013 funds from operations of $4.90 to
$5 a share, according to a regulatory filing today. The average
 estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for $4.91 a
share. FFO gauges a property company’s ability to generate cash.  In a separate statement today, SL Green said it sold a
trust that has a leasehold interest in  London ’s Procession
House, a 105,195-square-foot office building, for $100 million.
It also bought a non-performing mortgage on 315 Park Avenue
South in Manhattan, a 20-story tower leased primarily to  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   SL Green rose 0.8 percent to $75.95 today in  New York 
trading. The shares have gained 14 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent increase in the Bloomberg REIT Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  