-- Slovenia Ex-Premier Wins Presidency as Recession Deepens
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-03T06:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/slovenia-ex-premier-wins-presidency-as-recession-deepens.html
Borut Pahor, Slovenia’s former prime
minister, won the presidential election in the euro-region
nation that is fighting its second recession in three years.  Pahor got 67 percent of the vote in the second round of
elections while the incumbent Danilo Turk received 32 percent of
support, the state  electoral commission  said on its website late
yesterday.  “I received an immense political support,” Pahor, 49,
said after the results were announced. “With all colossal
troubles we are faced with, I know there must also be an exit as
we all work together. Our troubles can be bridged.”  Pahor, whose government was toppled last year after a
rejection of pension changes in a referendum, will take the
ceremonial role in the Adriatic nation that is working to avoid
an international bailout for its banking industry as its economy
shrinks on depressed demand for its exports in  Europe .  Gross domestic product contracted an annual 3.3 percent in
the third quarter, compared with 3.2 percent in the previous
three-month period. The economy, set to shrink the most in the
17-member euro region after Greece and  Portugal  this year
according to the European Commission report, will recover in
2014, the  International Monetary Fund  said last month.  “Pahor can contribute positively to the tense atmosphere
of political uncertainty as an advocate of a grand deal between
the government and the opposition on a limited list of main
crisis-tackling tasks,” said Andraz Grahek, a Ljubljana-based
economist. “I also believe the protest movement is putting
welcome pressure on the politicians to stop the tug of war and
get to serious work.”  Protests  Protests erupted in the capital of Ljubljana on Nov. 30,
when several policemen were injured and more than 30 people
arrested during a peaceful demonstration against the ruling
elite. This followed a protest against Franc Kangler, the mayor
of Maribor, Slovenia’s second biggest city. More protests around
the country are planned for today.  “The result has somewhat eased tensions,” Prime Minister
 Janez Jansa  said yesterday.  Slovenia saw its borrowing costs on the benchmark $2.25,
10-year bond sold last month surged to a record 5.7077 percent
on Nov. 19 as a threat of a referendum emerged on the
government’s plan to re-capitalize the bank industry.  Pahor, who then acted as the parliamentary speaker in
Slovenia, signaled he may support the overhaul of the economy
pushed by Jansa’s government. The administration is working on a
bank recapitalization plan, the creation of a wealth fund and
other measures to spur economic growth and win back investors’
confidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  