-- South Africa PMI Remains Below Key Level, Signaling Contraction
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-12-03T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/south-africa-pmi-remains-below-key-level-signaling-contraction.html
South Africa’s purchasing managers’
 index  remained below a key level for a third month in November,
indicating that factory output probably contracted in the fourth
quarter, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index rose to 49.5 from 47.1 in
October, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso  said in an e-mailed statement
today. An index level below 50 indicates a contraction in
factory output. The median estimate of three economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for the index to rise to 47.6.  The South African Reserve Bank held its benchmark lending
rate at the lowest level in more than 30 years last month as
quickening inflation left little room to cut borrowing costs to
boost growth. Mining output fell in the third quarter and
manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy, rose an
annualized 1.2 percent after contracting in the previous three
months, according to the nation’s statistics agency.  Purchasing managers’ index “readings in the euro zone, the
leading foreign market for our locally-produced goods, remains
in contraction,” Abdul Davids, head of research at Kagiso Asset
Management in Cape Town, said. “The declining trend in the
average PMI suggests that the manufacturing sector’s
contribution to fourth quarter gross domestic product could be
lower than the third quarter.”  Mining declined an annualized 12.7 percent in the third
quarter because of strikes at gold and platinum mines, the worst
since the end of apartheid in 1994, the statistics agency said
last week. The economy expanded at an annualized 1.2 percent,
the slowest pace since the nation was in a recession in 2009.  The index measuring business activity gained 2.7 points to
45.9, Kagiso said. The new sales orders index rose 2.4 points to
47.7, while the employment sub-index increased to 52, it said.
The price sub-index rose to 79.5.  The Bureau for Economic Research, based at the University
of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, conducts the PMI survey along
with the institute on behalf of Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  