-- South African Grape Farms Braced for New Wave of Wage Protests
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-12-03T12:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/south-african-grape-farms-braced-for-new-wave-of-wage-protests.html
Farms in  South Africa ’s biggest table
grape-growing region are preparing for a new wave of protests
scheduled for tomorrow as workers repeat their demand for higher
wages.  Workers have burnt down vineyards and sheds and caused
damage estimated at 120 million rand ($13.6 million) since
strikes began in the Western Cape province on Nov. 6, according
to farmers’ group  AgriSA . The farmworkers want a minimum wage of
150 rand a day, up from the current level of 70 rand.  “I can’t see that they will enter private property
again,” Migael Loubser, a farmer and chairman of the Hex River
Table Grape Producers’ Association, said by phone from De
Doorns, about 140 kilometers (87 miles) northeast of  Cape Town .
Farmers have hired private security firms to protect their
property and non-striking workers, he said.  Miners at South African platinum mines began wildcat
strikes in August that led to the killing of 46 people,
including 34 shot by police near  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine on
Aug. 16. The industrial action spread to gold, coal and iron ore
mines as well as truck companies, with workers demanding higher
wages.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, which brokered
a two-week suspension of the strike last month and asked the
labor minister to review minimum wages, said it was not ordering
a renewal of  strike action . “It comes from the farmworkers
themselves,” Tony Ehrenreich, the organization’s provincial
head, said by phone from Cape Town today.  The  South African Table Grape Industry  estimates that Hex
River Valley, where De Doorns is located, will export 18.2
million to 18.5 million 4.5-kilogram cartons this season. The
harvest will start in early-January, Loubser said. The nation’s
total crop, the largest in  Africa , will be 53.8 million to 55.1
million cartons, the organization said in an e-mailed response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  