-- Syria Warned Amid Signs of Chemical Weapons Preparations
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-12-04T13:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/syria-warned-amid-signs-of-chemical-weapons-preparations.html
President  Barack Obama  warned Syria’s
Bashar al-Assad not to use or distribute its stock of chemical
weapons, as U.S. officials saw evidence that the country’s
embattled regime may be preparing to unleash such weapons to
repel advances by rebel fighters.  “I want to make it absolutely clear to Assad and those
under his command: the world is watching,” Obama said yesterday
in a speech at the National Defense University in  Washington .
“The use of chemical weapons is and would be totally
unacceptable, and if you make the tragic mistake of using these
weapons, there will be consequences and you will be held
accountable.”  U.S. reconnaissance satellites and other tools last week
detected increased activity at several chemical weapons depots
in  Syria , including movement of some weapons into position where
President Assad’s forces could more quickly deliver them by
aircraft or artillery, two U.S. officials said.  Intelligence sources also picked up orders to at least one
Syrian military base to begin combining the two precursor
chemical components of Sarin nerve gas to make it ready to use,
the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to
discuss intelligence details. Syrian authorities have stored the
components, which produce a deadly nerve agent when mixed, in
secure separate facilities, according to the officials.  The Syrian Foreign Ministry yesterday denied that the
regime planned to use chemical weapons against it own people.  Decisive Moment  The 20-month uprising against Assad’s minority Alawite
ruling party -- which the opposition Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights  said has killed more than 30,000 people -- appears
to be at or near a decisive moment, according to the U.S.
officials. Regime leaders may fear that they may soon be forced
to decide whether to flee into exile, fight to the death or
delay defeat by using chemical weapons, the officials said.  The fighting has drawn close to Damascus, the capital, and
rebels fighting to overthrow the Assad regime have gained the
ability to shoot down Syrian warplanes and helicopters with
shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles supplied by  Persian Gulf
states , the U.S. officials said.  The Syrian government yesterday sent fighter jets to bomb
suburbs around Damascus to keep rebel fighters from the center
of the city, the Voice of America reported, citing the U.K.-
based Syrian Observatory.  Jordan, Turkey  The U.S. has been working with  Jordan  and  Turkey  in an
effort to monitor chemical weapons sites “and try to determine
how best to respond to any concerns in that area,” Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta said in October. “A group of our
forces” are in Jordan to help build a headquarters and assist
with “possible consequences of what’s happening in Syria,”
Panetta said Oct. 10 at a news conference in Brussels.  The U.S. will take action if it sees evidence that the
Syrian government is using chemical weapons, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said yesterday. “This is a red line for the
 United States ,” she said in Prague. She declined to say what
specific action the U.S. might take.  In  London  today, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
warned of a “serious response from the international
community” if Syria uses chemical weapons and said contingency
plans are being readied.  “We’ve expressed in no uncertain terms directly to the
Syrian regime the gravity of any use of chemical weapons,”
Hague told lawmakers in the House of Commons. “This would cause
us to revisit our approach to Syria.”  ‘Red Line’  In Washington, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said
yesterday that the Syrian regime would cross the U.S. “red
line” if it provides chemical weapons to others as well as if
it uses such weapons itself.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said concern has
increased that the Assad regime might turn to its chemical
weapons stockpiles as it fails to stem the upheaval by
conventional means.  “With the regime’s grip on power loosening, with its
failure to put down the opposition through conventional means,
we have an increased concern about the possibility of the regime
taking the desperate act of using its chemical weapons,” Carney
told reporters.  The U.S. last publicly warned Syria about chemical weapons
in July when Obama said the regime “will be held accountable”
if the weapons were unleashed, after the Syrian Foreign Ministry
said the nation’s stockpiles were secure.  Syrian Pledge  Syria has repeatedly said that it won’t use any chemical
weapons, if they exist, against its people no matter the
circumstances, an official source at the Foreign and Expatriates
Ministry said yesterday, according to the website of Syrian
state television. The Syrian source, who wasn’t identified, said
the U.S. has a record of fabricating such issues as a pretext
for war, citing the invasion of  Iraq , according to the report.  Citing the worsening security situation in Syria, the
United Nations yesterday ordered the pullout of all its non-
essential staff, according to spokesman  Martin Nesirky .  Turkey has asked the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to
deploy Patriot missile batteries on its soil for the first time
in about a decade amid fears that Syria may launch a punitive
attack, which could include the use of chemical weapons, against
the country for backing Syrian rebels.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has said he is
concerned that Hezbollah or other groups could gain control of
Syria’s chemical weapons if Assad’s regime collapses. Netanyahu
has said he wouldn’t rule out Israeli action in such a case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  