-- MTU Adds Suppliers as Rising Airbus Demand Boosts Engine Output
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-03T07:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/mtu-adds-suppliers-as-rising-airbus-demand-boosts-engine-output.html
MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX) ,
 Germany ’s largest aircraft engine maker, is shifting work to
low-cost countries and adding suppliers to help manage a large
boost in output in the coming four years.  Commercial engine work will increase 45 percent through
2016 from 2012, said Anton Binder, MTU’s senior vice president
commercial business. Sales are expected to grow 60 percent, he
said.  MTU faces increasing demand as commercial aircraft makers
Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  boost airliner output. The Munich-
based engine maker is also readying for the production rampup of
geared turbofan engines being developed by partner  United
Technologies (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit for  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s
CSeries, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet and Airbus’s A320neo.  “This means a huge challenge for MTU’s supply chain,”
Chief Operating Officer Rainer Martens said. To avoid
shortfalls, MTU is adding supplies for critical parts, he said.  To boost profitability, MTU wants to shift 30 percent of
production to low-cost countries from around 10 percent
currently, Binder said. New automation technologies will also be
introduced to increase output without adding staff.  Near-term growth is driven by production of V2500s built
with Pratt and Japanese Aero Engines Corp. for the current A320.
Production of the existing powerplants for Airbus will cease
around 2018, Binder said, although it will continue in smaller
numbers for the KC-390 military transport being developed by
 Embraer SA. (EMBR3)   Engine Backlog  Business on the V2500 is expected to drive a “mid-teen”
increase in new engines sales in 2013, said Chief Financial
Officer Reiner Winkler at an investor day last week. MTU this
year increased its share of work on the engine to 16 percent by
value from 11 percent.  Sales linked to the replacement offering, the geared
turbofan, are still at a low level although output is poised to
match the peak of V2500s production in 2016, Binder said. MTU
and its partners have a backlog of more than 2,900 engines,
Binder said.  Certification of the first geared turbofan, the PW1500G for
the Canadian CSeries, is due by year-end, MTU said.  Although narrowbody airliner production represents the
large volume increase in MTU business in the coming years,
increasing Boeing output of 787 widebodies is contributing as
well. MTU is a partner to  General Electric Co. (GE)  on the GEnx
engine offered on the 787 and 747-8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  