-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Climb; HCA Sells $1 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-03T22:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-climb-hca-sells-1-billion-of-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose for the first time in four days as a drop in U.S.
manufacturing and concern about the so-called fiscal cliff
offset an advance in Chinese economic data.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.3
basis points to a mid-price of 99.9 basis points at 4:44 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  House Republicans  proposed a budget plan that rejected
President  Barack Obama ’s demand for tax rate increases,
heightening concern that a failure to reach a compromise will
prolong the economic slowdown and hinder companies’ ability to
repay debt. China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed
to the highest level in seven months as the U.S. Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index unexpectedly dropped to 49.5,
the lowest since July 2009.  “The fiscal cliff is weighing on the market, these
discussions going back and forth aren’t contributing,” Dorian Garay, a New York-based money manager for an investment-grade
debt fund at ING Investment Management, said in a telephone
interview. “From the corporate side, many companies have been
delaying spending until they have more clarity.”  Manufacturing in the U.S. contracted in November as orders
dropped to a three-month low and exports slowed, the  Institute
for Supply Management  said today. Economists projected the index
would slow to 51.4, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Fiscal Cliff  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  House Speaker John Boehner today called the new offer a
“credible plan.” The proposal, in a letter to Obama from
Boehner and other House Republican leaders, calls for $1.4
trillion in spending cuts and $800 billion in new revenue by
limiting tax breaks and capping deductions for top earners.  China’s official manufacturing index climbed to 50.6 in
November as new orders and export demand advanced, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing reported Dec. 1 in Beijing. That compares with the
50.8 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 analysts
and 50.2 the previous month. A private gauge of manufacturing
climbed to 50.5, a separate report showed.  HCA Issuance  Markets “started off stronger, probably based on the
Chinese number, and then it was tempered by our numbers,”
Robert Grimm, head of high-yield trading at Odeon Capital Group
LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“Our economy is definitely slowing.”  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the biggest U.S. for-profit hospital
operator, sold $1 billion of bonds to make a distribution to
stockholders. The Nashville, Tennessee-based company issued the
6.25 percent debt due February 2021 to yield 462 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The new bonds are rated B3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and an equivalent B- by  Fitch Ratings , the
ratings companies said today in separate reports.  Junk Spreads  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt narrowed 4
basis points to 5.74 percentage points today, led by spreads on
the bonds of materials companies, which fell 13 basis points to
5.2 percentage points, Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-
risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s . A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index increased 5.9 basis points to 505.8 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of  Dean
Foods Co. (DF)  dropped 51.1 basis points to 348.9 basis points as of
4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The  Dallas , Texas-based company agreed to sell its
Morningstar Foods unit for $1.45 billion to  Saputo Inc. (SAP) ,
 Canada ’s largest dairy processor. Chief Executive Officer Gregg
Tanner said Dean Foods will “use substantially all of the net
proceeds from the sale to significantly reduce outstanding debt,
resulting in a stronger balance sheet and increased flexibility
to execute against our strategies for our core dairy business,”
according to a statement distributed by PR Newswire today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  