-- Turkish Wine Renaissance Promotes Rock-Aged Whites
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-12-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/turkish-wine-renaissance-promotes-rock-aged-whites.html
At a tasting in a World War II cement
bunker in  Gali winery’s  vineyards on Turkey’s Gallipoli
peninsula, the 2010 bright, juicy cabernet franc-merlot blend is
a big and very pleasant surprise.  One of several dozen small boutique wineries founded in the
last few years, Gali is part of the country’s growing wine
renaissance. It was the first stop on recent tasting tour that
left me highly enthusiastic about Turkey’s wine potential.  After tramping through Gali’s vineyards, with windy views
of the blue Aegean Sea, the Dardanelles and Sea of Marmara, I
savor the delicious red again on owner Hakan Kavur’s stone
terrace with oregano-accented lamb slow-braised in local olive
oil.  When it comes to wine, you’re never far from history in
this country of more than 800 grape varieties. Though many new
vintners in  Turkey ’s seven wine regions champion international
ones like chardonnay and cabernet, I discover the best wines so
far come from a handful of Turkish grapes with hard-to-pronounce
names like okuzgozu (oh-cooz-goe-zoo) and kalecik karasi (kah-
le-djic-car-ah-ser).  Indiana Jones  The centerpiece of my 10-day trip is the EWBC Digital Wine
Communications Conference in Izmir on the Aegean. One of the
main speakers,  Patrick McGovern  of the University of
Pennsylvania Museum -- who is called the Indiana Jones of wine
archeology -- makes the case for Turkey as wine’s birthplace.  His presentation covers the country’s several thousand
years of flourishing drinking culture under the Hittites,
Assyrians, Lydians and Byzantine Christians.  Despite that history, Turkey’s 100-plus wineries face
serious challenges in a land with a 99 percent Muslim
population. The government discourages consumption through high
taxes and advertisement bans, and this year prohibited internet
sales.  None of that stopped Izmir native Lucien Arkas, chairman of
Arkas Holding A.S., owner of 55 companies, and a major art
collector, from investing in a 1,168-acre property 45 minutes
southeast of Izmir.  As we talk over small glasses of Turkish tea in between the
conference’s panels and tastings, Arkas, 67, smiles and shrugs,
“People still smoke and drink. Twenty million tourists want to
go to the beach, and sip wine.”  LA Wines  The genial, round-faced Arkas, in a dark blue Zegna suit,
says he purchased a small share in the 2005 project sight
unseen, but bought out his partners in 2010. Now the vineyards
are certified organic, and he renamed the winery LA Wines.  I like LA’s pure-tasting 2010 Mon Reve chardonnay/chenin
blanc ($16), with its hint of pears and tropical fruit, and the
earthy 2010 Mon Reve Tempranillo. I sip them at the Arkas museum
in Izmir, while studying Turkish photographer Ahmet Ertug’s
stunning pictures of European opera houses and libraries.  Like Kavur, Arkas is wedded to European grape varieties
rather than his country’s own.  Happily, both avoid the excessive-oak-aging embraced by
many of Turkey’s small estate wineries. Case in point: The Gulor
winery founded in 1993 by Guler Sabanci, the chairman of her
family’s  Sabanci Holding (SAHOL) , the second largest company in Turkey,
and the first to plant international grapes. Gulor makes a
clean, fresh 2012 G Sauvignon Blanc ($11), but its pricier reds
taste more of wood than fruit.  Local Grapes  Some of the biggest (and oldest) wineries are now
refocusing on indigenous grapes.  Doluca  dates from 1926, and at
its huge new modern cellar hidden away in a vast gray industrial
park a 90-minute drive from Istanbul, its French winemaker
Pascal Lenzi pours barrel samples of a crisp, lemony white 2012
Narince (nah-rin-djeh) and a lively easy-drinking 2012 Kalecik
Karasi, the Turkish answer to gamay, the grape of Beaujolais.  But a few days later, on the high desert plateau of
Cappadocia in central Anatolia, I find the most exciting wines
of my stay at the traditional  Kocabag winery  outside Uchisar.
The spare, windswept expanse of landscape, where herds of wild
horses once roamed and patches of grapevines sprawl like low
bushes as they did thousands of years ago, seems vast and
timeless.  “My grandfather started in 1972 in a simple cave carved
from rock,” explains third generation Mehmet Erdogan, as he
leads the way into the winery. The stone arches and fermenting
and aging vats are all carved from soft, easy-to-work tuff rock
made of compressed volcanic ash.  Lamb Kebab  At a wine bar and shop overlooking the strange rock
formations in Uchisar’s Pigeon Valley, Erdogan pours Kocabag’s
two whites and three reds.  My white pick is tart, appley 2011 Narince, with its floral
aromas and wet stone taste. Among reds, the stars are 2011
Kapadokya ($14), a complex earth-and-black-cherry blend of
bogazkere and okuzgozu and the subtle, soft cassis and fruit
2010 Okuzgozu ($16), which is perfect with lamb shish kebab. I
had to have a second glass.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and Martin
Gayford on  art .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 