-- Vale Cuts Investment to $16.3 Billion as Iron Falls on China
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-12-03T21:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/vale-cuts-investment-to-16-3-billion-as-iron-falls-on-china-1-.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest  iron-ore 
producer, plans to invest the least in three years in 2013 as
lower prices and slowing demand erode profit. Shares  fell  for
the first time in three days.  Vale will invest $16.3 billion next year, down from a
revised $17.5 billion this year, the Rio de Janeiro-based
company said in a regulatory  filing . That compares with a $15.3
billion average estimate of nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The prospects for a moderate expansion of global demand
for minerals and metals in the medium term require rigid
discipline in capital allocation and a stronger focus on
maximizing efficiency,” Vale said in the statement today.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is selling assets,
looking for partners and writing off unprofitable projects after
shares slumped to the lowest in almost three years in September.
The investment reduction is the biggest since 2009, when Vale
announced a 36 percent mid-year reduction in capital expenditure
to about $9 billion.  Iron-ore output will drop to 306 million metric tons in
2013 from 312 million tons this year, while nickel production is
expected to decline 13 percent to 260,000 tons, Vale said.
Copper production is forecast to grow 19 percent to 365,000 tons
next year, while coal output will decline to 12.4 million metric
tons, it said.  Vale slid 0.1 percent to 36.68 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today. The stock  lost  3 percent this year.  Price Slide  Vale, the world’s third-largest mining company by market
value, is cutting  capital expenditures  next year by 6.9 percent
after saying today it won’t reach the $21.4 billion initially
budgeted for 2012, the second consecutive year the company
misses its annual investment target. The company will spend
about 47 percent of the 2013 budget on the ferrous business, its
most profitable unit, it said.  “We are at the end of the supercycle, we are living a new
moment in the  mining industry ,” Ferreira said today during a
 presentation  to investors at the  New York  Stock Exchange. “The
new scenario requires stricter discipline in capital
allocation.”  Vale  may sell as much as 70 percent of its VLI logistics
unit after receiving “huge interest” from potential partners
in its general cargo business as it seeks to divest lower return
assets, Ferreira said. The company, which is also looking for
partners at its Nacala railway and port project in  Mozambique ,
will send a proposal to sell its oil and gas assets to the
company’s board, he said.  Norway, Argentina  Vale may also consider selling its 22 percent  stake  in
Oslo-based  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , Europe’s third-largest aluminum
producer, Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani said today
during the same event. The company is additionally in “formal
talks” with an undisclosed potential partner for its $5.9
billion Rio Colorado potash project in Argentina, said  Roger
Downey , Vale’s fertilizers & coal head.  Before today, Vale lost 2.5 percent for investors in dollar
terms including dividends in the past year, compared with a 2.7
percent loss for Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
mining company, and a 9.5 percent for London-based Rio Tinto
Group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Vale trades at 8
times reported earnings, compared with 12 at BHP and 24 at Rio.  Slowing Growth  Iron ore with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin fell 0.3 percent to $115.3 a dry ton today, the
lowest since Oct. 19, according to data from The Steel Index
Ltd. The price declined 17 percent this year.  Ferreira, who succeeded  Roger Agnelli  in May 2011 amid
government criticism that Vale wasn’t investing enough, this
year cut output of premium pellet products, suspended projects
and sold assets for about $1.2 billion as demand wanes in China
and Europe, the company’s two biggest markets.  China’s economic growth probably will slow to 7.7 percent
this year from 9.3 percent last year, according to the average
of 56 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The asset
sales included a thermal-coal project in  Colombia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  