-- Victek, Defense Shares Gain on N. Korea Rocket Plan: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-12-03T01:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/victek-defense-shares-gain-on-n-korea-rocket-plan-seoul-mover.html
Victek Co. (065450)  led gains among South
Korean defense-related stocks in Seoul trading after North Korea
said it will fire a long-range rocket.  Victek, a maker of electronic warfare equipment, jumped by
the daily limit of 15 percent to 1,940 won as of 10:03 a.m. on
the Korea Exchange, poised for its biggest gain since April 23.
Firstec Co., a maker of components for helicopters and armored
vehicles, rose 11 percent to 2,060 won, while  Speco Co. (013810)  added 15
percent to 2,825 won.  North Korea said it will fire a long-range rocket between
Dec. 10 and Dec. 22, in defiance of international sanctions and
as South Koreans hold an election for a new president.  South
Korea  “sternly” warned its neighbor against the plan, saying
the firing would bring a “forceful response” from the world.  “Bets that geopolitical risks may rise are driving some
defense stocks higher,” Kim Gi Bo, a Seoul-based  fund manager 
at Friend Investment Management, said today. “Previous
provocations by the North turned out to have a short-lived and
limited impact on our markets and I think this time will be the
same.”  The communist state will launch a polar-orbiting earth
observation satellite atop an Unha-3 rocket, the state-run
Korean Central News Agency said on Dec. 1. The planned liftoff,
from the Sohae Space Center about 130 kilometers (80 miles)
northwest of the capital, Pyongyang, may complicate
international efforts to engage  North Korea . An unsuccessful
attempt to fire a long-range rocket earlier this year cost the
impoverished country a food-aid deal with the U.S.  A “safe flight path” has been chosen so that potential
debris won’t affect neighboring countries, KCNA said. North
Korea will fully comply with relevant international regulations
regarding satellite launches, it said.  North Korea, ruled by third-generation dictator Kim Jong Un, is developing missiles that may be able to reach  North
America  and carry warheads weighing as much as 1,000 kilograms,
according to U.S. and South Korean estimates. The U.S. has
previously called North Korea’s satellite announcements a cover
for testing long-range ballistic missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  