-- Virgin Atlantic CEO Says Branson Will Remain Majority Owner
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-12-03T12:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/virgin-atlantic-ceo-says-branson-will-remain-majority-owner.html
Richard Branson  is unlikely to
relinquish control of Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. as part of
any deal for  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  to exit its holding, the
U.K. carrier’s chief executive officer, Steve Ridgeway, said.  “He is the majority shareholder,” Ridgeway said in an
interview after the Asian airline confirmed that it might
dispose of the 49 percent investment. “What they said today,
it’s about  Singapore  selling some or all of their stake.”  Singapore Airlines is looking to sever ties to Virgin to
focus on local markets where opportunities are opening up at the
same time that Gulf carriers Emirates, Qatar Airways Ltd. and
Etihad Airways present new challenges, the CEO said.  “ India  has opened up, China has opened up and there are
three fearsome competitors on their western side,” he said.
“That’s what their agenda is about. I’ve got to leave it to
Singapore now, they’ve made that stock-exchange announcement and
we just need to let them work that through.”  Virgin Atlantic is “well down the road” in choosing a new
CEO, he said, adding that the aim is to make an announcement
before Christmas or slightly after and that candidates won’t be
put off by the possibility of a new investor.  “All these things are about opportunities,” Ridgeway
said. “If there is a good opportunity there the job remains as
attractive as it is today.”  Atlanta-based  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is mulling a bid for the
Singapore Air stake, according to people familiar with the plans
who declined to be identified because the matter is private.
Delta ally  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s biggest carrier, might
also purchase a holding, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Jasper at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net  