-- Volvo Cars Forecasts Loss on Investment Costs, Sales Drop
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-12-03T13:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/volvo-cars-forecasts-loss-on-investment-costs-sales-drop.html
Volvo Cars, the Swedish automaker
owned by Chinese manufacturer  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. (175) ,
said it’ll be “very tough” to make an operating profit this
year because of investment spending and declining sales.  “Unfortunately, there are no positive signals on the
European car market,” Chief Executive Officer Hakan Samuelsson
told reporters today in Gothenburg, where Volvo Cars is based.
“In the first half, we had significantly higher volume than we
have now in the second half.” Breaking even before interest and
taxes will be “very tough.”  Volvo’s deliveries are about 6 percent lower now than a
year ago, and the CEO is “especially” dissatisfied with
“flat” sales in  China  as that market has failed to compensate
for declines in the company’s home region, Samuelsson said.  Volvo hired Samuelsson, 61, as CEO on Oct. 19 to replace
Stefan Jacoby as the company works on boosting earnings and
increasing sales in China. The carmaker is slowing production
and cutting about 1,000 temporary workers in Sweden and  Belgium 
as  Europe ’s automotive market heads for a 17-year low in 2012
amid a recession in countries using the euro.  First-half earnings before interest and taxes at Volvo
dropped 84 percent from a year earlier to 239 million kronor
($36 million) as the carmaker ramped up spending on new models
and factories. The company reported a net loss of 254 million
kronor compared with net income of 1.21 billion kronor in the
2011 period.  Keeping Targets  Volvo, which Zhejiang Geely bought from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in
2010 for $1.8 billion, reiterated a plan to invest $11 billion
in factories and technology through 2015. Almost half of that
figure will be spent in Sweden, mostly for a new platform for
vehicle manufacturing that will produce its first car, a
revamped version of the XC90 sport-utility vehicle, in 2014.  “We must continue to prioritize long-term investments,”
Samuelsson said. “It’s completely key to Volvo’s future.”  The carmaker is sticking to a goal of almost doubling
volume to 800,000 cars by 2020 from 449,255 vehicles in 2011,
and construction of two car plants and an engine factory in
China are proceeding according to plan, Samuelsson said.  A loan from the  China Development Bank  that has been
pending since April should materialize “soon,” Samuelsson
said, declining to disclose the amount. An initial public
offering is “not on the agenda,” he said.  Chinese Strategy  Volvo’s first-half deliveries in China rose just 1.7
percent, compared with increases of more than 30 percent at
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Audi AG, the world’s biggest
luxury-vehicle makers. To boost sales in China, Volvo will take
measures such as training its sales force and considering which
vehicles best fit the market, he said.  The company’s first factory in China, located in  Chengdu 
and with an annual capacity of 125,000 vehicles, will start
making cars within a year, he said.  Volvo, which has considered starting U.S. production, isn’t
placing a high priority on manufacturing in that country because
China is a bigger focus, he said.  The company is no longer seeking to cooperate with another
carmaker to build a compact vehicle, as the V40 hatchback that
went on the market this year shows that Volvo is best off
developing the models on its own, Samuelsson said. The V40 has
sold better than Volvo expected, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Gothenburg,  Sweden , via 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  