-- Wall Street Should Reveal More Trading-Revenue Data, Fitch Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-12-03T21:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/wall-street-should-reveal-more-trading-revenue-data-fitch-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among Wall Street banks that fail to give
investors enough data about trading revenue even as they grapple
with new capital and risk-taking rules, Fitch Ratings said.  Investors and counterparties need “a more granular and
detailed presentation” of those revenues as the financial firms
contend with the new regulations, including limits on
proprietary trading, Fitch analysts said today in a report.  “Banks report the largest components of capital-markets
revenues only in a very general fashion,” Fitch’s Joseph Scott
and Bill Warlick wrote. “U.S. banks’ public disclosure of
capital markets revenue is insufficient to allow investors and
counterparties to make a proper assessment of the impact
upcoming regulatory changes will have on firms’ future
profitability, capital adequacy and competitive position.”  Wall Street  faces an industrywide revenue slump as
regulators force banks to set aside more capital under new Basel
requirements and as the Volcker rule, a provision of the Dodd-
Frank Act, restricts them from making risky trades with their
own cash. The rules probably will dictate what kinds of products
banks can trade, especially in fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, or FICC, which provides as much 60 percent of
revenue from capital markets, the Fitch analysts wrote.  The biggest U.S. banks, including Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,
Citigroup Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , all based in New York, and
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , rarely
disclose how much revenue they derive from FICC products,
according to Fitch.  “We believe some areas, such as rates and currencies, will
likely receive more favorable treatment under Basel III and
Volcker,” the analysts wrote, referring to rules approved by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . “Other segments,
however, may be hurt. These could include mortgages and high-
yield corporate bond and loan trading, as well as complex
structured transactions.”  Bank investors and counterparties would “benefit greatly”
from more detailed FICC disclosures, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  