-- Warren Buffett Is Wrong About Taxes
-- B y   E d w a r d   C o n a r d
-- 2012-12-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/warren-buffett-is-wrong-about-taxes.html
The U.S. is holding a debate that is
critical to its future: whether to tax,  redistribute  and consume
income that would otherwise be invested.  Warren Buffett has  weighed in , supporting higher taxes on
wealthy taxpayers. Unfortunately, the evidence he uses to make
his case is superficial and flawed. One can’t help but wonder:
If he had stronger evidence, why wouldn’t he use it?  Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., is an
iconic leader. The U.S. needs insightful  analysis  from him. His
claim that taxing upper-income taxpayers doesn’t reduce
investment runs counter to standard economic logic.  Federal Reserve surveys show the top 5 percent of
households save and invest 40 percent of their income. Median-
income households save very little, whereas the Buffett
household probably invests 99 percent of its income.  If we tax, redistribute and consume income that otherwise
would have been invested, the investable pool of savings
declines. With a smaller pool of capital, less-attractive
investment opportunities remain unfunded. Buffett tautologically
claims investors will continue to invest in opportunities with
expected returns above the cutoff point. Of course they will.
Investment is lost at the margin.  Buffett points to the 1950s and 1960s, when marginal tax
rates were higher, and claims that because the economy grew
faster then, it can grow faster today with higher marginal tax
rates.  Different Economies  What he fails to mention is that the advent of interstate
highways and television knitted together the U.S economy in the
1950s. Large capital-intensive companies such as  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Procter & Gamble Co. raced to exploit previously
unrealized economies of scale.  As a result, entrepreneurs and individual tax rates
mattered much less to growth then than they do today. Growth
accelerated independent of the  tax rate .  The U.S. sent its workforce to college long before the rest
of the world. That also opened new investment opportunities. Two
decades of underinvestment in the private sector -- first during
the Great Depression and then during World War II -- added
further to the rebound. The cost of food dropped from more than
20 percent of gross domestic product to less than 10 percent,
freeing resources to fuel the manufacturing boom.  A much  smaller portion  of GDP was taxed, redistributed and
consumed. Federal, state and local  government spending  was 28
percent of GDP then versus close to 40 percent today. The 1950s
and 1960s don’t provide evidence that increased government
consumption, and the taxes needed to fund it, has no effect on
growth. They show that investment matters.  Buffett also claims the commercialization of the Internet
in the early 1990s created a huge tailwind that benefited the
rich, as if investors did little to earn this success.
Similarly, proponents of higher taxes and spending often claim
that faster growth in the 1990s demonstrated that higher taxes
on investors don’t hurt growth even though the commercialization
of the Web would have accelerated growth independent of the tax
rate.  Comparing the growth of the U.S. with  Europe ’s since the
early 1990s removes the effect of the Internet. Both economies
had access to the same technology and similarly educated
workforces to capitalize on the Web’s opportunities. Since then,
the  U.S. economy  has grown 63 percent (in the period through the
end of 2010);  France  and  Germany ’s together grew less than half
as fast. U.S. productivity growth  increased  from 1.2 percent a
year to 2 percent while France and Germany’s declined to less
than 1.5 percent a year in the periods 1972-1995 versus
1995-2004. Without U.S. innovation, Europe’s growth would have
been lower.  European Contrast  It is true that higher labor redeployment costs slowed
Europe’s transition away from manufacturing. Yet that doesn’t
explain why young, talented European workers clung to jobs in
declining industries while their American counterparts eagerly
walked away from promising careers to join risky startups.  In the U.S., higher payouts drove  increased risk-taking .
Success from that risk-taking raised the bar for success. The
most promising U.S. students flocked to business schools and
worked much longer hours than their underutilized counterparts
in Europe, whose work effort declined. The success of these
American workers created Google Inc., Facebook Inc. and
countless other companies that gave the U.S. workforce more
valuable on-the-job training. That training increased the
chances for entrepreneurial success.  Entrepreneurial success put equity into the hands of
investors willing to underwrite the risks that produce
innovation. No surprise, the U.S. has more equity per dollar of
GDP than Europe and  Japan , and has produced more innovation.
Although commercializing the Internet may have created a
tailwind, a lot of that tailwind was earned.  Government spending was also much lower in the 1990s than
it is today: 18 percent of GDP versus 24 percent. State and
local government spending was lower, too. As a result, President
 Bill Clinton ’s across-the-board tax increase paid down debt,
which strengthened the U.S. economy.  Today, higher taxes are needed to fund an increase in
unproductive consumption, which slows growth. Taxing income that
otherwise would have been invested as equity in order to retire
cheap offshore debt seemed like bad economic policy in the
1990s. With 20-20 hindsight, however, it turned out to be an
ideal time to sell overpriced equity to pay off debt. That’s not
the case today when equity is dear. Far from showing that tax
rates and government spending have no effect of growth, the
1990s provide evidence that payoffs for risk-taking and the
accumulation of equity matter.  The debate over whether to tax, redistribute and consume
income that would otherwise be invested is critical to the
future of America. The nation can’t afford to base its decision
on superficial arguments. The country deserves better from a
leader such as  Warren Buffett .  (Edward Conard was a partner at Bain Capital LLC from 1993
to 2007. He is the author of  “Unintended Consequences : Why
Everything You’ve Been Told About the Economy Is Wrong.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Conard at  ewc@edconard.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 