-- West Africa Leaders ‘Disturbed’ by UN Report on Mali Army Plan
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-03T13:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/west-africa-leaders-disturbed-by-un-report-on-mali-army-plan.html
West African leaders said they were
“disturbed by the seeming lack of urgency” about the need for
a rapid military intervention in  Mali  from  United Nations 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  The Economic Community of West African States “deplores”
that recommendations in a report about the Malian crisis
published by Ban last week are “not in line with the urgent
need for action,” according to a statement published on the 15-
member bloc’s website yesterday. Ecowas “believes the situation
in northern Mali urgently requires action as well as pro-active
measures to restore the territorial integrity of the country.”  African leaders are developing a plan to intervene in Mali,
which vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer. A coup in March left a power vacuum in Bamako, the
capital, that allowed ethnic Touareg rebels to take control of
the north, aided by Islamist groups including Ansar ud-Din and
al-Qaeda’s African branch.  In a report to  the Security Council  on Nov. 28, Ban said
plans for an African-led intervention force to train Mali’s army
and help local troops take back control of the north “need to
be developed further.”  “Fundamental questions of how the force would be led,
sustained, trained, equipped and financed remain unanswered,”
he said. Funding for combat operations should come through
“voluntary or bilateral contributions” rather than from the
UN, Ban said.  “The United Nations has limited ability to deliver a
support package in the near term to a combat force,” he said.  Member states of Ecowas on Nov. 11 committed 3,300 troops
to train, equip and prepare about 5,000 Malian soldiers for the
fight for control of the north.  The  African Union  and Ecowas will send diplomats to the UN
headquarters in  New York  to reiterate the need for intervention,
according to Ecowas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  