-- Winger, LuPone Seek God in Mamet’s ‘Anarchist’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-03T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/winger-lupone-seek-god-in-mamet-s-anarchist-review.html
I wish I could take David Mamet as
seriously as he takes himself.  In his new play, “The Anarchist,”  Patti LuPone  plays Cathy,
a woman seeking parole after 35 years in prison for her part in
the murder of two policemen.  During that time, she has renounced the youthful radicalism
that provided the backdrop to her deadly actions, been a model
prisoner and found Jesus. What she hasn’t done is assist in
finding her partner in the crime.  Ann, a parole officer played by Debra Winger in her
Broadway debut, begins the play doubtful about Cathy’s
rehabilitation. What if she’s faking remorse in order to get
out? What about her dead victims?  Ann’s questioning is occasionally interrupted by phone
calls from the family of one of the policemen. This seems to
stack the deck against her, though she nevertheless rises to the
occasion with thoughtful answers to Ann’s probing.  Mamet has written in the  New York  Times that “The
Anarchist” was inspired by his post-9/11 thinking; by President  Barack Obama ’s relationship with former Weather Underground
radical Bill Ayers; and the case of Kathy Boudin, who
participated in the 1981 robbery of a Brink’s armored truck that
resulted in the deaths of two policemen and a guard.  Charged Issues  Despite the charged issues behind this dialog, the back and
forth between Ann and Cathy is bloodless. Sample:  Cathy: Have you done nothing, in your youth...  Ann: Or, in plainer English, Enemies may be reconciled if
one or both admit they were wrong. If they recant, revise or
surrender their position. Which do we find here?  Cathy: I don’t know.  These -- all the lines, in fact -- are delivered in flat,
uninflected tones, presumably at the urging of the playwright,
who also directed. LuPone and Winger are restrained to the point
of somnambulance. Even at just 70 intermissionless minutes, “The
Anarchist” is a challenge to sentience.  The end won’t surprise anyone who has watched Mamet evolve
from electrifying poet of American vernacular (see the flawed
revival of his 1984 “Glengarry Glen Ross,” running just a few
doors up the block) to chin-stroking moralist with an
increasingly constipated world view. For better or worse, the
season provides a view of the compleat Mamet.  Through Feb. 17 at the Golden Theatre, 252 W. 45th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
877-250-2929.
Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 