-- Yapi Kredi Sigorta Rises on Generali Report: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2012-12-03T16:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-03/yapi-kredi-sigorta-rises-on-generali-report-istanbul-mover.html
Yapi Kredi Sigorta AS (YKSGR) , a Turkish
insurer majority-owned by Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, rose as much
as 9 percent in morning trading on a report that Italy’s
Generali is interested in acquiring it.  Yapi Kredi Sigorta soared to as high as 17.50 liras, a
record on a closing basis, before paring gains to end the day up
2.5 percent at 16.45 liras.  Generali is expected to start talks on a possible
acquisition over the next few weeks, Istanbul-based Sabah
newspaper reported today, without saying how it got the
information.  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) ,  Axa SA (CS)  and unnamed Asian
investors were also interested in the insurer, Sabah said.  Yapi Kredi Sigorta and Yapi Kredi Emeklilik AS, the bank’s
private pensions unit, may fetch as much as $1 billion in a
sale, a person with knowledge of talks to sell the units told
Bloomberg on Nov. 1, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the discussions were private.  “The claimed $1 billion deal size implies a 9 percent
upside over Yapi Kredi Sigorta’s market cap as of Friday’s
close,” BGC Istanbul Securities said in an e-mailed report
today. The sale has “positive potential for Yapi Kredi Sigorta
as it is highly likely that there will be a tender call
following the sale.”  In a statement to the  Istanbul Stock Exchange  today, Yapi
Kredi, co-owned by Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said the process to
“assess strategic alternatives” for Yapi Kredi Sigorta and
Yapi Kredi Emeklilik is ongoing. Deutsche Bank AG, UniCredit
Bank Austria AG and Yapi Kredi Yatirim Menkul Degerler AS have
been appointed as joint advisers, the statement noted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  