-- H&R Block Falls as Fewer Tax Returns Processed
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-04-25T21:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/h-r-block-falls-as-processed-u-s-tax-returns-drop-amid-delays.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S.
tax-preparation firm, plunged as much as 11 percent in extended
trading after saying it handled fewer returns than expected
during the 2013 tax season.  “The industry experienced unprecedented delays and changes
to the timing of taxpayer filings,” Chief Executive Officer
Bill Cobb said today in a statement by the Kansas City,
Missouri-based company. That “created significant challenges,”
he said.  H&R Block, which plans to report fiscal fourth-quarter
results in June, served about 22 million U.S. clients through
April 18, a decline of 0.9 percent, according to the statement.
The company has fought to regain market share from TurboTax
maker  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , which tumbled the most in a decade today
after cutting sales and profit forecasts amid a decline in
 Internal Revenue Service  returns received this tax season.  “There may have been an expectation that volumes would be
positive,” said  Mark Palmer , a New York-based analyst at BTIG
LLC. “There could be significant numbers of taxpayers who
requested extensions that could be impacting these figures.”  H&R Block tumbled $2.03, or 7.2 percent, to $26 at 4:33
p.m. in extended trading in New York and had fallen as low as
$24.92. The shares climbed 51 percent this year through the
close of regular trading. Intuit, based in  Mountain View ,
California, fell 11 percent today to $57.09.  H&R Block said that online tax returns rose 10 percent as
its share of total U.S. returns remained “essentially flat”
from a year earlier. The profit margins on tax filings prepared
online are higher than for returns processed in stores,
according to Palmer.  “It’s indicative of share gains, likely at the expense of
TurboTax,” he said. “Any weakness is likely to be short-
lived.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  