-- Admiral Sales Drop 6% as Growth in Home U.K. Market Contracts
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-04-25T08:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/admiral-sales-drop-6-as-growth-in-home-u-k-market-contracts.html
Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , the U.K. auto
insurer that owns the confused.com price-comparison website,
said revenue fell 6 percent in the first quarter as the firm
restricted its pursuit of new business to protect profitability.  Revenue dropped to 551 million pounds ($843 million) in the
first three months of the year, compared with 586 million pounds
in the same period a year earlier, the Cardiff, Wales-based
company said in a statement today. U.K. sales shrank 9 percent
to 470 million pounds, while international revenue rose 20
percent to 48 million pounds.  “We continue to be focused on margin, not volume, and we
believe this is not the right time for us to grow our market
share in the U.K.,” Chief Executive Officer Henry Engelhardt
said in the statement. “Our claims trends continue to be
positive.”  Admiral, which insures 3 million vehicles in the U.K. and
458,000 overseas, grew rapidly after its initial public offering
in 2004 by choosing better drivers and selling policy add-ons
such as legal coverage. That expansion has tailed off, while no-
win, no-fee lawyers are pursuing more claims against the
unprofitable British motor-insurance industry.  The statement “confirms our view that growth in the U.K.
is over and that profitability is under pressure,” said  Peter Eliot , a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank with a sell
rating on the stock. “The profitable U.K. business is in fact
declining fast. Unprofitable foreign growth does not compensate
for this.”  The stock  declined  1.5 percent to 1,329 pence a share at 9
a.m. in  London , valuing the company at about 3.6 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 