-- Aer Lingus Adds Boeing 757s to Link With JetBlue Hubs in U.S.
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-04-25T07:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/aer-lingus-adds-boeing-757s-to-link-with-jetblue-hubs-in-u-s-.html
Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  said it will
deploy three  Boeing Co. (BA)  757s on transatlantic services starting
early next year after long-haul operations helped boost first-
quarter sales at Ireland’s national carrier.  A deal to lease the 757s, plus pilots, was concluded this
month, Dublin-based Aer Lingus said in a statement. The single-
aisle jets will be used where Airbus SAS wide-bodies are too
big, and could be utilized to add new services, it said.  Long-haul sales rose 14 percent in the first three months,
accounting for one-quarter of the company’s 246.3 million-euros
($321 million) in total passenger revenue. The 757s would most
likely serve bases used by U.S. discount carrier  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU) , with which Aer Lingus has a code-share deal.  “The use of Dublin as a hub for connecting traffic flows
and the partnerships in  North America  are giving us a lot of
comfort that there is more growth in the market,” Chief
Commercial Officer Stephen Kavanagh said on a conference call.
“The 757 is a smaller-gauge aircraft and it is more flexible.”  A lease deal with Ireland’s Air Contractors should be
completed soon, he said. Flights are likely to commence next
January, with all three aircraft in service by the summer.  Aer Lingus’s first-quarter operating loss widened to 45.5
million euros from 36.1 million euros, swollen by start-up costs
from routes being flown for Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. The
stock traded 1.8 percent lower at 1.39 euros as of 8:04 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net 
Finbarr Flynn at   fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  