-- Thailand Stock Exchange to Probe Siam Makro Trades
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-04-25T05:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/thailand-stock-exchange-to-probe-siam-makro-trades.html
Thailand ’s stock exchange will
investigate trading that preceded the announcement of the
nation’s largest takeover bid, the purchase of discount
wholesaler  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO)  by 7-Eleven chain operator  CP All Pcl. (CPALL)   Siam Makro’s shares rose  30 percent  in the six trading
sessions before CP All’s $6.6 billion bid was announced. The
stock jumped 15 percent on April 17, while the volume of shares
traded rose to 1.6 million, almost four times the six-month
average. CP All, backed by Thai Billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont,
offered to buy Siam Makro for 787 baht a share on April 23.  “It’s our job to investigate any irregularities,”
Charamporn Jotikasthira, president of the Stock Exchange of
Thailand, said in an interview today. “We have seen it and
begun the process to investigate that.”  Korsak Chairasmisak, chief executive officer of CP All, and
Suchada Ithijarukul, CEO of Siam Makro, weren’t immediately
available for comment after calls to their offices.  The deal would be the largest on record for a Thai company
and the biggest takeover announced in Asia this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. CP All’s offer is 41 percent above
Siam Makro’s average price in the prior 20 days, a record
premium for a retail deal in emerging Asia, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  CP All shares climbed 4.5 percent to 40.75 baht at the noon
trading break in Bangkok, poised to snap a two-day slide. Siam
Makro declined 0.3 percent to 752 baht, heading for the first
loss since April 9.  -- With assistance from Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok. Editors:
Matthew Oakley, Allen Wan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  