-- Airbus Wins Chinese Approval for 60-Plane Order Worth $8 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-04-25T15:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/airbus-wins-chinese-approval-for-60-plane-order-worth-8-billion.html
Airbus SAS won approval from  China 
for orders of 60 planes valued at $8 billion, including 18 A330
wide-bodies that had been on hold amid Chinese opposition to a
European Union proposal for tax carbon emissions.  The Chinese government gave its stamp of approval to the
order today in signing a general terms agreement at a ceremony
in the presence of Chinese President Xi Jinping and French
President Francois Hollande, who is visiting for two days,
according to a statement by Airbus today.  The order also includes 42 single-aisle aircraft in the
A320 series. The agreement signed today will allow Airbus to
list in its backlog aircraft that may have already been the
subject of firm contracts but lacked the final government
backing required for Airbus to consider them certain.  Airbus had said during much of 2012 that it would be unable
to start building 45 A330s that were the subject of firm orders
from Chinese carriers because the Chinese government opposed EU
plans to charge for carbon emissions, and was refusing to
provide final confirmations for those aircraft.  The EU late last year backed down on its plan to tax
emissions.  The Chinese government’s China Aviation Supplies Holding
Company, which signed for the single-aisle planes today, will at
a later point have to “assign” them to carriers that need
them. In some cases, the planes will be assigned to carriers
that have already announced orders for specific planes. Some of
the planes may go to new carriers who hadn’t yet publicly
declared their intentions to add such planes to the fleet.  Order from China are different from those announced by
carriers elsewhere, in that a “firm order” from that country
isn’t sufficient to get the plane into the order book because
further confirmation by China’s government is required.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  