-- AMC Settles Dispute With Disney Over ‘Iron Man 3’ Tickets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-25T20:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/amc-said-to-settle-with-disney-over-iron-man-3-ticket-split.html
AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc.,
the second-largest U.S. cinema chain, settled a revenue-sharing
dispute with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  over “ Iron Man  3,” leaving two
big U.S. chains in a stalemate over the first big summer movie.  Tickets are available for showings starting at 9 p.m. on
May 2,  Kansas City , Missouri-based AMC Entertainment said today
in an e-mailed statement. Terms of the revenue-sharing agreement
weren’t disclosed.  “We thank our partners at Disney for working with us to
achieve economical terms so we can present our guests with one
of the biggest blockbusters of 2013 and solidly kick off the
summer movie season,” AMC said in the statement.  With the accord, Disney has reached agreement with one of
the three largest U.S. chains, which have resisted the studio’s
demand for a bigger share of ticket sales. Discussions are under
way with  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the No. 1 U.S. chain, and a
deal may be reached today, according to a person with knowledge
of the situation.  Disney, which also plans to release “Monsters
University,” “The Lone Ranger” and “Planes” this summer,
has focused on big-budget movies since buying Pixar, Marvel and
Lucasfilm. Such films typically command a larger share of the
box-office take.  “‘Iron Man’ is going to be a hit no matter what, but you
don’t want this kind of tension going into the most lucrative
part of the year.” Phil Contrino, chief analyst for researcher
Boxoffice.com, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a relief.”  Movie’s Open  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , the third-largest U.S. chain,
wasn’t selling tickets today through the website Fandango. As of
yesterday,  Cineplex Inc. (CGX) , the largest exhibitor based in Canada,
also wasn’t selling tickets.  Contrino estimates “Iron Man 3” will take in $151 million
in its opening weekend, better than 2010’s “Iron Man 2” and
below last year’s top-grossing film, “Marvel’s The Avengers,”
which generated $207.4 million domestically its opening weekend.
Contrino said the slate of movies being released in May could
lift results in the second-quarter above last year’s.  Paul Roeder, a spokesman for Burbank, California-based
Disney, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, added
0.1 percent to $62 at the close in New York. The shares have
climbed 25 percent this year. Regal, based in Knoxville,
 Tennessee , added 1.4 percent to $17.66. Cinemark, based in
Plano,  Texas , added 0.7 percent to $29.10. AMC is owned by
China’s Dalian Wanda Group.  Summer Season  Summer accounted for $4.3 billion, or almost 40 percent of
last year’s record $10.8 billion in ticket revenue in the U.S.
and Canada, according to the researcher BoxOfficeMojo.com.  On average, studios get about 52 percent of ticket revenue
after cinema operators deduct a small percentage for overhead,
according to  Eric Wold , an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San
Francisco. Bigger movies may command more.  Disney has asked for as much as 65 percent of the revenue,
the  Los Angeles  Times has reported. The newspaper reported the
agreement with AMC earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  