-- Hamptons Home Sales Jump as Lower-Priced Deals Increase
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/hamptons-home-sales-jump-as-lower-priced-deals-increase.html
Home sales in the Hamptons, the
Long Island beach retreat for summering Manhattanites, rose 21
percent in the first quarter, led by lower-priced properties
after a year-end selling rush drained the area of luxury deals.  There were 347 transactions in the three months ended March
31, up from 287 a year earlier, as buyers of less-costly homes
jumped into a recovering market, appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc. 
and brokerage  Douglas Elliman Real Estate  said in a report
today. The median sale price fell 5.1 percent to $740,000,
reflecting a drop in deals for the most expensive homes.  An expected Jan. 1 jump in capital-gains taxes, part of the
so-called fiscal cliff that ultimately was averted by a
congressional agreement, prompted a surge in year-end luxury-
property sales. In the fourth quarter, 49 Hamptons homes sold
for at least $5 million, the most in at least six years. In the
first three months of 2013, only eight such properties sold, the
fewest since 2009’s first quarter, when sales of all types of
Hamptons homes reached a record low.  “This was clearly related to the fiscal-cliff tax
incentive to close before the end of the year,” Miller Samuel
President Jonathan Miller said in an interview. Higher-priced
“transactions were poached from the first quarter.”  The median price of all luxury properties, defined as the
top 10 percent of sales by price, dropped 26 percent to $3.68
million in the first quarter. The most expensive home to trade
hands was an oceanfront estate on Morrison Lane in Water Mill,
which sold for $17 million, Miller said.  ‘More Normal’  “You had a lower level of high-end activity, but we’re
anticipating a more normal seasonal pattern” through midyear,
he said.  Billionaire hedge-fund manager Steven A. Cohen agreed late
last month to pay $60 million for a 10,000-square-foot (930-
square-meter) oceanfront property in East Hampton, two people
familiar with the matter said at the time. The sale of the home,
on seven acres (2.8 hectares) with a tennis court and pool,
wasn’t included in the first-quarter tally.  Homes of all price points are attracting buyers as  New York 
City employment improves and international investors discover
the eastern Long Island waterfront, Miller said. Wall Street
executives, whose spending fuels the Hamptons market, last year
received bonuses that were 8 percent higher than in 2011.
Employees took home an average cash bonus of almost $121,900 as
profits in the securities industry climbed threefold, New York
state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said in February.  “If we didn’t have the fiscal cliff, we would have had an
even bigger jump in sales,” Miller said.  Faster Pace  The number of Hamptons homes listed for sale dropped to
1,437 in the first quarter, down 4.9 from a year earlier, Miller
Samuel and Douglas Elliman said. The absorption rate, or time it
would take to sell all homes on the market at the current sales
pace, was 12.4 months, 22 percent faster than a year earlier.  “We’re starting to see the recovery taking hold, with
prices slowly inching up,” said Gregory Heym, chief economist
at brokerage Brown Harris Stevens, which also released a report
on the Hamptons today.  The median price of homes of less than $1 million climbed
6.7 percent to $540,000 in the first quarter, the only category
with an increase, Brown Harris said in its report. Homes in that
price range made up 64 percent of all sales.  Bridgehampton was one of two Hamptons neighborhoods where
the median price rose, according to Brown Harris. That market,
where all transactions of more than $8 million took place, had a
29 percent median-price increase. In East Hampton, prices
climbed 31 percent, the brokerage said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  