-- Ancient Mayan Culture Created From Many Influences, Study Finds
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-04-25T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ancient-mayan-culture-created-from-many-influences-study-finds.html
The mysterious origin of the
ancient Mayan civilization is a little more complex than the
prevailing theories, researchers say.  Anthropologists generally fall into two groups when
considering the beginnings of the Mayans, arguing either that
the civilization developed independently or that the Mayans were
influenced largely by the older Olmec civilization. Research
published today in the journal  Science  dates the early Mayan
city of Ceibal as 200 years older than the major nearby Olmec
center of La Venta, suggesting the beginnings aren’t clear cut,
said  Takeshi Inomata , the study’s lead author and an
anthropology professor at the University of  Arizona  in Tucson.  “We should move away, a little bit, from of this way of
thinking of the Maya or Olmec as a solid block of culture,”
 Inomata  said in an interview. “In those early days, there was
no clear overarching sense of cultural unity, there was many
different smaller groups that were interacting in a more complex
way.”  The Maya, who originated about 2600 B.C. in current-day
Southeastern  Mexico , grew to prominence and size during the next
three millennia, building temple step-pyramids and developing
highly accurate astronomical and calendar systems. Similarities
between Ceibal and La Venta, including step pyramids and
ceremonial rituals, have led some to say the Maya were heavily
influenced by the Olmec.  Inomata, who has been digging at Ceibal for seven years,
discovered evidence that the city’s pyramid plaza complex wasn’t
designed that way from the outset. Instead, he said, the
structure originated as a platform that was renovated over the
years with additional slabs placed on top of older ones,
creating its step-like appearance.  Pyramid Planning  “What we are seeing is that at the beginning there is no
such concept of a pyramid,” he said. “As they renovated them,
they made it bigger and bigger and they eventually became
pyramids.”  These platforms, where the Mayans may have sung or danced,
or made religious offerings, were probably mimicked by the Olmec
and other societies nearby, he said. Because Ceibal’s plaza and
pyramid developed prior to La Venta’s, the Olmecs couldn’t have
been the major source for the Maya in the region at the time, he
said.  “Some of those elements were reincorporated by the Olmec
center of La Venta,” Inomata said. “We are talking about how
civilization developed and how society changed. That change
didn’t come from major political power, but actually happened
through the interaction among smaller groups.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  