-- Argentina Congress Approves Limits on Injunctions Against State
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-25T12:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/argentina-congress-approves-limits-on-injunctions-against-state.html
Argentina’s lower house of Congress
today approved a bill that restricts court injunctions against
the state, a move opposition lawmakers say violates the rights
of individuals and companies.  The bill, approved by the Senate last week, was passed by
126 votes to 10 in a session lasting more than 20 hours. The
bill permits injunctions against the state only in situations
where an individual’s life or health might be at risk, while
also capping the length of injunctions at six months.  “This bill will restrict citizens’ and companies’
rights,” Miguel Angel Giubergia, a lawmaker and member of the
opposition Civic Radical Union, said in a telephone interview
before the vote. “We’ll all lose the opportunity to defend
ourselves against the state.’  A bill creating a new level of courts, immediately beneath
the Supreme Court, was also given final approval.  The lower house sent back to the Senate with amendments
another bill that would expand the number of members on the
council of magistrates, a body that oversees judges’ rulings and
conducts. New council members will be chosen by the public in
elections, according to the bill. The Senate will vote on the
changes next week.  Increased Control  Argentines on April 18 packed the streets of Buenos Aires
and other cities in the South American country to demonstrate
against President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s proposals to
increase state control over the courts.  Announcing her proposals on April 8, Fernandez said her
goal was to ‘‘democratize” the legal system by increasing
transparency in hiring of public attorneys, the declarations of
assets of its employees, and in selecting members of the council
of magistrates.  “Injunctions against the state interrupt the application
of laws or decrees ordered by legitimately elected
authorities,” Fernandez said. “We want legitimate, democratic,
flexible justice for all.”  The New York-based  Human Rights Watch  urged lawmakers to
reject Fernandez’s proposals as they will undermine the
independence of the judiciary, according to a statement posted
on the group’s website.  “This reform would give Argentina’s ruling party an
automatic majority on the council that oversees the judiciary,
which seriously compromises judicial independence,” said Jose
Miguel Vivanco, Americas director at Human Rights Watch.
“Elections to select judicial council members should be
conducted in a way that ensures they aren’t politicized.”  During the debate, which started at 2 p.m. yesterday,
protesters demonstrated outside Congress, waving Argentine flags
and banners calling “For an independent Justice.”  “This is a reform that instead of democratizing justice
will let the government control it,” opposition lawmaker
Ricardo Alfonsin told reporters yesterday. “We’ll have to ask
the courts to decide whether this is unconstitutional.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  