-- Harvard Cell Growth Discovery Seen Treating Diabetes
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-04-25T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/harvard-cell-growth-discovery-seen-treating-diabetes.html
Harvard University scientists
discovered a hormone that spurs the growth of beta cells, the
body’s insulin factories, a finding that holds promise for
treating diabetes in a new way.  Researchers first found the hormone, called betatrophin, in
mice, where it increases beta cell growth by as much as 33
times, said Douglas Melton, co-director of the Department of
Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology at Harvard in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . An almost-identical hormone in humans appears to
serve the same function, Melton and his colleagues said today in
the journal  Cell .  The discovery has drawn the interest of drugmakers looking
at the $42 billion  market  for diabetes medicines. Harvard has
applied for a patent on betatrophin, and the molecule has been
licensed to Hamburg, Germany-based Evotec AG and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , Melton said. New drugs are needed as patients develop
resistance to older therapies.  “We’re very excited about this,” Melton said in a
telephone interview. “The finding just makes so much sense to
me, and it could be a new way forward in treating diabetes.”  About  347 million  people, or 5 percent of the world’s
population, have diabetes, a condition that can lead to  heart
disease , stroke, eye disease and nerve damage, according to the
 World Health Organization . Many patients develop these
conditions even while getting treatment, so new drugs are
needed, Melton said.  Blood Sugar  Diabetes occurs when the body fails to regulate levels of
sugar in the blood that cells need for nourishment. Most
diabetes patients have the Type 2 form, which occurs when the
body loses its response to  insulin , the hormone that regulates
blood sugar.  Patients develop Type 1 diabetes when damage to beta cells
depletes insulin levels. Melton, who has two children with Type
1 diabetes, has been trying use stem cells to replace the beta
cells damaged or lost in the disease.  Compared with other tissues, beta cells normally grow very
slowly, and only about 1 in 1,000 to 1 in 10,000 beta cells
divides daily, Melton said. Using a chemical blocker, Melton and
his colleagues Peng Yi, a postdoctoral fellow in the lab, and
Ji-Sun Park, a laboratory technician, fooled the mice’s bodies
into thinking they had completely stopped making insulin. That
led to an increase in beta cell production, he said.  The researchers turned their attention to finding out what
caused the increase. Melton and his colleagues found a gene that
becomes more active in liver and fat cells when insulin levels
drop. When applied directly to mouse beta cells, the protein
made by this gene increased the rate of growth.  Pregnant Mice  Further studies showed that betatrophin levels rise in
pregnant mice, which are known to have increased beta cell
growth rates to make insulin for the gestating animals in the
womb. The gene that makes betatrophin is also highly active in
mice bred to develop diabetes.  Studies of the human form of betatrophin and its effects
are just beginning, Melton said. He noted that betatrophin
appears to improve blood sugar control in mice that received the
hormone.  “This is going to get a lot of attention and a lot of
study,” said  Gordon Weir , a Harvard Medical School professor of
medicine at the Joslin Diabetes Center in  Boston . “The next
question is whether this acts directly on beta cells in
humans.”  Some diabetes drugs, called sulfonylureas, that increase
the amount of insulin made by beta cells tend to lose their
impact in patients after a few years as beta cells lose their
strength. In addition, the body’s response to insulin drops, a
phenomenon called insulin resistance. Betatrophin may present an
alternative that would both add to beta cells numbers and fight
insulin resistance, Melton said.  Type 1  Betatrophin might also be useful when patients develop type
1 diabetes, the form of the disease in which the body’s immune
system mistakenly destroys beta cells, he said. Giving the 
hormone might help the body counteract this autoimmune attack, 
he said.  Anything that stimulates the replication of beta cells
would have tremendous implications for treatment, said  John Anderson , president of medicine & science for the  American
Diabetes Association , an advocacy group based in Alexandria,
Virginia. While the discovery improves understanding of beta
cell replication, many questions must be answered before it
could be used as a drug, he said.  “Does it work in humans and does it work for a long time
in humans?” he said. “Does it suffer from the same kind of
burnout that other medications suffer from?”  Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest seller of
health-care products, is based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . The
company won U.S. market clearance for canagliflozin, a
treatment for diabetes, in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  