-- Asia Stocks Near Two-Year High as Investors Weigh Results
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-04-25T10:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/asian-stocks-rise-as-korean-economy-grows-most-in-two-years.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with energy
companies leading the regional benchmark index toward its
highest level since May 2011, as investors weighed earnings
reports.  China Petroleum & Chemical (386)  Corp., the nation’s largest
refiner, increased 2 percent after Morgan Stanley said China’s
cut in fuel prices will benefit the company. Nippon Electric
Glass Co. led gains among Japanese glass makers after industry
bellwether Corning Inc. forecast growth. Nintendo Co., the
world’s biggest maker of game machines, slumped 5.9 percent in
 Osaka  after missing sales targets for its consoles.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.9 percent to 140.23 at
7:27 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about five shares rising for every
three that fell. The gauge is headed for its highest close since
May 2, 2011.  “We have to look at earnings and wait to see if the first-
quarter earnings are really good or bad,” said Grace Tam, Hong
Kong-based global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about $1.3 trillion globally. “In  Asia , we
don’t have an inflation threat. Inflation has been pretty benign
and this is a positive factor for Asian equities because Asian
economies are net importers of oil.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 7.4 percent this year
through yesterday amid optimism  Japan  will deploy more measures
to beat deflation and that policy makers in the U.S. and China
remain on standby to support growth. The Asian benchmark traded
at 14.1 times estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 14.3
times for the  S&P 500  and 12.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.6 percent after
slipping 0.1 percent, and the broader Topix Index added 0.7
percent, while data showed foreign investors were net sellers of
the nation’s equities last week. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  increased 0.8
percent as South Korea’s economy grew the most in two years in
the first quarter. Markets in Australia and  New Zealand  were
closed for a public holiday.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 1 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.9 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index was little changed.  More than 60 companies on the MSCI gauge are scheduled to
report earnings today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Of the 88 firms which have reported  quarterly results  since
April 1, and for which Bloomberg has estimates, 40 have exceeded
profit forecasts and 48 missed projections.  Investors are weighing how the yen’s decline will improve
the earnings outlook for Japanese exporters.  Yen, BOJ  The yen has declined against all 16 of its major
counterparts since April 4, when the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said it will
double the amount of money circulating in the economy by the end
of 2014 by buying  government bonds , its boldest round of
quantitative easing. The BOJ will convene tomorrow.  “A weaker yen is helping Japanese companies, but you need
to look at each stock to figure out if the yen’s drop is coming
on top of a company’s solid business or it’s being overshadowed
by poor performance,” said  Toshihiko Matsuno , a strategist at
Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co., a unit of Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest lender by
market value.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  climbed 0.2
percent today. The index rose just 0.01 point yesterday in New
York, as investors weighed quarterly earnings.  China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, cut
gasoline and diesel prices today after crude declined earlier
this month. Retail gasoline falls by 395  yuan  ($64) a metric ton
and diesel by 400 yuan, the National Development and Reform
Commission, the country’s top economic planner, said on its
website yesterday.  Sinopec, Cnooc  China Petroleum & Chemical known as Sinopec rose 2 percent
to HK$8.53. Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s biggest offshore oil producer,
gained 2.9 percent to HK$14.44. PetroChina Co., the nation’s
largest energy producer and Asia’s No. 1 company by value,
advanced 1.4 percent to HK$9.69.  Japanese glassmakers gained after Corning, which makes
glass for flat-panel televisions, phones and tablets, forecast
growth in its telecommunications products as it benefits from
surging sales of smartphones and tablets. Nippon Electric Glass,
Japan’s second-biggest glassmaker by market value, climbed 7.1
percent to 525 yen. Asahi Glass Co., the largest, advanced 2.9
percent to 793 yen.  Among stocks that fell, Nintendo dropped 5.9 percent to
11,240 yen after saying it sold 3.45 million of its Wii U game
machines in the fiscal year ended March 31, below a 4 million-
unit target it set in January and an initial projection of 5.5
million.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s biggest camera maker, slid 6.4
percent to 3,595 yen after its profit forecast missed analyst
estimates on slumping demand for compact models. Net income will
probably be 290 billion yen in 2013, the Tokyo-based company
said in a statement yesterday, missing the 308 billion-yen
average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  