-- Asmussen Says ECB Rate-Cut Effect Limited in Euro-Area Periphery
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-25T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/asmussen-says-ecb-rate-cut-effect-limited-in-euro-area-periphery.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said an interest-rate cut wouldn’t
have much effect in some countries as the transmission of
monetary policy is impaired.  “The pass-through of rate cuts to the periphery would be
limited, and this is where they are most needed,” Asmussen said
in  London  today, according to a speech text provided by the ECB.
“At the same time, rate cuts would further relax already
unprecedentedly easy financing conditions in the core. This is
not per se a problem -– but  interest rates  that are too low for
too long can eventually lead to distortions.”  Banks including Nomura International Plc, UBS AG and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  forecast the ECB will cut its
benchmark rate to a record low next week after policy makers
hinted that they’d reduce borrowing costs in response to
disappointing economic data. While Asmussen has said the central
bank could reduce rates if data show a need for it, his comments
today signal he may want to damp expectations of policy action
on May 2.  Euro-area gauges of manufacturing and services activity for
April suggested economic weakness is extending into the second
quarter, endangering ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s forecast that
the euro area will gradually return to growth this year.
Asmussen added that the costs of ECB action have to be “weighed
against the need for exceptional monetary policy measures in a
crisis.”  Loan Demand  The ECB has acknowledged that even though tension in
financial markets has eased since it announced its OMT bond-
buying program last year, funding still remains a problem,
particularly for small businesses in countries like Greece and
 Spain .  While the central bank is currently investigating ways to
unblock the flow of credit in these areas, Asmussen said the
limits of what monetary policy can achieve have to be
recognized.  “The ECB can and has addressed bank funding problems,” he
said. “But there are other barriers holding back bank lending,
like heightened risk aversion, a lack of loan demand and
insufficient capital.”  “Bank lending will only fully come back when the bank
balance sheet repair is completed in all  member states ,” he
said. “The ECB cannot remove these constraints.”  Fiscal Austerity  In its quarterly bank-lending survey published yesterday,
the ECB said the decline in demand for housing and consumer
loans accelerated in the first quarter. Bank loans to households
and companies have declined for 10 straight months.  Asmussen said current debates about delaying budget-cutting
austerity measures don’t help the euro area return to economic
growth. Countries shouldn’t seek to ease the pace of austerity,
rather attempt to better communicate the necessity of repairing
budgets, he said.  “Delaying fiscal consolidation is no free lunch,” he
said. “Countries are consolidating because, given their already
high debt levels, it is the best way to secure long-term
stability and inter-generational fairness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  