-- AstraZeneca First-Quarter Sales Fell 13% on Generics
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-04-25T07:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/astrazeneca-first-quarter-profit-fell-25-on-generics.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest pharmaceutical company, reported first-quarter sales
that missed analysts’ estimates as some of its best-selling
medicines faced generic competition.  Revenue fell 13 percent to $6.39 billion, the London-based
company said today in a  statement . That missed the $6.55 billion
average estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of cholesterol
drug Crestor, the company’s biggest seller last year, declined
11 percent to $1.3 billion. Asthma treatment Symbicort, a rival
to  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Advair, generated $826 million, missing
the average estimate of $832 million.  AstraZeneca is cutting thousands of jobs and narrowing its
research focus to return to growth as patents on drugs that
account for more than 40 percent of its sales expire by the end
of next year. Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said
previously that he favors small to mid-sized purchases of
companies and products to generate revenue rather than large
“disruptive” deals.  “We knew that revenues would be weak, but people didn’t
expect sales for key products to be so weak,” Fabian Wenner, an
analyst with Kepler Capital Markets, said in an interview.
“People will want to know why Crestor was below expectations.
Sales of Symbicort, which I regard as better than Advair, also
missed. That could lead to a landslide in estimates.”  Shares Decline  AstraZeneca fell 1 percent to 3,355.50 pence at 8:28 a.m.
in  London , giving the company a market value of 42 billion
pounds ($64.3 billion). The stock has returned 25 percent
including reinvested dividends in the past year, trailing the 32
percent  return  for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Profit excluding some items declined 25 percent to $2.32
billion, or $1.41 a share, from $3.1 billion, or $1.87, a year
earlier, AstraZeneca said. A reduction in spending on research
and development helped earnings beat the average analyst
estimate of $1.37 a share compiled by Bloomberg.  For the year, AstraZeneca still expects sales to fall by a
“mid- to high-single-digit percentage” at constant exchange
rates, and profit to decline “significantly more than
revenue,” the company said.  Sales of the antipsychotic Seroquel slumped 60 percent at
constant exchange rates to $449 million in the quarter. The
ulcer pill Nexium, which has generic rivals in Europe and
 Canada , slid 1 percent to $940 million and hypertension
treatment Atacand fell 47 percent to $168 million.  Strategic Priorities  “The first quarter performance reflects the loss of
exclusivity for several large products,” Soriot said in the
statement today. “We remain focused on our strategic priorities
of returning to growth and achieving scientific leadership.”  Sales of Brilique, a blood-thinner that won European
approval in 2010, were $51 million, up from $9 million a year
earlier, beating the $43.4 million average estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. Soriot said March 21 the drug, also sold as Brilinta,
still has blockbuster potential, meaning annual sales would
exceed $1 billion, and the company will invest more in
marketing.  AstraZeneca will concentrate on respiratory, inflammation
and autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular and metabolic illnesses,
and cancer. It also plans to double the number of experimental
treatments in late-stage development by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  