-- Atos Payments-Unit Split Sparks Interest From Potential Partners
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-25T07:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/atos-payments-unit-split-sparks-interest-from-potential-partners.html
Atos (ATO) , a French rival of computer-
services giant International Business Machines Corp., has
received interest from potential partners for the electronic-
payments unit it’s planning to split off by midyear.  A share of the payments unit could be sold to one or more
partners, Senior Executive Vice President Gilles Grapinet said
today in a phone interview. The Bezons, France-based company
said in February it’s seeking to sell a minority stake in the
unit, with an initial public offering as one option, to finance
acquisitions to expand the business.  “Our announcement about the carve-out has generated a
great deal of strategic interest from players in the payments
world,” Grapinet said. “We’re busy finalizing the carve-out,
that’s our priority. Our finance and mergers and acquisitions
teams are evaluating scenarios.”  Atos’s goal is to make the electronic-payments unit, which
had 1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in sales last year, into
 Europe ’s largest, Grapinet said. The  company  intends to keep
majority of the unit once it has been split off, he said.  Grapinet declined to say if Atos has started discussions
with any of the potential partners. The company has been
approached by bankers about options, he said.  Atos today reported first-quarter sales fell 1.2 percent to
2.12 billion euros. The company confirmed its yearly forecast
for “slight revenue growth” and an operating margin around 7.5
percent of sales, up from 6.6 percent in 2012.  Shares of Atos  rose  2.2 percent to 53.13 euros at 9:19 a.m.
in Paris. The stock had gained 13 percent in the 12 months
preceding yesterday’s close.  “We expect a ramp-up throughout the year from what we see
as a low point in the first quarter,” Grapinet said. “That’s
both for macroeconomic reasons and because some large contracts
we signed last year are bearing fruit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  