-- Tattoo Ink Memorializing Boston Bombings with Body Art
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/tattoo-ink-memorializing-boston-bombings-with-body-art.html
A week after learning his friends
escaped harm in the  Boston  Marathon bomb attack, Adam Myerson
was squirming with pain in a tattoo-parlor chair, fulfilling an
urge that had been building for days.  “Anyone who has tattoos, when you have something important
you want to mark it,” said Myerson, a professional cyclist and
coach who lives in Dorchester. The neighborhood was home to an
8-year-old boy killed in the attack that took the lives of two
others and wounded more than 260.  Since the bombings at the finish line of the city’s
celebrated marathon, Boston tattoo artists have received a surge
of business from people looking to move past the violence of
April 15 by putting permanent mementos on their bodies. Some
chose the skyline inside a heart, others the outline of
 Massachusetts . Myerson went with the B logo of the Boston Red
Sox baseball team in yellow and blue: marathon colors.  Watching the way the city reacted -- shutting itself down
to apprehend the suspects -- “the rest of the country finally
understood,” Myerson said. “This is who we are.”  He wanted that local pride on his body, he said, and now it
shows just above his elbow on the back of his arm.  Feeling Helpless  Tattoo artist Bill Byers said a friend was near enough to
the blasts to be engulfed in their smoke and others he knew had
nearby businesses or were running. His sister had lost a leg to
disease, he said, and he felt for those maimed in the bombing.  “I’ve seen what it’s like to have to learn to walk
again,” he said.  He plans to donate the $900 he’s collected in tattooing
Boston commemorations to a victims’ charity.  “A lot of people feel helpless and want to do more, and it
is our town,” he said. “It’s not like just giving $100 bucks.
It’s making a statement.”  Chameleon Tattoo & Body Piercing  in Cambridge had about 20
people come in April 20, five days after the bombings, to get
Boston-themed ink as part of a fundraiser. The shop raised
$5,000 for One Fund Boston, a charity for victims’ medical care,
said tattoo artist Reuben Kayden, 40, of Somerville.  “Getting tattooed is a way to never, ever forget. It’s
embedded in you,” Kayden said.  Julie Clifford, 33, is a hairdresser whose salon is a few
blocks from the second explosion. Many of her tattoos, she said,
are a way to commemorate a part of her life.  “I’ve lived in Boston for 15 years and it feels like
home,” she said. “It wasn’t fun to have your home rattled.”  She got her newest tattoo, an abstract outline of city
landmarks with a small heart overlooking them, from Byers, who
also is donating his proceeds to the victims. Her friend and her
husband are also getting tattoos, she said.  Other parlors are planning fundraising ink sessions in the
days to come, including Regeneration Tattoo in Allston. The
shop’s manager, Edwin Marquez, is from Watertown, the suburb
where bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was caught by police.  “Birth, death, disaster -- whatever it is, people want to
get tattooed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  