-- Maxcom Considers Bankruptcy After Takeover Deal Collapse
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-04-25T13:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/maxcom-considers-bankruptcy-after-takeover-deal-collapse-1-.html
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB
said it’s considering operational and financial alternatives,
including a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, after a takeover deal
with Ventura Capital Privado SA collapsed.  The Mexican phone company said in a statement today that
only 61.93% of old notes were tendered in a bond exchange, not
enough to complete a swap, which was a requirement for an equity
offer from Ventura Capital.  “In light of this outcome, Maxcom is considering all of
its alternatives including, but not limited to, commencement of
a Chapter 11 case or other restructuring proceeding,” the
company said in the statement. The  Mexico  City-based operator
didn’t provide a timeframe for the options under study.  Maxcom was seeking to complete the 2.90-pesos-a-share
takeover offer, which would include an investment of $45 million
to use for network improvements, to better compete with  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , Mexico’s biggest phone company. Maxcom said this
month it may have to file for bankruptcy and may miss a June 15
coupon payment if enough debtholders didn’t agree to the bond
swap, which expired yesterday.  The company had asked to exchange notes due in 2014 for new
ones due in 2020, and Ventura had set a requirement that 80
percent of bondholders accept the swap. Ventura had the right to
reduce that threshold to 75.1 percent at its discretion.
Maxcom’s cash had dwindled to 102.9 million pesos ($8.4 million)
from 147 million pesos at the end of 2012, it said April 11.  Ventura, which announced its offer for Maxcom in December,
is a Mexico City-based private-equity firm led by investors
including Enrique Castillo and Javier Molinar Horcasitas, former
executives of bank Ixe Grupo Financiero SAB. Ixe was sold in
2011 to Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  