-- Baidu Says Buying Better Than Building for Mobile Profit
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-26T06:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/baidu-net-income-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Baidu Inc., owner of  China ’s
largest Internet search engine, said it prefers to expand by
acquisitions as the company moves to revive advertising sales
growth and take advantage of a consumer shift to smartphones.  “We prefer buy to build, because that will save us time,”
Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said today on a conference call
to discuss first-quarter earnings. He didn’t name any targets or
elaborate on the scale of prospective purchases.  Baidu, after raising $1.5 billion selling bonds in
November, seeks to extend its dominance of China’s search market
to mobile devices as first-quarter profit growth slumped to the
slowest since the company listed in 2005. Li said the Beijing-
based company will buy mobile applications that supplement its
search products, which had more than 100 million daily active
users as of the first quarter.  “The first quarter was not a good quarter for Baidu as
advertising was weak,” Ma  Yuan , a Beijing-based analyst at
Bocom International Holdings Co., said by phone before the
results. “Second-quarter profit should rise, but probably not
as fast as in past years.”  Net income  gained 8.5 percent from a year earlier to 2.04
billion yuan ($331 million), New York-listed Baidu said in a
statement. The result compares with the 2.19 billion-yuan
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, and
average quarterly net income  growth  of 64 percent in the
previous five quarters.  Sales Rise  Revenue rose 40 percent to 5.97 billion yuan, compared with
analysts’ estimate of 5.99 billion yuan.  The search-engine operator, which added about 20 million
daily active users in the first quarter, is seeking more mobile
customers amid a decline in spending per advertiser.  Sales per online advertising customer dropped 6.5 percent
in the first three months of the year from the last quarter of
2012, as China’s economic growth fell short of analysts’
estimates, Baidu said.  The American depositary receipts of Baidu declined as much
as 8.9 percent in  extended trading . Earlier, they rose 4.8
percent to $92.34 at the close in  New York .  Baidu forecast second-quarter  revenue (BIDU)  of 7.37 billion yuan
to 7.55 billion yuan, compared with the 7.44 billion-yuan
average of analysts’ estimates.  Acquisition Spending  Baidu spent at least $22.5 million on acquisitions last
year, compared with $356 million in 2011, including the $306
million purchase of a controlling stake in travel site
Qunar.com, the company’s largest deal on record, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company had cash and equivalents of 8.73 billion yuan
as of March 31, declining from 11.9 billion yuan at the end of
last year.  Baidu said its most recent acquisition, online video
service iQiyi.com, is losing money.  “We will continue to support iQiyi to grow, but right now
it is still burning money,” Li said.  In China, Baidu accounted for 82.3 percent of search engine
queries in the fourth quarter of last year, according to
Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  