-- Bangladesh’s Deadly Building Collapse Renews Safety Woes
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p ,   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-25T10:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bangladesh-s-deadly-building-collapse-renews-safety-woes.html
The collapse of a Bangladesh
building that killed 182 people yesterday is prompting renewed
calls for retailers and clothing companies to ensure the safety
of workers in the Asian nation.  Loblaw Cos. (L) ’ Joe Fresh and  Associated British Foods Plc’s (ABF) 
Primark, which yesterday said that their suppliers made garments
at the collapsed factory, both vowed to help improve working
conditions in Bangladesh. Rescuers pulled 1,400 people alive
since yesterday from mangled pieces of concrete, rods and bricks
in an incident that injured at least 1,000 people.  The disaster is another black mark on Bangladesh’s
industrial safety record, which made headlines after a fire at a
plant producing garments for companies including  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  that killed at least 100 people in November. More than 700
garment workers have died since 2005 in Bangladesh, according to
the International Labor Rights Forum, a Washington-based
advocacy group.  “Labor rights groups around the world have been asking,
indeed imploring, major retailers to address the grievous safety
hazards in their  Bangladesh  factories and the response is always
the same: vague promises and public relations dodges, while the
pile of corpses grows ever higher,” Scott Nova, executive
director of the Washington-based Worker Rights Consortium, said
yesterday in a statement.  Joe Fresh, the clothing brand owned by Brampton, Ontario-
based Loblaw, had a “small number” of items produced at the
complex, Julija Hunter, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Regular Audits  The company is “saddened” by the tragedy and will work
with its vendor to see how it can help, she said. Loblaw has
standards for suppliers to make sure that products are produced
in a socially responsible manner and conducts regular audits to
ensure compliance, Hunter said.  “We hope to hear more from the authorities about the
status of this situation and we are committed to supporting
them,” she said.  One of Primark’s suppliers occupied the building’s second
floor, the company said in a statement. The budget fashion chain
owned by London-based Associated British Foods said it was
“shocked and saddened” by the accident and has worked with
non-governmental organizations to help improve factory standards
in Bangladesh.  Supply Chain  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, is investigating
its supply chain to see if a factory in the building was
producing for the company,  Kevin Gardner , a spokesman for the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  “We are sorry to learn of this tragic event,” Gardner
said. “We remain committed and are actively engaged in
promoting stronger safety measures, and that work continues.”  Mohammad Ali, whose 25-year-old son remains missing, said
he heard from his son’s co-workers that they saw cracks on the
wall of the building before it collapsed and refused to go to
work. Some managers threatened not to pay their monthly salary
if they don’t return to work.  Families of the workers were seen wailing for their loved
ones while the others went from hospital to hospital in frantic
searches for relatives. Injured workers were being carried on
stretchers into a crowded hospital emergency room. Officers have
handed over 128 bodies to relatives, according to Mohammad
Asaduzzaman, who’s in charge of the Savar Model Police Station.  6,000 Employees  As many as 6,000 people were employed in the facilities
housed in the building 24 kilometers (15 miles) northwest of the
capital Dhaka, the Bdnews24.com website reported without citing
anyone. A few shops and a bank also had an office in the area,
Health Minister A.F.M. Ruhal Haque said in a briefing yesterday.  “It will take a lot of time to get a full picture of the
devastation,” Nilufa Yasmin, a duty officer at the Bangladesh
Fire Service and Civil Defence, said in a phone interview. “The
top five floors of the building collapsed on top of each other,
trapping many inside.”  Surging wages and inflation in  China , the largest apparel
supplier, have prompted retailers such as Wal-Mart and  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  to shift production to Bangladesh. In response,
an $18 billion manufacturing industry has sprung up, marred by
factories operated in buildings with poor electrical wiring, an
insufficient number of exits and little fire-fighting equipment.  The collapsed building had developed cracks the previous
day, prompting BRAC Bank Ltd. to order its employees to vacate
the premises, said Zeeshan Kingshuk Huq, a spokesman.  “We evacuated our staff yesterday,” Huq said. “Other
commercial units did not do the same.”  Safety Standards  About half of the Bangladesh’s garment factories don’t meet
legally required work safety standards, and those that have
improved working conditions have done so under pressure from
Western apparel makers, said Kalpona Akter, executive director
of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, a non-
governmental organization founded by two former garment child
workers to promote safer factories.  Bangladesh’s labor law requires safety measures such as
fire extinguishers and easily accessible exits at factories.  Workers-rights advocates are petitioning companies to sign
a contractually enforceable memorandum that would require them
to pay Bangladesh factories enough to cover costs of safety
improvements.  So far,  PVH Corp. (PVH) , owner of the Tommy Hilfiger brand, and
German retailer Tchibo are the only ones to sign the agreement,
which also would require companies to provide accurate and
regularly updated lists of their approved suppliers and
subcontractors in Bangladesh. It won’t take effect until four
major retailers sign on.  “These accidents are a huge reason why we’ve created the
agreement,” Akter said. “It’s not just about fires, it’s about
all factory conditions. This building has collapsed. There are
many more buildings waiting to collapse.”  Textiles contribute more than 10 percent of Bangladesh’s
gross domestic product and about 80 percent of the nation’s
exports, mainly to the U.S. and the EU, according to the
manufacturers’ association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  