-- Bank of America Hires UKFI O’Neil to Advise Bank Clients
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-04-25T10:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bank-of-america-hires-o-neil-from-u-k-financial-investments.html
Bank of America Corp . hired  Jim O’Neil , the executive responsible for managing the government’s
stakes in U.K. banks, to advise its clients in the financial
services industry.  O’Neil, who joined U.K. Financial Investments Ltd. three
years ago and was named chief executive officer a year ago, will
move to the investment bank in London in the autumn and work
alongside Bill Egan, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender
said in a statement today. O’Neil, 46, had worked at Bank of
America for 17 years before joining UKFI and is a former head of
corporate finance in Europe.  He moves as the U.K. government prepares to sell its stakes
in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc. (LLOY)  The government is pressing both banks to sell more assets
and bolster capital as it tries to recoup some of its
investments in the lenders. Shares of both lenders are trading
for less than the price the government paid for its holdings
when it bailed them out after the financial crisis of 2008.  “Jim’s depth of expertise in banking and financial markets
has been crucial for UKFI during a period that has included
eurozone crises and the formulation of major regulatory changes
for U.K. banks,” U.K. Financial Investments Chairman Robin Budenberg said in a separate statement. UKFI plans to recruit a
successor for O’Neil.  Bank of America has been overhauling its investment-banking
team in Europe following the departures of  Andrea Orcel  as
chairman of global banking and markets and Jonathan Moulds, the
firm’s president of Europe last year.  The firm has hired Alex Wilmot-Sitwell from  UBS AG (UBSN)  as
president of its European division and Diego De Giorgi, chief
operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s investment-
banking division, as joint head of global corporate and
investment banking for Europe. It also hired former Goldman
Sachs banker Luigi Rizzo to become head of mergers and
acquisitions for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  