-- Barclays Says 5.3% Oppose Pay Report as Walker Seeks Moderation
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-25T16:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/barclays-pledges-better-regulator-relations-in-review-response.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  said 5.3 percent of
shareholders opposed its executive-pay report at its annual
general meeting as Chairman David Walker said the era of
excessive compensation is behind the bank.  The lender had “overpaid” employees in the past and is
“determined to be moderate in the outcomes we produce” on pay,
Walker told investors in London today.  “We need to give you, our shareholders, a bigger share of
the income we generate through dividends and we need to
challenge the expectation that performance-related pay is
guaranteed,” Walker said.  Antony Jenkins , 51, who replaced Robert Diamond as chief
executive officer in August, is seeking to rein in pay and boost
profits to restore investor confidence in the wake of the Libor
and mis-selling scandals. Britain’s second-biggest bank by
assets today pledged to abide by the recommendations made in a
review by Rothschild Vice Chairman Anthony Salz in April, which
was critical of past compensation at the bank.  Some shareholders at the meeting said the bank is still
overpaying its management.  Joan Woolard, 75, from Lincolnshire,  England , told Walker
she lived on 726 pounds ($1,120) a month, “quite comfortably,”
and described executives paid 1 million pounds a year as
“greedy.”  “Banks have brought us down,” Woolard said, “I don’t
understand how you can sleep at night.”  Board Sympathy  “You can be assured the board is sympathetic to these
concerns,” Walker said.  Jenkins was awarded 2.3 million pounds in salary and long-
term bonuses last year, compared with 6.3 million pounds Diamond
received in 2011. Last year 27 percent of shareholders voted
against Diamond’s 12 million-pound compensation package.  Jenkins said in February he won’t take a bonus for 2012
after a series of regulatory mis-steps including the fine for
attempting to rig global interest rates. Jenkins was in line for
a bonus of at least 1 million pounds, the Guardian newspaper
reported on Jan. 29.  The bank awarded 428 workers with more than 1 million
pounds in 2012, down from 473 in 2011.  The shares fell 0.3 percent to 293.7 pence in  London . They
have gained 12 percent this year, giving the company a market
value of 37.8 billion pounds.  Improve Openness  Salz’s report, conducted after the London-based bank was
 fined  290 million pounds for manipulating Libor in June,
criticized the lender for failings in its culture and urged it
to improve openness and transparency.  Barclays paid its top 70 executives “consistently and
significantly above” the industry norm, according to the Salz
report. Managing directors at Barclays’s investment bank
received base pay of about 150,000 pounds to 300,000 pounds, as
well as an average bonus of about 70 percent of their salary in
2012.  Jenkins today also told shareholders not to expect the
bank’s return on equity, a measure of profitability, to exceed
its cost of equity before 2015.  About 8 percent of votes today were cast against allowing
the bank to issue further securities, the bank said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  