-- Barclays’s Redshaw Said to Resign as Head of Carbon, Coal
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-25T12:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/barclays-s-redshaw-said-to-resign-as-head-of-carbon-coal-trade.html
Louis Redshaw,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s head
of carbon, coal and iron ore trading, resigned from the London-
based bank, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Redshaw, 40, left the company yesterday, one of the people
said. Both people declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The trader has bought and sold
emissions permits at Barclays since 2004. Jon Laycock, a
spokesman for the bank in  London , declined to comment on the
departure when reached today by phone.  Emission allowances have dropped 57 percent in the past
year and plunged to a record on April 17 after the European
Parliament voted against a plan to temporarily cut supply and
reduce a record glut in the 54 billion-euro ($71 billion)
market. The program was started in 2005 to help protect the
climate by reducing output of  greenhouse gases .  “Louis has been a superstar in the market, having been
there since the early days of the European Union emissions
trading system,” Dirk Forrister, president of the International
Emissions Trading Association in Geneva, said today by phone
from London. His departure is “symbolic of a concern that we’ve
been voicing to policy makers for a long time to sort things
out,” he said.  Europe ’s emissions trading system is the bloc’s main tool
in meeting greenhouse gas-reduction targets, which it does by
issuing companies with tradable permits that they must surrender
to cover their carbon output. The euro area’s recession cut
demand, pushing the surplus of allowances and United Nations
credits to an estimated 1.9 billion tons in the five years
through 2012, or about a year’s emissions from factories, power
stations and airlines, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  “Deep Bench”  Redshaw has also worked at Electricite de France SA and
Enron Corp, the world’s biggest energy trader until it filed for
bankruptcy in December 2001.  “We’re seeing a lot of talent move on from the carbon
market,” Forrister said. “It’s a real loss.”  Trevor Sikorski , Barclays’s head of carbon, natural gas and
coal research, also left the bank in February.  The company is one of the world’s largest emissions
traders, “with a deep bench,” Laycock said today by e-mail.  The bank has traded carbon since 2004 and has also actively
facilitated the trading of secondary market Certified Emission
Reductions since 2006, he said.  EU allowances for December rose 2.7 percent today to 3.10
euros a metric ton on at  1:17 p.m. on ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. They’ve plunged 90 percent from a high of 31
euros in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  