-- BAT Sales Top Estimates as Higher Prices Offset Lower Volume
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-04-25T12:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bat-first-quarter-sales-top-estimates-on-higher-cigarette-prices.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,
 Europe ’s largest cigarette maker, reported first-quarter revenue
growth that beat estimates as the maker of  Pall Mall  and Dunhill
raised prices to offset falling consumption.  Sales rose 5 percent excluding currency shifts, London-
based BAT said in a statement today, compared with the 3.7
percent average estimate of six  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.
Shipments in the three months ended March 31 fell 3.4 percent,
compared with the average prediction of a 3.5 percent drop.  The company said “strong” pricing momentum is more than
offsetting reduced volume. Shipments fell in all regions other
than Asia Pacific, led by reductions in  Brazil  and southern
Europe. Revenue growth of 1 percent in the quarter was
restricted by adverse currency shifts, though BAT said that if
current rates persist the effect will reverse for the year.  “The recurrent theme is very weak volumes in Europe,”
said  Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec in  London . “The first
quarter was a tough one so we expect the full-year volume to be
better than this suggests.”  BAT rose as much as 3.2 percent in London trading, the
steepest intraday advance since Sept. 18. The stock was up 2.1
percent at 3,624 pence at 1:30 p.m., giving a gain this year of
16 percent. The U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index has appreciated
9.3 percent in the same period.  In addition to declining cigarette consumption, volume in
the quarter was affected by comparison with a leap year and an
excise tax increase in Brazil late last year, BAT said.  ‘Good Start’  The company’s four global “drive brands” -- Dunhill,
Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall -- increased volume by 1
percent as they boosted market share in their top 40 markets.  “It is a good start and I remain confident of another year
of earnings growth in line with our long-term strategic goals,”
Chief Executive Officer Nicandro Durante said in the statement.  Tobacco companies  are battling tighter regulation, with the
U.K. considering following  Australia  and  New Zealand  into making
plain packaging compulsory for tobacco products. Russia on Feb.
25 introduced anti-tobacco measures to curb demand in the
world’s second-largest cigarette market.  Companies are fighting back by developing alternative
nicotine products and BAT said Feb. 28 it could have a “tobacco
inhalation device” that is not an electronic cigarette ready to
sell in the U.K. as early as next year.  Plain Packaging  “We see these nicotine products as an important growth
area for us,” Chairman Richard Burrows said today at a press
conference. “We have to start small, finding our way in what is
largely uncharted scientific and regulatory territory, but in
the medium to long term, the revenues could be material.”  Even if the U.K.’s Department of Health were to recommend
the introduction of plain packaging, “we do not believe the
government will try to implement the policy aggressively,” said
 Erik Bloomquist , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, who has
a buy on BAT. Consumer behavior in Australia showed little
change after the introduction of plain packaging, he said.  In Australia, cigarette packets have since Dec. 1 contained
warnings that include photos of a gangrenous limb and a cancer
victim. All cigarettes in Australia must be sold in uniform
packs, with the brand name relegated to the bottom quarter of
the package on a drab brown background. The law is being
challenged at the  World Trade Organization  and at arbitration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  