-- Bausch & Lomb Refinances Debt; HCA Seeks Another $2 Billion Loan
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-04-25T20:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bausch-lomb-refinances-debt-hca-seeks-another-2-billion-loan.html
Bausch & Lomb Inc., the maker of
eye-care products owned by Warburg Pincus LLC, is refinancing
$2.9 billion of loans to lower borrowing costs.  HCA Holdings
Inc. (HCA)  is seeking additional loans to refinance debt.  Bausch & Lomb’s $1.92 billion six-year term loan B will pay
interest at 3 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, with a 1 percent minimum on the lending benchmark,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction. HCA,
the largest for-profit U.S. hospital chain said today it is
seeking a $2 billion loan after it arranged a $2.37 billion
credit this week that allowed it to reduce interest payments.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said today that
alternatives to Libor are being considered. The international
regulatory community is taking steps to address the integrity to
Libor and considering transitions toward alternative benchmarks,
he said during a meeting of the Financial Stability Oversight
Council.  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ’s exchange-traded fund, which invests in the
largest first-lien loans, recorded its biggest deposits in a
single day. Invesco’s  PowerShares Senior Loan (BKLN)  fund, started two
years ago as the first ETF solely dedicated to purchasing
floating-rate debt, reported the creation of  7.4 million shares 
yesterday, valued at about $185 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The pool’s assets under management have
more than doubled since the start of the year to $3.6 billion.  Warner Music Group Corp., the third-largest global music
content company, is seeking $820 million in loans to support its
acquisition of Parlophone Label Group and for general corporate
purposes, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  Virtu Financial LLC, the Silver Lake Partners-controlled
electronic trading firm, increased a loan it’s seeking to
support a dividend payout to $150 million from $100 million,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The average yield on the JPMorgan Leveraged Loan Index
dropped to a new low of 5.64 percent yesterday. The price of
loans was little changed today, ending at 98.5 cents on the
dollar, the highest level since July 2007, according to the
Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  