-- Bayer Profit Barely Rises as Plastics Offset New Drugs
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-04-25T15:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bayer-profit-barely-rises-as-plastics-offset-new-drugs.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s first-quarter profit
fell short of analysts’ estimates as a crop of new medicines
struggled to offset lagging older drugs and plunging earnings at
the plastics unit.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and special items increased 0.4 percent to 2.45 billion euros
($3.2 billion), the Leverkusen, Germany-based company said in a
statement today. That missed the 2.55 billion-euro average
 estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New drugs  to ward off blood clots and fight eye disease and
cancer contributed last quarter, Bayer said. The company has
signaled it will rely on its health and crop chemicals units for
growth as the plastics division contends with rising raw
material prices. But some of the quarter’s miss came from within
the health unit as older drugs such as the birth-control pill
Yasmin and the multiple sclerosis treatment Betaseron
disappointed, said Odile Rundquist, an analyst for Helvea SA.  “They missed expectations,” Rundquist said in a telephone
interview. Relative newcomers such as Xarelto, designed to block
blood clots, eye drug Eylea and cancer medicine Stivarga “all
did well,” the Geneva-based analyst said. She rates Bayer’s
shares accumulate.  Bayer rose 0.1 percent to close at 80.70 euros in
 Frankfurt . The stock has gained 12 percent this year, placing it
among one of the five worst performers in the Bloomberg index
that tracks 18 European drugmakers. Last year, it was the best
performer among the world’s 10 largest drugmakers.  Execution Phase  Bayer said its full-year group forecast still stands. The
company has said sales will probably increase 4 percent to 5
percent in 2013.  First-quarter sales rose 2.1 percent to 10.27 billion
euros. Sales at the plastics unit, known as MaterialScience,
were little changed and Ebitda before special items plunged 27
percent. By that measure profit will probably show no change at
the unit this year, Bayer said, trimming an earlier forecast.  Meanwhile, sales at Bayer’s agricultural unit, CropScience,
climbed 5.9 percent to 2.76 billion euros. Health-care revenue
increased 2.3 percent to 4.4 billion euros.  Five new pharmaceutical products will contribute more than
2.5 billion euros to sales in 2015, Bayer said in February.  “Following a period of unprecedented clinical success for
all of Bayer’s key new products, we now enter the execution
phase,” Tim Race and  Mark Clark , analysts for Deutsche Bank AG
in  London , wrote in a note on April 18. They rate Bayer’s shares
a buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  