-- BB Seguridade Raises $4.25 Billion in World’s Biggest 2013 IPO
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-04-25T22:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bb-seguridade-raises-4-25-billion-in-world-s-biggest-2013-ipo.html
BB Seguridade Participacoes SA, the
insurance unit of  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , is raising 8.5 billion
reais ($4.2 billion) in the world’s biggest initial public
offering this year.  The bank sold 500 million existing shares at 17 reais
apiece, within the range of the Brasilia-based company’s
forecast, the country’s securities regulator Comissao de Valores
Mobiliarios said today on its website. The total sale may climb
to as much as 11.5 billion reais including the overallotment
option for underwriters. That values the insurer at 34 billion
reais, almost half of Banco do Brasil’s market value of 73.8
billion reais.  BB Seguridade’s IPO is the largest this year, exceeding
animal-health company Zoetis Inc.’s $2.57 billion sale in
February, and the biggest in  Brazil  since July 2009, when Banco
Santander Brasil SA raised $7.5 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BB Seguridade controls all Banco do
Brasil’s insurance business, including joint ventures with
Madrid-based Mapfre SA.  “It’s a very good price as this is a giant offering,”
Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at consulting firm Empiricus
Research in  Sao Paulo , said today in a phone interview. “It is
good we have new blood being listed at the Sao Paulo exchange.”  Banco do Brasil has climbed 20 percent since it announced
plans for the IPO on Nov. 26. The benchmark Ibovespa index
declined 4.5 percent in the period. BB Seguridade starts trading
April 29 in Sao Paulo.  Banco do Brasil’s investment-banking unit is managing the
offering with Banco Bradesco BBI SA, Banco BTG Pactual SA,
Citigroup Inc., Itau Unibanco Holding SA’s Itau BBA, Brasil
Plural SA Banco Multiplo, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Banco
Votorantim SA.  On April 12, Brazil’s securities regulator, or CVM,
suspended the sale for 30 days citing “irregular publicity
material.” The suspension was revoked April 16, delaying the
pricing for two days from initial estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  