-- BBVA Profit May Climb as One-Time Gains Offset Decline in Spain
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-25T09:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bbva-profit-may-climb-as-one-time-gains-offset-decline-in-spain.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, may say first-quarter profit jumped
as one-time gains offset bad-loan costs and weak margins in its
home market.  BBVA  may say  net income climbed 52 percent to 1.52 billion
euros ($2 billion) from 1 billion euros a year earlier,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 11
analysts. The Bilbao, Spain-based lender will report earnings
tomorrow before the stock market opens in Madrid.  BBVA and other Spanish banks say their prospects are
improving after complying with government orders last year to
recognize losses on soured real estate assets. While earnings
from  Mexico  and one-time gains will buoy profit, the  uncertain 
outlook for a Spanish economy that has contracted for seven
straight quarters still poses  risks  for the bank, said Daragh Quinn, an  analyst  at Nomura International.  “For the Spanish banks including BBVA, it’s still hard to
have visibility into 2014 on how the economic situation in Spain
will continue to affect them,” Madrid-based Quinn, who rates
BBVA buy, said in a phone interview.  The sale of BBVA’s Mexican pensions business yielded a net
gain of 800 million euros in the first quarter, while a
reinsurance agreement signed in March earned the lender a gross
gain of 630 million euros, according to company filings.  Spanish Decline  BBVA shares increased 4.1 percent this year compared with a
3.1 percent gain for the 40-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest
bank, which today posted a 26 percent drop in first-quarter
earnings, has declined 11 percent his year.  Earnings from Spain may have dropped 51 percent to 112
million euros from a year ago as provisioning costs climbed by
almost two-thirds, according to estimates from  Banco BPI SA. (BPI)   Profit from Mexico, where BBVA owns the biggest bank, may
have slipped 7 percent to 400 million euros, according to
estimates in an April 19 report from Nick Anderson, an analyst
at Berenberg Bank in  London .  Earnings from South America may have declined 7 percent to
346 million euros, according to BPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  