-- Billionaire’s Airline Adds China Links on Trade: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-04-26T04:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/billionaire-s-airline-adds-china-links-on-trade-corporate-india.html
SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , the discount carrier
controlled by billionaire Kalanithi Maran, will add flights to
mainland China as trade expands between India and the world’s
second-biggest economy amid intensifying competition at home.  The  carrier , which flies four times a week to Guangzhou in
China, plans to fly to three more destinations there this year
as it taps business and leisure travelers from both countries,
Chief Executive Officer Neil Mills said in an April 23 telephone
interview. State-owned Air India is the only other local carrier
that offers direct services connecting the combined 2.5 billion
people in China’s mainland and India.  “You’ve got over a third of the world’s population in two
countries that sit side by side, but they are almost not
connected by air,” Mills said. “It’s not logical at all. It’s
like not having a connection between the U.S. and  Canada .”  SpiceJet is accelerating its overseas push while preparing
to face competition from Asia’s biggest budget carrier  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA)  and  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , in which Etihad Airways PJSC
agreed to buy a 24 percent stake this week. Mills targets to
almost triple contribution of overseas flights to sales to 20
percent of total in the next 18 months as the Chennai-based
carrier cuts costs to end losses.  The airline, which began operations in 2005, started flying
overseas in 2010.  Trade Ties  China is India’s second-largest trading partner, with
bilateral volume doubling in four years to $75.6 billion in the
12 months ended March 31, 2012, according to data provided by
India’s commerce ministry. The two neighbors want to reach $100
billion by 2015. Air India operates four flights a week between
Delhi and  Shanghai .  Jet Airways, India’s biggest publicly traded carrier,
suspended flights to Shanghai less than a year after it
introduced the route in June 2008.  “It’ll be a pretty smart move” by SpiceJet, said Mark D.
Martin, chief executive officer of Dubai-based Martin Consulting
LLC that advises airlines on cost optimization and fleet
strategy. “China is one segment where traffic will consistently
grow and it’s one of India’s biggest trading partners. This will
pay off in times to come.”  Nuclear-Armed  While trade ties are deepening between the two countries,
tourism has yet to take off, limiting SpiceJet’s ability to fill
seats on its planes, said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with
Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai.  In 2011, about 142,000 Chinese people visited India, or
2.25 percent of the total arrivals behind Japanese, Canadians
and Malaysians, according to data provided by India’s Ministry
of Tourism. Last year 610,200 Indians visited China, fewer than
those from Thailand or  Indonesia , according to  data  posted on
China National Tourist Administration’s website.  “China is a relatively new market and there isn’t much
tourism from India either, so it makes more sense to fly to a
hub such as Hong Kong and then use codeshares from there,”
Sabarad said. “Flights to China don’t have adequate seats
getting filled so it remains to be seen whether these routes
will be profitable.”  China  and India, the nuclear-armed neighbors, have laid
claims to territory held by the other and went to war in 1962
over a boundary dispute. Border disputes have prevented warm
relations between the two. India accuses China of occupying
38,000 square kilometers of territory in Jammu and Kashmir to
the west, while Beijing says 90,000 square kilometers of land in
Arunachal Pradesh in India’s northeast belongs to China.  Shares Surge  Shares of SpiceJet fell as much as 3.3 percent and traded
at 35.95 rupees, or down 2.7 percent, as of 9:23 a.m. in Mumbai.
They have gained 29 percent in the last 12 months, compared with
83 percent increase in Jet Airways.  India ’s benchmark S&P BSE
Sensex has risen 13 percent in the same period.  SpiceJet plans to add seven Boeing Co. 737 aircraft to its
fleet of 52 aircraft that include 15 Bombardier Inc. Q400
turboprop planes, Mills had said last month.  Maran, who bought majority control in SpiceJet in 2010, has
more than $2 billion worth of shares through his direct 77
percent stake in Sun TV Network Ltd. and 16.3 percent of
SpiceJet, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Adding international services will allow Indian carriers to
earn revenue in dollars, the currency of invoice for aircraft
and spares, Martin Consulting’s Martin said. As much as 70
percent of an airline’s costs, including jet fuel and aircraft
prices, are denominated in dollars.  Central Asia  The Indian rupee has declined about 3 percent against the
dollar in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Flying more overseas routes will also help carriers save on
some local jet fuel taxes. Jet fuel, which accounts for about
half of a carrier’s expenses, costs as much as 60 percent more
in India, compared with  Singapore  because of sales tax levied by
Indian states, according to government data.  SpiceJet is also considering flying to Commonwealth of
Independent States, which comprises the former Soviet states,
and start flights to  Thailand , Mills said. It also plans to add
more routes to the Middle East, he said. The carrier withdrew
its application to fly to Abu Dhabi, Mills said.  The overseas push also comes as the airline strengthens its
domestic network by connecting under-served towns. The carrier
is using the 78-seat Q400s to access more airports with runways
too short for jet planes such as Boeing Co.’s 737s. SpiceJet’s
efforts come amid intensifying competition at home.  Air Asia  SpiceJet in January said it would cut costs by keeping
fewer expatriate pilots on its payroll and new duty rosters for
attendants that will ensure they return to their home base by
the end of the day, eliminating hotel expenses. The airline also
said that it would begin importing jet fuel to save on high
local taxes.  This week Etihad Airways, based in Abu Dhabi, agreed to buy
a 24 percent stake in Jet Airways for 20.6 billion rupees. Last
month AirAsia formed a venture with Mumbai-based Tata Group to
set up a local low-fare airline. The Malaysian company aims to
start Indian operations in September, with the venture operating
out of Chennai.  SpiceJet will probably post a loss of 473.5 million rupees
($8.7 million) in the year ended March 31, narrower than a year
earlier, according to the median of 10  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. And they estimate sales to rise 45
percent, the fastest pace in at least five years, to 57.3
billion rupees.  The carrier is enthused by the response it has got with its
China connectivity.  “The first week of flights were actually full from China
with tourists coming to India for the Chinese New Year,” said
Mills.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net  