-- Bill Gates Seeks $1.5 Billion More to Eradicate Polio by 2018
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-04-25T10:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bill-gates-seeks-1-5-billion-more-to-eradicate-polio-by-2018.html
Bill Gates , chairman and co-founder
of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is seeking a further $1.5 billion in
donations to wipe out polio by 2018 and make it the first
infectious disease eradicated since smallpox was wiped from the
planet in 1979.  The billionaire, who is contributing about $1.8 billion to
the cause through the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , is
pressing rich nations to donate to the $5.5 billion Polio
Eradication & Endgame Strategic Plan 2013-2018 to globally
eradicate the disease over the next six years.  “We’ve raised three-quarters of that money so far,” Gates
said in an interview yesterday in  Abu Dhabi  where global
leaders, health experts and business leaders are gathering for
the first Global Vaccine Summit. “We’ve got to double down and
finish the eradication.”  Polio cases plunged to 223 last year, the lowest level
ever, and there have been 19 cases so far in 2013, according to
a statement from the summit. Only three countries now have polio
transmission -- Nigeria, Pakistan and  Afghanistan .  India , long-
regarded as the nation facing the greatest challenge to end
polio, was declared free of the disease in February 2012.  About 60 percent of the funds raised have come from
governments, Gates said. The rest was given by philanthropists
such as  Saudi Arabia ’s  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal , the largest
individual investor in Citigroup Inc., who announced a $30
million donation. Gates’s foundation will commit one-third of
the total cost of the GPEI’s budget over the plan’s six-year
implementation, he said.  Routine Immunization  “We didn’t want to reinvent the wheel as the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation  already invented it,” Alwaleed said in
an interview yesterday. “It’s a very a good cause and everyone
should chip in.”  Poliovirus is shed by infected people in feces and can
spread as a result of poor sanitation and hygiene. Millions of
people were paralyzed by the disease in the 20th century before
vaccines became widely available in the 1950s. Sanitation
improvements and routine immunization have helped eradicate the
disease from many countries.  The six-year program was developed by the Global Polio
Eradication Initiative, which is led by national governments,
the  World Health Organization , Rotary International, the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and UNICEF, and
supported by partners including the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation.  While challenges remain to erase polio from Nigeria,
Pakistan and Afghanistan, Gates said this can be achieved with
the help of donors such as Alwaleed.  “We’re both businessmen who invest when we can see impact,
whether it’s on the profit side investing in a good company or
in a program that’s destined to be a big success,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  