-- BlackBerry Drops on Report of Cutback in Production Plans
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-25T20:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/blackberry-drops-on-report-of-cutback-in-production-expectation.html
BlackBerry fell in  New York  trading
after investment research firm  Wedge Partners  said the
smartphone maker has probably scaled back production plans for
its flagship Z10 device.  The company may have cut 4 million to 6 million units,
 Brian Blair , a Wedge Partners analyst, said today in a note,
without saying where he got the information. The shares erased
gains of as much as 3.3 percent and were down 0.6 percent to
$14.81 at the close in New York.  “If accurate, these cuts would mark a meaningful hit to
BlackBerry’s own expectations, and full-year units will come in
well below consensus views,” said Blair, who is based in New
York. “The recent carrier launches in the U.S. have provided no
evidence of meaningful sell-through, and a production cut could
simply be a reaction to weak sales, post the U.S. launch, and an
effort to avoid a channel inventory buildup.”  BlackBerry (BBRY) , based in Waterloo, Ontario, is counting on the
touch-screen Z10 and a keyboard model, the Q10, to help it
regain market share after ceding ground to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. The stock has  fallen  as low as $12.50
and climbed above $16 in the past two months as analysts
speculate on how the new BlackBerry 10 lineup of phones is doing
against the iPhone 5 and Samsung Galaxy S lineup.  BlackBerry doesn’t comment on speculation, Crystal Roberts,
a spokeswoman, said in response to the Wedge report.  BlackBerry said April 12 it would ask securities regulators
to investigate a report from Detwiler Fenton & Co. that its new
phones have high return rates, arguing that the “false”
information may have been released in a deliberate attempt to
manipulate its stock price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  