-- Bomb Suspect Has Chance to Avoid Execution by Cooperating
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-04-25T07:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/boston-marathon-bomb-suspect-may-blame-brother-to-survive.html
The best chance for 19-year-old
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev to avoid execution for the deadly  Boston 
Marathon bombing may be to cooperate fully with investigators,
or convince a jury he was “brainwashed” by his older brother.  U.S. authorities said Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev
detonated two homemade bombs near the race’s finish line April
15, killing three people and injuring more than 200. Tamerlan
Tsarnaev died after a shootout with police. Dzhokhar, captured
hiding in a boat in a Watertown backyard, was charged with two
capital counts, including use of a weapon of mass destruction.  His lawyers will probably blame his involvement on the
“overpowering influence” of his 26-year-old brother, said
 Harvey Silverglate , a civil liberties and defense attorney.
Tamerlan Tsarnaev “appears to have been an embittered and
dangerous character, and it is well known that older siblings
can often have tremendous power over younger siblings.”  The Tsarnaevs, immigrants of Chechen descent, had lived in
the U.S. for more than a decade. Investigators are working with
Russian authorities as they focus on a six-month trip Tamerlan
took last year to Chechnya and neighboring Dagestan, both
Russian regions roiled by Islamist separatist movements.  While federal investigators seeks to piece together the
genesis of the attack and whether others were involved, U.S.
Attorney Carmen Ortiz has begun the prosecution of Tsarnaev, who
is recovering from wounds suffered during the four-day hunt for
him and his brother.  Communicating  Tsarnaev, who had a gunshot wound to the neck, communicated
to investigators by nods and in writing that he and his brother
alone were responsible for the bombings and were motivated by
extremist Islam, according to a U.S. official briefed on the
initial interrogation. He also indicated they weren’t aligned
with any known terrorist or military groups.  During his initial appearance before a federal magistrate
in his hospital room April 22, Tsarnaev was represented by
Assistant Federal Public Defender William Fick, a Yale Law
School graduate, seven-year veteran of the public defender’s
office and fluent Russian speaker. Tsarnaev told the judge that
he can’t afford a lawyer and agreed to voluntary detention. A
probable-cause hearing has been set for May 30 in Boston federal
court.  His defense, including his effort to avoid execution if
convicted, is led by Federal Public Defender Miriam Conrad. She
represented Rezwan Ferdaus, a 27-year-old man who is serving a
17-year sentence for terrorism conspiracy for a plot to attack
the U.S. Capitol with remote-controlled airplanes.  His Defenders  Conrad, who holds a degree from Harvard Law School, joined
the federal defender’s office in 1992 after working as a court-
appointed lawyer for Massachusetts. She has already asked the
court to let her bring in two more lawyers who have defended
clients facing the death penalty, “given the magnitude of this
case.”  In court papers, Conrad cited the prosecution of Jared Loughner, the gunman who killed six people and injured 13 in a
Tucson,  Arizona , strip mall, including former Democratic
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords . He was allowed to hire two
attorneys with experience in death penalty matters to assist the
public defender. Loughner pleaded guilty to the 2011 rampage and
is serving life in prison.  In a two-tiered capital trial, Conrad will need to persuade
a jury to spare her client’s life if he’s found guilty to avoid
the fate of the handful of federal defendants who have gone on
to execution, including Timothy McVeigh.  Death Chamber  McVeigh was put to death in 2001 in the federal death
chamber in Terre Haute,  Indiana , for the 1995 Oklahoma City
bombing. He killed 168 people and injured more than 800.
Convicted killer Ramon Garza was executed in Terre Haute eight
days later.  “If anyone can provide this young man with a tenacious,
effective defense, it’s Miriam Conrad,” said  Tamar Birckhead ,
who has worked with her and in 2002 defended Richard Reid, the
so-called shoe-bomber who tried to blow a hole in the side of a
passenger plane with explosives in his shoe. “She’s tough and
she’s got a brilliant legal mind.”  Conrad declined to comment on the capital charges.
Christina Sterling, a spokeswoman for Ortiz, didn’t return an e-
mail seeking comment.  Youth Factor  Birckhead, now a law professor at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, said she expects the defense to find
experts to focus on Tsarnaev’s youth, which if not persuasive to
a jury to gain acquittal, could be viewed as a mitigating factor
in the penalty phase of a capital trial.  “Not long ago he was a minor,” she said in a telephone
interview. “His brain is probably not that different than a
minor’s, and psychologically in terms of impulsivity, peer
pressure and the inability to consider long-term consequences,
all of that could absolutely be relevant.”  The two brothers used remote controls from toy
cars to set off the explosives inside pressure cookers,
according to federal law-enforcement officials and members
of Congress briefed on the matter.  A claim of insanity or a defense of so-called diminished
mental capacity won’t help Tsarnaev, other lawyers said.  “Such careful planning went into this -- the placement of
the bombs, the timing, the premeditation,” said Richard Herman,
a New York-based defense lawyer. “It would just be absurd to
take on a position of insanity, and insanity defenses only win
about 1 percent of the time anyway.”  Venue Change  While the defense may seek to move the trial to another
city to secure a more favorable jury, it would be “foolish” to
think people outside Boston would treat Tsarnaev differently,
said Gerald Shargel, a criminal defense lawyer who has practiced
for 43 years. In 1999, Shargel defended an Indian immigrant,
Gurmeet Dhinsa Singh against federal capital murder charges for
ordering the execution of two men. After an hour, the jury voted
to reject the death penalty for Singh.  The marathon attacks got too much national attention for
venue to make much of a difference, Shargel said. McVeigh’s
trial was moved to Denver federal court and he still wound up
convicted of 11 crimes, including conspiracy and the use of a
weapon of mass destruction.  “Given what’s happened over the last week, whether the
trial is in Los Angeles,  Seattle  or Kansas City, the American
public is outraged about what occurred and understandably biased
against the defendant,” Shargel said. “The defense attorney’s
job will be to pick a jury that’s open to sparing his life --
it’s a Herculean task.”  Overwhelming Evidence  The court could bring in thousands of potential jurors for
Tsarnaev’s case to vet those who are morally opposed to the
death penalty or express bias, defense lawyers said. In the
retrial for the sentencing phase of Ronell Wilson, who was
convicted of executing two New York City police detectives, a
federal judge in  Brooklyn  on April 22 summoned 2,000 prospective
jurors to court.  While the government isn’t required to seek a capital
sentence, the Tsarnaev prosecution is “absolutely” a death
penalty case, said Herman, and the government has “an
overwhelming mountain of evidence” to support a conviction.  David Hoose, a defense lawyer who has argued against
capital punishment, said the alleged “manipulation” of
Tsarnaev will be the most important part of his defense against
the death penalty.  ‘Easily Influenced’  “That gives you the talking point for mitigation,” Hoose
said in a telephone interview. “Right on its surface, it
appears this is a younger kid who is easily influenced.”  The tactic helped Lee Boyd Malvo, the younger of the two
snipers who terrorized the Washington area for three weeks in
2002, killing 10 people with long-range rifles, said Tung Yin, a
professor who teaches about terrorism and national security at
Lewis & Clark Law School in  Portland , Oregon.  Malvo escaped death when his lawyers argued the then-17-
year-old had been influenced by the elder killer, John Allen Muhammad, who was sentenced to death in 2003. Malvo got six
consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole.  Malvo “claimed Muhammad led him down this horrible path,”
Yin said. Tsarnaev “could try something like that.”  The defense may also argue that Tsarnaev’s statements after
his capture can’t be used in court because he wasn’t apprised of
his right to remain silent and have a lawyer. Even without them,
defense lawyers said, the government’s forensic and surveillance
evidence may be insurmountable.  Questioning Suspect  When Tsarnaev was taken into custody, the Obama
administration said it planned to question him without telling
him he had those rights. The administration cited a public-
safety exception that allows such questioning in part to
discover any looming threats to the public. Such an exception
has been used in other federal terrorism cases.  Though Tsarnaev communicated to investigators that he and
his older brother were responsible for the attack, he indicated
they didn’t have ties to a terrorist or military group, the U.S.
official said. If Tsarnaev and his lawyers wish to avoid a
capital case or obtain a plea deal by cooperating, they will
have to have something to offer.  By telling authorities about any accomplices or overseas
groups that may have assisted in the attack, said Herman,
Tsarnaev may be able to obtain a deal that spares his life. The
information would have to be credible and possibly prevent a
future attack or lead to the prosecution of others, he said.  “The rats get rewarded if they have good, credible
information,” he said, using a slang term for informants. “If
he’s a low-level guy and they just went on a spree on their own,
he’s of no use to the government.”  MIT Officer  Not included in the federal complaint against Tsarnaev were
charges tied to the shooting death of Sean Collier, a
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology police officer, and the
wounding of a transit patrolman before his capture. Such crimes
are typically prosecuted by state prosecutors, and may result in
charges that parallel the federal case.  The  Middlesex County District Attorney’s Office  said it is
investigating the shootings. The state doesn’t have a death
penalty, and any local prosecution would probably be delayed
while the federal case proceeded.  Boston defense attorney Jonathan Salsberg was assigned by
the Committee for Public Counsel Services to represent Tsarnaev
in any state case filed against him. Salsberg declined to
comment on his appointment.  1994 Law  Two defendants have been prosecuted by the U.S. government
in Massachusetts under the 1994 Federal Death Penalty Act. Gary
Lee Sampson was sentenced to die after pleading guilty in 2003
to two counts of carjacking resulting in death. His sentence was
overturned after an appeals court ruled that a juror had
withheld information about her ability to be impartial.  Kristen Gilbert, a former nurse at a Veterans Affairs
Medical Center in Massachusetts who was tried under the act for
killing four patients, was given a life sentence.  Any federal cases that include potential capital crimes are
reviewed by U.S. prosecutors, and eventually by U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder. Even defense lawyers are consulted before a
decision is made, said Morris Fodeman, a former federal
prosecutor who obtained a death sentence in 2007 for Ronell Wilson, a New York man convicted of executing two police
detective. It was the first federal death sentence in New York
in 54 years.  Fodeman said defense lawyers, before even reaching a jury,
may try using the argument that Tsarnaev was manipulated by his
brother to persuade prosecutors to seek only a life sentence.  “I don’t think it’s a foregone conclusion that the
government will seek the death penalty in this case,” said
Mitchell Dinnerstein, a criminal defense lawyer in New York who
has defended clients facing the death penalty. Dinnerstein said
Tsarnaev’s age and the possible influence of his brother are all
factors that should be considered.  Penalty Phase  If defense lawyers are unsuccessful, and if Tsarnaev is
eventually convicted, there is yet another proceeding awaiting
him -- the so-called penalty phase. Jurors are asked to decide
whether a convicted defendant deserves life in prison or death
by weighing mitigating and aggravating factors presented by the
defense and the government.  Even with a strong “brainwashing” claim, a jury may be
influenced by the brutality of the attack, said Yin, the  Oregon 
law professor. Tsarnaev is accused of killing three people:
Martin Richard, 8, Lu Lingzi, 23, and Krystle Campbell, 29. More
than a dozen of the 200 injured lost limbs in the attack.  Life sentences are more frequently given out in cases over
foiled attacks, such as Faisal Shahzad’s plot to detonate a car
bomb in New York’s Times Square in 2010, and Adis Medunjanin’s
plan to bomb the city’s subway. No one was harmed in either
instance.  20th Hijacker  Even in the most heinous of crimes, a death sentence is
sometimes out of reach. Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th
hijacker who pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges in connection
with the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, was sentenced to life in
prison in 2006.  Prosecutors failed to secure a unanimous vote for death
after some jurors at his trial concluded Moussaoui didn’t have a
central role in the attack.  In 2001, Khalfan Khamis Mohamed and Mohamed Rashed Daoud
al-’Owhali both avoided the death penalty for their roles in the
1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in  Kenya  and  Tanzania , which
killed 224 people, including 12 Americans. The jury failed to
reach a unanimous decision on a sentence and both men are
serving life sentences.  Jury’s Decision  Al-’Owhali, who was 25 at the time of the attack, was
accused of driving the bomb-laden truck to the embassy in Kenya
and later posed with his hands clasped over his head in what the
U.S. said was a gesture of victory.  Nine of the 12 Manhattan federal jurors who heard the case
found that executing him “may not necessarily alleviate the
victims’ or victims’ family suffering.”  Jurors split on a death sentence for Mohamed, who was
accused of building and transporting the bomb which detonated
outside the embassy in Tanzania, killing 11 people. Seven of the
12 jurors concluded “if Khalfan Mohamed is executed, he will be
seen as a martyr and his death may be exploited by others to
justify future terrorist acts.”  As a death sentence recommendation must be unanimous, he
was sentenced to life in prison.  Jeremy Schneider, a lawyer who represents radical Islamic
cleric Abu Hamza on terrorism charges in Manhattan federal court
agreed that even if the Boston Marathon case reaches a penalty
phase, Tsarnaev still has a chance of escaping with his life.  “Even for a potential penalty phase, there may be friends
who knew him who will say that this is a smart kid who was well
liked and did well in the U.S., at least when his older brother
wasn’t around,” Schneider said.  Coerced, Brainwashed  “There are many arguments to be made here such as, was he
coerced? What did his brother do to him? Is he under his
brother’s thrall, like a Patty Hearst or the Stockholm Syndrome?
All these could also work as part of a defense or as mitigating
factors.” He could argue he was “brainwashed” by his brother,
Schneider said.  Defense lawyers have so far failed to block federal death
penalty sentences by arguing the state in which the crime took
place bans capital punishment, said Hoose, the defense lawyer.
He said attorneys continue raising that defense because the U.S.
Supreme Court hasn’t ruled against it.  Hoose is arguing against use of the penalty in a federal
case filed in Rhode Island, which also has no death penalty.  Jason Pleau, 35, faces possible execution on federal
charges he killed a gas station manager in a robbery. As with
Pleau’s case, Hoose said Tsarnaev should be prosecuted under the
laws approved by the citizens of his state. A federal judge in
Rhode Island rejected that argument in Pleau’s case on April 17.  “The people of Massachusetts have long ago decided they
didn’t want to have a death penalty,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District
court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court 
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  