-- Brazil Counting on Slow Global Growth to Avoid Bigger Rate Raise
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-04-25T13:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/brazil-counting-on-slow-global-growth-to-avoid-bigger-rate-raise.html
Brazil’s central bank signaled it
will continue to raise  interest rates  at a moderate pace as it
says weak global growth may help contain above-target inflation.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
by a 6-to-2 margin to increase the benchmark Selic rate to 7.50
percent after holding it at a record 7.25 percent since October.
The first rate increase since July 2011 came after annual
inflation accelerated beyond the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
bank’s target range in March. Higher prices undermine potential
growth of the economy, jobs and income, the central bank said in
the  minutes  to its April 16-17 meeting published today.  While high and disperse levels of price increases demanded
a monetary policy response, internal and especially external
“uncertainties” requires caution from policy makers, the
central bank said today. It expects a prolonged period of slow
economic growth in rich economies, and part of its board said
the international environment may help ease inflationary
pressures.  “The minutes are dovish,”  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Votorantim Corretora, said in an interview from Sao
Paulo. “The bank says the global economic scenario creates
lower inflationary risks and the rhythm of Brazil’s economic
growth is also not clear.”  Padovani forecasts policy makers will refrain from
accelerating the pace of interest rate increases and will raise
rates by 25 basis points in each of the next four meetings.  Swap rates on the contract due January 2015 fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.27 at 10:22 a.m. local
time. The real weakened 0.02 percent to 2.0104 per U.S. dollar.  Annual consumer prices  in March  jumped to 6.59 percent from
6.31 percent the month prior, according to the national
statistics agency. The central bank targets inflation at 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil ’s economic recovery has struggled to gain traction,
even after officials extended tax cuts on consumer goods and
payrolls and reduced electricity costs this year. Both
industrial production and retail sales dropped in February,
while  consumer confidence  fell for six straight months through
March, according to the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  Latin America’s largest market will expand by at least 3
percent in 2013, Mantega said last month. That’s up from 0.9
percent last year and 2.7 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  