-- Brazil Swap Rates Climb After Hamilton Comment; Real Advances
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-04-25T21:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/brazilian-swap-rates-rise-after-hamilton-comment-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose, erasing a
drop, as the central bank’s director for economic policy said
the monetary authority may have to step up the pace of increases
in borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Some fellow board members endorsed the comments by Carlos
Hamilton made at an event in Sao Paulo, said a person familiar
with policy matters who asked not to be identified because
discussions aren’t public. Swap rates fell earlier as the
central bank said in minutes of its April 16-17 meeting
published today that weak global growth will help curb
inflation, spurring speculation that increases in borrowing
costs would be limited.  “Hamilton was more hawkish than the minutes were,”  Pedro Tuesta , a senior economist for  Latin America  at 4cast Ltd., said
in a telephone interview.  Swap rates due in January 2014 climbed 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 7.93 percent in Sao Paulo, the biggest
increase since April 12. They earlier fell as much as three
basis points. The real appreciated 0.4 percent to 2.0013 per
dollar.  The monetary policy committee, known as the Copom, voted 6
to 2 last week to increase the Selic target lending rate to 7.50
percent from a record low 7.25 percent, saying in its statement
that “the high level of inflation” and “resilience of
inflation” required a response.  Brazil’s swap rates tumbled the day after the meeting as
the central bank raised borrowing costs less than some analysts
had forecast. A survey by Bloomberg showed that 18 of 58
analysts had projected an increase of 50 basis points.  “I have a growing conviction that the Copom may be
prompted to reflect on the possibility of intensifying the use
of its monetary policy tool, the Selic rate,” Hamilton said
today in Sao Paulo.  ‘External Uncertainties’  The central bank’s statement last week was tempered by
recognition that “external uncertainties” required that
monetary policy be managed with caution.  “There was a growing consensus in the market that the
central bank had planned on raising rates in steps of 25 basis
points,”  Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB
do Brasil SA, said in a telephone interview. “As far as Carlos
Hamilton is concerned, it hasn’t been decided.”  Consumer prices  rose at an annual rate of 6.59 percent in
March, exceeding the upper limit of the central bank’s preferred
range for the first time since November 2011. The target is 4.5
percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Unemployment Rate  Brazil’s  unemployment rate  rose to 5.7 percent in March
from 5.6 percent in the prior month, the national statistics
agency reported today. The median forecast of 33 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase to 5.9 percent.  The real was headed for a second straight week of trading
weaker than 2 per dollar as policy makers swung this year
between selling currency swaps to prevent the real from falling
too quickly and offering reverse currency swaps to protect
exporters by reining in gains.  Brazil’s central bank reported yesterday that foreign
currency net outflows this year to date narrowed to $983 million
as of April 19 from $5.1 billion a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  