-- Brazil May Have to Step Up Rate Raise Pace, Hamilton Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-04-25T19:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/brazil-may-have-to-step-up-pace-of-rate-increase-hamilton-says.html
Brazil ’s central bank may have to
step up the pace of  interest rate  increases to tame above-target
inflation, its director for economic policy, Carlos Hamilton,
said today. Swap rates rose.  “I have a growing conviction that the Copom may be
prompted to reflect on the possibility of intensifying the use
of its monetary policy tool, the  Selic rate ,” Hamilton said at
an event in  Sao Paulo , referring to the bank’s policy making
committee.  Swap rates reversed an earlier drop and surged after
Hamilton’s comments, which surprised traders who had earlier
interpreted the central bank minutes published today as a sign
that the current pace of interest rate increases would be
maintained. Swap rates rose further after a person familiar with
monetary policy discussion said Hamilton wasn’t isolated on the
board with his view.  Hamilton’s speech was endorsed by other members of the
central bank’s board, said the person, who can’t be named
because the debate isn’t public.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
6-to-2 to increase the benchmark Selic rate to 7.50 percent
after holding it at a record 7.25 percent since October. The
first increase since July 2011 came after  annual inflation 
accelerated beyond the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s
target range in March.  Market’s View  “The market interpreted that a faster pace of rate
increase can’t be ruled out,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a phone
interview in reference to Hamilton’s comments. “He is only one
member of the central bank board, but he needs to be heard.”  The swap rate contract maturing in January 2014 gained 10
basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 7.93 percent at 4:56
p.m. local time, after having dropped as much as three basis
points.  In the minutes of the bank’s April 16-17 meeting published
today, the board reiterated that an unclear outlook for the
world economy required a cautious monetary policy. Policy makers
said slower global economic growth could help contain
inflationary pressures, prompting investors to reinforce bets
for a more gradual tightening cycle.  Cohesion Questions  While high and disperse levels of price increases demanded
a monetary policy response, internal and especially external
“uncertainties” require caution from policy makers, the
central bank said today. The bank expects a prolonged period of
slow economic growth in rich economies, and some board members
said the international environment may help ease inflationary
pressures.  Hamilton, who voted in favor of the rate increase this
month, said Brazil’s economy can’t grow much more than 3.1
percent without fueling inflation. The central bank predicts
 Latin America ’s biggest economy will expand 3.1 percent this
year.  The contradictions between Hamilton’s comments and the
minutes show a lack of cohesion in the central bank’s
communication,  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  