-- Bristol-Myers Declines as Sales Drop Outweighs Pipeline
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-25T20:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bristol-myers-quarterly-profit-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  fell the
most in more than eight months after slow sales of existing
products trumped investors’ interest in new cancer and hepatitis
C drugs the company has in development.  The  shares  fell 3 percent to $40.22 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the biggest one-day decrease since Aug. 2. Bristol-Myers
earlier today reported first-quarter earnings excluding one-time
items of 41 cents a share, 1 cent less than the average of 17
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were $3.83
billion, compared with the average analysts’ estimate of $3.87
billion.  “A lot of what they call their core products, across the
board, were a little light,” said  Jeff Jonas , co-portfolio
manager of the Gabelli Healthcare & Wellness Trust, which owns
the stock. That included Eliquis, a potential top-selling blood
thinner and three key diabetes drugs.  Bristol-Myers has no device or consumer units, unlike
competitors such as  Merck & Co. (MRK) , and investors have focused on
the roster of experimental drugs. The company is aiming its
research and development focus at new cancer drugs that use the
body’s immune system to fight the disease, like its melanoma
treatment Yervoy.  “It has jettisoned its various non-pharma businesses to
become among the most ‘pure play’ pharmaceutical companies,”
 Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
in a note to clients before the earnings were announced.  Eliquis Sales  For that strategy to pay off, though, the new products,
like Eliquis, have to deliver. In its first quarter on the
market, the pill generated $22 million, half the average of
three analysts’ estimates. Bristol-Myers sees the drug as a
foundation for its sales over the next decade and revenue may be
$3.8 billion for the company in 2018, according to analysts’
 estimates .  “We are on track with our expectations,” Chief Financial
Office Charles Bancroft said on a conference call today
discussing the results. “We continue to believe that Eliquis
will be the leading agent, over time.”  Bristol-Myers already has the highest valuation of any
large U.S. drugmaker -- its price-to-earnings ratio is 25. “I
think they’ll deliver on it, but I think the market is valuing
them that they’ll deliver,” said Judson Clark, an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. who has a hold rating on the stock.  Revenue Loss  While the company has promising experimental cancer and
hepatitis C drugs, it is dealing with the loss of top products
like Plavix, an anti-stroke drug, and Avapro and Avalide, a
blood pressure therapy sold under both names. “We’re looking at
four years before they get back to their peak earnings,” Clark
said in a telephone interview.  Two diabetes drugs purchased with the acquisition of Amylin
Pharmaceuticals for $6.49 billion last year also failed to meet
estimates. Bydureon sold $52 million, less than analysts’
estimates of $86 million. Byetta, also from Amylin, sold $85
million, less than analysts’ projected $99 million.  The company said a reorganization of its diabetes sales
force that was part of the acquisition accounts for some of the
sales issue.  “During this period of transition, in a very competitive
market, we’ve seen some disruption to our commercial effort,”
said Giovanni Caforio, the president of Bristol-Myers’ U.S. drug
business.  Plavix, which last year was Bristol-Myers’  top product ,
lost 95 percent of its $1.7 billion in quarterly sales from a
year earlier, and Avapro/Avalide saw sales fall 78 percent to
$46 million.  Forecast Affirmed  Net income fell to $609 million, or 37 cents a share, from
$1.1 billion, or 64 cents, a year earlier, the company said.
Bristol-Myers affirmed its  forecast  for annual earnings
excluding one-time items of $1.78 to $1.88 a share announced in
January.  The company benefited from a  tax rate  5 percentage points
under what it has projected for this year. The first quarter
 effective tax rate , excluding certain items, was 11 percent,
less than the 16 percent rate projected for the year. That was
in part from a U.S. research-and-development tax credit.  Two of the company’s top experimental products may move
faster than expected after receiving special designations from
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration that can reduce the
agency’s review time and lead to quicker marketing approval.  ‘Breakthrough’ Drugs  Nivolumab, an immune-oncology drug, will get “fast track”
designation for non-small-cell  lung cancer , renal cell carcinoma
and advanced melanoma. The company’s hepatitis C treatment, a
combination of three drugs, will also get status from the FDA as
a “breakthrough” medication, meaning it, too, can be approved
early.  New drugs generally need three phases of clinical testing
on safety and effectiveness to win FDA approval. The FDA bases
its decision to award the special statuses on how effective the
drug is in early trials and the size of the unmet medical need
for the disease.  Sales of Yervoy, the immune-oncology drug approved in 2011,
increased 49 percent to $229 million, the company reported.
Sales of the drug may reach $1.54 billion by 2018, according to
an average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  