-- Brookfield Office to Acquire MPG in Los Angeles Expansion
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-04-25T20:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/brookfield-office-to-buy-mpg-in-downtown-los-angeles-expansion.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) 
agreed to buy  MPG Office Trust (MPG) , expanding its Southern
 California  holdings to become the biggest office owner in
downtown Los Angeles.  MPG’s common-stock holders will receive $3.15 a share in
cash, 21 percent more than the closing price yesterday, the Los
Angeles-based real estate investment trust said in a statement
today. Brookfield also will begin a tender offer for MPG’s
preferred stock for $25 a share in cash. The deal is valued at
$2.2 billion including debt and after cash proceeds from the
planned sale of MPG’s U.S. Bank Tower, said Wilkes Graham, a
senior vice president at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.  MPG had been selling properties and exploring a takeover to
pay debt from acquisitions made in 2007, near the peak of the
U.S. real estate market. The purchase will make Brookfield “by
far” the largest office landlord in downtown  Los Angeles , where
MPG once dominated, said Carl Muhlstein, a managing director at
brokerage Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  “It’s the best outcome for downtown L.A. because we now
have a well-capitalized ownership, which can at least reinvest
in the buildings and in the community,” Muhlstein, who is based
in Los Angeles, said in a telephone interview today. “Whereas a
nearly insolvent MPG never had enough money to even take care of
day-to-day stuff.”  Holding Company  Brookfield is forming a fund called DTLA Holdings that will
own MPG’s assets and Brookfield’s current buildings in downtown
Los Angeles, the New York-based company said in a separate
statement. It will own about 47 percent of DTLA, with
institutional partners holding the rest. After the deal, the
portfolio will include seven so-called class A office buildings
with 8.3 million square feet (771,000 square meters).  Brookfield’s contribution to DTLA Holdings will total about
$550 million, consisting of equity in its existing  downtown Los
Angeles  assets totaling $410 million and an additional
investment of $140 million. The institutional investor partners
have pledged $600 million.  MPG last month agreed to sell downtown Los Angeles’s U.S.
Bank Tower, the West Coast’s tallest office building, for $367.5
million to Singapore-based Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd.  Shareholder Liquidity  “We have found a strategic buyer who has the capital and
the market presence to appreciate the potential long-term value
of our assets,” MPG Chief Executive Officer David Weinstein
said in the company’s statement today. “This transaction
potentially offers both our common and preferred shareholders a
liquidity event that would remain uncertain if the company were
to continue on as an independent entity.”  The deal leaves Brookfield with a downtown Los Angeles
portfolio that has 1.2 million square feet of vacancy, with
several tenant leases expected to expire in the next several
years, said Rob Stevenson, head of U.S. REIT research at
 Macquarie Capital  in New York.  “Tell me two or three years from now what the vacancy is
and what average rents are in the portfolio versus today, and
I’ll tell you whether or not it’s a success,” said Stevenson,
who estimates that DTLA’s buildings are 86 percent leased.
“They’ve got to find some tenants, and the question winds up
being do they try to pull tenants out of competing buildings or
is there enough organic growth?”  Blackstone Deal  MPG Office Trust, formerly known as Maguire Properties
Inc., has been burdened by debt incurred six years ago, when it
bought 24 properties and 11 development sites from Blackstone
Group LP. The company, then led by Robert Maguire, paid $2.88
billion for all the real estate in downtown Los Angeles and
Orange County, California, that Blackstone gained in its
takeover of  Sam Zell ’s Equity Office Properties Trust.  MPG had about $1.9 billion of debt as of Dec. 31, including
about $638 million maturing this year on KPMG Tower and 777
Tower, both in downtown Los Angeles, according to its annual
report. It doesn’t have committed sources of cash adequate to
fund its potential needs, the company said in the report, filed
last month.  MPG rose 20 percent to $3.13 at the close in New York. It
was the stock’s  biggest gain  since July 2012. Brookfield climbed
3 percent to $17.95.  Brookfield is lower  Manhattan ’s largest office landlord,
with holdings that include 1 New York Plaza and the 8 million-
square-foot Brookfield Place, formerly known as World Financial
Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  