-- Buffett Trucking Unit Joins Wirtz in Missouri Wine Wager
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-25T22:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/buffett-trucking-unit-joins-wirtz-in-missouri-wine-wager.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s McLane
trucking unit, a supplier to retailers and restaurants, formed a
venture with closely held Wirtz Corp. to take a stake in a wine,
spirit and beer distributor.  The deal to invest in Missouri Beverage Co. is expected to
be completed next month, according to a statement yesterday from
the companies that didn’t disclose terms.  The agreement brings together McLane’s logistics expertise
and Wirtz’s experience in the U.S. Midwest, Wirtz President W. Rockwell “Rocky” Wirtz said. The companies may expand their
relationship based on results in Missouri, he said.  “You’ve got to crawl before you walk,” Wirtz said in a
phone interview. “I don’t know what the future holds. But, if
this works out, it doesn’t mean that we can’t work together
going forward.”  The state of Missouri has about $800 million in gross
wholesale wine and spirits sales, he said. Missouri Beverage has
a “relatively small” portion of that total and will seek to
expand with the know-how and investment from McLean and Wirtz
Beverage Group, he said.  The deal fulfills part of a projection by Berkshire
Chairman  Warren Buffett  last year that the trucking unit would
build its business. McLane Chief Executive Officer Grady Rosier
bought two alcoholic-beverage wholesale distributors in 2010 and
last year acquired Meadowbrook Meat Co., a North Carolina-based
business that supplies national  restaurant chains .  ‘Logistical Machine’  “Grady runs a logistical machine second to none,” Buffett
wrote in a 2012  letter  to shareholder of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire. “You can look for bolt-ons at McLane, particularly
in our new wine-and-spirits distribution business.”  McLane, which Berkshire bought from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in
2003 for about $1.5 billion, reported 2012 pretax earnings of
$403 million, or about 1.1 cents for every dollar of sales. The
unit gets about  30 percent  of its sales from Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart.  Wirtz Corp. was founded in 1926 in Chicago, according to
its  website . The company expanded from real estate into beverage
distribution in the 1940s and now has more than $2 billion in
annual revenue. Operations currently span banking to sports.
Wirtz owns the  National Hockey League ’s Chicago Blackhawks and
part of Chicago’s United Center arena. Wirtz Beverage has
operations in Illinois,  Iowa ,  Minnesota ,  Nevada  and  Wisconsin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  