-- Bunge Boosts Ethanol Ratio at Brazil Mills as Sugar Declines
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-25T20:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/bunge-boosts-ethanol-ratio-at-brazil-mills-as-sugar-declines-1-.html
Bunge Ltd. (BG) , which accounts for
about 10 percent of global sugar trading, said its cane mills in
 Brazil  are “maximizing” production of ethanol as the price of
the gasoline additive rises.  Ethanol currently accounts for close to 65 percent of the
mix at its eight mills on average,  Alberto Weisser , chairman and
chief executive officer of  White Plains , New York-based Bunge,
said today in a telephone interview. That’s an increase since
February, when the ratio was 59  percent  ethanol and 41 percent
sugar.  Ethanol prices are rising as Brazil recently boosted
gasoline prices, announced lower taxes on ethanol and increased
the blend rate to 25 percent starting in May from 20 percent
now. The weekly spot  price  of ethanol that is blended with
gasoline in Brazil gained 25 percent in the six months through
April 19 while the most-active raw sugar futures traded in New
York dropped 12 percent.  Bunge, which bought its first sugar mills in Brazil in
2007, struggled to run its mills at their full capacity of 21
million metric tons last year because of lower cane-sugar yields
and ethanol prices.  Bunge’s sugar and bio-energy segment, which made up 7.6
percent of  sales  last year, reported a $23 million profit before
interest and taxes in the first quarter compared with a $33
million loss a year earlier, the company said today in a
statement. The segment helped Bunge report first-quarter
earnings of $1.15 a share, topping the 91-cent average of 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Production Ratio  Industrywide, mills in Brazil’s Center-South region, the
biggest cane producer, got 53 percent of sales from sugar and 44
percent from ethanol during the 2012-2013 crop year, Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, director of trade group Unica, said today.  If sugar availability is lower later in the year as the
industry shifts production toward ethanol, Bunge will “balance
in a way that maximizes profit” and meets client commitments,
Weisser said.  Bunge has a “single-minded focus” on reducing per-unit
costs in the sugar and bio-energy segment by continuing to plant
more cane, increasing co-generation, choosing farmers and
leasing land closer to mills and boosting yield per hectare,
Weisser said. Bunge has been planting cane for the last several
years, with 70,000 hectares sown last year and about 60,000
hectares planned this year, Weisser said.  Bunge rose 6.8 percent to $72.97 in  New York .  The shares 
are little changed this year.  Weisser will step down June 1 as CEO and be replaced by
Soren Schroder, the head of Bunge’s North American unit, the
company said Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  