-- California Fracking Rules Plan Stirs Trade Secrets Fight
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-04-25T02:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/california-fracking-rules-plan-stirs-trade-secrets-fight.html
A  California  proposal to regulate
the chemicals used by  oil companies  in hydraulic fracturing is
stirring a battle over industry assertions of trade secrets
protection and environmentalist calls for disclosure to shield
public health.  State officials developing rules for fracking say they have
to walk a fine line to avoid lawsuits by both the public and the
industry, circumscribing their proposal.  “What we’re doing with the regulation is limiting how
often we would get sued,” said Jason Marshall, chief deputy
director of California’s Conservation Department, which oversees
oil and natural gas production.  California, the  fourth-largest  oil-producing state, is
wrestling with the potential hazards of fracking to unlock an
estimated 15.4 billion barrels of oil in a deposit known as the
Monterey shale. The state is the latest attempting to regulate
the fluids used in fracking, which shoots a mixture of water,
sand and chemicals underground to access dense rock formations.  Texas ,  Louisiana ,  Montana ,  New Mexico  and North Dakota are
among those requiring the chemicals to be disclosed, while
leaving it to energy companies to decide what they label secret.  The industry “is attempting to exempt itself from the
basic regulation of its activities by virtue of arguing that its
commercial interests will be damaged if secrets are revealed,”
said David Levine, a law professor at Elon University in
Greensboro,  North Carolina , who specializes in intellectual
property.  State Regulations  Dealing with trade secrets is nothing new for states,
Levine said, citing regulations that require voting-system
vendors to reveal the source code in their machines to election
officials, even if it’s privileged information, to assure the
integrity of balloting.  California’s initial  proposal  on fracking, released in
December, would call for companies to disclose a trade secret to
a public agency if it’s needed to investigate or respond to a
spill. It would also require disclosure to a physician to
diagnose or treat a patient or respond to a medical emergency.  “We would be having it available when we need it,”
Marshall said. “The operators are required to maintain that
information, they just don’t have to tell it to us until we need
it as regulators.”  California’s constitution requires public access to
government records unless exempted by law. The agency could face
a lawsuit from the public if it withheld requested data, or a
lawsuit from an  oil company  for violating trade-secret
protections if it released the information.  Block Release  Marshall said the agency would prefer to have statutory
authority from the Legislature like that employed by the Toxic
Substances Control Department. When the agency responds to a
public records request, it gives notice to the company involved.
The company can try to persuade a judge that the data is a trade
secret and get an injunction to block the release.  Environmental advocates such as Kassie Siegel, a lawyer at
the  Center for Biological Diversity , argue that regulators can’t
protect the public from chemicals if they don’t know what’s
being used. Her Tucson, Arizona-based organization sued
California in January for allegedly failing to regulate
fracking.  “California regulators have proposed to not even receive
the information that’s claimed as a trade secret from industry
in the first place,” Siegel said.  Millions Invested  Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest provider
of hydraulic-fracturing services, spends years and millions of
dollars developing its products, spokeswoman Susie McMichael
said. There are different fracturing-fluid formulas for
different geological formations, she said.  “If disclosure requirements from governing bodies took
away protection for this intellectual property, requiring that
certain ingredients and recipes of these products had to be
publicly disclosed, Halliburton’s competitors could use the
information to unlock our proprietary product formulas,”
McMichael said.  The company is working to come up with an approach that
will provide “as much information as possible to the public
while still protecting trade secrets in a way that provides
incentives for the industry,” she said.  ‘Overly Broad’  Eleven states rely on  FracFocus.org,  a voluntary registry
used by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and other energy companies, as a
compliance tool, according to a Harvard Law School study
published April 23. Yet spotty reporting and an “overly broad”
allowance for trade secrets make it inadequate, the study said.  The U.S. Bureau of Land Management should establish basic
requirements for disclosure and penalties for failure to make
reports, the study said.  In  Wyoming , environmental groups have asked the state
 Supreme Court  to compel the Oil and Gas Conservation Commission
to reveal fracking chemicals, according to an April 17  statement 
on the website of Earthjustice, a nonprofit  law firm  based in
San Francisco.  The commission has approved more than 50 trade-secret
exemption requests since the state adopted disclosure rules in
2010, according to the statement.  Trade secrets, prior notification of fracking activity and
water-quality testing are the parts of California’s proposed
regulations getting the most attention, Mark Nechodom, the
Conservation Department’s director, said April 19 at a workshop
in Santa Barbara to gather public input.  Similar workshops have been held in  Los Angeles ,
Bakersfield and  Sacramento  on the proposal, which includes rules
for storing and handling fracking fluids, well monitoring after
fracking and preventing water contamination. A final workshop
will be held April 30 in Monterey.  The department hopes to finalize the rules in the next year
to 18 months, according to Marshall, the chief deputy director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 