-- Cameron Appoints London Mayor’s Brother as Policy Chief
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-25T07:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/cameron-appoints-london-mayor-s-brother-as-policy-chief.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  is to
bring Mayor of London  Boris Johnson ’s younger brother into his
office as head of policy in a personnel shake-up, a spokeswoman
for the premier said.  Jo Johnson, a Conservative lawmaker, will also be appointed
as a Cabinet Office minister, said the spokeswoman, who declined
to be named under usual government rules. She said Cameron’s aim
is to inject fresh Tory thinking into his coalition government
with the Liberal Democrats and that the premier is also creating
a Conservative parliamentary advisory board.  Johnson’s role will be to help drive Tory priorities
through the government, creating a more targeted approach to
policy in the style of the  Margaret Thatcher , the 1980s Tory
premier who died this month, she said. The move by Cameron is a
recognition he needs to get closer to his own party, following
a series of parliamentary rebellions on issues such as  Europe .  Before entering Parliament in 2010, Johnson was an
investment banker at Deutsche Bank AG. He joined the Financial
Times as a journalist in 1997. As a lawmaker he chaired a
cross-party group on  India , now one of Cameron’s targets as a
key trading partner.  Jo Johnson’s move into Cameron’s office will throw renewed
attention to the rivalry between the premier and the London
mayor.  Olympic Success  Buoyed by re-election in May last year and the success of
the London Olympics in August, the mayor has increasingly been
touted by Tory activists as a possible successor to Cameron,
whose poll ratings have fallen.  Boris Johnson and Cameron have stopped short of criticizing
each other outright. Even so, the mayor, who has rejected some
Cameron policies in areas such as welfare, has failed to rule
himself out as a future Tory leader.  Members of the advisory board will include Jesse Norman,
who led a rebellion of Tory lawmakers opposing an overhaul of
the upper chamber of Parliament, the House of Lords, a key
Liberal Democrat priority.  Others include George Eustice, a leading euro-skeptic in a
party which wants to move further away from European integration
and Peter Lilley, who was a minister under former Tory Prime
Minister  John Major . Former Schools Minister Nick Gibb, Jane
Ellison and Paul Uppal also join the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  