-- Canada Spat With Diplomats May Hinder Keystone Lobbying
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-25T14:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/canada-spat-with-diplomats-may-hinder-keystone-lobbying.html
A labor dispute between Canada and
its diplomats will hinder government efforts to lobby the U.S.
for approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, the
head of the foreign-service workers’ union said.  Federal diplomats are working no more than the 7.5 hours
per day required by their contracts and not answering e-mails or
phone calls after 5 p.m., said Tim Edwards, president of the
Professional Association of Foreign Service Officers.  The union’s actions are “going to affect our ability to
lobby foreign governments on issues important to the country,”
Edwards said by telephone from Ottawa. “We are the face and
front line of Canada abroad.”  The dispute comes as Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s
government and provincial premiers step up efforts to persuade
the U.S. to permit the $5.3 billion northern section of the
pipeline, which would carry crude from Alberta’s oil sands to
refineries near the Gulf of Mexico. The State Department is
reviewing the project because it crosses an international
border. President  Barack Obama  has said he will make a ruling
this year.  “To date, there has been no impact on operations at home
and abroad,” Emma Welford, a spokeswoman for Canada’s foreign
affairs department, said in an e-mail, referring to the dispute.  There are a “couple dozen” employees at the country’s
embassy in  Washington  that help the government promote the
pipeline, including staff who manage relations with U.S.
lawmakers and those who work to build trade between the two
countries, Edwards said.  Washington Meetings  Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver was scheduled to meet
this week with officials including Secretary of the Interior
Sally Jewel, State Department Undersecretary Robert Hormats,
Democratic Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon and Republican
Representative Fred Upton of Michigan  “Rejecting this project would represent a serious reversal
in our long-standing energy relationship.” Oliver said in a
speech at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
yesterday.  Alberta  Premier Alison Redford appealed to Democrat and
Republican lawmakers earlier this month, her fourth trip to
Washington, following Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall’s visit in
March.  The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, a Calgary-
based industry group, plans another trip to Washington this
summer following a visit by a delegation of Canadian oil
executives in February. Executives from energy companies
 Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Canadian
Oil Sands Ltd. (COS) , met Republican and Democrat senators and
representatives as well as Obama administration aides.  Pipelines Critical  Keystone XL is among a number of proposed oil pipelines
that are critical to Canada’s economy, Brian Ferguson, chief
executive officer of oil-sands developer  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) ,
said in a phone interview.  “What we as industry and what our government
representatives in Ottawa, Alberta and Saskatchewan should be
doing is making sure that the correct information is available
to decision-makers and legislators,” Ferguson said. “Keystone
XL will create a tremendous about of jobs in the United States
and increase energy security.”  Over the last month, Canadian oil company stocks have
fallen on investor concerns that producers are hindered in their
ability to get crude to market, Ferguson said.  Stocks Underperforming  Canadian energy stocks have underperformed their U.S. peers
by about 7 percent over the last year, as the price gap between
Canadian heavy oil and the main U.S. crude grade widened,
figures compiled by Bloomberg show. The price of Western  Canada 
Select, an oil-sands blend, was a record $42.50 a barrel less
than the U.S. benchmark in December, a  difference  that has since
narrowed on lower U.S. demand as refineries go offline for
maintenance.  The diplomats’ union, which has about 1,400 members, are
seeking higher wages to match those paid to public servants who
do similar work in Canada, Edwards said. A strike is one of the
options “on the table,” he said.  Foreign service workers can earn between C$58,055 ($56,880)
and C$112,512 per year, according to a government  website 
listing rates of pay by employee category. That’s about the same
as the pay scale for nurses paid by the federal government who
work in Ontario.  Canada’s second-largest pipeline company, Calgary-based
TransCanada is awaiting the U.S. ruling it expects by mid-year
on Keystone’s northern leg, Alex Pourbaix, president of energy
and oil pipelines, said last month.  TransCanada aims to start the $2.3 billion southern portion
of Keystone XL, which doesn’t require presidential approval,
later this year. The company spun it into a separate project
after Obama rejected the main pipeline in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  