-- Canada Dollar Jumps Most in Four Months on Economic-Growth Signs
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-25T21:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/canadian-dollar-rises-to-1-week-high-as-u-k-avoids-recession.html
The Canadian dollar had its biggest
gain in almost four months against its U.S. counterpart as crude
oil, the country’s biggest export, rallied on stronger-than-
forecast economic data from the U.S. and the U.K.  The currency strengthened versus most of its major peers as
a report in the U.S. showed initial claims for  unemployment
insurance  fell more than forecast last week. The U.K. avoided a
triple-dip recession with stronger than expected growth in the
first quarter and crude oil saw its biggest two-day jump in nine
months.  “After five days of gains in risk assets the dam has
finally broken in dollar/CAD,” said Adam Button, a currency
analyst at forexlive.com, by phone from  Montreal . “The pair had
been resistant against better news in the stock market and the
European  bond market  for a number of days, but now with the
rallies in oil and gold today the Canadian dollar can no longer
overlook the obvious good news in risk assets.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.6 percent against its
U.S. counterpart to C$1.0198 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in
Toronto. It reached the biggest daily advance since Jan. 2. One
loonie buys 98.06 U.S. cents.  The currency strengthened through its 50-day moving average
at C$1.0213.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month option on the U.S.
dollar versus the Canadian currency reached 6.01, its lowest
level in three weeks. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  Canada’s 10-year government bonds fell, with yields rising
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.74 percent. The
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 fell 17 cents to
C$97.79.  Futures of crude oil rose 2 percent to $93.28 per barrel in
 New York , reaching their highest level since April 12, for their
biggest two-day jump since Aug. 6. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks gained 0.4 percent.  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits fell to a six-
week low, a sign the labor market is improving after a setback
last month.  First-time U.S.  jobless claims  decreased a larger-than-
forecast 16,000 in the week ended April 20 to 339,000, the
lowest since March 9, Labor Department data showed in
 Washington . Also today, Bloomberg’s Consumer Comfort Index held
close to the highest level in five years.  Economic Reading  “When you have better employment data coming from the U.S.
that should be good for Canada,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia , by phone from Toronto.
“But overall, the story is really outside of Canada, it’s just
that other currencies are moving faster and so euro moving lower
has put a little bit of downside pressure on the other
currencies and we’re seeing CAD really as a mid-performer.”  Gross domestic product in Britain rose 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . The median forecast of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for 0.1 percent growth. From a year earlier, GDP rose
0.6 percent, the most since the fourth quarter of 2011.  “Following that report there’s definitely a further move
to modest strengthening in the dollar,” said Mazen Issa,  Canada 
macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit,
by phone from Toronto. “That economy, having had difficulty in
registering any economic growth in the past several quarters, so
I suppose any modest good news may help to shape the risk
sentiment on the day.”  The Canadian dollar has fallen 0.5 percent the past six
months against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has
increased 1.2 percent while the U.S. dollar has gained 2.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  