-- Canadian Heavy Crude Strengthens After Shift in Kearl Sales
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-04-25T17:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/canadian-heavy-crude-strengthens-after-shift-in-kearl-sales.html
Canadian heavy oil strengthened on
the  spot market  as  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  said sales from the Kearl
oil-sands project will begin in the third quarter, later than
some estimates.  “Startup of the initial phase of the Kearl oil-sands
project is imminent,” Calgary-based Imperial Oil said in a
statement today. The Alberta project, which will have initial
output of about 110,000 barrels a day and expand to 345,000, was
expected to start late last year. The company has been saying
for weeks that first oil was expected soon.  The price of Western Canada Select for next-month delivery
strengthened 35 cents to a $17.25-a-barrel discount to U.S. West
Texas Intermediate, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy
Inc. The grade is a heavy blend that includes diluted oil-sands
bitumen similar to the type that will be produced at Kearl.  The timing of sales is later than than some analysts
estimated. Greg Pardy, a Toronto-based analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a note today he’d expected sales to begin in
the second-quarter. In an interview this month,  Michael Dunn , an
analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp., said there was a risk
sales would slip into the third quarter, which would support
June spot-market prices.  Shipments from Kearl will begin 60 to 90 days after first
oil is produced, to give Imperial time to fill tanks and
pipelines, Pius Rolheiser, a company spokesman in Calgary, said
in an April 9 e-mail. Imperial, the largest Canadian oil
producer after  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , is a subsidiary of  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)   The price of Syncrude, a light oil produced from oil-sands
upgraders, was unchanged at a $3 premium to WTI as of 12:30 p.m.
New York time, Net Energy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  