-- Canada February Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-25T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/canada-february-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment, earnings, and hours report for February
released by  Statistics Canada .  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees were
$909 in February, up 0.9% from the previous month. On a year-
over-year basis, earnings increased 3.1%.  The 3.1% increase in earnings during the 12 months to
February reflects a number of factors, including wage growth,
changes in composition of employment by industry, occupation and
level of job experience, as well as average hours worked per
week. In February, non-farm payroll employees worked an average
of 32.9 hours per week, down from 33.0 hours in January, but up
from 32.8 hours a year earlier.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average in four of the largest industrial sectors.  Average weekly earnings in construction increased 4.6% to
$1,166 in the 12 months to February. The most notable growth was
in utility system construction, followed by non-residential
building construction.  In public administration, weekly earnings rose 4.3% to
$1,173, mainly a result of growth in local, municipal and
regional public administration.  Weekly earnings in administrative and support services
increased 4.1% to $763. The largest growth was in employment
services, followed by investigation and security services, as
well as services to buildings and dwellings.  Average weekly earnings in professional, scientific and
technical services grew 4.0% in the 12 months to February, to
$1,265. Gains were led by legal services; computer systems
design and related services; and architectural, engineering and
related services.  In accommodation and food services, year-over-year earnings
edged down 0.4%, to $360.  Average weekly earnings by province  Year-over-year average weekly earnings growth of non-farm
payroll employees was above the national average in four
provinces.  Average weekly earnings in  Alberta  increased 4.5% to $1,100
in the 12 months to February, led by growth in transportation
and warehousing; public administration; and construction.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings rose to $941, a
3.8% increase compared with 12 months earlier. Average weekly
earnings grew 3.7% to $946 in Newfoundland and Labrador and 3.3%
to $796 in  Nova Scotia .  Earnings growth in  New Brunswick  was the lowest among the
provinces, increasing 1.3% to $811. Earnings have been hovering
around this level since September 2012.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment increased for the second
consecutive month, up 14,500 in February and 7,700 in January.  In February, the number of payroll employees rose most
notably in construction, retail trade, and professional,
scientific and technical services. Gains were partly offset by
declines in health care and social assistance; and
administrative and support services.  On a year-over-year basis, payroll employment rose by
244,500, or 1.6%.  Among all sectors, mining, quarrying and oil and gas
extraction posted the highest 12-month growth rate in payroll
employment (+7.1%), followed by construction (+6.4%), and real
estate and rental and leasing (+3.9%). The most notable declines
were in information and cultural industries (-1.9%) and public
administration (-0.9%).  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Estimates of average weekly earnings and hours are based on
a sample and are therefore subject to sampling variability.
Payroll employment estimates are based on a census of
administrative data and are not subject to sampling variability.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey, the main objective of which is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions. Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing
total weekly earnings by the number of employees.  With each release, data for the current reference month are
subject to revision. Data have been revised for the previous
month. Users are encouraged to request and use the most up-to-
date data for each month.  Corrections have been made to selected data points for
February 2004, 2008 and 2012 on CANSIM tables 281-0028 and 281-
0049. The last footnote in each table specifies which data
points were changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  