-- Cancer Therapy Cost Too High for Patients, Doctors Say
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/cancer-therapies-cost-too-high-for-patients-doctors-say.html
Cancer medicines that cost more
than $100,000 a year aren’t morally justifiable and may keep
patients from getting life-saving treatments, a group of more
than 100 leukemia doctors said.  Of the 12 cancer medications approved by the  Food and Drug
Administration  last year, 11 cost more than $100,000 annually,
the physicians said in an  article  in Blood, the journal of the
American Society of Hematology, published online.  The paper highlights the debate over how much leeway
drugmakers such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  should have in setting the prices
of new cancer medicines and whether pricing practices harm
patients and health-care systems. While companies should be
allowed to profit, a product that can help a patient survive
should be priced affordably, the cancer specialists wrote.  “Hopes that the fundamentals of a free market economy and
market competition will settle cancer drug prices at lower
levels have not been fulfilled,” the doctors said in the paper
released yesterday.  Spending for prescription medicines is projected to be less
than 10 percent of the $2.9 trillion the U.S. is expected to
spend on health care this year, according to the U.S. Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Even so, President  Barack
Obama  has targeted pharmaceutical companies for big savings in
his budget for the 2014 fiscal year, proposing policies that
would reduce  Medicare spending  on drugs by about $139 billion,
more than a third of his total Medicare cuts.  Patient Assistance  Drugmakers said they charge prices for their treatments
that were lower than those quoted in the article and pointed to
assistance programs to help patients afford their medications.  Pfizer, whose leukemia medicine Bosulif was approved in
September and is priced at about $98,000, helps financially
eligible patients get their prescriptions for free or at a
savings, and insured patients pay no more than $50 a month, said
 Victoria Davis , a spokeswoman for the New York-based drugmaker,
the world’s biggest. The article said Bosulif costs $118,000
annually.  “We wholeheartedly agree that patients should have access
to the medications they need and Pfizer has developed various
programs to support CML patients gaining access to Bosulif,”
Davis said.  The paper was written by doctors who are specialists in
 chronic myeloid leukemia , which accounts for about 10 percent of
the 48,610 new leukemia cases estimated by the National Cancer
Institute. The survival rate hovers at about 60 percent for the
disease in the U.S., compared with 80 percent in  Sweden . Costs
in Sweden are managed and patients may be more likely to comply
with treatment while they don’t have the same cost concerns as
U.S. patients, the doctors said.  More Effective  “Lowering the prices of CML drugs might improve
accessibility to treatment and increase treatment adherence,”
Hagop Kantarjian, chairman of the leukemia department at the
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center and an author of
the paper, said in a statement. Reducing the prices would
increase the number of patients who live longer because they
would be able to continue on the medications, known as tyrosine
kinase inhibitors, he said.  Tyrosine kinase inhibitors, which also include medicines
such as  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gleevec and  Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA) ’s
Iclusig, have helped reduced mortality to 2 percent versus 10 to
20 percent in the early 2000s, the doctors said.  CML Cases  There are expected to be  5,920 new cases  and 610 deaths
from chronic myeloid leukemia in the U.S. this year, according
to the  American Cancer Society . Chronic myeloid leukemia is one
of the four main types of leukemia in adults. The disease is a
slowly progressing blood and bone marrow disease that rarely
occurs in children, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Gleevec, the standard treatment for chronic myeloid
leukemia patients, started off at a price of $30,000 a year when
it was approved in 2001 and has tripled in cost, the doctors
wrote.  The majority of U.S. patients pay less than $100 out of
pocket per month for Gleevec, according to a statement from
Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis. The company also gave Gleevec
or its other chronic myeloid leukemia treatment Tasigna free to
an average of 5,000 uninsured or underinsured patients every
year for the last five years, Novartis said.  Ariad’s Iclusig, approved in December for the disease,
costs about $115,000 a year, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
company said. The article pegs the price at $138,000 annually.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  also has a patient
assistance program for its drug, Synribo, to treat the disease,
Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, said in an e-mail.  The doctors said regular meetings should be scheduled to
discuss the societal and political issues that affect drug
pricing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  