-- Capital One Auto, ICE-NYSE, Bank of Spain: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/capital-one-auto-ice-nyse-bank-of-spain-compliance.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
worst performer this year in the KBW Bank Index, agreed to pay
$3.5 million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims the bank set
aside inadequate reserves for auto loan losses in 2007.  Peter Schnall, Capital One’s former chief risk officer,
also agreed to pay $85,000 to settle, and David LaGassa, who
managed the loan-loss forecasting, will pay $50,000, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a
statement. They didn’t admit or deny the claims in settling.  Capital One’s auto loan profits came primarily from
subprime loans to borrowers with weaker credit histories, the
SEC said. In 2007, Capital One’s forecasting tool found that the
deteriorating credit markets would increase losses; however, the
bank failed to properly incorporate those findings in its
financial reporting, according to the SEC.  As a result, the bank underestimated by 18 percent the
amount of funds it should set aside in the second quarter of
2007 and by 9 percent the following three months, according to
the SEC.  “No consumers were affected, the SEC does not criticize
the company’s or the auto finance unit’s reserves as of 2007
year end, and the settlement does not require a restatement of
Capital One’s financial results,”  Tatiana Stead , a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The settlement
will not affect any current or future business activities by
Capital One.”  Harry Weiss, an attorney at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &
Dorr LLP representing Schnall, and Michael Trager, LaGassa’s
lawyer at Arnold & Porter LLP, didn’t respond to telephone calls
seeking comment.  Compliance Policy  Bank of Spain Said to Weigh Uniform Refinanced Loan Criteria  The Bank of Spain wants to refine rules spelling out how
banks should classify refinanced loans, said two people familiar
with its plans.  The  regulator  wants to impose more uniform criteria for
classifying loans that have been refinanced by banks, said the
people, who asked not be identified because the information
isn’t public. Banks use some discretion when classifying their
refinanced loans and the regulator wants to set limits to that,
the people said.  Increased refinancings by banks as Spain’s economic slump
drags into its sixth year have attracted the scrutiny of
analysts concerned that the practice may disguise loan losses.  El Pais reported the plans April 23. Officials for the Bank
of Spain and Economy Ministry declined to comment.  Congress Must Craft ‘Credible’ Plan to Wind Down GSEs  Private risk taking in the U.S. mortgage market will
“remain muted” until Congress comes up with a “credible
transition plan” from a government-dominated market, James
Millstein, the U.S. Treasury Department’s former chief
restructuring officer, told lawmakers.  The plan must provide for a “better balance of private
risk and public support,” Millstein said. If government gets
the  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  wind-down wrong, the Federal
Housing Finance Agency may “wind the enterprises back up,”
creating market uncertainty that turns off investors, Millstein
said in prepared testimony before House Financial Services
Committee.  Redwood Trust (RWT)  Chief Executive Officer Martin Hughes told
the committee he believes the private secondary mortgage market
can “grow quickly to provide liquidity to a very large share”
of the market without the need for a government guarantee if the
needs of investors are met and the government “gives the
private market room to grow.”  Millstein, CEO of Millstein & Co., has been putting forward
plan to privatize  Freddie Mac  and  Fannie Mae .  EU States Seeking Clarification on Financial Transaction Tax  Eleven European Union countries that have signed on to a
planned financial transaction tax, or FTT, are seeking
clarification on a number of points related to its impact and
implementation, an EU Commission spokeswoman said.  “The last technical meeting showed that there is still
full commitment from the 11 member states to move ahead with the
common FTT,” Emer Traynor said by e-mail in Brussels yesterday.  Traynor said it’s “very normal” for member states to seek
clarification during the negotiating process. “The commission
will be more than happy to provide answers to all the questions
the member states have,” she said. “We will be replying in
detail to the issues they have raised at the next technical
meeting on 22 May, and expect that we will be able to allay many
of their concerns.”  Compliance Action  ICE-NYSE Deal Will Be Reviewed by EU Antitrust Authority  The European Commission said it will review plans by
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  to purchase  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  after
national regulators didn’t object to it taking the lead.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Union’s
Brussels-based antitrust authority, said it now has jurisdiction
over the deal, which has yet to be formally notified by the
companies.  ICE, the energy and commodity futures bourse, said in March
that it sought an EU review of its acquisition to avoid separate
probes in the U.K., Spain and Portugal.  ICE agreed on Dec. 21 to acquire NYSE Euronext for cash and
stock totaling $8.2 billion at the time. EU regulators blocked
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s purchase of NYSE last year, citing concern
over competition in derivatives and clearing.  Brookly McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based ICE,
and Caroline Tourrier, a spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext in Paris,
said they had no further comment beyond the commission
announcement.  Citigroup Says Debt Beats Peers in Advance of ‘Bail-In’ Rule  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the bank that took the most U.S. aid during
the credit crisis, said it’s better-prepared than some rivals to
withstand the impact of new anti-bailout rules that could force
lenders to sell more debt.  Citigroup’s so-called bail-in plan -- a rescue that makes
debt investors and stockholders absorb losses instead of
taxpayers -- shows the bank already has issued more long-term
debt than some of its largest rivals, Treasurer Eric Aboaf said
during an April 22 investor presentation. That leaves the New
York-based bank in a better position as regulators decide how
much more debt lenders should add to their buffers, Aboaf said.  The U.S. is designing ways to wind down failing banks
without unpopular measures such as the publicly funded $700
billion Troubled Asset Relief Program. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
gives regulators tools to dismantle a large, distressed firm,
and the Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are
considering whether banks should be told to issue long-term debt
now that could be converted to equity in an emergency.  The idea, part of the so-called orderly liquidation
authority or OLA, has ruffled fixed-income investors concerned
about the prices of existing bonds and burdens that could fall
on senior bondholders, according to a December report by  UBS AG (UBSN) 
analysts led by Robert Smalley.  Fed Governor Jerome “Jay” Powell said last month that the
central bank and FDIC are “considering the pros and cons” of
setting a floor for long-term unsecured debt to absorb losses
and capitalize a bridge holding company for banks that fail.  For more, click here.  Merkel to Boost KfW Oversight as Bank Grows to Germany’s No.3  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition plans to boost
oversight of the KfW Group lender after the publicly owned
bank’s growth propelled it to Germany’s No. 3 position by
assets.  The Frankfurt-based bank, formed in 1948 to make
development loans and that had assets of 511 billion euros ($664
billion) in 2012, is big enough to require supervision by the
 BaFin  regulator and the Bundesbank, Klaus-Peter Flosbach, a
finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , said in an
e-mail yesterday. The coalition has drawn up a bill to
facilitate better oversight, Flosbach said.  Other state-owned lenders such Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale and BayernLB are already subject to full BaFin
scrutiny. Germany’s third-biggest lender after Deutsche Bank AG
and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  augments its activities as a bank for
projects including improving building insulation and export
finance for small- and medium-sized companies and by acting as
an off-budget lender to the government.  KfW, which has some 5,000 employees, is co-owned by
Germany’s states -- with a 20 percent stake -- and the federal
government, which owns the remainder, according to its website.  Interviews/Panels  Dougan Says Credit Suisse ROE Shows Strategy Is Working  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan 
discussed the bank’s return on equity and private wealth.  He also discussed corporate governance issues, including
executive compensation. In addition, Dougan talked about the
U.S. tax-evasion probe and the bank transaction tax.  The discussion was in Zurich with Bloomberg Television’s
Caroline Hyde.  For the video, click here.  Serra Says a Bank Should Not Be a ‘Prop-Trading House’  Davide Serra, founding partner and portfolio manager at
Algebris Investments, talked about proposals to set minimum
capital requirements for banks and his investment strategy for
financials.  Serra, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also discussed Italy’s
new prime minister and the outlook for the government.  For the video, click here.  Too-Big-To-Fail Banks Are ‘Global Issue,’ Posen Says  Former Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  talked about
financial regulation and the global banking system.  Posen, now president of the  Peterson Institute for
International Economics , spoke with Sara Eisen and Erik
Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For more, click here.  Banks, Taxpayers Need Disaster ‘Cushion,’ Vitter Says  U.S. Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, talked
about financial regulation and legislation to set minimum
capital requirements for banks.  He spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  