-- Chelsea Gains Late Europa League Victory; Fenerbahce Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-26T01:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/chelsea-fenerbahce-win-europa-league-soccer-semifinal-openers.html
David Luiz ’s goal on the last kick
of the game gave Chelsea a 2-1 win over Basel in their Europa
League soccer semifinal opener, as Fenerbahce beat Benfica 1-0.  Luiz scored with a free kick in the fourth minute of
stoppage time last night at St. Jakob Park in  Switzerland .
Victor Moses gave Chelsea the lead in the first half and Basel’s
Fabian Schar scored with a penalty kick in the 87th minute.  “We have the second leg, you need to keep the mind strong
because there is one more difficult game for us,” Luiz told ITV.  Egeman Korkmaz’s goal in the 72nd minute gave Fenerbahce
the home win in  Turkey  in the other semifinal.  Chelsea and Benfica host the return matches in the two-game
series on May 2. The winners advance to the final of  Europe ’s
second-tier club competition May 15 in Amsterdam.  Luiz’s late winner handed Basel its first loss in seven
Europa League home matches this season. The Brazilian defender
sent a low free kick through the wall from just outside the area
that goalkeeper Yann Sommer got a hand to but couldn’t stop.  Basel had tied the game in the 87th minute on Schar’s
penalty. It came after Cesar Azpilicueta was ruled to have
fouled Valentin Stocker, though television replays seemed to
show the Chelsea defender playing the ball.  Chelsea went in front after 12 minutes as  Frank Lampard ’s
corner kick went past several players before Moses headed it in
at the back post.  “We played against a good team,” Chelsea coach  Rafael Benitez  told ITV in a televised interview. “You could see the
intensity and the pace of the game, but we had enough chances to
score and the penalty, which was a surprise for everyone, could
have made a difference.”  European Champion  Chelsea is in the Europa League after being eliminated from
the elite  Champions League , which it won last season. Basel is
playing in a European semifinal for the first time.  Fenerbahce, another first-time semifinalist, hit the goal
frame three times in Istanbul before Korkmaz scored the game-
winner.  Fenerbahce’s Moussa Sow sent a header off the crossbar and
Brazilian midfielder Cristian hit the post with a penalty kick
in first-half stoppage time. Cristian was in tears and was
consoled by his teammates as they left the field at halftime.  Former Liverpool striker Dirk Kuyt then hit a post in the
second half and a curling shot from Benfica’s Nicolas Gaitain
also struck the woodwork.  Fenerbahce was awarded a corner kick with 18 minutes left,
much to the dismay of Benfica, which thought it should have been
a goal kick. A poor defensive header lofted the ball toward
Korkmaz, who nodded it in off the underside of the crossbar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 