-- China’s Stocks Fall as Volatility Jumps; Property Shares Slump
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-04-25T07:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/china-stock-futures-drop-signal-indexes-may-fall-correct-.html
China ’s  stocks  fell, led by
property and cement companies, on concern government measures to
limit home-price gains will hurt profit. A gauge of price swings
on the benchmark index rose to a one-year high.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  slid to a two-week low as Guodu
Securities Co. said investors are concerned there will be
property tax trials imposed on more cities soon. Anhui Conch
Cement Co. retreated 3.8 percent as CSC International Holdings
Ltd. said real-estate tightening measures have created
uncertainty about cement demand. Goertek Inc., a supplier to
Apple Inc., dragged down a gauge of Chinese technology stocks.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.9 percent to 2,199.31
at the close, the third decline in four days. A gauge of 100-day
volatility rose to 20.4, the highest level since April 12, 2012.
The CSI 300 Index lost 1.1 percent to 2,467.88. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 1.2 percent in  Hong Kong .  “Investors are still very concerned about the economy
after the slew of bad data recently,” Deng Wenyuan, an analyst
at Soochow Securities Co., said by phone from Suzhou, near
 Shanghai . “Financials and property stocks get affected the most
because they take up a large percentage of the index and they
are cyclical stocks, which don’t do well when economic growth is
slowing.”  The Shanghai Composite slumped 9.7 percent from a Feb. 6
high to yesterday on concern slowing growth will hurt  earnings .
The economy expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter, missing
estimates, as industrial production and fixed-asset investments
in March fell short of forecasts. The index trades at 12 times
reported profit, within 2 percent of the lowest level since Dec.
21,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Developers Drop  A gauge of developers in the Shanghai Composite fell 1.9
percent, the most among the five industry groups. Poly Real, the
second-largest developer, lost 3.3 percent to 11.58 yuan.
 Gemdale Corp. (600383)  retreated 3.1 percent to 6.89 yuan. Investors are
concerned there will be property tax trials imposed on more
cities soon, Guodu Securities analyst Zhang Wei said in Beijing
in a phone interview today.  China in January 2011 imposed a property tax for the first
time in Shanghai and Chongqing as part of a three-year campaign
to rein in  home prices . Hangzhou will probably start a property
tax next month, the China Securities Journal said yesterday,
citing unidentified people. Home prices in March rose in 68 of
70 cities tracked by the government, the most since September
2011, the National Bureau of Statistics said April 18.  Cement Outlook  Anhui Conch, the biggest cement producer, slid 3.8 percent
to 17.62  yuan . Huaxin Cement Co. slumped 5.6 percent to 14.11
yuan. Recent reports on property tax trials and Guangzhou’s
tightening measures have created uncertainty on cement demand,
CSC International analyst Zhu Jixiang said by phone today.  Goertek fell 5.7 percent to 50 yuan, dragging technology
stocks lower. Apple has come under pressure to release a new hit
product that can live up to the success of the iPhone and iPad,
sending the shares down more than 40 percent since September and
wiping out about $280 billion in market value.  Jiangsu Yueda lost 8.8 percent to 12.81 yuan, the lowest
since Jan. 24. Citic Securities Co. said the company’s first
quarter profit was lower than market projection without saying
what the estimates were.  Companies including Air China Ltd.,  Bank of China  and
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. report quarterly earnings today.
Quarterly  profit  at 52 percent of Shanghai Composite companies
missed estimates, according to data on 86 corporate results
compiled by Bloomberg since Feb. 16.  Stocks Outlook  “We can expect shares to continue fluctuating in the short
term,” Liu Guangming, an analyst at Dongxing Securities Co.,
said today from Beijing. “Investors are still divided over
their outlook for shares. There are concerns over the economic
data and we are still unsure if first-quarter earnings would
outperform.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., added 1.3 percent to $36.48,
gaining for the fourth time in five days.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  jumped to a one-month high and solar
makers rallied. American depositary receipts of  Huaneng Power (HNP) ,
China’s largest electricity producer, surged to the highest
level since 2007. Chip foundry Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. climbed 2.5 percent.  Huaneng was raised to hold from sell by Bank of China,
while Semiconductor Manufacturing posted net income that was
four times the average analyst estimate. Seventeen of the 55
members in the Bloomberg China-US gauge are reporting quarterly
 results  this week as the index trades at 12 times estimated
earnings, 50 percent below its valuation in March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  