-- China Wireless Targets Lenovo, Samsung in China Smartphone Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-25T01:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/china-wireless-targets-lenovo-samsung-in-china-smartphone-sales.html
China Wireless Technologies Ltd. (2369) ,
the nation’s third-largest smartphone vendor, said it will
eventually overtake market leaders  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , helped by demand for low-cost phones.  A 50 percent surge in smartphone shipments will allow China
Wireless to pass Lenovo for the No. 2 spot this year, while
catching Samsung will take longer, Chief Financial Officer  Jiang Chao  said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  “Lenovo’s share is only 2 percent higher than our company,
so we will catch up to them very fast,” Jiang said in Shenzhen.
“This year we could catch up with Lenovo, but not Samsung.
Samsung will be another few years in the future.”  Total smartphone shipments in China will rise 44 percent to
300 million units this year, driven by handsets costing about
700  yuan  ($113), researcher IDC forecast in December. Demand is
surging as  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest carrier by
subscribers, aggressively encourages users of second-generation
networks to upgrade to third-generation service with low- and
middle-end smartphones. China Wireless, formed in 1993, has sold
phones through  China  Mobile for a decade.  “Unlike Lenovo, which may rely more on open market
channels, China Wireless’ strong business relationship with
domestic telco operators secures a high level of shipment
growth,” said Yuji Fung, a Hong Kong-based analyst with
Oriental Patron Financial Group. “Strong smartphone growth is
driven by the operator channel at the moment, via handset
subsidies.”  Closing Gap  China Wireless, which sells phones under the “Coolpad”
brand, will boost smartphone shipments to 30 million units this
year, and 40 million units next year, from more than 20 million
units last year, Jiang said. Samsung shipped 37.1 million
smartphones in China last year and Lenovo 23.5 million,
according to IDC.  “We are highly confident that we will continue to build on
our momentum in China smartphones and in fact our global
smartphone, tablet and PC businesses,” Jeffrey Shafer, a
spokesman for Lenovo, said in an e-mail.  China Wireless surged to third place in China’s smartphone
market in the three months ended September, up from sixth in the
preceding quarter, according to IDC. That was the first time the
company entered the top five. For 2012, Samsung led the China
smartphone market with 17 percent share, compared with 11
percent for Lenovo, IDC data showed. China Wireless didn’t rank
among the top five for the full year.  China Wireless will ship 38 million smartphones this year,
just short of 40 million units for Lenovo, Lisa Soh, an analyst
with Macquarie Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  “China’s smartphone market is taking off this year,”
Zhang Jun, an analyst with Greenwood Village, Colorado-based
Wedge Partners Corp Zhang said in an e-mail yesterday.
“Shipment growth of 50 percent is achievable, but Lenovo might
grow faster than China Wireless.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  