-- China Life’s First-Quarter Profit Rises on Investment Returns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-25T13:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/china-life-s-first-quarter-profit-rises-on-investment-returns.html
China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the
nation’s biggest insurer, reported a 79 percent jump in profit
in the first quarter as investment returns increased and
impairment losses fell.  Net income  rose to 10.1 billion  yuan  ($1.6 billion) from
5.63 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based company said
in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. Investment
income, which is mainly interest income and dividends, climbed
37 percent to 26.1 billion yuan, while impairment losses
declined 89 percent, according to the statement.  China Life wrote off investment losses last year and
positioned itself to book profits from any rebounds in the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , according to Guotai Junan Securities
Co. The index entered a  bull market  on January 29 after surging
20 percent from a December low. The Shanghai gauge has slumped
9.7 percent since reaching this year’s high on Feb. 6 high.  “They should have absorbed almost all their unrealized
losses by last year,” said Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst
at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International Ltd. “Investment returns
should be a bit better this year if they can lock in some profit
at high points” of the market.  Net premiums earned fell 2.4 percent to 110.1 billion yuan
as Chairman Yang Mingsheng curbed sales of low-margin policies
to focus more on long-term contracts.  China Life added 0.7 percent to close at HK$20.6 in Hong
Kong trading, before the publication of earnings, trimming this
year’s decline to 19 percent. Smaller  China Pacific Insurance
Group Co. (2601) , which yesterday reported a 241 percent jump in first-
quarter profit, gained 1.3 percent today.  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission may scrap the 2.5
percent maximum rate on fixed-return policies in a trial
starting as early as next month to help insurers make their
products more attractive, a person with knowledge of the matter
said this week.  The changes may prompt redemptions to increase by less than
50 percent by value from the current level, as existing
policyholders end their contracts to seek higher returns from
new policies, the person said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  