-- China’s First-Quarter Capital-Financial Account Surplus Surges
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-25T10:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/china-s-first-quarter-capital-financial-account-surplus-surges.html
China ’s financial and capital
account surplus surged in the first quarter as looser monetary
policies in developed economies and expectations of  yuan  gains
spurred inflows of funds.  The $101.8 billion figure was the biggest since the three
months ending December 2010 and compared with $56.1 billion in
the same period last year, according to preliminary data
released on the  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  website
today. The capital and financial account returned to a surplus
of $20 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012, reversing two
quarters of deficits.  Capital inflows are being driven by speculation that the
People’s Bank of China will tolerate more yuan appreciation and
by quantitative easing in  Europe , the U.S. and  Japan  that’s
spurring investors to seek higher returns. The currency climbed
to a 19-year high today as the central bank set a record
reference rate.  “This is driven by a more stable global economy that has
increased investors’ risk appetite as well as prospects for yuan
appreciation and a sizeable interest-rate spread,” said Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based economist with Citigroup Inc.
“Inflows may continue if the current pace of economic growth
can be sustained although renewed tension in the global economy
such as a debt crisis in a major economy in the  euro zone  will
likely shift the direction.”  Fighting Inflows  The yuan, also known as the  renminbi , climbed 0.12 percent
to close at 6.1707 per dollar in  Shanghai  today, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched 6.1694
earlier, the strongest level since the government unified the
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. The
currency, which is allowed to diverge from the daily fixing by a
maximum 1 percent, was at a 0.96 percent premium to the PBOC
reference rate today.  The central bank “spent the first quarter fighting the
inflows, accumulating $157 billion of foreign exchange along the
way,” said Wang Qinwei, a London-based economist at  Capital
Economics  who previously worked at the PBOC. “Policy makers
have tolerated a resumption of renminbi gains against the dollar
this month but market pressures are for much more rapid movement
which implies that intervention is continuing.”  China’s central bank and financial institutions bought a
record net 683.7 billion yuan ($111 billion) of foreign currency
from customers in January, as companies and individuals
offloaded dollars to buy yuan in expectation of appreciation.
They bought 295.4 billion yuan in February and 236.3 billion
yuan in March, according to PBOC data.  Band Widening  Yi Gang, People’s Bank of China deputy governor, said on
April 17 in  Washington  that the yuan’s trading band will be
widened “in the near future” as the  exchange rate  becomes
“more market-oriented,” spurring gains in the currency. The
last revision, which doubled the band to 1 percent, was
announced on April 14, 2012.  “Massive capital inflows will continue due to higher
interest-rate spreads between China and all major economies as
well as renewed yuan appreciation expectations,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist with Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.
in  Hong Kong .  China last year had the biggest deficit in its  financial
and capital account  since records began in 1982 as the domestic
and global economies slowed. The $117.3 billion annual gap was
the first since 1998 when investors deserted China during the
Asian financial crisis.  Strong Outlook  “Much of the apparent net financial outflow in 2012 was
temporary, related to expectations of yuan depreciation against
the dollar at that time,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Hong Kong. The
resumption of inflows will persist “in coming months as China’s
economic outlook remains strong compared to that of most other
countries.”  The capital and financial account includes flows of funds
for mergers and acquisitions, foreign direct  investment ,
purchases and sales of equities and fixed-income securities and
the central bank’s reserve account used to buy and sell foreign
currencies.  China’s surplus in the current account, the broadest
measure of trade, was $55.2 billion in the first quarter,
according to today’s SAFE statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  