-- Clegg Denies U.K. Proposing Withdrawal From Human Rights Court
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-25T10:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/clegg-denies-u-k-proposing-withdrawal-from-human-rights-court.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
contradicted his Conservative coalition partners, saying there
is no current move for Britain to withdraw from the European
Convention on Human Rights in order to deport a radical cleric.  Home Secretary Theresa May yesterday suggested the U.K. may
temporarily leave the ECHR, allowing it to bypass any moves to
block the deportation of  Abu Qatada  on the grounds he might be
at risk from torture in his native Jordan. It follows a 12-year
battle to deport the preacher, who has been linked to terrorist
network al Qaeda, an allegation he denies.  “No one has proposed and no one has put to me that we
should start pulling out of this or that,” Clegg, whose Liberal
Democrat party supports  human-rights  legislation, told LBC radio
today. “I have no idea even in theory whether jumping in and
out of the ECHR would make the blindest bit of difference.”  Speaking in Parliament yesterday, May said the option of
leaving the ECHR should remain on the table. “I think we do
need to look at the relationship we have with the European
Convention on Human Rights and the  European Court of Human
Rights ,” she said. “We should be looking at all the options
and that should include leaving the jurisdiction of the court
altogether.”  Clegg said he was “a little bit more optimistic” about
the prospect of deporting Qatada after Britain signed an
agreement with Jordan designed to reassure courts that evidence
obtained through torture would not be used against him.  “It’s not going to happen next Tuesday,” he said. “No
doubt there will be some further legal steps. But I think what
Theresa May and her team has done has really, really
helped increase the chance of getting him out of the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  