-- Colombian Currency Rises Most in Week After S&P Raises Rating
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-04-25T20:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/colombian-peso-gains-most-in-three-weeks-after-s-p-upgrade.html
Colombia’s peso rose the most in a
week on speculation overseas investors will increase demand for
the country’s financial assets after Standard & Poor’s upgraded
its foreign debt rating.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,831.10 per U.S.
dollar at the close of trading in Bogota, the biggest increase
since April 18.  S&P raised Colombia by one level to BBB, the second-lowest
investment-grade rating and in line with  Brazil ,  Mexico  and
 Peru . Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas told reporters
yesterday that Colombia will react if the S&P upgrade boosts
dollar inflows and leads to a stronger peso.  “The move should lead to more demand from abroad,
especially for the peso bonds,” Jhon Jairo Ramirez, an analyst
at brokerage Bolsa y Renta SA, said in a telephone interview
from Medellin.  The peso has plunged 3.5 percent this year, after a 9.7
percent jump in 2012, as the central bank and the government
increased dollar purchases to ease the local currency’s rally.
Banco de la Republica said Jan. 28 it will buy a minimum of
$30 million a day, bringing purchases in the foreign-exchange
market to at least $3 billion from February to May.  Policy makers will probably extend the bank’s dollar
purchase program to September at tomorrow’s meeting, Ramirez
predicted. They will leave the overnight  lending rate  unchanged
at 3.25 percent, according to 19 of 31 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Twelve expect a cut of 25 basis points.  Cardenas, who is also president of the central bank’s board
and has one of seven votes, said in an interview today that he
favors maintaining the pace of dollar purchases.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark bonds due in July 2024
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.85 percent,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  