-- Commerzbank Names Christoph Thierolf Head of M&A Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-04-25T16:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/commerzbank-names-christoph-thierolf-head-of-m-a-unit.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-
biggest lender, named Christoph Thierolf head of its mergers and
acquisitions business.  Thierolf has worked at Commerzbank since 2008 as co-head of
its M&A health-care and pharmaceuticals team, according to a
statement from Commerzbank. He’ll be based in Frankfurt and
report to Roman Schmidt, global head of corporate finance at the
 investment-banking  division.  Thierolf’s appointment comes amid other moves by some of
Germany’s senior M&A bankers, including Kai Tschoeke,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s chief of German and Austrian deals, who is leaving the
New York-based  bank  after more than 20 years. Ken Oliver Fritz,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s head of investment banking for Germany,
is leaving to become co-head of Germany at  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   Thierolf succeeds Philipp Mohr, who left the lender last
year to open a German office for William Blair & Co., a Chicago-
based investment bank owned by its employees.  M&A volume in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, fell to
the lowest level since the second quarter of 2012 in the first
three months of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Christoph brings with him management skills that are
required to develop our existing M&A capabilities in Germany and
abroad,” Schmidt said in a statement.  Before Commerzbank, Thierolf worked in the M&A division of
Fresenius SE and Pharma Group, the bank said. Commerzbank, based
in Frankfurt, advised on  Apax Partners ’ sale of German direct
sales company LR Health & Beauty Systems to Bregal Capital and
Quadriga Capital, announced in December.  Commerzbank shares rose 1.4 percent to 10.55 euros in
Frankfurt today, valuing the bank at 6.2 billion euros ($8.1
billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  