-- Congress Leaders Try to Keep Health Subsidy With New Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-25T18:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/congress-leaders-try-to-keep-health-subsidy-with-new-law.html
Congressional leaders are
discussing how to mitigate the potential effects of a section of
the 2010 health-care law that could cost lawmakers and their
employees subsidies for health insurance, an aide said.  The health-care law, the Affordable Care Act, included a
provision requiring members of Congress and their staffs to
obtain insurance from online marketplaces set to open in 2014.
The exchanges will sell insurance to Americans who don’t have
health-care coverage from their employers.  The congressional requirement was an amendment from a
Republican, Senator Charles Grassley of  Iowa , who opposed the
law and wanted Congress to experience its effects. Michael Steel, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, said today
that the Ohio Republican “will not sneak any language into
bills” to lift the requirement.  “The speaker would like to see resolution of this problem,
along with the other nightmares created by Washington Democrats’
health law, which is why he supports full repeal,” Steel said
in an e-mail.  Talks are continuing between Boehner’s office and the
office of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid on the issue, said a
congressional aide who requested anonymity because the
discussions weren’t public. The talks were first reported by
Politico.  Same Benefits  The Office of Personnel Management, which administers
health plans for members of Congress and their staffs, must
interpret the provision applying to Congress and issue
regulations to enact it. That hasn’t happened, and spokesmen for
OPM didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail today asking about
the status of the regulations.  One question is whether lawmakers and their staff will
continue to receive a subsidy from their employer -- the federal
government -- if they have to enroll in exchange plans. The aide
said Reid and Boehner haven’t decided what to do if OPM decides
that Congress won’t continue to receive a federal subsidy.  “Senator Reid is committed to ensuring that all members of
Congress and congressional staff experience the benefits of the
Affordable Care Act in exactly the same way as every other
American,” Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson, said in an e-mail.
“He believes that this is the effect of the legislation as
written, and that therefore no legislative fix is necessary.”  Congressional Staff  The law doesn’t give specifics on coverage of congressmen
and their staffs. A 145-word passage says “the only health
plans that the federal government may make available to members
of Congress and congressional staff” are those created by the
law, or offered in “an exchange” created by the law.  The provision defines “congressional staff” as people
“employed by the official office of a member of Congress,”
which may exclude employees of congressional committees and
other workers at the U.S. Capitol who aren’t directly employed
by lawmakers.  The law’s language leaves plenty of room for
interpretation, said Paul Fronstin, director of the health
research and education program at the Employee Benefit Research
Institute in  Washington .  “You’ve got to see the regulations. What does that mean,
that a member of Congress has to be covered by the exchange in
his home district? What about employees that live and work” in
Washington, he said in a phone interview.  Preliminary Talks  The unidentified congressional aide said the talks were
preliminary. Discussions are confined, for now, to identifying
ways to ensure congressional staffers aren’t put at a
disadvantage compared with other members of the public if OPM
rules that they must enroll in a health exchange, the aide said.  “Members of Congress will not receive anything that is not
available to the public,” said a White House spokesman,  Eric
Schultz , in an e-mail. “They are going to get insurance on the
marketplace, just like individuals uninsured and small
businesses.”  Much like other Americans who have health coverage through
their jobs, congressional staff receive a subsidy for their
premiums, paid by their employer -- the federal government. If
they had to enter the exchanges they may have to give up that
employer subsidy, although low- and middle-income staff could be
eligible for tax credits administered by the exchanges.  The federal government’s subsidy for its employees’ health
plans amounts to as much as 75 percent of the monthly premium.
That’s comparable to the subsidies received by employees of
large U.S. companies that offer health insurance, according to a
February report by the Congressional Research Service.  Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  isn’t
involved in the talks and won’t support legislation to change
the law for Congress, said his spokesman, Don Stewart.  ‘Special Favors’  McConnell “does not support, and is not involved in
drafting, legislation that would do special favors for Congress
when his constituents are still facing the increased premiums
and taxes, the mountains of red tape, the loss of health care
plans they like and want to keep,” Stewart said in an e-mail.  Fronstin said that if Congress and its staff have to shop
for insurance in the exchange, the federal government could
simply give them money toward the purchase of a policy.  “There’s devil in the details that have to be worked out,
but for the most part I think it’s workable,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  