-- Conoco Profit Meets Estimates as Production Declines
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-04-25T11:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/conoco-profit-meets-estimates-as-production-declines.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the largest
independent U.S. oil and natural gas producer, reported first-
quarter profit that met analysts’ estimates as output fell.  Profit excluding one-time items matched the $1.42  average 
of 20 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income declined to
$2.14 billion, or $1.73 a share, from $2.94 billion, or $2.27, a
year earlier, the Houston-based company said in a Business Wire
statement today.  Today’s results don’t include earnings from refining,
chemical and pipeline assets that were spun off in April 2012,
to create  Phillips 66. (PSX)  The spinoff was part of the company’s
effort to boost returns by focusing on the most profitable
holdings. ConocoPhillips has announced about $12 billion in
planned asset sales since the start of last year, exceeding a
target of as much as $10 billion for 2012 and 2013 combined.  Shrinking the company may help with future growth, said
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York .
“The smaller the company, usually the higher the probability
that they can increase production” meaningfully, Gheit, who has
an outperform rating on ConocoPhillips’ shares, said in a phone
interview before the results were released.  In January, the company said oil and gas production may
reach a low point this year as it completes a multi-year
restructuring and asset sale program.  The earnings statement was issued before the opening of
regular trading on U.S. markets. ConocoPhillips rose 0.8 percent
to $58.26 yesterday at the close in New York.  ConocoPhillips is the largest U.S. oil and gas producer
that doesn’t own refineries or a chemical business, based on
market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  