-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Held Last Week Close to Five-Year High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-25T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-held-last-week-close-to-five-year-high.html
Consumer sentiment last week held
close to a five-year high as Americans gained confidence their
financial situation was mending, a sign the biggest part of the
economy will keep expanding.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 29.9 in
the week ended April 21 from the prior period’s minus 29.2 that
was the highest since January 2008. The decline was within the
margin of error of 3 percentage points. Households were the most
optimistic about their  finances  in 10 months.  Confidence held up even in the face of the biggest weekly
 drop  in stock prices in five months, indicating that rising home
values and easing  fuel costs  are helping to shore up balance
sheets. The report may mean any slowdown in  consumer spending 
will prove temporary just as other parts of the economy,
including manufacturing, are cooling.  “Americans are feeling more secure about their own
financial situation,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in New York. “Household wealth is recovering.
The decline in gasoline prices is providing some relief to
households across the income spectrum.”  Of the three components of the comfort index, the personal
finances gauge climbed to 3.5 last week, the highest since June,
from 1.6, the survey showed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen 10.7 percent this
year through yesterday, helping repair the damage done by the
2007-2009 recession. The gauge has surged 133 percent from a 12-
year low in 2009.  Fewer Claims  Fewer Americans than forecast filed claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week, pointing to an improving labor
market, other figures showed today. Applications for jobless
benefits decreased by 16,000 to 339,000 in the week ended April
20, the lowest since March 9, according to the Labor Department.  Economists projected 350,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. A Labor Department
spokesman said the claims data typically bounce around this time
of year.  Stocks rose today as companies from Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc. to 3M Co. reported earnings that topped estimates
and jobless claims fell. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.3 percent to 1,583.97 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  The comfort survey’s measure assessing Americans’ views on
the current  state of the economy  dropped to minus 58.3 from a
five-year high of minus 54.7 the prior week.  Buying Climate  At the same time, the index of whether consumers consider
it a good  time to buy  was minus 34.8, little changed from a
four-month high of minus 34.6 in the prior week.  Households continue to purchase automobiles. Cars and light
trucks  sold  at an average 15.3 million annualized rate in the
first quarter, the most since the same period in 2008, according
to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  One reason may be that  home equity  is being restored.  House
prices  rose 7.1 percent in the year ended February, the biggest
12-month gain since May 2006, data from the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  showed this week.  Housing-related businesses are among those counting on
improving home sales and consumer sentiment.  Benton Harbor ,
Michigan-based  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest appliance
maker, expects the industry will benefit from sustained demand.  “As we continue the year, we remain optimistic about the
continued strength in U.S. housing and the consumers will gain
confidence as federal government policies become clearer,” Marc
Bitzer, president of Whirlpool  North America , said on an
earnings conference call on April 24.  Cheaper Gasoline  Cheaper fuel costs may also be helping. The price of
regular gasoline at the pump averaged $3.51 on April 18, the
lowest in more than two months. As recently as late February,
the average was $3.79.  The Bloomberg consumer comfort survey also showed Americans
making more than $50,000 were the least pessimistic since
November 2007. This measure climbed to minus 0.3 last week, from
minus 3.3.  The mood of college graduates was the best in the past
year, with their comfort reading rising to minus 18.9 last week
from minus 20.8.  Progress in the labor market, albeit slower in March than
at the start of the year, may be helping underpin confidence.
While employers last month added the fewest workers since June,
the  jobless rate  fell to a four-year low of 7.6 percent.  Confidence among consumers in the South was at the highest
in the past year, and sentiment among independent voters last
week was just short of a five-year high reached in late
February, the comfort survey also showed.  Survey Methodology  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and older. Each week,
250 respondents are asked for their views on the  U.S. economy ,
personal finances and buying climate. The percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  