-- Corn Traders Least Bullish Since September on Drier Outlook
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-04-26T15:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/corn-traders-least-bullish-since-september-on-drier-u-s-outlook.html
Corn traders are the least bullish
in seven months as U.S. farmers prepare to plant a record crop
amid an outlook for drier Midwest weather in coming weeks.  Fourteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect corn prices
to rise next week, while 13 were bearish and a further four were
neutral. Traders have predicted higher prices since reversing
from a bearish outlook in September. Futures on the  Chicago 
Board of Trade slid to a 10-month low on April 24, and are down
27 percent since reaching a record Aug. 10, as production
prospects improved following the worst drought last year since
the 1930s.  U.S. farmers in the largest producing states had  planted  4
percent of their corn crops as of April 21, behind the five-year
average of 16 percent, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Areas of Iowa and Illinois, the biggest growers,
had more than twice the normal amount of rain in the past 30
days, National Weather Service data show. The region will be
mostly dry this weekend before seeing some showers early next
week, Commodity Weather Group LLC said today. Conditions also
should be dry during the second week of May, it said.  “The warmer, drier weather forecasts suggest much improved
planting and lower prices,” said David Smoldt, a vice president
for INTL FCStone Inc. in West Des Moines,  Iowa . As long as the
majority of crops are planted in the next month, “we won’t lose
much yield potential this year.”  Yield Potential  Corn for July delivery traded at $6.205 a bushel, heading
for the fourth weekly drop in five weeks. The USDA said in
February that U.S. production in the 2013-14 season may rise to
a record 14.53 billion bushels, up 35 percent from the past
year’s drought-reduced crop. Farmers will plant 97.282 million
acres, the most since 1936, the agency said March 28.  Last year’s drought allowed much of this month’s rain to
soak deep into the soils, replenishing depleted moisture for
improved yield potential, said Mike Kavanaugh, the agronomy
manager for St. Francisville, Illinois-based AgriGold Hybrids,
which sells corn seeds in 13 states. The optimal time to plant
corn without reducing yield potential is from April 20 to May 20
in most of the Midwest, he said.  Farmers can plant as much as 6 percent of their intended
corn acreage per day in  Illinois , when soil conditions are warm
and dry, according to Darrel Good, an agricultural economist at
the University of Illinois in Champaign. Northern and central
parts of the state have seen record  flooding  along the Illinois
and Des Plaines rivers after excess rain last week, National
Weather Service data show.  Soybean Outlook  Soybean traders were the most bearish in three weeks, with
16 expecting the oilseed to fall next week, while nine predicted
an increase and seven were neutral, according to the Bloomberg
survey. On April 24, the price fell to the lowest since June 18
on concern  China ’s demand would decline as the spread of bird
flu threatened to reduce demand for poultry feed. The Asian
country canceled 281,500 metric tons of U.S. sales previously
made for delivery before Sept. 1, the USDA said yesterday.  Wheat traders were bearish for the first time since
February, with 14 of 29 traders predicting a price decline.  Hedge funds are reducing bets on higher corn, soybean and
wheat prices at the fastest pace since the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission began collecting data in June 2006. Net-long
positions in the three markets fell to 99,779 futures and
options contracts as of April 16, down from a record 672,042
contracts the week ended Aug. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  