-- Cowboys Stadium to Host 1st College Football Playoff Title Game
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/cowboys-stadium-to-host-1st-college-football-playoff-title-game.html
Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,
 Texas , will host the College Football Playoff’s first national
championship game on Jan. 12, 2015.  College football’s new playoff system begins during the
2014-15 season, replacing the Bowl Championship Series. The name
for the new four-team format was disclosed two days ago and
officials meeting in Pasadena, California, yesterday announced
the site of the first title game.  The  Rose Bowl  and the Sugar Bowl will host the first
national semifinals on Jan. 1, 2015. The No. 1 team will play
the fourth-ranked team, while No. 2 meets No. 3, with the
winners advancing to the Monday night championship game.  “The first championship game of the College Football
Playoff era is going to be very special, and Cowboys Stadium is
a wonderful place to host the first game,” executive director
Bill Hancock said in a news release.  Cowboys Stadium, home of the  National Football League ’s
Dallas Cowboys, has been the site of college football’s Cotton
Bowl since 2010. The location for the national title game will
be up for bid each year, similar to the process for the National
Football League’s Super Bowl.  Tampa,  Florida , was the only other city to bid for the
inaugural College Football Playoff championship game.  Under the new playoff plan, the national semifinals will
rotate among six bowl games, meaning there will be two playoff
games along with four other major bowls each season. Still to be
determined is the makeup of the selection committee that will
choose the four participating schools.  A playoff format has been in demand for years by many fans,
some lawmakers and even President  Barack Obama . Since 1998,
college football’s champion has been crowned by the BCS, which
uses a formula that incorporates rankings and computer polls to
decide the two schools that play for the title.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN in November reached a 12-year
agreement to carry all of the postseason games tied to the new
college football playoff system. The Sports Business Journal has
reported that the deal, which runs through 2026, is worth more
than $7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  