-- Danish Mortgage Lender Seeks Sifi Stamp to Seal Industry Brand
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-04-25T12:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/danish-mortgage-lender-seeks-sifi-stamp-to-seal-industry-brand.html
Denmark ’s fifth-largest mortgage
lender, with a market share of about 5 percent, wants to be
named too big to fail as the industry seeks a single rule book
to avoid any contagion effect if a bank collapses.  DLR Kredit A/S wasn’t included among the six banks and
mortgage lenders identified as systemically important financial
institutions by a government-appointed committee last month. The
Copenhagen-based lender is now seeking Sifi designation,
including the tougher  capital requirements  and oversight that
will entail, according to Jens Moeller, DLR’s managing director.  “The products we sell are perceived as a single product,”
Moeller said today in an interview. “If one bank runs into
trouble, it will spread to all the others.”  Investors seeking a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis have
flocked to Denmark’s  $500 billion mortgage-bond market , drawn to
the AAA rated covered bonds even as a housing slump is mired in
its fifth year. The market’s uniformity and depth has attracted
Pacific Investment Management Co. and led billionaire investor
 George Soros  to urge the U.S. to adopt a similar system.  Interest rates  at record lows have cushioned an economic
contraction and held foreclosures at bay. Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager  said in February Denmark will do “whatever
it takes” to protect the system. According to the industry,
that should include applying the Sifi designation to all
institutions.  ‘Funding Boat’  “We are all in the same funding boat,” Karsten Beltoft,
head of the Copenhagen-based Mortgage Bankers’ Association,
said. “You can say the same of banks but it’s especially true
of mortgage banks. We are more vulnerable because we have only
this one funding tool.”  Danish mortgage lenders can’t take deposits and fund
mortgage loans by issuing covered bonds. Under the country’s
unique system, banks pass through the interest rate risk to
borrowers and bondholders while retaining the loans and credit
risks on their books.  The system’s uniformity has a downside, Beltoft said.  “Investors will think that if one mortgage bank has a
problem, it is a structural problem,” he said. “They more or
less see covered bonds as one thing and maybe are not so clear
about the differences between covered bonds” from different
issuers.  The government committee identified  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Nordea
Bank Danmark A/S and Nykredit A/S among the six Sifis based on
the size of their assets, lending and deposits relative to the
economy. Though DLR failed to meet those criteria, the committee
suggested the lender nonetheless be considered a Sifi because of
its importance to the agricultural industry.  Danish lawmakers will take up the committee’s
recommendations in coming weeks after a public comment period
ended last week. Even if they don’t include DLR among the Sifis,
the market may eventually, Moeller said.  “We think that the market will demand that we fulfill
nearly the same demands,” he said. “The majority of the
demands need to be filled by 2020, and I think we can handle
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  