-- Danish Banks Fight Debt Triggers They Say Will Kill Lending
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-04-25T13:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/danish-banks-fight-debt-triggers-they-say-will-kill-lending.html
Denmark ’s  biggest banks  are seeking
to prevent a proposal aimed at safeguarding taxpayers against
bail-outs, arguing it will force them to tap more expensive
equity to fulfill  capital requirements  and limit their ability
to make loans.  As part of the plan, the government has set a trigger for
converting debt to equity so high that investors will demand an
equally high return, forcing lenders to raise costlier equity,
said Steen Nygaard, head of group treasury at  Jyske Bank (JYSK)  A/S,
Denmark’s second-largest listed lender.  “Under the worst case scenario, if we can’t issue anything
at terms attractive to us, we would need to have at least 15
percent in core equity,” Nygaard said. “That will mean a
contraction in our ability to grant loans.”  Banks and mortgage lenders are urging Denmark to wait on
setting triggers until the European Union puts its regulations
in place. The Danish public had until last week to respond to
recommendations aimed at preventing taxpayers from having to
shoulder the cost of bank collapses from a committee on so-
called systemically important financial institutions.  “If you put the triggers too high, the instruments may not
be sellable,” Jesper Berg, senior vice president and head of
regulatory affairs at Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest issuer of
covered bonds. “Investors will fear they can quickly go from
something where the interest is paid to not paid or converted.”  Double Standards  Lawmakers are looking at the measures with the intention of
passing legislation later this year. Under the current  proposal ,
debt would convert to equity when the underlying equity falls
below 10.125 percent of risk-weighted assets.  That’s almost twice current Danish and EU levels and
significantly higher than what  Standard & Poor’s  requires, said
Jens Moeller, managing director in DLR Kredit A/S, which is
seeking to become designated a Sifi. If the high trigger scares
off investors and prevents banks from raising debt, equity
investors probably will demand an even higher return, he said.  “Investors in equity will have the same view and will
require at least as high a premium,” Moeller said. “This is
our primary concern. The other things we can handle.”  The committee last month named six banks, including  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , as too big to fail and advised they
hold as much as 5 percent additional capital.  “We shouldn’t move the bar faster or higher than other EU
countries,” Ane Arnth Jensen, head of the Association of Danish
Mortgage Banks, said. “Some countries haven’t even decided what
they’re going to do. We’re one of the fastest-moving countries
trying to define this area. That seems unwise.”  Denmark became the first European country to force losses
on senior creditors under a government framework when
Amagerbanken A/S failed in 2011, a move that locked most Danish
banks out of funding markets. Just months earlier, parliament
had passed bail-in legislation  Europe  was expected to adopt. The
EU faces a self-imposed June deadline for similar plans.  “Often it is better, if you have to decide on a trigger,
to follow the market standard,” Jensen said. “But there is not
market standard. So Denmark should wait.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  