-- Dartmouth Pushes Unity to Heal as Protests Mar Applicant Visits
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/dartmouth-pushes-unity-to-heal-as-protests-mar-applicant-visits.html
Dartmouth College, stung by campus
divisions that exploded in recent weeks, strove to repair its
image as accepted students decide whether to attend.  After abruptly canceling classes yesterday, Dartmouth held
speeches and teach-ins to unite the campus. The move came after
some students were targeted by abusive online posts after they
staged a brief protest against homophobia, sexual assault and
racism during an April 19 event for admitted high school
students.  The unusual action was taken to bring students, faculty and
staff together to foster debate that promotes respect, diversity
and civil discourse, administrators said in a  statement .
Students said it sent a positive message to the Hanover, New
Hampshire-based college community.  “It made a big statement to students that the
administration is taking this seriously,” said Hector Del Real,
a sophomore from Inglewood, California, whose parents are from
 Mexico . “At the end of the day, it will have a positive
result.”  Dartmouth has a history of turmoil over race, gender and
campus culture. Students and faculty have protested the
prominence of Dartmouth’s fraternities and sororities, which
they say foster binge drinking, violent hazing and sexual
assault.  Event Disrupted  More than a dozen students disrupted the April 19 event --a
series of skits by current freshman telling the prospective
students they should commit to attend. The protest lasted less
than a minute, according to Kayuri Bhimani, 18, a high school
senior from Lawrenceville, Georgia.  “At first we thought it was part of the skit,” she said.
The protesters made some valid points “that might have turned
away some students, but not me,” said Bhimani, who said she
submitted her commitment last night to attend in the fall.  The protesters made their point, and when they were done,
the high school students began chanting, “We love Dartmouth,”
and the freshmen performers joined in, Bhimani said. “That was
a more accurate representation of Dartmouth than the 30-second
protest.”  Justin Anderson, a spokesman for Dartmouth, said the online
language targeted at the protesters was very threatening.  ‘Nasty Netherworld’  “It went above and beyond even the negative comments you
see on news stories and the nasty netherworld of chat rooms,”
Anderson said, without elaborating. “What we’re trying to do is
acknowledge we need to find space for disputes.”  More than 500 of the students offered a freshman seat
attended last week’s three-day  welcoming events , Anderson said.
The decision to cancel classes drew varied responses from
alumni, he said.  “We’ve definitely heard from alums, some of whom were not
thrilled, some confused, some wholly supportive,” Anderson
said.  Del Real, the sophomore from  California , said the closure
prompted conversations across the entire school, not only at
campus locations where Latino or African-American students meet,
according to Del Real, who said he has never experienced racism
at the college.  “For the first time, I’ve seen a diverse group of students
in one room discussing it,” Del Real, 20, said. “Canceling
classes, that is huge. This school doesn’t cancel classes for a
three-foot snowstorm.”  Important Visits  Dartmouth offered admission for the fall term to  2,252
students , or 10 percent of total freshman applicants. About 68
percent of the admitted students have been offered  financial
aid , and the average award is just under $40,000, according to
the school.  Visits to campus are important selling opportunities for
colleges to get students to commit. Many offer programs for
families, where students stay overnight in dorms, attend
lectures and get their questions answered by current students.
Admitted students must decide by May 1.  While the events of the past week may give some prospective
students some pause and get them asking questions, many others
will feel lucky to have the opportunity, knowing how tough it is
to gain admission, said Bob Sweeney, who directs counseling at
Mamaroneck High School, in New York’s Westchester County.  Among the events Wednesday was a community gathering
featuring a speech by Interim President Carol Folt on the lawn
in front of Dartmouth Hall, which attracted a sizable crowd of
students, said Alexander Lopez, a 19-year-old sophomore.  Folt was unavailable to comment yesterday.  ‘Mindful’ Students  “The student body is really working with the
administration to express their concerns,” said Lopez, who is
also from Lawrenceville,  Georgia , and is studying government and
economics. “It’s putting the ownership back on the students to
be mindful.”  Dartmouth named Philip J. Hanlon, provost of the University
of Michigan, as president in November, replacing Jim Yong Kim
who left the Ivy League school in July to lead the World Bank.  Hanlon, who declined to comment in an e-mail, takes office
July 1, the same day that Folt becomes chancellor of the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  Alumni of Dartmouth, founded in 1769, include Timothy F. Geithner, former Treasury Secretary, and his immediate
predecessor, Henry Paulson. Jeffrey Immelt, chief executive
officer of General Electric Co., is an alumnus and trustee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  