-- Dell in Rare Feat as PC Speech Gets Investor Cheers
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-04-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/dell-in-rare-feat-as-pc-speech-gets-investor-cheers.html
Michael Dell  this week accomplished
a rare feat in the era of the smartphone: He drew applause after
a speech on the future of personal computers.  Dell spoke at the annual meeting of Silver Lake Management
LLC, which joined with him to take private the PC maker he
founded in 1984, according to attendees who declined to be
identified because the event was private. Dell, 48, was the
surprise speaker at the dinner hosted by the private-equity firm
at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in  Manhattan  on Tuesday, the
first day of the firm’s two-day meeting for investors, or
limited partners.  Dell, who addressed about 300 investors on the condition
that he not be asked about the $24.4 billion leveraged buyout of
his company, said PCs will remain critical for businesses around
the world, according to attendees. The view undercuts reports of
record declines in global industry sales, which in part prompted
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s April 18 decision to drop plans to bid for
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  Blackstone also cited the company’s “rapidly eroding
 financial profile ” as a reason for pulling out.  Silver Lake ’s leveraged buyout of Dell is an opportunity
for investors to profit, said a limited partner who attended the
dinner and asked not to be identified. The investor said he
believes, like Michael Dell, that the world still needs personal
computers because software runs on hardware.  Michael Dell teamed up with  Menlo Park , California-based
Silver Lake to take the company private in the largest buyout of
a technology company since the financial crisis. They offered
$13.65 per share in a deal that would require founder Dell to
roll over his stake in the company to help finance the
transaction.  Blackstone Interest  Blackstone in March expressed interest in acquiring a
controlling stake in Dell for $14.25 a share, before dropping
out a month later as global PC sales tumbled. Technology
research firm IDC said in an April 10 report that PC sales sank
14 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter. Blackstone
also cited other concerns. At the end of March, Dell lowered its
forecast for  operating income  for the current year to $3
billion, a 19 percent drop from the previous forecast made
around the time of Blackstone’s initial overture in March.  The founder, chief executive officer and largest
shareholder of  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell, also spoke on
Tuesday about the importance for its customer base of
information-technology security, the promise of cloud computing
and his firm’s plans to develop more products to meet those
needs. Dell has invested in some of these areas, with
 acquisitions  last year such as network-security company
SonicWall Inc., and Wyse Technology Inc., which makes desktop
devices for cloud computing.  Employee Letter  A representative for Silver Lake declined to comment.  David
Frink , a spokesman for Dell, said that “Dell’s speech reflects
the company’s strategy,” while declining to comment further
because he wasn’t at the dinner.  Michael Dell’s speech at Silver Lake’s dinner was echoed in
a letter he sent to employees earlier that day after meeting the
company’s teams in Austin, Round Rock,  Oklahoma City  and
Nashville.  “There is still opportunity in PCs,” Dell wrote in the
letter, which was disclosed in an April 23 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. “The global PC installed
base is roughly a billion-and-a-half, and millions of people in
 emerging markets  continue to come online every week.
Overwhelmingly, PCs are still how business gets done around the
world. We are fine tuning and investing in our business to
innovate and compete more aggressively where growth is
happening.”  Company Executives  This was the first time Silver Lake held its annual meeting
in  New York , which was also attended by executives of some of
its portfolio companies. They include Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd.’s Chief Financial Officer Joseph Tsai, and Hollywood talent
agency William Morris Endeavor Entertainment LLC’s co-CEOs Ari Emanuel and Patrick Whitesell.  Last year, Silver Lake convened its investors in  Pasadena ,
 California , where Microsoft Corp. CEO  Steve Ballmer  was the
guest speaker.  The fact that Silver Lake this month raised a $10.3 billion
fund, the largest ever dedicated to buyouts of technology
companies, is a sign of investors’ confidence in the firm, said
David Fann, CEO of San Diego-based TorreyCove Capital Partners,
which advises institutional investors on private equity.  Silver Lake gathered money for the fund “in a difficult
fundraising environment,” Fann said. “This speaks volumes
about the respect the firm commands from limited partners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  