-- Deutsche Telekom Secures U.S. Position With MetroPCS Deal
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-25T21:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/deutsche-telekom-secures-u-s-position-with-metropcs-deal.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  got a chance to
stage a comeback in the U.S. after  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) 
shareholders approved a sweetened deal to merge with the German
company’s  T-Mobile USA  unit.  Combining the fourth- and fifth-biggest U.S. wireless
companies creates a carrier with more than 40 million customers
and gives T-Mobile airwave licenses needed to offer fast
services to rival  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless. The companies
plan to close the deal May 1.  For Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann ,
the transaction provides firmer footing for the U.S. business,
which has lost 13 percent of its contract customer base between
2009 and 2012. The new T-Mobile will be publicly traded,
facilitating an eventual withdrawal from the U.S., people
familiar with Obermann’s plans have said.  “We’re very happy and also relieved that we finally got
this solution,” Obermann said in a video statement yesterday.
“Not only because we finally have clarity -- as we all know,
uncertain situations are never comfortable for anyone involved.
Most of all, I’m happy that we can finally get going.”  For Obermann, who after seven years as CEO will be
succeeded by Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges at the
end of the year, the deal was probably his last chance to find a
solution to the U.S. business that long eluded him. A $39
billion deal to sell T-Mobile to Dallas-based AT&T fell through
in 2011 because regulators were concerned the combination would
hurt competition.  Europe Focus  With T-Mobile USA’s fate clarified, Hoettges will have to
divert less attention away from the carrier’s European markets,
where the economic crisis, rising competition and regulation-
driven price cuts have caused revenue to decline.  In its home market, Deutsche Telekom is facing increasing
pressure from cable companies such as  John Malone ’s  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA)  that are attracting Internet and phone customers.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG, Germany’s largest cable
company, has attracted interest from Liberty Global and  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , which also competes with Deutsche Telekom for the top
spot in the country’s wireless market.  Deutsche Telekom rose 0.8 percent to 9.03 euros at the
close in Frankfurt. MetroPCS, based in Richardson,  Texas ,
 advanced  1.5 percent to $11.95 in New York.  Improved Terms  Bowing to shareholder pressure, Deutsche Telekom on April
10 agreed to lower the size and interest rate of a loan to the
joint company. The improved merger terms, which cut the
shareholder loan to $11.2 billion from $15 billion and trimmed
the  interest rate  by half a percentage point, won the
endorsement of MetroPCS’s largest investor, Paulson & Co., as
well as two shareholder-advisory firms in the run-up to the
vote.  The deal gives Deutsche Telekom a 74 percent stake in the
merged entity and MetroPCS shareholders a $1.5 billion cash
payment. Deutsche Telekom has agreed not to sell the shares for
18 months.  For Deutsche Telekom shareholders, the approval is “good
news, because you could never really be certain until the last
moment,” said Alexandre Iatrides, an analyst at Oddo & Cie. in
Paris who recommends buying Deutsche Telekom shares. “It’s one
step, but it’s not enough.”  T-Mobile has lagged behind peers in constructing faster
networks and offering  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Since T-Mobile began
to offer the device this month, Chief Executive Officer John Legere is challenged with proving his strategy of scrapping
long-term contracts will win back subscribers.  Capital Spending  The carrier, which has earmarked network investments of
$4.8 billion this year, last month switched on its own high-
speed service using the long-term evolution technology.  MetroPCS has been struggling to compete on its own.
Yesterday, the company reported first-quarter earnings after the
market close. Net income fell 8 percent to $19.7 million, or 5
cents a share. Revenue rose 1 percent to $1.29 billion. And the
carrier added 109,000 new pay-as-you-go customers in the quarter
for a total of 9 million subscribers.  “We voted for it because we were happy to see that
Deutsche Telekom realized the value contribution MetroPCS made
to the combined companies,” said Roy Behren, who co-manages the
$4.7 billion Merger Fund at Westchester Capital in Valhalla, New
York. “We look forward to having another strong competitor in
the wireless industry.”  Verizon Wireless  The pace of consolidation in the U.S. is picking up. The
future of  Verizon Wireless  has become a focus among investors
since  Bloomberg News  reported on March 5 that  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  wants to buy out Vodafone’s stake in their
partnership this year. Vodafone’s 45 percent holding is worth
about $115 billion, analysts said.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  last week offered $25.5 billion for
Sprint Nextel Corp., the nation’s third-biggest mobile-phone
carrier, beating terms offered by Japan’s  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  in
October.  “Since there are two companies bidding for Sprint, one of
them will be disappointed and may come back for T-Mobile,”
Oddo’s Iatrides said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  