-- Disabled Immigrants to Get Representation, Judge Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-25T16:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/disabled-immigrants-to-get-representation-judge-rules.html
Immigrant detainees in three states
who have mental disabilities are entitled to legal
representation, a federal judge ruled, the first decision
recognizing such rights in immigration cases.  U.S. District Judge Dolly M. Gee in  Los Angeles  said in a
decision April 23 that appointment of a “qualified
representative” allows those with serious mental disabilities
who can’t represent themselves to “meaningfully access” the
hearing process.  “Plaintiffs’ ability to exercise these rights is hindered
by their mental incompetency, and the provision of competent
representation able to navigate the proceedings is the only
means by which they may invoke these rights,” Gee said.  The ruling, which applies to those in custody in
California,  Arizona  and Washington, is the first to recognize a
right to appointed counsel in immigration proceedings for a
group of immigrants, the American Civil Liberties Union said on
its  website . More than half of all individuals in immigration
court and 84 percent of those detained are unrepresented, the
organization said.  “The court’s ruling will begin to correct this unjust
system by providing essential protections for an extraordinarily
vulnerable group -- immigrants with serious mental disabilities
whom the government imprisons while their cases remain
pending,” the ACLU said.  The  Justice Department  said on its  website  April 22 that it
was issuing a new nationwide policy for unrepresented detainees
with serious mental disabilities. The Executive Office for
Immigration Review will make available a qualified
representative to detainees deemed mentally incompetent to
represent thems in immigration proceedings.  The department said the new procedures will provide
“enhanced protections” to detainees and “facilitate the
conduct” of the proceedings.  The case is Franco-Gonzalez v. Holder, 10-02211, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  