-- Dow Chemical Profit Tops Estimates on Plastics and Seed
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-04-25T15:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/dow-chemical-profit-tops-estimates-as-cheap-gas-buoys-plastics.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as corn-seed sales rose and lower raw-
material costs boosted earnings from plastics.  Net income  climbed 28 percent to $635 million, or 46 cents
a share, from $497 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier,
Midland, Michigan-based Dow said today in a statement. Profit
excluding a tax charge and other one-time items was 69 cents a
share, topping the 61-cent average of 16  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales declined 2.3 percent to $14.4 billion, missing
the $14.9 billion average of 12 estimates.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  is
selling businesses, cutting jobs, closing plants and deferring
investments to counter slower global economic growth. Lower
costs for raw materials derived from natural gas and oil helped
increased profit in performance plastics, Dow’s largest
 business , Liveris said today in a telephone interview, and the
agriculture unit posted record earnings.  “They beat primarily because of continuing trends in
agriculture and performance plastics,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New
York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors who recommends
buying Dow shares, said by phone today. “There are some early
signs of recovery in electronics as well.”  ‘Aggressive Measures’  Dow rose 5.4 percent to $33.91 at 11:20 a.m. in  New York 
after earlier climbing 5.6 percent, the most intraday since Oct.
24.  The shares  have gained 4.8 percent this year.  The company continues to plan for no “material
macroeconomic improvements” globally this year and is “focused
on driving aggressive measures,” Liveris said in the statement.  Dow said it increased average prices by 1 percent in the
quarter, while sales volumes declined 3 percent. The average
operating rate at the company’s plants worldwide rose to 82
percent from 78 percent in the fourth quarter.  Price “momentum” is continuing in April, even though oil
costs have fallen, Liveris said in the interview.  “It’s a Herculean effort to get price increase in this
sort of environment,” Liveris said in a separate interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with  Betty Liu .”  Latin America  led sales gains, rising 7.6 percent, followed
by a 0.9 percent gain in  North America . Asia-Pacific revenue
fell 2.1 percent, and lower sales volumes were responsible for
an 8.4 percent drop in the region encompassing  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa .  China Recovery  China  is showing signs of recovery and will become less
focused on exports, Liveris said. Austerity measures are
preventing a recovery in Europe, he said.  “These austerity budgets are really proving to be a recipe
for disaster,” Liveris said on “In the Loop.”  Liveris told analysts on a conference call today that he is
“confident” the company will reach $10 billion of adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in 2015 or 2016, compared with $7.7 billion in the 12 months
through March. Gains will come from cost cuts, an “imminent”
tightening of global ethylene markets, higher agriculture
earnings and new plants on the U.S. Gulf Coast and  Saudi Arabia ,
he said.  The agriculture unit posted earnings of $484 million as
SmartStax corn, co-developed with Monsanto Co. to tolerate
multiple herbicides and kill insects, drove a 37 percent sales
gain in seeds and genetic traits, Dow said. Preparations to
begin marketing Dow’s Enlist weedkiller and engineered seeds
narrowed agriculture margins, Liveris said.  Plastics Profit  Plastics earnings  rose 33 percent to $952 million as profit
margins expanded 7.2 percent on lower costs for raw materials
naphtha and ethane, Liveris said.  Electronic-materials profit rose 5 percent to $273 million
as Dow gained market share in pads used to polish semiconductors
and boosted Asian revenue 5 percent on new product sales,
Liveris said. Dow has focused the unit on materials and
technologies used in display panels, he said.  Dow has shut 17 production sites and is ahead of schedule
on workforce reductions, Chief Financial Officer Bill Weideman
said on the conference call. Dow said in October it would
eliminate 2,400 jobs, or 5 percent of its workforce, and close
20 factories.  Dow began a process to sell its plastics-additives unit in
March and will start to market the polypropylene licensing and
catalyst unit in the current quarter, with transactions expected
to be completed by the end of the year, Weideman said. Both will
be a “significant” part of Dow’s goal announced in March to
divest units valued at $1.5 billion, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  