-- DSV Stock Rises as SEB Sees Revival of Share Buyback Plan
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-25T10:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/dsv-stock-rises-as-seb-sees-revival-of-share-buyback-plan.html
DSV A/S (DSV)  rose the most among
Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks after an analyst at SEB AB said
the Nordic region’s biggest trucking company will resume buying
back stock as its industry role expands.  DSV jumped as much as 3.3 percent to 142.3 kroner, the
strongest intraday gain since Oct. 25 and  today’s biggest
advance  on the Copenhagen 20 Index. The stock was trading 1.8
percent higher at 12:14 p.m. in the Danish capital, with volume
at 46 percent of the three-month daily average.  The transport operator said in February that it wouldn’t
immediately introduce a new share buy-back program after
purchasing 1.3 billion kroner ($228 million) of its own stock in
2012, to focus on preserving cash to reduce debt. DSV will
probably resume the practice after its next earnings report
following the announcement of its planned takeover of Seatainers
Group A/S, SEB said today, raising its  recommendation  on the
stock to buy from hold.  “We expect DSV to re-initiate its practice of quarterly
share buybacks,” Mikkel M. Nielsen, a Copenhagen-based analyst
with SEB, said in a note. DSV gained market share “from
smaller, less efficient competitors in the first quarter of
2013, partly due to its strong foothold in northern  Europe ,
 Germany  and eastern Europe,” and the company also reduced debt
in line with targets.  DSV is  scheduled  to report first-quarter earnings on April
30. Sales probably rose 2.9 percent to 11.1 billion kroner and
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
will advance 1.9 percent to 703.3 million kroner, according to
the average estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of seven analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  