-- The Media’s ’Alleged’ Fairness to a Boston Bomber
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-04-25T22:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/the-media-s-alleged-fairness-to-a-boston-bomber.html
Suddenly, the news media seem not
so sure about who attacked the Boston Marathon.  The Wall Street Journal published  a report  this week on
whether “alleged Boston bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev met with a
suspected militant during his six-month visit to  Russia  in
2012.” In the Daily Beast, we have an  excellent dispatch  from a
radical Dagestan mosque visited by “alleged marathon bomber
Tamerlan Tsarnaev.” Not to be outdone, the  New York  Times, in a
coinage that was immediately copied around the Web, referred to
Tamerlan Tsarnaev as “the suspect who died last week.”  The words of legalistic caution are everywhere: “alleged,”
“suspected” and the rest. That was fast. Because, let’s
remember, these stories aren’t about younger brother Dzhokhar,
who is facing criminal charges. They’re about Tamerlan, who is
dead. This trend is at best peculiar -- to say nothing of
confusing and unnecessary.  Ordinarily, journalists identify those who are arrested as
“suspects,” their crimes “alleged,” because no trial has taken
place. The rules stem from a desire to protect the presumption
of innocence -- not to taint the jury pool, for instance. Thus
the usual caution can be considered a way of respecting the
autonomy of the accused, who might yet be acquitted.  But Tamerlan can’t be acquitted. He’s dead.  Wrong Message  So why the hedging? If we take the media at their meaning,
the purpose must be to warn us readers that we would be wrong to
conclude, on the evidence now available, that Tamerlan Tsarnaev
bombed the Boston Marathon last week.  If this is the message, then the message is wrong.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the adjective
“alleged” means “claimed or asserted without proof, or pending
proof,” and derives most probably from an Old French word
meaning “to clear of an accusation.” Now, aside from the fact
that the OED is inexact -- what we demand is sufficient proof,
evidence enough to overcome whatever may be the applicable
standard of doubt -- most of us aren’t going to examine much
more proof of Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s guilt than we’ve seen already.  It’s easy to misunderstand the presumption of innocence.
The rule comes from the common law, and reflects not an ethical
guidepost for every aspect of life, but a way of describing the
burden of the moving party at a trial. In criminal trials the
presumption is of particular importance, because the state is
proposing to take away a person’s liberty -- perhaps even his
life.  James Bradley Thayer, in his  1898 treatise  on the law of
evidence, presented what has become the modern formulation of
the presumption: first, “that the accused stands innocent until
he is proved guilty; and, second, that this proof of guilt must
displace all reasonable doubt.”  But nobody is proposing to take away Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s
liberty or life. Those are already gone. Because he isn’t facing
trial, the presumption of innocence -- which is a rule of
evidence for the courtroom -- doesn’t apply. Whatever
conclusions we reach, we violate no right of his. If you don’t
agree, ask yourself whether Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s status as mere
“suspect” has an expiration date -- or whether, because we can
never try him, it lasts forever. (John Wilkes Booth never had a
trial either.)  This leads us to an important point: It makes perfect sense
to refer to younger brother Dzhokhar as a suspect, because he
does face criminal charges, and the government does intend to
take his liberty away. But even in Dzhokhar’s case, the
presumption of innocence is really only a rule of courtroom
evidence.  Different Message  There is, of course, a richer significance that we might
attach to the presumption of evidence. Perhaps the message isn’t
that we should preserve the question of guilt for trial, but
rather that we should never rush to judgment on anyone, about
anything. This lovely sentiment was captured in the 1971
baccalaureate address of  Yale University  President Kingman
Brewster, an epigram that  is engraved  on his tombstone: “The
presumption of innocence is not just a legal concept. In
commonplace terms it rests on that generosity of spirit which
assumes the best, not the worst of the stranger.”  Assuming the best of the stranger: not a bad way to build a
society. But, of course, the media willy-nilly present
conclusory assertions about everyone else -- in politics, say,
or in business. It’s perfectly plain that we don’t assume the
best of the stranger. Instead we indulge a habit of convicting
in the court of public opinion on very modest proof.  Our politicians may understand this point better than our
reporters. Consider the  following circumlocution  from ABC News:
“In passionate remarks at a memorial service for slain
Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer Sean
Collier, Vice President  Joe Biden  called the Boston Marathon
bomber suspects ‘knock-off jihadis.’” See the editing trick?
Biden’s clever wordplay assumes that the audience shares his
knowledge of who did what; it is the reporter who cautiously
added that the vice president was referring to the “suspects.”  And journalists themselves don’t fully accept the need to
presume innocence. Thus even as they insist that Tamerlan is
only a “suspect” in the bombing, they tell us flatly, as if it’s
all fact, that he was kicked out of his mosque, that he told his
mother he was willing to die for Islam, and that he became
increasingly radicalized over the past few years. Little of this
hearsay would be admissible in a court of law; but on these
predicate facts there is no hedging.  Maybe that’s just as well. There is such a thing as too
much caution. Thayer, in his 1898 treatise, issued a prescient
warning: “The presumption of innocence has been overdone in our
hysterical American fashion of defending accused persons.” His
allusion was to the opinion of a prominent lawyer of the day
with whom he disagreed. But his words would seem applicable
today to the verbal gymnastics of the news media.  What I would say is this: Calm down. Outside the courtroom,
we already have sufficient evidence on which to make up our
minds about the guilt of Tamerlan Tsarnaev. He isn’t a suspect.
He’s dead. And he did it.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at Yale University. He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 