-- ECB Data to Show Extent of Capital Flight in Cyprus
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ecb-data-to-show-extent-of-capital-flight-in-cyprus.html
The  European Central Bank  will
publish data today showing how much money savers withdrew from
the euro region’s banks after a botched attempt to tax Cypriot
savers as part of a European Union-led bailout.  The ECB will publish data for euro-area  bank deposits 
including Cyprus after 10 a.m. in Frankfurt. In February, the
month before the rescue, Cypriot deposits decreased 2.2 percent
to 46.4 billion euros, down from 47.4 billion the previous
month. It was the ninth straight decline.  Cypriot officials, euro-area finance ministers and the ECB
agreed mid-March on an unprecedented measure to impose a levy on
deposits of less than 100,000 euros ($130,000) under a 10
billion-euro bailout. The plan was ditched after the country’s
parliament rejected it, and a new accord was reached where only
savings above the insured level of 100,000 euros will be taxed.  “I’m sure Cypriot banks have seen a deposit flight last
month and it would be even more interesting to see how much
money left the country in the second half of the month,” said
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London.
“The deposit data for other countries will tell us a lot about
how much damage the incident in Cyprus has done.”  The episode damaged investor confidence across the currency
bloc. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  dropped 6.8 percent
between March 15 and March 27, the day before banks reopened in
Cyprus with limits on withdrawals.  To impose a levy on insured depositors “was not smart, to
say the least,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on April 4.
“It was quickly corrected.”  ’Limited Contagion’  The rescue attempt came at a time when doubts about a
recovery of the euro-area economy later this year were growing,
and Draghi said on April 19 that he hasn’t “seen any
improvement in the situation” since the beginning of April.  Banks including Nomura International Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  forecast the ECB will cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent when
policy makers convene for their monthly meeting on May 2.  The ECB today will also publish data on bank deposits for
the other euro-area countries. Last month in  Greece , deposits
rose, while they were little changed in Spain, Portugal and
Ireland.  “I expect non-existent, or just limited contagion,” said
Berenberg’s Schulz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  