-- ECB’s Constancio Says Bank Health Checks Will Be Vital Test
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-25T15:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ecb-s-constancio-says-bank-health-checks-will-be-vital-challenge.html
The  European Central Bank  will
thoroughly probe banks’ balance sheets as it prepares to assume
oversight powers, seeking to reassure markets of the robustness
of euro-area lenders.  The assessments, a requirement set out in the law handing
the central bank oversight powers, are “a critical moment and a
vital challenge” for the single supervisor, ECB Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said in Brussels today.  The ECB must “deliver that assessment in a way that can
convince markets and can really change the situation of the
banks,” he said at a conference.  The Frankfurt-based central bank is set to take on bank
oversight powers next year as part of a bid by the 17 nations of
the euro area to untie the solvency of banks and sovereigns. EU
leaders agreed last year that the supervisor should be a first
step in building a so-called banking union with common oversight
and centralized crisis-response measures for lenders.  “We have to guarantee that the European banking sector has
a balance sheet that is healthy, robust and in a condition to
jumpstart credit growth,” Constancio said.  Constancio said that the asset health checks won’t be
directly linked with the next round of EU-wide bank stress tests
organized by the London-based European Banking Authority.  Stress Tests  “These are two separate things,” he told reporters after
the conference. “The assessment of balance sheet and asset
quality is an exercise in itself with a different methodology
from the normal stress tests that have been conducted in the
past few years,” he said. “So these two things will happen,
both of them.”  “There will be also stress tests, the normal ones, as
before, under the umbrella of the EBA,” he said. The timing of
the two exercises is under discussion, with a decision to be
announced shortly, he added.  “My own view is that it would be better to have the
balance sheet assessment before the stress tests, but it can
work either way,” he said.  Constancio and ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
both urged swift progress by the euro area in establishing a
broader banking union with a single resolution authority and
common backstops for dealing with failing banks.  Any delay in creating a single European bank resolution
mechanism would be “damaging for growth and damaging for
jobs,” Coeure said. The banking union also needs a common
approach to protecting bank depositors, he said.  Constancio told EU lawmakers yesterday that he favored
setting up a central bank resolution authority on a similar
basis as the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., with an
ability to access public money as a last resort.  The European Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s firewall
fund for sovereigns, “could be the basis to provide that
backstop,” Constancio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  