-- Technip First-Quarter Profit Rises Amid Oil Project Orders
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-25T08:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/technip-first-quarter-profit-rises-amid-oil-project-orders.html
Technip SA (TEC) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider, increased first-quarter profit and
hit a new record for orders as energy companies push ahead with
large oil and gas projects.  Net income  rose to 116.2 million euros ($151.5 million)
from 112.2 million euros last year, missing the 122 million-euro
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
company kept full-year financial targets. The shares rose the
most in two months.  “We continue to see good opportunities for new orders in
all our regions,” Chief Executive Officer Thierry Pilenko said
today in a statement. The timing of some contract awards
“remains uncertain.”  Technip, which supplies pipes, platforms and equipment to
the oil and gas industry, has said spending plans by  oil
companies  remains “robust.” The oil-services company earlier
this month announced its biggest subsea contract, an order to
develop an installation for the Moho Nord project offshore
Republic of Congo.  Technip’s contract backlog reached a record 14.8 billion
euros at the end of the latest quarter, 20 percent more than at
the same time last year, according to today’s statement.  Technip rose as much as 4.7 percent in Paris to 82.73
euros, the biggest intra-day gain since Feb. 21. The stock
traded at 82.66 euros at 10:11 a.m. local time.  Some projects are being delayed due to a “rethink” in
their design to lower costs, Pilenko said today on a conference
call. He cited  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Mad Dog 2 oil project in the  Gulf of
Mexico  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s Browse LNG in Western
Australia.  Petrochemical Plants  Cost inflation by suppliers working on projects is “not a
huge issue,” he said.  Last year, Technip bought Shaw Group Inc.’s Stone & Webster
technology and energy businesses, gaining 1,200 engineers and
researchers. The acquisition has expanded Technip’s market in
 North America , and it may bid for five or six petrochemical
plant contracts in coming years, Pilenko has said.  Technip kept a target to increase revenue as much as 16
percent to 9.5 billion euros this year.  Technip expects the operating margin in its subsea division
to hold steady at about 15 percent this year, while the onshore-
offshore margin will be 6 percent to 7 percent, compared with 7
percent in 2012.  In the first quarter the subsea operating margin was 12.8
percent compared with 14.7 percent while the onshore-offshore
margin rose to 6.8 percent from 6.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  