-- Electrolux Profit Misses Estimates as Europe Market Weakens
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-04-25T06:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/electrolux-profit-misses-estimates-as-europe-market-weakens.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest maker of home appliances, reported first-quarter profit
that missed estimates as weaker market conditions in  Europe 
failed to offset strong North American sales growth.  Net income was 361 million kronor ($54.7 million) in the
three months ended March, down from 501 million kronor a year
earlier, the Stockholm-based company said today in a  statement .
The average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
profit of 517.5 million kronor.  In Europe, “all of our operations continued to
suffer from weak  consumer confidence , resulting in falling
volumes and negative price and mix development,” Chief
Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said in the statement.  The maker of AEG vacuum cleaners and Frigidaire freezers is
selling new products and cutting costs to counteract weakness in
its European markets where cash-strapped consumers have reined
in spending. Electrolux is also vying to capture growth in
 emerging markets , while moving production to low-cost countries.  The electrical goods maker reiterated its forecast for
demand for core appliances in Europe, which is expected to
decline this year, while demand in North America is expected to
increase.  Sales fell to 25.3 billion kronor from 25.9 billion kronor
a year earlier, missing the average estimate of 25.5 billion
kronor.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest home appliances maker,
yesterday reiterated its full-year forecast as it posted first-
quarter adjusted earnings per share that beat analysts’
estimates while sales fell shy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  