-- Telefonica Said to Mull Sale of German Fixed-Line Assets
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-25T16:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/telefonica-said-to-consider-sale-of-german-fixed-line-business.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is considering a sale
of its broadband Internet and phone business in  Germany  amid a
surge in investor interest in European fixed-line assets,
according to people familiar with the matter.  The unit, with 2.4 million broadband customers as part of
Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG, could be sold to one of its
rivals in the country, two of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are private. The company is
also considering sharing its wireless network with another
carrier and a full merger with  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus, one of the
people said. No decision has been made, the people said.  The business has a value of as much as 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion), including debt, based on prices of similar
assets. Interest in fixed-line companies is increasing amid the
rising popularity of Web-based video and music services, with
 Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  recently buying  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  in the
U.K. and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  eyeing a takeover in Germany.  “Usually, someone looking to buy DSL assets would do it
mainly to add the customers,” said Stefan Borscheid, an analyst
at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany. “The
network itself is typically a bit harder to sell because the
potential buyer often already owns a comparable network or would
eventually have to upgrade the acquired network to fiber.”  Erasing Losses  Telefonica Deutschland shares  erased earlier losses  of as
much as 2.3 percent, rising 1.4 percent to close at 6.21 euros
in Frankfurt.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s biggest
cable operator, declined 0.6 percent to 73 euros. Telefonica
slipped 0.1 percent to 11.12 euros in  Madrid .  An official at Telefonica declined to comment, directing
calls to the Spanish company’s German unit.  “We don’t comment on speculation,” said Albert Fetsch, a
spokesman for Munich-based Telefonica Deutschland. “The fixed-
line business is and will be an important part of our
strategy.”  Alexander Leinhos, a Vodafone spokesman, and Kabel
Deutschland spokeswoman Insa Calsow declined to comment on
whether the companies are interested in the business.  A KPN representative also declined to comment. Chief
Executive Officer Eelco Blok reiterated today that there would
be “significant value” for its German business to share
wireless networks or merge with Telefonica Deutschland.  British Sale  Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta is reviewing the Madrid-based
company’s asset portfolio as he seeks to reduce net debt by 4.3
billion euros this year. In March, Telefonica agreed to sell its
U.K. broadband and fixed-line phone division to  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  for as much as 200 million pounds ($309
million).  Telefonica Deutschland’s fixed-line network reaches about
67 percent of German households. Revenue from the wireline
business fell 4.4 percent to 1.36 billion euros last year,
according to company reports, as the number of broadband
customers shrank 8.2 percent to 2.4 million at the end of 2012.  German fixed-broadband operations may be valued lower than
those in the U.K. because of a less stable pricing environment,
said Guy Peddy, a Macquarie Securities analyst in London.
 TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK)  has an enterprise value of about 820
euros per broadband customer. The same price would value
Telefonica’s German fixed-line operations at 1.95 billion euros.  Formerly Italian  Germany’s fixed-line Internet market is contested between
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and cable providers Kabel Deutschland and
Liberty Global. Germany’s former fixed-line monopoly this month
won preliminary regulatory backing for its plan to speed up its
infrastructure, putting greater pressure on rivals to invest.  Deutsche Telekom in December agreed to let Telefonica
Deutschland use its faster VDSL network to gaining access to 11
million households in Germany.  Telefonica acquired its German fixed-line Internet business
in 2010, buying HanseNet Telekommunikation GmbH and its 2.2
million customers from  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  for 900 million euros.
Vodafone paid 474 million euros in 2008 for the remaining 26
percent in Arcor AG, a business with 2.6 million broadband
customers at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  