-- Telekom Austria’s Former CFO Colombo in Money Laundering Probe
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-04-25T15:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/telekom-austria-s-former-cfo-colombo-in-money-laundering-probe.html
Stefano  Colombo , a former chief
financial officer at  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , is being investigated
by Austrian prosecutors on suspicion of  money laundering  after
Deutsche Bank AG reported him to the authorities.  The lender alerted investigators in October 2012 after
Colombo put a total of 1.18 million euros ($1.53 million) in
cash in his account, Format magazine  reported today , citing a
statement by Deutsche Bank to the police. The payments were made
in several parts between 2005 and 2007, according to the
magazine.  Kurt Kadavy, Colombo’s lawyer, said the money in question
is the “private wealth of Colombo’s family” and not connected
to money laundering. He confirmed Colombo had been reported to
the authorities.  Nina Bussek, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office,
confirmed the investigation was taking place and declined to
give further details.  The report comes two months after Colombo and Rudolf Fischer, another former Telekom Austria board member, were
sentenced to prison for manipulating the company’s shares to
trigger bonuses for themselves and other employees. Both have
appealed the ruling. It was the first trial to result from
multiple corruption probes into the company.  Prosecutors don’t rule out Colombo’s cash being connected
to Telekom Austria’s takeover of  Bulgaria ’s Mobiltel in 2005,
Format magazine said. The deal is being investigated because of
payments the former owners made to Austrian lobbyists. Kadavy
said the cash was unconnected to Mobiltel.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  