-- Elementis Jumps After Making Solid Start to 2013 on Oil Market
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-04-25T10:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/elementis-jumps-after-making-solid-start-to-2013-on-oil-market.html
Elementis Plc (ELM)  climbed the most in
two months in London after the British specialty-chemical maker
said it made a “solid start” to the year amid rising demand
for its additives for coatings and oil drilling.  Sales of specialty products advanced 7 percent in the first
quarter, driven by acquisitions that lifted sales of coatings
additives in the Americas, the London-based company said in a
statement. The shares  climbed  as much as 7.3 percent, and were
up 6.9 percent to 264.5 pence at 11:09 a.m. local time, making
Elementis today’s second-biggest gainer in the  Stoxx Europe 600
index. (SXXP)   Elementis is building on its purchase of Hi-Mar in  North
America  and Brazil-based Watercryl by introducing industrial
additives to its range of paint ingredients and increasing
factory production rates. After hiring a  Croda International Plc (CRDA) 
executive, Elementis is targeting expansion in personal-care
products to make more use of its rare, white clay hectorite
mineral deposit in  California .  “We continue to benefit from the diverse nature of our
business, both in terms of geography and end market,” Chief
Executive Officer David Dutro said in the release.  Elementis is expanding the use of hectorite in oil-drilling
additives as the mineral’s greater stability in high
temperatures means it can be employed for extreme drilling
projects, including deep-sea wells. It’s also used in cosmetics.
Sales volumes to the oil and gas drilling industry jumped 61
percent in the first quarter, compared with average levels in
the second half of 2012.  Earnings before interest and taxes are set to meet
analysts’ estimates, the company said. The average prediction
from eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for an 10 percent
gain in Ebit to $158 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  