-- Telenet Keeps Outlook as Handset Subsidies Damp Earnings Growth
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-04-25T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/telenet-keeps-outlook-as-handset-subsidies-damp-earnings-growth.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the
Belgian cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , said
first-quarter profit growth trailed its own forecast for the
year as handset subsidies and fixed bundle discounts for mobile
subscribers outweighed the largest  revenue gain  in three years.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and share-based remuneration rose 4.6 percent to 201.5 million
euros ($262.2 million), the Mechelen, Belgium-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts projected Ebitda of 202.7 million
euros, according to the average of nine estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 11 percent to 405.6 million euros.  Telenet maintained its forecast for Ebitda growth of 7
percent to 8 percent this year as handset subsidies are driven
mostly by seasonal effects and mobile customer additions will
slow amid declining customer defections at Belgian operators
following a peak late last year. Telenet’s fixed- and mobile-
phone revenue rose almost threefold in the quarter and an
additional 103,400 customers signed up for the cable operator’s
King and Kong rate plans.  “We’re entering a more mature phase in mobile,” Chief
Financial Officer Renaat Berckmoes told reporters. He also said
Telenet has “enough flexibility” to respond to rival operators
introducing new rate plans that are aimed to halt customer
losses.  Telenet said it didn’t generate any cash available for
shareholders in the first three months of the year because of
the first semi-annual interest payment on 700 million euros of
bonds sold in August last year and  larger inventories  of
handsets. Berckmoes said those inventories will be sold in the
coming months, forecasting stable free  cash flow  in the first
half.  Extraordinary Dividend  The cable operator will distribute 905.4 million euros to
shareholders as of May 8 and the shares will start trading
without the right to  the payout  as of May 3, Telenet said
yesterday in a statement.  The extraordinary dividend, which equals almost 101 percent
of Telenet’s cash and equivalents as of March 31, will increase
adjusted net debt to about 4.6 times Ebitda and leave Telenet
with an equity shortfall of almost 1.6 billion euros in its
group accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  