-- Eli Lilly Sues J&J for Patents Rights in Alzheimer Drug Race
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-25T14:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/eli-lilly-sues-j-j-for-patents-rights-in-alzheimer-drug-race.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  sought to revoke a
patent held by a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit, arguing at a London
court it might delay availability of a potential treatment for
Alzheimer’s.  Both companies have drugs in development that use
antibodies to target the build-up of plaque in patients’ brains.
Lilly argues its treatment, solanezumab, doesn’t infringe a
patent held by J&J’s Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research &
Development LLC, according to court documents.  “An effective treatment for  Alzheimer’s Disease  (AD) has
been elusive, despite massive efforts to find one,”
Indianapolis-based Lilly said in the documents. The trial, which
started yesterday, “could dictate whether Lilly’s treatment for
AD is available to patients in the U.K. before the expiry of the
patent in November 2018, or possibly longer.”  Drug companies are vying to find the first working
treatment for a condition that is expected to affect 65 million
people worldwide by 2030, causing loss of memory, mood changes,
dementia and  brain damage . There have been 101 clinical trial
failures since 1998, according to the Pharmaceutical Research &
Manufacturers of America.  “The patent is valid and the claimant is not entitled to a
declaration of non-infringement,” Janssen said in court
documents from the trial.  Lilly’s U.K. media relations team didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call seeking comment.  Greg Panico , a U.S.
spokesman for Janssen, declined to immediately comment.  ‘Costly Failure’  Janssen’s drug bapineuzumab cost more than $500 million to
research and ended up “a costly failure,” Lilly’s lawyer
Andrew Waugh told the court yesterday, citing clinical trial
results. Lilly is proceeding with its treatment, he said. “One
of the reasons it hasn’t failed is because it works by a
different mechanism to that which is described in the patent.”  Derica Rice, Lilly’s chief financial officer, said in an
April earnings call the company would hold another pivotal trial
for solanezumab this year.  While solanezumab failed to meet the main goal of two large
studies, an analysis of the data from that research found it did
slow progression in people with milder stages of Alzheimer’s.
The new study, looking only at those patients, will start by the
third quarter of 2013, Lilly said in December.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said
earlier this month the French drugmaker won’t pursue an
Alzheimer’s treatment because the science isn’t advanced enough
to justify the cost.  The first Alzheimer’s drugs, if successful, would lead to a
market worth $20 billion,  Barbara Ryan , a former Deutsche Bank
analyst estimated last year.  The case is: Eli Lilly and Company v. Janssen Alzheimer
Immunotherapy,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division ,
HC11C03400  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  