-- Help Frequent Fliers -- and the Poor, Too
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-25T22:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/help-frequent-flyers-and-the-poor-too.html
You may have noticed that those
weeks of tedious Washington debate about “sequestration” are
finally having an effect: The  Federal Aviation Administration  is
furloughing its air-traffic controllers, causing delays at some
of the nation’s busiest airports.  It doesn’t have to be this way. A Bloomberg Government
 analysis  of the FAA’s staffing shows that the agency has more
than enough air-traffic controllers to operate without flight
delays -- provided the furloughs are restricted to airports that
are overstaffed. (The agency would need the cooperation of the
National Air Traffic Controllers Association, but given the
public pressure, their opposition hardly seems viable.) Instead,
the FAA is applying furloughs equally across all airports.  Similarly, at least three proposals in the Senate would
effectively end the furloughs. Any such fix would be preferable
to intentional government dysfunction that unnecessarily
inconveniences passengers -- at least 863 flights were delayed
yesterday alone as a result of the impasse.  Here’s the problem. Although the dispute is clearly
resolvable, it’s also highly visible -- it disproportionately
affects the affluent and the influential. So it effectively
 highlights  the pervasive harm created by sequestration. That’s
why, as we resolve the FAA’s furloughs, we should also address
the less visible problems that sequestration has unwisely
enshrined in law.  Foolish, Destructive  Sequestration is, by design, a terrible idea. It was a
solution to the 2011 debt-ceiling showdown: When a congressional
supercommittee failed to hammer out a long-term budget deal,
automatic and illogical across-the-board spending cuts were
initiated. These cuts were initially deemed so foolish and
destructive that they would scare Congress into reaching a
better deal. Congress failed.  The effects of that failure are, as intended, pretty bad.
Along with other deficit-reduction measures Congress has put in
place, sequestration could reduce gross domestic product by 1.5
percentage points this year. It could cost about 750,000 jobs,
according to a Congressional Budget Office  estimate . It will
probably  cut housing vouchers  for about 140,000 low-income
families by 2014, increase rents for many others and reduce
assistance to the homeless. It  may threaten  funding for a highly
successful nutrition program for poor women and children. It
includes ham-handed cuts to the Pentagon,  unemployment benefits ,
education, research and development, and on and on.  We don’t oppose cutting spending or making the government
more efficient. We oppose cuts that are unnecessarily harmful.
The Obama administration has proposed a  comprehensive
alternative  to sequestration. It has also supported a gimmicky
but feasible  proposal  by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
which would temporarily replace the cuts using savings from the
wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson 
have proposed their own  more sensible  deficit reductions that
would obviate the sequestration cuts entirely.  So there is no shortage of alternatives.  We understand the political logic behind the disruptive FAA
furloughs. And we understand that resolving this dispute will
help the affluent and hurried while budget cuts that hurt the
poor and marginal will stay on the books. But a government that
is intentionally dysfunctional serves its people poorly and
undermines its legitimacy. So by all means, get the air-traffic
controllers back on the job at full strength. Just don’t let
that be the end of the story.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 