-- Emerging Stocks Jump to Two-Week High as Commodities Gain
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-25T21:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-south-korean-gdp-oil.html
Emerging stocks rose to a two-week
high, led by raw-material producers, as commodities jumped and
South  Korea ’s economy grew the most in two years. Russia’s ruble
had the biggest gain among currencies in developing nations.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  rose the most in a year in Seoul, while
 Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5)  jumped as earnings beat estimates.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
 China ’s biggest offshore oil producer, added 2.9 percent in Hong
Kong.  South Africa ’s  Gold Fields (GFI)  Ltd. surged 8.7 percent as the
metal jumped. The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-
traded  fund  capped the longest rally since December.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.9 percent to
1,027.30 in  New York , the highest close since April 11. A gauge
of raw-material shares of developing nations added 4.6 percent
since touching the lowest since 2009 last week. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities rose 1.7 percent as copper
and oil rose. South Korea’s economy grew a faster-than-estimated
0.9 percent last quarter.  “You’re seeing a stabilization in commodity prices because
it was such a panic selloff,”  Timothy Ghriskey , the chief
investment officer at Solaris Group LLC in New York, which
manages over $1.5 billion, said by phone. “The economic
strength we’ve seen in Korea is certainly helping with the
rebound in emerging-market equities.”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose as
raw material shares surged 1.7 percent. The broad index has lost
2.6 percent this year, trailing a 9 percent increase in the MSCI
World Index of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets
measure trades at 10.8 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared
with the MSCI World’s valuation of 14.2, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jobless Claims  Stocks also rose after data showed fewer Americans than
forecast filed first-time claims for unemployment insurance
payments last week, pointing to an improving labor market. The
iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index ETF climbed 0.9 percent to
$42.67 in a sixth day of gains. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a  measure  of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 1 percent to 18.61.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  was little changed. Vale, the second-
heaviest weighted stock on the equity gauge, jumped 1.4 percent.
Mexico’s IPC Index gained 0.6 percent, as Corp. Geo SAB advanced
5.1 percent.  Russian stocks dropped, paring their biggest gain in seven
months, led by financial shares. VTB Group declined 0.2 percent,
while OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, dropped 1.6
percent. Polish stocks were little changed, while the Czech
Republic’s index fell. Hungarian shares rose a second day.  South Africa  South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index added 0.9
percent, advancing for a third day. Gold Fields surged the most
since March 2009.  The Kospi Index added 0.8 percent in Seoul to the highest
since April 4. Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s largest carmaker,
reported first-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates,
driven by record sales in China. The shares rose 5.7 percent.  China’s stocks fell, led by property and cement companies,
on concern government measures to limit home-price gains will
hurt profit. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.9 percent,
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies listed in  Hong Kong  added 1.3 percent. Cnooc rose to
the highest price since April 3.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 294 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  