-- Emirates NBD Profit Jump Spurs Shares to 2008 High: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-04-25T12:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/emirates-nbd-profit-jump-spurs-shares-to-2008-high-dubai-mover.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  advanced to the
highest level in more than four years after the United Arab
Emirates’ second-biggest bank by assets reported first-quarter
profit that beat estimates as loan-loss provisions declined.  Shares of the Dubai-based lender gained for a sixth day,
climbing 2.2 percent to 5.10 dirhams, the highest since November
2008, at the close in the emirate. Some 9.1 million shares were
traded, more than 12 times the three-month daily average volume,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  rose 1.1 percent.  Emirates NBD’s stock has rallied 79 percent this year as
the bank benefits from a recovery in the U.A.E. economy. Net
income advanced 31 percent to 837 million dirhams ($228
million), beating the 686 million-dirham mean estimate of five
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The stock trades at a price-to-
book value of 0.8 times, compared with  1.4 times  for the
Bloomberg GCC Financial Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A lot of banks are closing the gap that was created
between market cap and book value,” said Fadi Al Said, senior
 fund manager  at ING Investment Management in Dubai. “It’s more
of an upward correction rather than anything else. When we reach
book value then we need to see more factors to price it at a
premium to their book value.”.  The lender’s shares, which are still down 59 percent from
peaks in 2007, have been supported partly by higher growth in
Dubai. The emirate’s economy is set to expand 4.6 percent on
average between 2012 and 2015, more than twice as fast in the
prior four years, government forecasts show.  ‘Resilient Quarters’  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the country’s biggest Shariah-
compliant lender, reported a 17 percent rise in first-quarter
profit to 301.7 million dirhams. Its shares gained 4.7 percent
today to 2.65 dirhams, the highest in three years.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX Banks Index (ADBF)  has rallied 31 percent this
year.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , which overtook Emirates
NBD this quarter as the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, this
week reported a better-than-anticipated jump in first-quarter
profit to 1.4 billion dirhams from 1.04 billion dirhams.  Emirates NBD, is one of the biggest lenders to investment
company Dubai Group LLC, which is negotiating to restructure $6
billion of bank debt. Provisions for bad loans fell 19 percent
from a year earlier to 888 million dirhams, the bank said in a
regulatory filing today.  Pre-provision operating profit “shows signs of growth
after a few resilient quarters,” Chief Financial Officer Surya
Subramanian said in a statement.  Emirates NBD’s 14-day  relative strength index  climbed to 87
today after surpassing 70 on April 22. A reading above 70
indicates to some analysts that a security or index is poised to
decline. Two  analysts  recommend investors buy the stock, four
say hold and one says sell, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  