-- Theravance to Split After Ending Review of Alternatives
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-26T20:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/theravance-to-split-after-review-fails-to-find-bidder.html
Theravance Inc. (THRX) , a biotechnology
company seeking approval with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  of the lung
drug Breo, said it will split into two independent publicly
traded companies. The shares rose as much as 13 percent.  Royalty Management Co. will manage the joint venture with
London-based Glaxo that has several lung disease drugs under
review for regulatory approval, South San Francisco, California-
based Theravance said in a statement. The other company,
Theravance Biopharma, will seek to discover medicines in a
variety of disease areas, Theravance said.  Theravance formed a partnership with Glaxo a decade ago to
develop respiratory treatments. Glaxo is the largest Theravance
stakeholder with 27 percent of the company’s shares as of Feb.
15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ronny Gal, an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., is among those who
speculated that Glaxo, the U.K’s biggest drugmaker, would take
over its California partner. Instead, Theravance decided to
split in two.  “Following a review of alternatives to maximize the value
of our portfolio, we have decided to separate” the drug
discovery operations from the late-stage medicines in
development with Glaxo, Chief Executive Officer Rick Winningham
said yesterday in the statement. “This separation will provide
investors with the opportunity to unlock potential value from
two disparate sets of assets, better align employee incentives
and provide a consistent return of capital.”  Theravance said it expects the split to be completed by the
end of the year or early 2014.  Estimated Sales  Breo and Anoro, another lung disease drug, may generate
annual sales of more than $2 billion and $4 billion, according
to Piper Jaffray Cos. Both drugs are once-daily treatments for
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the third-leading cause
of death in the U.S.  Theravance gained 10 percent to $34 at the close in  New
York . The company  increased  60 percent in the past 12 months and
had a market value of about $3.3 billion at today’s close.  The split “will create two highly focused businesses with
the potential to increase overall  shareholder value ,”
Winningham said in a conference call. Theravance separated its
compounds based on their stage of development, with those that
have completed the third and final stage of study usually
required for regulatory approval going to Royalty Management, he
said.  Regulatory Decision  The move isn’t reliant on U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval of Breo or Anoro, Winningham said. The company is
moving forward on the assumption that medicines will be approved
and Royalty Management will handle revenue distribution, he
said. An FDA advisory panel voted April 17 to recommend U.S.
approval of Breo.  Theravance Biopharma will continue to invest in research
and development and look for partners to help bring new products
to market. The company, which will be formed through a dividend
issued to current shareholders, may take on a new name and
ticker symbol. The company already has several partnerships,
including one with Merck & Co. for cardiovascular drugs.  Winningham said experimental lung disease drugs still in
development in the new discovery company, if successful, won’t
limit those in Royalty Management.  “We are talking about a market that’s currently at $20
billion and growing, unfortunately,” he said. “We see a
significant opportunity for all of the products in their
portfolio because of the incredible size of the market.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Centerview Partners LLC
were Theravance’s financial advisers on the breakup. Gunderson
Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian LLP and Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP were its legal advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  