-- Merkel Says Clean-Energy Policy Must Allow Profits for Gas
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-04-25T16:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/merkel-says-clean-energy-policy-must-allow-profit-at-gas-plants.html
Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said the country’s system to spur clean-energy generation needs
to change, including reducing green subsidies paid by consumers,
to ensure gas-fired plants are able to operate at a profit.  National and state leaders “in the next months and at
least one to two years” need to find a way to change the so-
called EEG law on subsidies, Merkel told a Frankfurt conference.  “We have to think about how to slow down the dynamics so
that we get a sensible expansion of renewable energies but not a
situation in which no gas-fired power plant can be operated
profitably anymore and each gas plant has to be subsidized so it
provides baseload capacity,” she said late yesterday.  Merkel has been trying to prevent a voter backlash as costs
to expand clean energy surged after the country sought to more
than triple the share of renewables in its power mix by 2050
while phasing out nuclear generation. Consumers in  Europe ’s
biggest economy have seen power bills climb this year after a
fee they pay for renewables jumped 47 percent to a record.  Groups that benefit from green subsidies need to accept
cuts to help keep industry competitive as energy prices decline
in countries including the U.S., the chancellor said.  The opposition  Social Democratic Party , which has accused
Merkel of mismanaging the switch from nuclear to a more climate-
friendly power mix, urged her government to support a European
Commission proposal to fix a glut in the bloc’s carbon market.  The SPD introduced a  motion  that will see lawmakers voting
on whether to urge Merkel’s government to support delaying the
sale of some carbon permits. This so-called backloading would be
a “necessary step with signaling effect,” the SPD said.
Merkel’s government remains undecided on backloading after the
European Parliament rejected it in a vote on April 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  