-- Merkel Rejects Part of Euro Banking Union, Defends Austerity
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-04-25T12:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/merkel-rejects-part-of-euro-banking-union-defends-austerity.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rejected a central component of a planned European banking union
as she hailed a crackdown on deficits for helping resolve the
region’s debt crisis.  Merkel said her government opposes a European deposit-
insurance mechanism, “at least for the foreseeable future,”
urging fellow leaders to forge ahead. She dismissed a turn away
from austerity, saying efforts to overcome the crisis are
bearing fruit in the form of lower borrowing costs.  “We always talk a lot about growth in  Europe , but we have
to ask ourselves what we mean by that,” Merkel told  Germany ’s
 association  of savings banks today in the eastern city of
Dresden. “Growth only on the basis of state financing won’t
make us more competitive in Europe.”  Merkel spoke as pressure builds on her government to ease
its reliance on budget consolidation amid euro-area recession
and record unemployment. She has also resisted more ambitious
efforts on European banks to create joint  deposit insurance 
systems and a central resolution authority, saying that such
institutions can’t precede greater political integration.  The chancellor said it was imperative for Europe to have a
“credible” oversight mechanism that involved coordinating
deposit insurance in the bloc’s 17 member states. Lacking a
central budget authority in the euro area, a basis for joint
deposit backing is inadequate, Merkel said.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, has faced consistent opposition from Germany to putting
in place joint backstops for failing bank depositors.  Barnier Blocked  Germany was among nations to block Barnier’s plans in 2010
requiring national deposit guarantee systems to lend to each
other as a last resort. Germany has also opposed proposals for
similar lending arrangements between national, so-called
resolution funds, to cover costs from winding up failed banks.  While the commission last year mooted steps to equip the
euro area with a common deposit guarantee system, it has since
scaled back its objectives to the adoption of the 2010 proposal.  Merkel redoubled her defense of economic austerity as an
unavoidable measure to overcome the turmoil, entering a debate
sparked this week by European Commission President  Jose Barroso ,
who said that belt-tightening had run its course.  “Now we’ve learned the word ’austerity’,” Merkel said.
“It used to be just called budget consolidation, or solid
economizing, or not piling on debt -- now it’s called
’austerity,’ which sounds as if some sort of enemy is coming
after us.”  Bond Yields  The German leader touted the fiscal pact governing budget
rules, the euro bailout funds and the  European Central Bank ’s
commitment to the single currency as contributing to a
resolution of the crisis that emerged in  Greece  in late 2009.
The results have become manifest with lower sovereign debt
yields, she said.  Still, speaking to savings banks officials whose clients
are benefiting little from meager returns, Merkel said that as
the economy improves, rates should return to normal.  “We’re all very happy about low  interest rates , but now we
also see the other side -- the dark side for insurers and for
deposits that customers at savings banks have,” Merkel said.
“Therefore we strongly support that there has to be a return to
harmonized interest rates in Europe.”  In fact, if the ECB were to determine rates for Germany
alone, “they’d probably have to raise rates a bit.” Instead,
“they actually have to do more for other countries so that more
liquidity is available” for corporate financing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Dresden at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  