-- Merkel’s FDP Partner Must Pay $3.1 Million for Illegal Donations
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-04-25T18:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/merkel-s-fdp-partner-must-pay-3-1-million-for-illegal-donations.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Free
Democratic coalition partner must repay about 2.4 million euros
($3.1 million) to German parliamentary authorities after a court
found the party had breached donations rules, the lower house
said.  The FDP failed to disclose that it accepted millions of
euros in contributions from 1996 to 2002 from its former deputy
leader, Juergen Moellemann, the Bundestag in Berlin said in an
e-mailed statement today. The Bundestag cited a ruling by the
Federal Administrative Court in Leipzig, which “in principle”
found in favor of the Bundestag authorities.  The case dates back to Moellemann’s time as head of the FDP
in North-Rhine Westfalia,  Germany ’s most populous state.
Moellemann, a former economy minister and vice chancellor in the
government of Christian Democratic Union Chancellor Helmut Kohl,
died while skydiving in 2003 on the day prosecutors began
investigating him over the funding issue.  The Bundestag authorities, which handle party financing
matters, found that the FDP had received donations that were
illegal under its statutes and ordered it to pay a fine. The FDP
brought a challenge against the findings, which was rejected by
a Berlin regional court in late 2009. The party has already
repaid about 450,000 euros, the Bundestag said today.  Now led by Philipp Roesler, the economy minister and vice
chancellor in Merkel’s CDU-led government, the FDP has 4-6
percent support in the six main opinion polls less than five
months before Sept. 22 federal elections. The threshold to win
parliamentary seats is 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  