-- Terror Camp Trainees to Be Stripped of U.K. Passport, May Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-25T14:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/terror-camp-trainees-to-be-stripped-of-u-k-passport-may-says.html
Home Secretary Theresa May said
Britons who travel abroad to attend terrorist training camps
will be barred from holding a passport, an attempt to combat the
threat of violence by home-grown militants.  In a written statement to Parliament in  London  today, May
said British citizens have no absolute right to hold a passport
because they are issued under royal prerogative in the name
of the monarch,  Queen Elizabeth II . Withdrawal would be used
“sparingly,” she wrote.  Britain’s security service, MI5, estimates that British
nationals account for three quarters of prisoners jailed for
terrorism offenses in the U.K. Fifty-two people were killed by
four British-born  suicide bombers  in London in July 2005 and the
security services have halted a number of terrorist attacks
being planned by young British men.  “Passport facilities may be refused to or withdrawn from
British nationals who may seek to harm the U.K. or its allies by
travelling on a British passport to, for example, engage in
terrorism-related activity or other serious or organized
criminal activity,” May wrote.  “This may include individuals who seek to engage in
fighting, extremist activity or terrorist training outside the
 United Kingdom , for example, and then return to the U.K. with
enhanced capabilities that they then use to conduct an attack on
U.K. soil,” she wrote.  Apart from would-be terrorists, those facing arrest, bail
restrictions, soccer hooligans or those subject to the Mental
Health Act could also have their passports withdrawn, she wrote.
Britons who are repatriated without reimbursing the state of the
cost could find their ability to travel restricted too.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 