-- Testimony Over in Macy’s Martha Stewart-J.C. Penney Suits
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-25T22:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/testimony-over-in-macy-s-martha-stewart-j-c-penney-suits.html
Testimony in the trial of  Macy’s
Inc.’s (M)  lawsuits against J.C. Penney Co. and  Martha Stewart
Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  has concluded, according to a clerk in New
York state court.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
 Martha Stewart  Living for $38.5 million. Macy’s, which has sold
Martha Stewart-branded home goods since 2007, sued her company
the following month, saying it had the exclusive right to sell
items in certain categories including bedding and cookware.
Macy’s sued J.C. Penney about three months later.  The two suits were combined for a non-jury trial before
state  Supreme Court  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing that began Feb. 20
and featured testimony from Martha Stewart, Macy’s Chairman
 Terry Lundgren  and former J.C. Penney Chief Executive Officer
 Ron Johnson , who was ousted April 8.  The parties returned to court on April 8 to resume the
trial after a monthlong break during which mediation efforts
ordered by Oing failed to produce a settlement. Macy’s rested
its case on April 10, and J.C. Penney called its last witnesses
on April 23.  Macy’s is awaiting a decision in its appeal of Oing’s
ruling from last week denying a preliminary injunction that
would have prevented J.C. Penney selling Martha Stewart Living-
designed goods under the label “JCP Everyday.” Richard
Andrias, an associate justice with the Supreme Court’s Appellate
Division, on April 18 denied Macy’s request for a temporary
restraining order pending the resolution of the appeal.  Irreparable Harm  Oing said Macy’s hadn’t shown that it would suffer
irreparable harm if J.C. Penney was allowed to sell the “JCP
Everyday” goods. The judge said an earlier injunction he issued
in July against Martha Stewart Living applied only to goods sold
at J.C. Penney branded with Martha Stewart’s name in the
categories exclusive to Macy’s.  The next step in the case will be for the judge to set a
schedule for submission of post-trial briefs and closing
arguments,  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s, said in an e-
mail. A clerk for Oing said a schedule hadn’t been set yet and
that closing arguments may come in June or July.  Martha Stewart Living and Joey Thomas, a spokesman for
Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney, and New York-based Martha
Stewart Living, declined to comment on the end of testimony in
the case.  JCP Everyday  Lawyers for Macy’s asked Oing in a filing dated today to
allow them to reopen its case to present evidence that was not
available until after the company rested on April 10. J.C.
Penney and Martha Stewart Living provided Macy’s with the “JCP
Everyday” trademark as it would appear on products on April 11,
and  J.C. Penney (JCP)  disclosed during an appeals court hearing five
days later that it had begun selling the goods on its website,
according to the filing.  The products and availability hadn’t been previously
disclosed, and Macy’s subsequently commissioned a survey to
determine whether consumers understood whether the products were
designed by Martha Stewart, according to the filing.  “The survey definitively shows that large and
statistically significant percentages of Martha Stewart fans
currently associate the JCP Everyday goods, logo and trademark
with Martha Stewart,” lawyers for Macy’s said in the filing.
“Both this court and Justice Andrias allowed sales of JCP
Everyday goods on an interim basis subject to assurance that the
sales would not be associated with Martha Stewart in any
fashion. The survey evidence shows that the marketing currently
underway by JCP associates Martha Stewart to the products in
question.”  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012,  New York  State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  