-- EU Lawmakers Vote to Scale Back Mandatory Auditor-Rotation Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-25T11:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/eu-lawmakers-vote-to-scale-back-mandatory-auditor-rotation-plan.html
European Union lawmakers voted to
scale back plans that would force banks and large listed
companies to rotate the auditors they use, more than doubling
the length of time before they would have to make a change.  The European Parliament’s legal affairs committee also
voted today in Brussels to water down a proposed ban on audit
firms providing consulting and other services to companies whose
accounts they review.  “Such issues are best dealt with by national competition
authorities, who are best placed to decide what solutions are
needed for very different domestic markets across  Europe ,”
Sajjad Karim, the lawmaker in charge of the assembly’s work on
the measures, said in an e-mail. Still, he said legislators are
“keen to create an environment which encourages a better
quality of reporting, clear transparency and more competition.”  The EU is reviewing audit rules following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which the European Commission has
said raised questions about the quality of company audits.
Regional arms of the top four accounting firms -- KPMG,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ernst & Young, and  Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu  -- have a market share that exceeds 85 percent in the
majority of EU member states, the commission said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
the rotation rule in 2011 as part of measures to rein in
the market dominance of the big four and prevent conflicts of
interest.  Rotation Rule  Under Barnier’s proposals, banks, insurers and listed
companies would be required to rotate the accounting firm they
use every six years, with a four year gap before the firm could
be rehired. The rotation period could be extended to nine years
if a company uses more than one auditor.  Lawmakers in the legal affairs committee voted to lengthen
the minimum rotation period to 14 years, with an option for
national authorities to extend this to 25 years, subject to some
conditions.  Today’s vote will be used by the assembly as a negotiating
position in talks with national governments on the final version
of the draft law.  The legislation must be adopted by the full parliament, and
approved by governments, before it can take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  