-- Euro-Dollar Trades Help UPS Cover TNT Deal’s Breakup Fee
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-25T16:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/euro-dollar-trades-help-ups-cover-tnt-deal-s-breakup-fee.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  profited
enough from euro-dollar trades related to its proposed purchase
of  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  to make up for the breakup fee incurred when
regulators blocked the deal.  UPS converted dollars into euros throughout 2012 in
anticipation of using cash for half of the 5.16 billion-euro
($6.6 billion) deal, with a surge in the last half when the euro
was “quite low, in the $1.20s,” Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said today in a phone interview.  “Once we realized the deal wasn’t going through, we moved
it back to dollars in March” and put a hedge in place to
protect the trade, said Andy Dolny, UPS’s treasurer and head of
 investor relations . During the quarter the swap was made, the
euro had an average value of $1.32. That compares with $1.2860
in 2012, when it reached a yearly low of $1.2043 in July.  The conversion helped generate a $213 million after-tax
currency gain in the three months through March, more than
compensating for an after-tax charge of $177 million from the
breakup fee that Atlanta-based UPS paid to TNT and other
transaction costs.  The company typically does smaller amounts of out-of-the-
money collars, or protective options moves, to reduce the
volatility of earnings, and this exchange was “unusual because
we had one big event happening,” Kuehn said.  UPS went after Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT to double
its footprint in  Europe  so it could better compete with  Deutsche
Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, which dominates service in the region. It would
have been the biggest purchase in UPS’s 105-year history.  UPS advisers Morgan Stanley, UBS AG, and Bank of America
Corp. were set to reap as much as $30 million in fees if the
purchase was completed, according to New York-based research
firm Freeman & Co. Sell-side advisers including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  were slated to earn as much as $25
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  