-- Euro Resilient Amid Doubts of Turmoil as Dire: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/euro-resilient-amid-doubts-of-turmoil-as-dire-cutting-research.html
The euro has often ignored policy
maker pronouncements and “danced to its own tune” during the
region’s sovereign debt crisis, according to a  working paper 
published by the European Central Bank.  The study was based on a database of more than 1,100 public
statements about the turmoil by leaders at the regional and
international level from October 2009 to November 2011.  While steps such as aid from the ECB and European Union
bailouts may have affected exchange rates, this month’s paper
suggests “financial markets might have been less reactive to
the public debate by policy makers than previously feared.”  When rhetoric did influence the euro’s volatility, the
authors found it tended to be by politicians from countries with
top credit ratings. In particular, comments related to the
contents and conditions of rescue packages, the possibility of
defaults or speculation about the role of the private sector had
an impact.  Meantime, statements on ECB monetary policy or on fiscal
policies by stressed nations were found not to have affected the
currency’s trading in a systematic fashion, said writers Michael Ehrmann and Chiara Osbat of the ECB, Jan Strasky of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and Lenno
Uuskula of the Bank of Estonia.  “There are instances where markets reacted with increased
volatility, such as on days where several politicians from AAA-
rated countries went public with negative statements, suggesting
that communication by policy makers in crisis times should be
cautious about triggering unwanted financial market reactions,”
they said in the study.  * * *  The solution to weak U.S. hiring, paradoxically, may be
higher  interest rates , says William T. Gavin, an economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis.  In the new edition of the Fed bank’s Regional Economist
report, Gavin outlines how some economic models show raising
nominal interest rates could lift returns in the markets for
bonds and capital and lead to higher wages.  That would leave companies with an “incentive to add
workers because doing so would lead to an increase in the
marginal product of capital.”  “People would have an incentive to re-enter the workforce
because the return to saving would increase,” said Gavin, who
joined the St. Louis Fed in 1994. That’s because earning income
is more worthwhile if returns on saved income are higher.  With U.S.  unemployment  stuck at more than 7.5 percent since
January 2009 and 7.6 percent last month, Gavin says the Federal
Reserve’s near-zero interest rate doesn’t seem “to be having
much of the intended effect, either on spending or on job
growth.”  An indication of that: The ratio of employed people to the
civilian population has failed to rebound from its post-
recession low. One reason is low interest rates, a factor that’s
often ignored in academic studies, Gavin said.  He  argues  low rates mean the marginal product of capital --
the additional output of the next-added unit of capital, such as
a machine -- will fall until investors are indifferent between
investing in bonds or capital. In what he calls the “perverse
scenario,” firms fire workers until the marginal product of
capital matches the interest rate.  Gavin concludes that while these are only models, they
suggest that “after more than four years of low interest rates
and stagnating growth around the world, a better understanding
of low interest rate policies is needed.”  * * *  Investors have little reason to fear a repeat of the 1994
“bond massacre,” when the Fed’s surprise interest-rate
increases sent bond yields soaring and strained some financial
institutions.  So say  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  economists in an April 24
report that studied the period when the Fed doubled its key
rate. It rose to 6 percent starting in February 1994 and
plateaued a year later, while the central bank became
increasingly aggressive in the size of shifts. U.S. Treasury
yields jumped in tandem.  The Fed’s decision to communicate more openly since then
and its modern inflation-fighting credibility mean it’s less
likely to shock financial markets, said Goldman Sachs economists
Charles Himmelberg, Kamakshya Trivedi and Noah Weisberger.  What’s also changed is the composition of the market, they
said. A larger share of fixed-income securities seem to be owned
by investors who aren’t buying with borrowed money. That reduces
the number who would need to sell if the market turned against
them. Those who do borrow to fund their investments, such as
banks, have a smaller share of U.S. Treasuries now, they said.  “These factors, taken together, point to a market less
exposed to a meaningful pullback in rates,” the Goldman Sachs
report said.  * * *  The response of workers to the so-called polarization of
the U.S. labor market differs across genders, education and
ages, a study released April 23 by the Fed Bank of Kansas shows.  Polarization is a term for the shift in workforces toward
low- and high-skilled occupations, emptying out middle-sector
work. Explanations for it include the impact of technology, the
rise of international trade and the shrinking of labor unions.  Viewing polarization as a three-decade phenomenon,
economists Didem Tuzemen and Jonathan Willis looked back as far
as the early 1980s to gauge its effect.  They  found  women have obtained more education and moved
disproportionately into high-skill jobs, while men have shifted
in both directions. Workers aged 55 and older have moved
strongly into the high-skill areas and those already there have
delayed retirement. For 16-to-25 year olds, low-skilled jobs
have been the biggest draw as a growing segment of this
population delays entry into the labor market by remaining in
school.  Tuzemen and Willis conclude that while polarization has
accelerated during recessions, the shifts in employment suggest
it has neither been a driver of the business cycle nor a primary
cause of jobless recoveries.  * * *  The U.S. is going back to the future, according to  Ed
Yardeni , the man who coined the term “bond vigilantes.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s (SPX)  rise to a record close of
1,593.37 on April 11 suggests investors may be seeing
similarities between the current decade and the 1990s, said
Yardeni, president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni
Research Inc. in New York.  As in the 1990s, the U.S. appears to be the best place for
global investors looking for decent returns, he said in research
reports released last week. It looks like a haven compared with
Asia and  Europe , while the decline in commodity prices will be a
net American positive as well.  Stocks and real estate markets will outperform bonds and
commodities, said Yardeni. His bond vigilante term referred to
investors who protest countries’ monetary or fiscal policies by
dumping their sovereign bonds.  “Of course in the 1990s, there was much greater confidence
in the future than there is now,” said Yardeni. “However, now
as back then, the U.S. economy seems to be best positioned to
surmount the challenges and benefit from the opportunities that
are ahead,” he said  * * *  American households are ending five years of thrift.  That’s the declaration of  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  economist
 Aneta Markowska , who says in an April 18 report that the only
thing holding back the American expansion now is tighter fiscal
policy.  Even government budget cuts won’t keep growth from rising
above trend for the next four years as consumers, who represent
70 percent of gross domestic product, bounce back.  After the subprime crisis helped push the economy into
recession, the  housing market  is set to register an increase in
prices of almost 30 percent over the next five years, she
estimated. That will help consumers feel wealthier and boost
spending, and enhance credit availability.  Household debt payments are also at the lowest in more than
three decades and likely to fall even as the Fed starts to
tighten monetary policy. It will begin by tapering its asset-
purchase program in the third quarter, said Markowska.  * * *  Euro-area countries are more optimistic than they should be
when forecasting their ability to reduce budget deficits to less
than 3 percent of global GDP.  Regressions of forecasts conducted by Jeffrey Frankel and
Jesse Schreger of Harvard University in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , found that among 24 European countries the tilt
toward optimism is 0.28 percent of GDP at the one year mark. It
rises to almost one percent at the two-year horizon and 1.90
percent over three years.  The  bias  is even higher for the 17 nations in the euro
region, even though they are technically required to obey
deficit limits. Their bias is as high as 2.4 percent over three
years.  The authors suggest national balanced-budget rules or
independent institutions providing forecasts may help to reduce
this slant. The study was published in the latest Review of
World Economics by the Germany-based Kiel Institute for the
World Economy.  * * *  China ,  India  and  Poland  have enjoyed the greatest surge in
competitiveness since 2007, while  Finland , the  Philippines  and
the U.K. have suffered the biggest fall, according to  Nomura
Securities International Inc. (8604)   Nomura strategists led by New York-based Jens Nordvig
created new indicators to measure competitiveness using economic
growth and export data among 35 countries.  China’s gain is related to the continued increase in the
production of goods there, Nomura said. India’s strength lies in
its role as an outsourcing destination and also its low starting
point. Poland has benefited from the relocation of some European
manufacturers.  Finland’s slide could be tied to the steady decline of
mobile-phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Nomura said in an April 18 report.
The U.K.’s fall may be proof that deep structural issues are
more important than sterling’s tumble.  The stabilization of the U.S.’s market share signals an end
to the dollar’s structural depreciation and that the euro may be
overvalued, Nordvig and colleagues said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  