-- Ex-State Department Lawyer Allegedly Recruited Cuban Spy
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ex-state-department-lawyer-allegedly-recruited-cuban-spy.html
A former U.S. State Department
lawyer helped the Communist government of Cuba recruit a spy who
was inserted into the Defense Intelligence Agency in a
conspiracy that began 30 years ago, the  Justice Department  said.  Marta Rita Velazquez, named in a nine-year-old indictment
unsealed yesterday in federal court in Washington, is charged
with one count of conspiracy to commit espionage. Velazquez, 55,
fled the U.S. 11 years ago and is living in Stockholm, according
to a Justice Department statement. The department didn’t say why
it unsealed the case now.  Velazquez, who was born in  Puerto Rico , introduced Ana Belen Montes to the Cuban Intelligence Service in 1984 and later
helped Montes get a position as a Defense Intelligence Agency
analyst, according to the indictment. Montes, who pleaded guilty
of espionage conspiracy in 2002, is serving a 25-year prison
sentence.  Velazquez assisted the Cuban spy agency by “spotting,
assessing, and recruiting U.S. citizens who occupied sensitive
national security positions or who had the potential of
occupying such positions in the future,” according to the
indictment.  Velazquez, who had top security clearance at the State
Department’s U.S. Agency for International Development, began
wooing Montes to spy while the two were students at John Hopkins
University School of Advanced International Studies.  If convicted, Velazquez could face as long as life in
prison.  Peter Carr , a Justice Department spokesman, and  Bill
Miller , a spokesman for Washington U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen,
didn’t immediately respond yesterday to e-mail messages seeking
comment on the timing of the case being unsealed.  The case is U.S. v. Velazquez, 04-cr-00044, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 