-- Mexico Needs Constitutional Change to Open Energy, Senator Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/mexico-needs-constitutional-change-to-open-energy-senator-says.html
Mexico  needs to change the
constitution to open the  energy industry  to more private
investment, a proposal likely to be debated in the second half,
according to the top lawmaker on the Senate’s energy committee.  Congress should overhaul the nation’s laws to attract more
private investment into crude oil, natural gas, electricity and
renewable energy, said Senator David Penchyna, a member of
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary
Party .  “We need to have a modern constitutional design that
strengthens the economic stewardship by the state,” Penchyna
said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City
office. The changes should “prevent the privatization of the
energy industry but allow, because one thing doesn’t cancel the
other, the possibility that in several aspects of the energy
sector we have investment of both public and private capital.”  Pena Nieto, who took office in December, has promised an
initiative this year to reverse eight years of oil production
declines at state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos . He won the ruling
PRI party’s support to ease Pemex’s oil monopoly and support
constitutional changes at the party’s national assembly last
month.  The debate on an energy bill would probably precede a
promised overhaul of the tax system since the oil producer’s
revenue funds one third of the  federal budget  and the government
would need to find a way to replace part of that money should it
be reinvested back into Pemex, Penchyna said.  Constitutional Change  Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo, speaking at
Bloomberg’s Mexico Economic Summit on March 21, said the
overhaul that the administration wants would require a
constitutional change. Jesus Zambrano, the head of the
Democratic Revolution Party, Mexico’s third-biggest party in
Congress, says it seeks to modernize Pemex while opposing any
moves it sees as “privatization.”  Senator Salvador Vega, the top lawmaker from the opposition
 National Action Party  on the Energy Committee, said in an April
11 interview that the  PAN  supports a possible constitutional
change to open the oil industry and will work with other parties
to pass such legislation.  Changing the nation’s charter requires approval by two-
thirds of Congress and a majority of legislatures from 31
Mexican states and the capital. The PAN and PRI together control
more than two-thirds of the Senate and about two thirds of the
lower chamber. Adding support from the PRI-allied Green Party
creates a majority of more than 70 percent in both chambers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  