-- Mexico Telecom Bill Returns to Senate With Small Wording Change
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-04-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/mexico-telecom-law-passes-congress-in-challenge-to-america-movil.html
Mexico ’s lower house sent a bill to
increase competition in telecommunications back to the Senate,
paving the way for tougher regulators to challenge the dominance
of  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and  Grupo Televisa SAB. (TLEVICPO)   The proposal, also backed by President Enrique Pena Nieto,
must be approved a second time by the Senate because of a small
change in wording in the lower house version of the bill. Then
it requires the signoff of a majority of legislatures in
Mexico’s 31 states and capital. Under the bill, new government
agencies would have the power to force companies that control
more than 50 percent of the market to share or even sell assets.  Lawmakers aim to increase investment and reduce prices in
the phone and pay-television industries and to create more
choice in broadcast TV. The proposal would create tougher
conditions for  America Movil , which has 70 percent of Mexico’s
mobile-phone subscribers, and Televisa, which gets 70 percent of
the nation’s broadcast-television audience.  “Investment in the sector could double, fostering growth
and productivity,” Marco Oviedo, chief Mexico economist at
Barclays Plc, in an e-mail.  Lower house lawmakers approved the general portion of the
bill today by 409 votes in favor, 32 against and 2 abstentions.
The only change from the Senate’s version was a small tweak to
the wording to limit the injunctions companies can file to block
actions by the new antitrust agency, the Federal Economic
Competition Commission.  The new law would allow foreigners to take majority stakes
in landline phone and cable networks for the first time. It also
calls for the creation of new TV broadcasters through government
auctions.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , fell
0.9 percent to 12.84 pesos at the close in Mexico City, where it
is based. Televisa rose 1.1 percent to 63.65 pesos.  Few Changes  Lawmakers have made few changes to the bill, originally
drafted by leaders of Mexico’s three major political parties.
The lower house of Congress previously added a measure to
prevent a dominant company offering pay-TV service from
benefiting from free access to broadcasters’ signals.  In its version, the Senate said companies regulated by the
Federal Economic Competition Commission can request temporary
injunctions against fines and forced asset sales. The lower
house’s change today was designed to clear up potentially vague
wording in that Senate bill to ensure companies couldn’t block a
wider variety of antitrust rulings.  The changes on injunctions won’t apply to
telecommunications and media companies, who will be fined and
can be broken up by a separate agency, the Federal
Telecommunications Institute, whose decisions can’t be
suspended.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  