-- Exxon Profit Rises as Chemical Earnings Offset Crude Price Drop
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-04-25T12:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/exxon-profit-rises-as-chemical-earnings-offset-crude-price-drop.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest company by market value, said net income rose as
widening chemical margins made up for lower crude production and
prices.  First-quarter profit was $9.5 billion, or $2.12 a share,
compared with $9.45 billion, or $2 a year earlier, the Irving,
Texas-based company said in statement today. Exxon was expected
to report per-share net income of $2.05, based on the average of
19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  has been
acquiring North American gas and oil fields and expanding
exploration in Russia, Africa and the Gulf of Mexico to stem
production declines that the company has said will extend
through the end of this year. Exxon’s global output will fall 1
percent this year after dropping by 5.9 percent in 2012, the
company said in a March 6 slide presentation to analysts.  Exxon hasn’t turned new discoveries into producing fields
quickly enough to replace shrinking output from assets that have
been pumping oil and gas for decades.  The company’s Kearl oil-sands development in Canada that is
expected to produce 3.2 billion barrels over the next three
decades has been beset by equipment-transport and weather
delays. The project was expected to produce its first batch of
pipeline-ready crude “within days,” Pius Rolheiser, a
spokesman for Exxon’s  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  unit, said on April 23.  Share Performance  Exxon underperformed its biggest U.S. rival,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
and the broader market during the first quarter, advancing 4.1
percent. During that period, Chevron increased 9.9 percent and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 10 percent.  Crude demand declined or stagnated during the first three
months of the year in Europe’s largest economies as well as
Japan and  South Korea , the Paris-based International Energy
Agency said in a March 13 report. Brent crude futures, the
benchmark for two-thirds of the world’s oil, averaged $112.61 a
barrel during the quarter, down 4.9 percent from $118.45 a year
earlier.  Exxon relies on oil and gas sales outside the U.S. for 71
percent of its operating earnings, more than any major U.S. oil
producer aside from  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,  Paul Cheng , an analyst
at Barclays, said in an April 8 note to clients. Houston-based
Marathon counts on foreign oil and gas sales for 77 percent of
its operating earnings, according to Cheng.  Gas Futures  The impact of lower crude prices was partly blunted by
higher gas prices in the U.S., where Exxon is the biggest
producer of the furnace and power-plant fuel. Gas futures traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  averaged $3.478 per million
British thermal units during the January-to-March period, up 39
percent from the year-earlier period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Exxon became the pre-eminent U.S. gas supplier in
2010 after its $34.9 billion acquisition of XTO Energy Inc.
vaulted the company past  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   Exxon’s worldwide gas production will decline by 5 percent
this year, the company told analysts last month. Shares rose 0.2
percent to $89.43 yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  