-- FAA Furloughs Would End Under Senate Funding Proposal
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-25T20:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/faa-furloughs-would-end-under-senate-funding-proposal.html
Two U.S. senators introduced a bill
today to let the Federal Aviation Administration use airport-
improvement funds to pay air-traffic controllers, as efforts
accelerated to end flight delays caused by forced budget cuts.  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, said she
discussed the move with Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood who,
she said, called it “an effective, workable solution.” Senate
leaders may consider legislation ending furloughs of air-traffic
controllers as early as today, said  Brian Fallon , a spokesman
for Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York .  Swelling flight delays since controllers began to be
furloughed on April 21 have become the focus of the debate on
mandatory spending cuts known as sequestration and fueled calls
from airlines and airport operators for a solution.  “Common sense tells all of us that this can’t go on,”
Southwest Airlines Co. Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said
in an interview today. “It does need a quick resolution.”  Senators may consider the measure sponsored by Collins and
Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat, or one being drafted by
Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat who along with South Dakota Republican  John Thune  met
with LaHood yesterday, he said.  The House’s transportation leader said during a press
briefing today he’s been “resisting” the Senate’s approach.  One Penny  “We don’t need to spend one more penny on the FAA,”
Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican and
chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, said.  The FAA has the authority it needs to shift funds to limit
controller furloughs, Shuster said.  “If the Senate produces something, we’ll take a look at
it,” said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican .  Schumer, the third-ranking Democratic leader, said the
timing of a vote and the specifics of legislation are still
under discussion.  “We’ll see,” Schumer said when asked whether a vote will
occur before lawmakers go on recess next week. “They’re trying
to talk to each other,” he said of bill sponsors.  Some senators in both parties, including Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , have reservations about a specific fix for the FAA
furloughs, said Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for the Nevada
Democrat.  Small Airports  The Collins-Udall measure would also allow the transferred
funds to be used to operate 149 privately operated air-traffic
control towers at small airports that are scheduled to close
June 15.  Thune, in an interview with Bloomberg Television, wouldn’t
predict whether a bill would move in that chamber. The highest-
ranking Republican on the Senate commerce committee has been
working with Rockefeller on a proposal.  “We have put together what we think would be a solution to
this problem, at least in the near term,” he said.  The proposal would give the FAA more authority to use other
accounts to pay for air-traffic controllers, Thune said.
Senators  John Hoeven , a North Dakota Republican, and  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, have proposed similar
legislation.  White House Press Secretary Jay Carney yesterday said the
Obama administration is willing to consider resolving the FAA’s
budget woes separately from across-the-board cuts, known as
sequestration, at other agencies.  ‘Band-Aid Measure’  “If Congress wants to address specifically the problems
caused by the sequester with the FAA, we would be open to
looking at that,” Carney told reporters. “But that would be a
Band-Aid measure.”  LaHood’s spokeswoman, Sasha Johnson, declined in an
interview today to discuss the secretary’s conversations with
lawmakers because they were private.  Of about 3,000 flight delays reported yesterday, at least
863 were due to staffing reductions in airport towers and
regional facilities, the FAA said today in a statement. Among
the cities affected were New York,  Washington ,  Los Angeles  and
 Dallas .  Staffing shortages today will cause delays at all three New
York airports, O’Hare and Tampa International, according to the
statement.  Most U.S. airports were operating without unusual delays
today, according to the  FAA’s travel website . Arrivals at New
York’s Kennedy airport were delayed by an average of 31 minutes
because of “other/staffing” issues, according to the FAA.  Reduced Staffing  Chicago’s O’Hare International returned to normal
operations by late morning after staffing shortages slowed
arrivals earlier today, the website showed. O’Hare had delays
averaging 24 minutes that probably resulted from the furloughs.  Reduced staffing at the Chicago Tracon, as Terminal Radar
Approach Control is known, cut arrivals at O’Hare to 72 an hour
from the usual 114,  Doug Church , a spokesman for the National
Air Traffic Controllers Association union, said in an e-mail.  The  American Association  of Airport Executives, an
Alexandria, Virginia-based trade group representing more than
5,000 airport operators and businesses, said today it would
object to any plan that takes funds from airports to make up for
budget cuts.  “AAAE is supportive of ending the controller furloughs
caused by sequestration, but not by raiding the FAA’s capital
account to pay for operating expenses,” President Todd Hauptli
said in an e-mail.  Airport Grants  The FAA gave $3.5 billion in grants to airports in its 2012
budget. That money, which comes from taxes on airline tickets
and  aviation fuel , is exempt from budget cuts under
sequestration.  Huerta yesterday defended his decision to furlough about 10
percent of U.S. controllers, telling House appropriators he had
no choice under government-wide budget cuts and that there will
be “no effect on safety” for airline passengers.  “This is government not working when we’re sitting here
holding the traveling public hostage in the midst of
sequestration,” JetBlue Airways Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Dave Barger said today, adding that he’s “encouraged” by
efforts to resolve the issue.  Huerta testified that he must look to controller salaries
as the FAA seeks $637 million in cuts. Seventy percent of the
agency’s operating budget is in payroll, and 40 percent of that
amount goes to air traffic controllers, he said.  Asked whether he could concentrate furloughs at less-
congested airports, Huerta said the FAA has to avoid picking
“winners and losers” among airlines by sparing larger hubs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  