-- Fed Debate Moves From Tapering to Extending Bond Buying
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-04-25T14:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/fed-debate-moves-from-tapering-to-extending-bond-buying.html
Debate among Federal Reserve policy
makers is shifting away from the timing of a reduction in bond
buying to the need to extend record stimulus as inflation cools
and 11.7 million Americans remain jobless.  At their meeting last month, several members of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  advocated slowing purchases and stopping
them by year-end. Since then, seven have voiced support for
maintaining the current pace, including five who vote on the
policy making panel: Governor  Daniel Tarullo ,  New York  Fed
President William C. Dudley,  James Bullard  of  St. Louis ,
 Chicago ’s  Charles Evans  and  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren .  “We heard a lot of discussion earlier in the year on the
timing of tapering,”  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist
at Jefferies Group LLC. in New York and a former Richmond Fed
economist, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview yesterday. “Some
of the more recent developments -- the slowdown in the economy,
the somewhat disquieting inflation data -- has taken that off
the table for now.”  With the Fed far from meeting its mandates for stable
prices and full employment, policy makers next week will
probably affirm a pledge to keep buying bonds until the job
market improves “significantly,” said  Joseph Gagnon , a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
 Washington  and a former Fed economist.  ‘Full Throttle’  “It’s going to be full throttle until the end of this
year,” said Gagnon, referring to the purchases that have pushed
the Fed’s balance sheet to a record $3.3 trillion. The FOMC
plans to meet April 30-May 1.  Consumer prices in February rose 1.3 percent from a year
earlier, matching the smallest increase since October 2009 and
falling short of the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to a gauge
watched by policy makers. Last month’s 7.6 percent  unemployment
rate  exceeds the 5.2 percent to 6 percent level Fed officials
consider to be full employment.  In February, Bullard urged reducing asset buying by $10
billion to $15 billion. This month he said the committee was
moving “full steam ahead.”  “I’d of course be giving serious thought” to additional
stimulus if disinflation persists, Richmond Fed President
 Jeffrey Lacker , who voted against the bond program last year,
said last week -- while adding he doesn’t think that will
happen. The Minneapolis Fed’s Narayana Kocherlakota also said
this month weaker inflation may be reason to consider more
accommodation.  Bond Yields  Treasuries fell on April 10 after minutes of the March FOMC
meeting showed several members advocated slowing purchases this
year, with the 10-year note yield climbing to 1.80 percent from
1.75 percent. The yield today increased 0.1 percentage point to
1.72 percent as of 10 a.m. in New York, near a four-month low.  The New York Fed’s Dudley this week indicated his support
for continued quantitative easing, saying gains from the $85
billion in monthly bond buying have exceeded expectations while
posing limited risks to inflation and financial-market
stability.  “After reviewing the efficacy and costs of this program, I
have concluded that that efficacy has been as high or higher
than I expected at the onset of the program and costs the same
or lower,” Dudley said in a speech in New York.  Dudley and other champions of easing say the monthly
purchases, which include $40 billion in mortgage-backed
securities, are stoking growth by reducing the costs of home
loans.  Mortgage Rates  The  interest rate  on a 30-year fixed mortgage declined to
3.41 percent last week, compared with 3.55 percent when the Fed
started its third round of quantitative easing in September,
according to data compiled by  Freddie Mac .  “After a long period of being a drag on the economy, the
housing market is now providing lift to economic activity, with
upward trends evident in housing starts, home sales and  home
prices ,” Dudley said in an April 16 speech to the Staten Island
Chamber of Commerce.  Residential investment may add 0.5 percentage point to
growth this year, compared with a 0.4 percentage-point reduction
in 2009, he said.  “Rising home prices can create positive spillovers to the
rest of the economy as higher home prices lift household wealth
and reduce the number of homeowners with negative equity,”
Dudley said.  Stocks Rally  Gains in share prices stoked by expectations of continued
Fed easing have also boosted wealth. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 0.3 percent to 1,583.85 today to extend its gain
this year to 11 percent. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities
remains near its all-time high of 1,593.37 on April 11.  Sales of new homes increased in March, capping the best
quarter for the industry since 2008. The average pace of new and
existing-home sales combined climbed to 5.36 million in the
first quarter, the strongest since the third quarter of 2007,
according to calculations by Bloomberg.  “Housing has certainly seen positive support from
quantitative easing as low  interest rates  support refinancing
and new purchases,” said  Michelle Meyer , senior U.S. economist
at Bank of America Corp. in New York. “Housing is crucial to
generating a sustainable recovery in the U.S.”  Stimulus has also helped bring down the jobless rate faster
than Fed projections, even as 11.7 million Americans remained
out of work on a seasonally adjusted basis as of March.  Jobs Forecast  Unemployment was 7.8 percent in September. At their meeting
that month, FOMC participants forecast a decline in unemployment
to 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent by the end of this year.  In March, with the joblessness declining to 7.6 percent,
officials again cut their projections to 7.3 percent to 7.5
percent. They probably expect the third round of bond buying to
reduce unemployment by as much as 0.4 percentage point, said
Nathan Sheets, global head of international economics at
Citigroup Inc. in New York.  “They are clearly getting these kinds of effects,” said
Sheets, the Fed’s director of international finance from 2007
until 2011. “If anything, the program may even be a bit more
powerful” than officials anticipated.  Even so, officials are on guard for a springtime slowdown
after job growth sagged to 88,000 in March from 268,000 the
previous month.  Reports from the Commerce Department showed retail sales
fell in March by the most in nine months, while demand for
durable goods slumped by the most in seven months.  GDP Growth  Economic growth will probably slow to a 1.5 percent annual
pace in the second quarter following a gain of 3 percent in the
first three months of the year, according to the median
estimates of 69 economists in an April 5-9 survey by  Bloomberg
News . The Commerce Department will announce first-quarter GDP
tomorrow.  “I don’t think we should be complacent” about the
economic outlook, Evans said last week in a speech in Chicago
urging continued bond buying. “I would not be surprised if we
end up doing this until late 2013, ultimately ending the program
in 2014 at some point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  