-- Fiat, Auto Worker Fund Clash in Court Over Chrysler Call
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-04-25T17:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/fiat-auto-worker-fund-clash-in-court-over-chrysler-call.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the majority owner of
U.S. automaker Chrysler Group LLC, may have to pay more than its
$139.7 million offer in a call option for shares being bought
from the United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust, a judge
suggested in court today.  Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , is increasing its stake in
Chrysler and is asking Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. to help determine the value of the 54,154 Chrysler
units, which the trust contends are worth least $342 million.  “I’m kind of leaning” in the direction of the trust,
Parsons told lawyers at the hearing in Wilmington, and said he’d
take the case under advisement.  He told trust lawyers that “the dog that won’t hunt” in
the case is the argument that the units should be sold at
current fair market value, and said he may have to retain an
accountant to examine the complex valuation formula in the 2009
 call-option  agreement.  “We don’t say we’re entitled to fair market value,” said
lawyer Robert W. Hirth, representing the trust. He said the
current offer “is so far below” fair value that it represents
a lack of good faith.  Amid reported confusion about numbers in the valuation
formula, Parsons told Fiat lawyer Steven L. Holley that
observers “ought to be able to follow what you did” in the
calculations. “If they can’t, I can’t,” Parsons said.  Accounting Variations  Holley also told the judge that Fiat uses IFRS, or
international financial reporting standards, while the trust
uses GAAP, or generally accepted accounting principles, in their
calculations for elements of the valuation formula.  “I’m not going to grant the motion” in Fiat’s favor amid
the uncertainties requiring resolution, Parsons said. He didn’t
say when he’d render a decision in the case.  Fiat North America LLC sued the UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust, a Chrysler investor, in 2012, alleging the trust
violated the agreement allowing Fiat to buy units incrementally
through June 2016.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is awaiting
the court decision on the price of the stake before going ahead
with his plan to buy the remaining 38.5 percent stake in
Chrysler and merge the two carmakers. Marchionne expects the
Delaware court to make its ruling by the end of June and to have
“clarity” about the combination of the two carmakers by the
end of the year, he said April 9.  The case is Fiat North America LLC v. UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust, 7903, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  