-- Finland Says Euro Can Survive Cyprus Exit as Strict Rules Sought
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-04-25T08:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/finland-says-euro-can-survive-cyprus-exit-as-strict-rules-sought.html
The euro region would be able to
survive Cyprus leaving the bloc as members need to ensure rules
are adhered to, the head of  Finland ’s highest parliamentary
committee said.  Finland rejects the notion that the area can only survive
if there’s also a fiscal union, Miapetra Kumpula-Natri, who
chairs the parliament’s Grand Committee, said yesterday in an
interview in Helsinki. The euro region can’t continue to be
hampered by political brinkmanship and instead should allow
automatic triggers to be observed, she said.  “It probably wouldn’t be dangerous for the euro if Cyprus
decided it needed its own currency,” Kumpula-Natri said. Still,
“it wouldn’t be beneficial for euro members if markets were to
consider the euro area a temporary union that countries can
enter and exit.”  Cyprus agreed on March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) loan from the euro area and the  International Monetary
Fund  in return for measures including a tax on bank deposits of
more than 100,000 euros at its two biggest banks. The nation
buckled under the weight of its financial industry, which had
swelled to eight times its gross domestic product.  Cyprus’s rescue is one of five crafted by European policy
makers over the past three years to protect the 17-member single
currency after sovereign bond yields soared and indebted
countries struggled to refinance debt. Finland, the only euro
nation that boasts a stable AAA credit grade at all three major
ratings companies, has struggled to win voter backing to
continue contributing to the region’s bailouts.  ‘Rational Choice’  “Finns don’t really buy the idea that the euro is a
political project that can’t be allowed to fail,” Kumpula-Natri
said. “For us, the common currency is a rational choice and we
think any speculation of its potential fragmentation is bad for
everyone involved. This is why Finland’s commitment to the euro
is strong and we’ve agreed to bailouts to save it.”  Finland’s willingness to pay doesn’t stretch to income
transfers, Kumpula-Natri said. The committee she heads decides
on the northernmost euro member’s participation in bailouts
through the permanent rescue fund.  “We live in very different societies in terms of income
distribution and taxation,” she said. “A union based on fiscal
transfers isn’t sensible, because our countries are so
different.”  ‘Binary Solution’  Finland’s goal of continuing monetary union without fiscal
union has been criticized as being unrealistic. Writing new
rules and hoping countries comply isn’t feasible, said  Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets Plc in  London .  “It’s a binary solution: you either accept the fact that
you’re going to have to go to full fiscal union or you allow the
weaker countries to leave the euro,” Hewson said in a phone
interview. “The current model isn’t sustainable.”  Policy makers including EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  have repeatedly said the currency is
irreversible.  “We don’t want to add to speculation to whether the euro
will remain or not,” Kumpula-Natri said. “The real challenge
lies in the question of how economies differing that much could
be brought to converge in the near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  