-- French Joblessness Climbs to Record, Adding Pressure on Hollande
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-04-25T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/french-joblessness-climbs-to-record-adding-pressure-on-hollande.html
French jobless claims rose to the
highest ever, increasing pressure on President  Francois Hollande 
to revive an economy that has been stalled for two years.  The  number of people actively looking for work  increased by
36,900, or 1.2 percent, to 3.225 million, the labor ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement. Economists expected an
increase of 25,000, according to the median of three forecasts
gathered by Bloomberg News.  The 23rd monthly increase takes the total number of
jobseekers past the previous record of 3.195 million, which was
set in January 1997 when  Jacques Chirac  had been president for
less than two years. For Hollande, who won office last year on a
campaign against austerity, the loss of tens of thousands of
jobs at companies such as  PSA Peugeot Citroen SA (UG)  is contributing
to a slump in the polls.  “Unemployment has been rising for five years and since my
election it hasn’t stopped,” Hollande said today in Beijing.
“The only way to change direction by year-end is to fully use
all the tools we’ve put in place.”  Hollande has created a payroll tax-credit to aid companies
and has cajoled unions and business groups to agree to ease
 labor laws  to make it simpler to trim wages in a downturn. He
has repeatedly pledged to reduce  government spending  and plans
to overhaul the pension and unemployment benefit systems in
coming months.  The  unemployment rate  stands at 10.6 percent, compared to
the 11.3 percent reached in 1997.  ‘National Cause’  “In one year in office, we’ve begun a lot of reforms,”
Hollande, who came to power May 15, said today. “The whole
action of the government is to fight for employment. I want all
French people to unite behind this as a national cause.”  The problem for Hollande is that the French economy is
failing to grow in the wake of  Europe ’s four-year-old sovereign
debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  shrank in the first quarter
and probably shrank again in the second, according to the median
of economist 14 estimates gathered by  Bloomberg News .  With tax increases intended to stem the  budget deficit 
weighing both on investment and consumer demand, business
confidence is declining. Sentiment among manufacturers dropped
to 88 this month from 91 in March, according to an index
published by national statistics office Insee earlier this week.  “Weakness is seen across the board,” Barclays Plc
economist Fabrice Montagne said this week after the confidence
report. The index is now low enough to “send a recessionary
signal.”  For Hollande, the challenge is to see through plans to
revamp Europe’s second-largest economy in the face of slumping
popularity. His approval rating fell six percentage points to 25
percent this month, according to an Ifop poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  