-- Gain Capital Rebuffs FXCM Takeover, Buys Global Futures & Forex
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-25T13:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/gain-capital-rebuffs-fxcm-takeover-buys-global-futures-forex.html
Gain Capital Holdings Inc. (GCAP) , a
provider of online foreign-exchange trading services, rejected a
proposed acquisition by  FXCM Inc. (FXCM)  and instead agreed to purchase
Global Futures & Forex Ltd.  FXCM made an unsolicited stock offer of $195 million for
Gain Capital on April 8. The proposed transaction would
“significantly undervalue” Gain Capital, the Bedminster, New
Jersey-based company said today in a statement.  Gain Capital will pay about $108 million in cash, stock and
debt for Sydney-based Global Futures, a provider of retail
foreign-exchange and derivatives trading. The acquisition is
expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2013. It will
yield $35 million to $45 million in “operating synergies” in
the first year after closing, according to a release from Gain
Capital.  The transaction is a “significant opportunity to grow our
business across the spectrum of retail and institutional
products,” Gain Capital Chief Executive Officer Glenn Stevens
said in the statement. A spokesman for Gain Capital didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Shares of Gain Capital rose 3 cents to $5.65 at 9:52 a.m.
in  New York  trading. The stock has risen about 14 percent in the
past year.  First-quarter net income was $4.5 million, or 11 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $1.3 million, or 4 cents, a year
earlier. Revenue rose 50 percent to $49.8 million, Gain Capital
said.  Gain Capital announced that it reached an agreement to
acquire the U.S.-based retail customer accounts of FX Solutions
LLC on Feb. 22. The firm previously bought the U.S. individual
accounts of GFT Forex on Dec. 7, and completed the purchase of
Open E Cry from Charles Schwab’s Option’s Express on Sept. 6.  The company also acquired the currency retail businesses of
Capital Market Services LLC and MG Financial LLC in the second
half of 2010 and a controlling stake in  Japan ’s Fortune Capital
Co. in March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  