-- Gao Says CIC Doesn’t Get Equal Treatment From U.S.
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-04-25T20:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/gao-says-cic-doesn-t-get-equal-treatment-from-u-s-.html
China  Investment Corp., the world’s
fifth-largest sovereign wealth fund, is treated differently than
other investors by U.S. regulators, the company’s president said
in  Washington .  CIC faces challenges in the U.S. and is “singled out as a
different investor,” CIC President Gao Xiqing said yesterday at
a conference after meetings with officials in the U.S. capital.  “We thought we were friends,” Gao said. “All of the
sudden, you’ve got people slapping you in the face and telling
you, OK, we don’t like you.”  While Gao didn’t name specific investments or cite examples
that have run into regulatory trouble, he urged for more dialog
between the world’s two largest economies, echoing U.S.
investors who are calling for regular discussions that would
help boost investment.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew chose China for his first
foreign trip earlier this year and pressed Chinese Premier  Li
Keqiang  and President Xi Jinping on cyberespionage and exchange-
rate issues.  Gao, who helps oversee a fund with about $482 billion in
assets under management, said he gets questions about whether
China will follow American regulators in tightening control of
markets after the 2008 financial crisis.  “Our government had always been that way. Since when? I
said, well, since about 3,000 years ago. We always controlled,
we always distrusted the market,” Gao said. The “market is
like a little boy, it needs to be disciplined. Now, for the
regulators here to do it that way, of course it’s a challenge
for them.”  ‘Better Direction’  Turning to China, Gao said he’s optimistic the new
government and the economy are heading in “a much better
direction.”  China’s economy  unexpectedly weakened in the first quarter,
growing 7.7 percent, below analysts’ forecast and slower than in
the fourth quarter.  The world’s second-largest economy is still expanding
faster than most other major countries. The nation’s gross
domestic product will probably grow 8.1 percent this year, while
U.S. GDP increases at a 2 percent rate and the euro area shrinks
0.4 percent, according to economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Gao said he expects the new government will reverse “the
trend of major state enterprises becoming stronger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  