-- GE Halts Financing for Firearm Retailers as Gun Lenders Vanish
-- B y   E d   D u f n e r   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ge-halts-financing-for-firearm-retailers-as-gun-lenders-vanish.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , whose
Connecticut headquarters is about 35 minutes by car from the
site of the Newtown school massacre, said it tightened rules
against providing consumer financing to firearms retailers.  “Industry changes, new legislation and tragic events that
have caused widespread re-examination of policies on firearms”
spurred the move by the GE Capital unit,  Russell Wilkerson , a
spokesman, said yesterday by e-mail.  GE’s decision follows a policy adopted in 2008 to halt
financing for “merchants whose primary business is to sell
firearms,” Wilkerson said. More-rigorous audits of sporting-
goods businesses screened out fewer than 75 retailers, an
“immaterial part” of GE Capital’s sales, he said.  The pullback is a symbolic step in a country that has more
than 300 million firearms, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Dec. 14 murders of 26 people at Sandy Hook Elementary,
including 20 children, ignited a national debate, spurred a push
for federal and state laws, and prompted some investors to
reassess their holdings.  Wilkerson said Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE’s changes
were part of a regular review of lending practices and affected
roughly 0.001 percent of all gun retailers.  “ GE Capital  Retail Bank has made the difficult decision to
discontinue offering the GE Capital Sport Finance program to
your store(s),” the company said in a letter dated April 9 sent
to merchants including Mike Stulce, owner of a Texas gun shop.  In addition to canceling the financing, GE said it
suspended Visa and MasterCard processing and notified clients it
would have a FedEx Corp. agent pick up their point-of-sale
terminals. The halt was effective yesterday, GE said in the
letter, which didn’t mention guns or firearms.  ‘Wild Guess’  “They didn’t specify but I’m going to take a wild guess
and say it has something to do with the politics, the way the
wind is blowing right now,” said Stulce, whose Champion
Firearms shop in  College Station  employs 15 people.  Champion Firearms made 7 percent of its sales with GE
Capital financing last year, Stulce said in a telephone
interview. His shop offered customers no-interest financing for
six months and absorbed the 3 percent interest charge from GE
Capital, he said. Financing was available for up to 18 months.  Financing was cut off earlier this year at Duncan’s Outdoor
Shop in  Bay City ,  Michigan , which offered 60-day, same-as-cash
terms, General Manager Ernie LeMay said yesterday in a telephone
interview. LeMay didn’t have details on the date.  “All I was told was, we can’t do GE anymore,” he said.  Private Companies  In the U.S., the making of personal firearms has become an
industry populated chiefly by closely held manufacturers such as
Freedom Group Inc., whose brands include Remington and
Bushmaster. Consumer financing has been harder to come by as
well, and Duncan’s went without an outside lender for several
years before getting GE “a couple of years” ago, LeMay said.  “We were just getting back into promoting it,” LeMay
said. “We didn’t have a huge base yet but we were building on
it. People that had it seemed to like it.”  Duncan’s is seeking new financing, according to LeMay, who
said he didn’t know the store’s previous lender before GE
Capital.  GE was the last lender still financing firearm sales,
Champion’s Stulce said. His shop previously had two other
lenders that dropped service, with the most recent exit coming
about five years ago, he said. Customers will have to pay cash
or use their own credit cards now.  GE Capital has other retail customers for which firearms
are only a portion of the business. For example, GE Capital
Retail Bank’s credit-card customers include Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
and Dick’s Sporting Goods, according to the lender’s  website .  Outrage over the Newtown shootings spurred some pension
investors such as the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System  to vote to divest shares in gunmakers  Smith & Wesson
Holding Corp. (SWHC)  and  Sturm Ruger & Co. (RGR)   Cerberus Capital Management LP, the private-equity firm
founded by  Stephen Feinberg , put Freedom Group up for sale after
the Newtown slayings. This month, people familiar with the
matter said Feinberg and his partners may try to buy the company
from the private-equity funds managed by his firm.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the financing cutoff
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  