-- Germany Can Relax Euro Austerity and Lose Nothing
-- B y   M e l v y n   K r a u s s
-- 2013-04-25T22:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/germany-can-relax-euro-austerity-and-lose-nothing.html
Europe  needs a new deal that trades
less  austerity  for more structural reform. It can be done
without costing  Germany  a euro cent.  The contours of this shift are starting to emerge, with
 Spain  leading the way. To persuade the European Commission to
relax its  budget deficit  targets for 2014 to 2016, the
government of  Mariano Rajoy  this week set out plans to overhaul
pension systems and reform labor markets, service sectors and
fiscal management.  Officials in Brussels are likely to be receptive to these
ideas, because they see that current policies risk tearing apart
the European Union. EU Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso 
warned this week that politically Europe is pushing against the
 limits  of austerity.  Barroso is right that the euro area’s crisis-fighting mix
needs to change: In Spain, unemployment reached 27 percent, and
a new government being formed in  Italy  will need to offer
carrots to secure the structural changes that will help its
economy grow again. Despite the anger of some German politicians
about Barroso’s comments, relaxing deficit targets shouldn’t be
seen as a bad thing. Austerity doesn’t necessarily increase the
periphery’s cost competiveness, which is the sine qua non for
ending the crisis. Structural reform is better suited to that
task.  Populist Politics  Austerity applied during a global slump creates suffering
that is exploited by protest parties and unscrupulous
politicians such as Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi, who are fanning
anti-German and anti-euro sentiment to gain votes.  So far, structural reforms, such as improving the
efficiency of labor markets by jettisoning laws that protect
certain professions, have been hard to carry out in the euro-area periphery. The main reason is that those changes require
taking on elites -- labor unions, taxi drivers, pharmacists or
others -- that fiercely defend their privileges. This resistance
made labor reform elusive for  Mario Monti , Italy’s caretaker
prime minister.  Mapping an acceptable path to soften or relax austerity in
return for more structural reform could allow governments of
Europe’s periphery to secure the public support they need to
take on such vested interests and win. It could also help
politicians who are serious about fixing their nations’ problems
to marginalize the likes of Berlusconi.  The initiative would have to come from countries that want
their budget-deficit targets relaxed. The commission could rule
on each case, and decide whether the proposed reforms warranted
a concession. The  European Central Bank  also could deploy its
Outright Monetary Transactions bond-buying program if a
country’s bond market is attacked as a result of the policy
change.  Most likely, as has been the case so far, the very threat
of ECB intervention would be sufficient to keep markets calm.
The rebalancing effort wouldn’t have to cost northern
governments a single additional euro.  This would be a good deal for southern countries such as
Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Because of their renewed
commitment to structural reform, they could get ECB support for
their debt and, at the same time, get the lending countries to
soften their austerity programs.  It also should appeal to Germany, and not only because it
would help tame the noxious anti-German sentiment. A little more
than a decade ago, Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder ’s Agenda 2010
transformed Germany from what the Economist magazine called “the
sick man of Europe” into Europe’s sole competitive economic
power.  Sincere Effort  For Germany to abandon its view that the periphery
countries will change only under austerity-imposed duress,
however, it will need to see that structural reform efforts are
sincere. Germans will be on board once they realize that this
doesn’t mean giving the periphery a free ride but encouraging a
more effective mix of reform.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s comment
Thursday that  France  can take more time to cut its budget
deficit as long as the government doesn’t slacken its structural
reforms suggests that officials in Berlin may be open to
changing the reform mix.  Skeptics will argue that money in exchange for structural
reform always has been part of Europe’s crisis-fighting
strategy, and that it hasn’t worked. What’s different now is
that bailed-out periphery economies may have reached a level of
suffering that forces national politicians and electorates to
get serious about structural changes and begin combating
privileged elites in exchange for relief from punitive deficit
targets.  If these countries offer creditable plans for structural
reform, why not take the chance? If the softer approach doesn’t
work, harder policies can be restored. Spain has taken a
constructive step that should be supported by Germany and the
European Commission.  (Melvyn Krauss is an emeritus economics professor at  New
York  University and a senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at
 Stanford University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Melvyn Krauss at  melvynbkrauss@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 