-- Italian Bonds Drop on Bets Rally Overdone as Pimco Cuts Holdings
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-25T15:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/german-bunds-little-changed-before-spanish-unemployment-report.html
Italy ’s bonds fell for a second day
as Pacific Investment Management Co. said it lowered its
holdings, fueling bets a rally that took 10-year yields below 4
percent for the first time since November 2010 was excessive.  Spanish bonds also declined, pushing 10-year yields up by
the most in four weeks, after a report showed unemployment in
the nation climbed to a 37-year high. Pimco reduced its holdings
of Spanish and Italian government debt after the securities
rallied, the company said yesterday. European Central Bank
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said interest-rate cuts
would have limited effect on the euro-region’s periphery. German
bunds were little changed.  “What we’ve heard from the Italian clients we speak to is
that they have taken a little bit of money off the table once
10-year Italian bonds had tested the psychologically important 4
percent level,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “It’s not
surprising to see in the wake of the relatively pronounced
additional rally in peripherals.”  Italy’s 10-year yield  rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 4.06 percent at 4:15 p.m. London time,
after dropping to 3.89 percent on April 23, the lowest level
since October 2010. The 5.5 percent bond maturing in November
2022 fell 0.41, or 4.10 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,301) face
amount, to 111.625.  Enrico Letta, the 46-year-old deputy secretary of Italy’s
biggest political party, was designated prime minister yesterday
after eight weeks of political deadlock.  ‘Credit Risk’  A year-and-a-half after resigning,  Silvio Berlusconi  became
the key figure in talks that began today to form the next
Cabinet after Letta’s appointment. Berlusconi and his 241
lawmakers, the second-biggest contingent, hold the votes the
 Democratic Party ’s Letta needs to secure a parliamentary
majority.  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco trimmed its holdings
of Spanish and Italian securities starting last month,  Andrew Balls , the London-based head of European  portfolio management 
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We’ve been reducing credit risk in our portfolios and in
recent weeks we’ve cut Italy and Spain,” Balls said. There’s
“no significant change in the outlook but the bonds have
rallied a lot so we’ve sold some recently.”  The number of unemployed in Spain increased to more than 6
million for the first time, climbing to 27.16 percent of the
workforce in the first quarter, compared with 26.02 percent in
the previous three months, the National Statistics Institute in
Madrid said today.  Spanish Rates  Spain’s 10-year yield rose one basis point to 4.30 percent
after climbing as much as 13 basis points, the most since March
27. The rate fell to 4.215 percent yesterday, the lowest since
November 2010.  German  10-year bunds  yielded 1.24 percent. The rate slid to
1.19 percent on April 23, the lowest since July 24.  The ECB will  reduce  its main refinancing  rate  by 25 basis
points to 0.5 percent at its next meeting on May 2, according to
27 of 45 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The others
predict no change.  UBS AG, Rabobank International, Nomura and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  all changed their forecasts yesterday to
predict the ECB will cut  interest rates  after a report this week
showed euro-area output contracted for a 15th month.  Rate Cuts  “The pass-through of rate cuts to the periphery would be
limited, and this is where they are most needed,” Asmussen said
in London today, according to the text of a speech provided by
the ECB. “At the same time, rate cuts would further relax
already unprecedentedly easy financing conditions in the core.
This is not per se a problem -- but interest rates that are too
low for too long can eventually lead to distortions.”  The ECB has room to ease monetary policy further,  David Lipton , first deputy managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund , said in London today.  German bonds returned 0.9 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities gained 3.8 percent and Spanish debt earned 7.3
percent.  Volatility on Italian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of the Netherlands and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  