-- Gol Rises on Report Brazil May Lower Tax on Jet Fuel
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-25T23:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/gol-surges-as-estado-reports-brazil-may-lower-tax-on-jet-fuel.html
(Corrects number of shares in Smiles IPO in ninth
paragraph.)  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
Brazil’s second-biggest air carrier by market share, rose to a
five-week high after the newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported
that the government may cut taxes on jet fuel. The Tourism
Ministry denied the report.  The shares rallied 4.7 percent to 13.81 reais at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, the highest since March 19. It was the
second-best performance on the Ibovespa stock benchmark, which
was little changed.  Brazil approved guidelines to boost tourism, and the
Tourism Ministry has 30 days to publish details and goals,
according to a notice published today in the official gazette.
Estado reported that the plan would include a measure to cut
taxes on fuel to reduce fares, citing a presidential decree it
had access to that hasn’t yet been published.  “It’s very important news,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at
Sao Paulo-based brokerage Clear Corretora, said in a telephone
interview. “It would depend on the amount of the cut to
determine how much help it would be. But it’s another push for
the company.”  A press official for Gol didn’t reply to a phone call and
e-mail seeking comment. The ministry’s press office said in an
e-mailed response to questions that the plan “does not foresee
tax cuts on jet fuel” and it “does not know of any government
action in that regard.”  Fuel Tax  The Sao Paulo-based carrier surged 11 percent on April 18
after a report that Distrito Federal, the seat of  Brazil ’s
government, was lowering a tax on jet fuel to 12 percent from 25
percent.  In the fourth quarter, fuel accounted for 38 percent of
Gol’s operating costs, according to a regulatory filing. The
company said it would pay bonuses to pilots for saving fuel,
Folha de Sao Paulo reported April 15.  The airline is pricing after the market closes today an
initial public offering of its frequent-flier unit, Smiles SA,
to raise cash and reduce debt. Speculation the offering will
attract investors may also be driving today’s gain, Goes said.  Gol said in a filing this month it’s selling as many as
52.2 million shares for 20.70 reais to 25.80 reais each to reap
as much as 1.35 billion reais ($671.8 million).  Private-equity investor General Atlantic agreed to buy
about one third of the stock in the offering, Gol said in a
regulatory filing on April 8. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based
firm will purchase as much as 400 million reais of shares at a
maximum price of 20.70 reais apiece, the minimum in the expected
range, according to the filing.  The airline is reducing domestic capacity by 7 percent in
2013 as it tries to improve margins. Gol, which had the worst
operating margin in the fourth quarter among airlines globally
tracked by Bloomberg, lost 11 cents for every dollar of sales in
2012 after predicting margins as high as 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  