-- Gold Traders Most Bullish in Month as Buying Surges
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-04-26T20:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/gold-traders-most-bullish-in-month-as-buying-surges-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish
in a month after mints around the world said demand for bullion
coins is surging and central banks added to reserves even as
prices slumped the most in three decades.  Fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week, 11 were bearish and three were neutral. Sales of
gold coins from the U.S. Mint are poised for the biggest month
since December 2009 and the U.K. Mint said purchases tripled in
April. Russia and Kazakhstan boosted reserves for a sixth month
as stockpiles across central banks climbed to an eight-year
high, International Monetary Fund data show.  Gold tumbled into a bear market April 12 and by the end of
the following session had retreated 14 percent, the biggest two-
day drop since 1983. The slump highlighted some investors’ loss
of faith in the world’s traditional store of value, even with
nations still engaged in unprecedented money printing. The
acceleration in demand for physical bullion since then signals
the change isn’t universal.  “Lower prices are bringing back long-term holders,” said
Adrian Day, who manages about $160 million of assets as
president of Adrian Day Asset Management in Annapolis,  Maryland .
“All the reasons people were buying gold over the last few
years remain intact, particularly the global monetary expansion
and currency debasement.”  World War  The metal fell 13 percent to $1, 458.55 an ounce in London
this year. Unless it rallies by the end of December, gold will
have its first annual decline since 2000, halting the longest
winning streak since the end of World War I. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 3.8 percent since
the start of January, the MSCI All-Country World Index of
 equities  rose 7.3 percent and a Bank of America Corp. index
shows Treasuries returned 0.6 percent.  The U.S. Mint said April 23 it suspended sales of the
smallest gold coins after demand more than doubled. The mint
sold 196,500 ounces through April 24, from 62,000 ounces in
March, data on its website show. Demand “shows no signs of
abating,” Shane Bissett, director of bullion and commemorative
coin at the U.K.’s Royal Mint, said April 24.  Standard Chartered Plc said April 23 its physical gold
sales to  India  exceeded the previous record by 20 percent and
UBS AG said the same day its flows there are near the highest
since 2008. Trading in the Shanghai Gold Exchange’s benchmark
contract was more than four times last year’s daily average
every day since April 16.  Central Banks  Some central banks probably will take advantage of lower
prices, according to the London-based World Gold Council. Russia
boosted its holdings, the seventh largest in the world, by 4.7
metric tons to 981.6 tons in March and Kazakhstan’s reserves
climbed 1.2 tons, IMF data show. Central banks will buy as much
as 550 tons of gold this year after boosting holdings by 534.6
tons last year, the most since 1964, the council estimates.  “The emerging countries’ central banks are quite good
timers of the gold market,” said Marcus Grubb, the managing
director of investment research at the council. “Although they
are looking at the longer-term time horizons, they do look for
opportunities to purchase when it’s most favorable.”  There has been an almost doubling of sovereign debt to
$22.9 trillion since 2008 as nations from the U.S. to the U.K.
to  Japan  sought to stimulate economies. The IMF cut its 2013
estimate for world growth four consecutive times.  Trading Commission  Hedge funds have also got more  bullish  on gold, raising
their bets on higher prices for two consecutive weeks, data from
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Wagers are
now the highest in more than a month, reaching 61,579 futures
and options by April 16.  Investors in exchange-traded products backed by gold cut
holdings by 6.3 percent since the start of April, heading for a
record monthly drop by tonnage, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The ETPs own 2,294.5 tons valued at more than $108 billion, from
a record 2,632.5 tons in December. Assets in the SPDR Gold
Trust, the biggest fund backed by bullion, are the lowest since
September 2009.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. closed its recommendation to sell
gold on April 23, while saying bullion may have further to drop.
The bank predicts prices will fall to $1,390 in 12 months.  Among other commodities, copper traders were bullish for
the first time in five weeks and sugar, soybean and wheat
traders were bearish.  Metal Exchange  Twelve of 22 copper traders anticipate prices will rise
next week, five predicted a drop and five were neutral. The
metal for delivery in three months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, slid to the lowest since October 2011 this
week and is 11 percent lower since the start of the year.  Fourteen of 31 analysts surveyed expect corn to rise next
week, while 13 said the grain will drop. Sixteen traders were
bearish on soybeans and nine were bullish. Fourteen predicted
falling wheat prices, with 12 expecting a gain. Corn retreated
11 percent on the Chicago Board of Trade this year, soybeans
dropped 2 percent and wheat declined 11 percent.  Seven of 11 people surveyed expect raw sugar to weaken,
with two bullish and two neutral. Futures fell 11 percent this
year on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities dropped 5 percent since
the start of April, heading for the biggest monthly decline
since May. Silver, corn, gold and nickel led the retreat.  “To get a big commodity rally you need economic growth
expectations to be revised higher,” said Matthew Lehmann, a
global strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset allocation
team in London. “It is difficult to get really bullish relative
to other asset classes when growth expectations are being
revised down. That’s a difficult environment for commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  