-- Google-Facebook Privacy-Probe Tactics Criticized in Germany
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-25T15:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/google-facebook-tactics-in-privacy-probes-criticized-by-germany.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  were
criticized by German data protection regulators for “delay
tactics” and “impertinent” behavior when responding to probes
into their privacy policies.  Experience has shown that “Google will keep making
attempts to delay investigations through continuous
correspondence and always freshly packaged arguments,” Peter Schaar,  Germany ’s federal data protection commissioner, said in
a  report  yesterday. Facebook was separately described earlier
this month as having “impertinent” behavior by Thilo Weichert,
the privacy regulator for the German state of Schleswig-
Holstein.  Google and Facebook are among U.S. Internet companies under
scrutiny in the European Union for possible privacy-rule
violations over the use of consumers’ personal data.  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine,
faces investigations after it changed its privacy system to
create a uniform set of policies for more than 60 products last
year. Six data protection regulators started “coordinated”
enforcement measures this month over the  Mountain View ,
California-based company’s failure to fix complaints about the
new system.  Google’s data protection policy “is in line with European
law and allows us to develop simpler and more effective
services,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. “We have
acted in a cooperative way on this with all data protection
commissioners involved and will also do so in the future.”  Facial Recognition  Facebook, which has its European base in Ireland, was
subject to an audit by the Irish data-protection authority into
privacy issues with its facial-recognition feature last year.
That  review  pushed the owner of the biggest social-networking
site to delete data identifying faces in users’ photos.  Germany’s Weichert said in  a statement  on April 19 that
it’s “brash how Facebook is trying to take those who are
politically responsible for fools” as it sought to increase
traffic to its site and find “political and social
acceptance.”  A German appeals court this week rejected a bid by
Weichert’s agency to force Facebook to allow users to register
under pseudonyms. The  Menlo Park , California-based company said
the court recognized that Facebook’s European operations are
supervised by the Irish data protection regulator.  ‘Constructive Dialogue’  “We’re seeking to have a constructive dialogue with all
groups, also with our greatest critics,” Facebook said in a
statement. “Dialogue means: one shouldn’t just talk about
Facebook, but also with Facebook.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s recent changes to its service agreement
are also being examined by EU regulators.  “It’s a similar investigation to the one with Google,”
Schaar said in his report, which summarizes the German
regulator’s activities in 2011 and 2012.  Luxembourg’s regulator has taken the lead in that probe,
with the support of  France ’s privacy watchdog. The two countries
are examining “concise and exhaustive” answers they got from
Microsoft earlier this month, Gerard Lommel, head of the
Luxembourg privacy regulator, said by phone yesterday.  “In updating the Microsoft Services Agreement we did not
change our privacy policy,” said Robin Koch, a spokesman for
Microsoft in Brussels. “We are confident they will find
Microsoft’s long-standing commitment to privacy has not
changed.”  The investigation may be concluded as soon as July, Lommel
said.  “It will take another month at least until we can see more
clearly where we stand with this case,” he said.  Viviane Reding , the EU’s justice commissioner, last year
proposed plans to update the bloc’s data protection rules that
would allow national authorities to fine companies as much as 2
percent of yearly global sales for “intentionally or
negligently” violating the rules. The overhaul is under
consideration by the European Parliament and EU governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  