-- ADM Wins GrainCorp Board Approval for $2.3 Billion Offer
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-04-26T14:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/graincorp-accepts-archer-daniels-a-2-8-billion-takeover-bid.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest corn processor, won agreement to acquire
 GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  for A$2.2 billion ($2.3 billion) after raising
its offer with a special dividend for shareholders of the
Australian crop handler.  ADM will pay A$12.20 a share for the stock it doesn’t
already own, subject to an examination of Graincorp’s finances
to be completed next week, Decatur, Illinois-based ADM said
yesterday in a statement. Investors in Sydney-based GrainCorp
will also receive a A$1-a-share special dividend prior to the
completion of the deal.  Buying GrainCorp, the only major publicly traded grain
merchant left in Australia after the country deregulated its
wheat-export system, would give ADM control of seven of the
eight ports that ship grain in bulk from the nation’s east coast
as well as a substantial malt producer. ADM made an initial bid
last year, building its stake to 19.9 percent.  “The board signed this agreement, they’re allowing due
diligence and are happy with the offer and I think shareholders
should be too,” John Maysles, an event-driven senior analyst at
Elevation LLC in Los Angeles, said by phone. “It’s pretty much
the equivalent of raising the bid by a dollar by allowing them
to pay that dividend.”  GrainCorp jumped 7.9 percent A$12.81, the highest since it
started trading in 1998 in Sydney. ADM gained 1.9 percent to
$33.80 at 10:06 a.m. in New York.  Asia Demand  “ADM and GrainCorp have complementary geographies with
little overlap and highly compatible cultures,” ADM Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Patricia Woertz said in the
statement. “The addition of GrainCorp to our global network
would fit our strategy and help to further connect Australia’s
growers with growing global demand for crops and food,
particularly in Asia and the Middle East.”  Sales at GrainCorp, which has benefited from growing demand
from Asia, have jumped since Australia’s 2006 decision to strip
AWB Ltd. of its wheat export monopoly. ADM’s proposal
underscores a push by companies including  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN)  and Hong Kong-based commodity trader Noble Group Ltd. to
target agricultural assets, betting on rising demand from Asia
as living standards and diets improve.  “Today’s decision isn’t a decision the board has taken
lightly and in fact it’s taken us some time to reach this
point,” Don Taylor, GrainCorp’s chairman, said today on a call
with reporters. ADM’s offer “highlights the strategic value of
our business.”  Biggest Deal  Buying GrainCorp would be ADM’s biggest deal. The largest
so far is its $470 million purchase of W.R. Grace & Co.’s cocoa
business in 1996, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
offer carries a 50.1 percent minimum acceptance condition, and
needs to be cleared by Australia’s Foreign Investment Review
Board as well as China’s Ministry of Commerce of the Government,
known as MOFCOM. Glencore’s C$6.1 billion ($6 billion)
acquisition of  Canada ’s Viterra Inc., completed in December, was
delayed as it awaited MOFCOM clearance.  “We don’t have any particular anticipation that any of
them will be difficult,” GrainCorp CEO Alison Watkins said on
the media call. “The MOFCOM approval is uncertain in its
timeframe and we would see it as probably the longest timeframe
of the approvals that we require to achieve.”  Under the terms of the proposal, GrainCorp can’t solicit
alternative proposals and needs to give ADM two days to match a
superior proposal.  ‘Concrete Proposal’  “We have had contact with other parties directly and
through our advisers,” Watkins said. “At this stage we have
this concrete proposal from ADM, which we believe represents
very good value for our shareholders.”  With tax credits, Australian shareholders of GrainCorp
stand to receive about A$14.13 a share if the deal proceeds,
Belinda Moore, a Brisbane-based analyst with RBS Morgans Ltd.,
said in an e-mailed note. That equates to a payment of 10.3
times earnings before interest, tax and depreciation for fiscal
2014, and compares with an average acquisition multiple for
Australian and offshore agribusinesses of 9.5 to 9.7 times
forward earnings, Moore said.  ADM, which got 52 percent of its  sales  from the U.S. in its
last fiscal year, has been working to increase foreign revenue.
The company made its initial approach in October, and raised its
bid by 3.8 percent to A$12.20 a share in December, before
announcing another sweetener yesterday.  ‘Reasonable Offer’  “They’re trying to do the best they can by existing
shareholders and say that ‘this is probably a reasonable
offer,’” said Paul Jensz, a Melbourne-based analyst at
PhillipCapital Ltd. “The market would be a bit surprised, but
they’ve had a bit more time to think about it and apparently no
other party has put in anything formal.”  There were $85 billion of takeovers in 2012 involving
companies in  Australia , the biggest exporter of iron ore, coal
and alumina, and the second-biggest shipper of wheat last year.
That compares with $144.5 billion of deals in 2011.  GrainCorp, which traces its roots to 1916 and the Grain
Elevators Board of the New South Wales state agriculture
department, handles as much as 60 percent of eastern Australia’s
grain crop and has about 20 million metric tons of storage
capacity at more than 280 inland grain-handling sites, according
to the company.  Australia stripped AWB of its wheat export monopoly in 2006
after an inquiry found it was among firms that made illegal
payments to win contracts from the former Iraq regime of Saddam
Hussein under the United Nations’ oil-for-food program.  Profit Outlook  GrainCorp’s profit will fall 15 percent to A$174 million in
the year to Sept. 30, according to the average of nine  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  With GrainCorp owning the silos where farmers store their
harvests, railroad cars that carry loads to east-coast ports,
and the elevators used to load ships, the deregulation gave the
company a “virtual, natural monopoly” on the eastern seaboard,
according to Justin Crosby, a policy director at the Sydney-
based NSW Farmers’ Association, which represents 10,000 members,
half of them grain growers.  Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. are advising ADM. Credit
Suisse Group AG and Greenhill & Co. are advising GrainCorp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  