-- Greenko to Install Bigger Wind Turbines in India to Rival Coal
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-25T15:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/greenko-to-install-bigger-wind-turbines-in-india-to-rival-coal.html
Greenko Group Plc (GKO) , an Indian wind-
farm developer, plans to install bigger turbines as the cost of
the nation’s projects fall below the price of coal-fired energy.  Greenko is in “advanced” discussions with a supplier of
machines with diameters and towers of 100 meters (328 feet),
 Mark Thompson , corporate finance director, said in an interview,
declining to name the company. The company previously ordered
80-meter diameter  General Electric Co. (GE)  turbines, he said.  Larger turbines are more efficient at  India ’s lower wind
speeds, moving the cost of generation closer to that of coal. A
shortage of fossil fuel used in thermal  power plants  has led to
price increases, spurring India to grant incentives for wind and
solar in an effort to end blackouts that stifle economic growth.  “We’re now being driven by supply and demand, and the fact
that the Indian economy is still growing, and there’s a big
shortage of power,” Thompson said. “I don’t think the market
really appreciates the scale of the renewable opportunity, the
scale of the demand for power, or the economics behind it.”  The cheapest bids to supply long-term round-the-clock coal
power are about 5.5 rupees (10 cents) a kilowatt-hour in  Uttar
Pradesh  in northern India, he said. “We’re selling in places
wind power at 4.7 and hydro at 3 and a half. In all the states
we’re in our power is at or better than grid parity.”  The Hyderabad-based company may install bigger machines at
projects in Rajasthan to reach a goal of operating 2 gigawatts
of renewable power facilities including hydropower by 2018,
compared with 309 megawatts currently, according to Thompson.  Greenko’s current agreement with GE covers a minimum of 200
turbines with 320 megawatts of capacity. That’s in addition to
41 machines made by the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company and
installed at the Indian developer’s first wind farm.  Greenko in March said Government of Singapore Investment
Corp., a sovereign wealth fund, would invest 100 million pounds
($154 million) in the company, helping finance 425 megawatts of
run-of-river hydropower in  Himachal Pradesh  and Arunachal
Pradesh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  