-- Greece Expects Record Tourist Year in 2013 as Strikes Recede
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2013-04-25T12:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/greece-expects-record-tourist-arrivals-this-year-group-says.html
Greece  may draw a record number of
more than 17 million tourists this year as fear of a euro exit
dissipates and a decrease in strikes helps the country’s image
abroad, the head of the  Athens-Attica Hotels Association  said.  “We are facing a more stable future,” Alexandros
Vassilikos said at a press conference in  Athens  late yesterday.
“What was happening a year or two ago was that anything in
Greece was front page news all day, no matter the scale.”  Strikes and demonstrations to oppose austerity measures
demanded by the euro area and  International Monetary Fund  to
keep Greece in the euro area has deterred tourists in recent
years. The number of international visits to Greece fell 5.5
percent to 15.5 million in 2012, Hellenic Statistical Authority
data released on April 23 showed.  The government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is banking
on a tourism revival to help end a sixth year of recession in
the country. Tourism accounted for almost 16 percent of Greece’s
gross domestic product in 2012, according to the London-based
 World Travel and Tourism Council .  Back to Athens  Vassilikos said tourists are being drawn back to Athens,
the capital, after the crisis lowered the cost of accommodation.
In the last three years, 40 hotels in the wider Attica region,
which includes Athens and neighboring islands, have closed and
hotel prices have dropped about 45 percent on average, he said.  Samaras, who formed a three-party coalition government in
June, said earlier this month that he expected to see record
revenue from the tourism sector, which accounts for almost one
in five jobs, as efforts to overhaul the economy take root.  The economy is set to grow next year by 0.6 percent after
another contraction of 4.2 percent this year, according to IMF
forecasts.  Greece can attract as much as 11 billion euros ($14.3
billion) in direct revenue from the tourism sector this year,
Anastasios Liaskos, the Culture and Tourism Ministry’s general
secretary, said in February. Tourism receipts that month rose 12
percent to 125.7 million euros, according to an e-mailed release
from the Athens-based  Bank of Greece  today.  Olympic Complacency  Vassilikos said the country needed to learn from the
mistakes of the past to allow the sector to drive growth in
Greece, saying governments didn’t build on opportunities such as
that provided by the 2004  Olympic Games  in Athens.  Stable tax policies, simpler visa issuance procedures and
organized dissemination of information to visitors are key
factors, he said. A poll of 3,000 tourists in Athens last year
showed 60 percent were unaware that there are beaches within 30
minutes of the city and 65 percent didn’t know that within an
hour you can be on an island, he said.  “We believed the momentum from the Olympics was enough to
get us through the next decades and this wasn’t the case,”
Vassilikos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  