-- Gulf Shallow Water Rig Shortage Boosts Profits for Hercules
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-04-25T20:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/gulf-shallow-water-rig-shortage-boosts-profits-for-hercules.html
A growing shortage of shallow-water
rigs in the Gulf of  Mexico  is providing an unexpected profit
boost for  Hercules Offshore Inc. (HERO)  and  Ensco Plc (ESV)  as customers move
farther offshore in the hunt for oil.  Hercules, the largest provider of rigs in the shallow Gulf,
is seeing the biggest benefit from surging rental rates as
explorers compete for the few rigs available in the region. The
company has 29 of its 38 rigs devoted to the Gulf, which helped
lift it to a first-quarter profit after a loss a year earlier.  The total number of rigs operating in the near-shore Gulf
of Mexico has dropped by 74 percent since mid-2000 as  oil
companies  focused their efforts in deeper waters offshore and
rig owners moved many shallow-water rigs to more lucrative
markets overseas. There are 34 rigs contracted this month,
according to data provided by Stephens Inc.  “You’re seeing a renewed interest in the shallow-water
Gulf of Mexico,” John Keller, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in
Houston who rates the shares a buy and owns none, said today in
a telephone interview. “It’s being driven again by high  oil
prices , similar to what we’ve seen in a lot of these older
basins on land, like the Permian.” The Permian Basin is in
 Texas  and  New Mexico .  Moving to take advantage of higher rates, Hercules said
today it is considering reactivating a second mothballed rig in
the Gulf at a cost of $20 million, 42 percent higher than it
forecast in an earnings call in February, due to more electrical
repairs needed.  Reversing Gains  Shares dropped more than 8 percent on the announcement,
reversing earlier gains, on concern the extra expense would eat
away recent profit-margin improvement in the Gulf. Shares fell
0.7 percent to $7.01 at the close in  New York .  The company increased operating income for its drilling
rigs in the Gulf to $39.5 million from $1.8 million a year
earlier. The gross profit margin of 49.5 percent beat the 44.5
percent expected by Wells Fargo analysts. Before one-time items
that included a gain related to its 2011 purchase of rival
Seahawk Drilling Inc., the company beat by 2 cents the average
of 25  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed
43 percent to $205 million.  Hercules, which climbed 46 percent during the past year
before today, yesterday announced it had obtained two new
contracts at higher rates for its rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
 Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  said it obtained a contract at
one of the higher rates for a rig that had been idled.  Planning Ahead  The tighter supply of shallow-Gulf rigs means customers
must plan ahead and contract rigs further out,  David Smith , an
analyst at Johnson Rice in Houston, said in a telephone
interview.  Hercules will lease out one of its rigs at rates greater
than $116,000 a day for a total of six months next year. Rates
were expected to be closer to $90,000 a day, analysts at Wells
Fargo wrote today in a note to investors.  The longer contract
times are giving rig owners a better handle on forecasting
income over the year.  “That kind of visibility is very, very rare for the
commodity-type rigs in the Gulf of Mexico,” Keller said.  Even the threat of hurricanes blowing through the Gulf of
Mexico this summer are not expected to deter “robust” customer
interest, Chief Executive Officer John Rynd told analysts and
investors today on a conference call.  Hurricane Pause  Based on the company’s experiences after Gulf Hurricanes
Rita and Katrina, “if the rig market is tight, people will
drill through  hurricane season  because they don’t want to get
out of the queue,” Rynd said. “If the rig market is weak, they
know they can take the hurricane season off and get access to
rigs in the fourth quarter.”  Ensco, whose eight rigs make up the second-largest fleet of
shallow-water rigs in the Gulf, has seen day rates for its more
premium-equipped rigs nearly double over the past 12 months,
Sean O’Neill, a spokesman at the London-based company, said in a
telephone interview.  “It’s a fantastic time for companies, employees and
customers to do business in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico,” he said.
“Three or four years ago, I would not have been as ebullient as
I am now.”  Even so, rates and length of contracts for comparable rigs
remain better for contractors elsewhere around the world.  “You’re not leaving those markets to come back to the  Gulf
of Mexico ,” Rynd told investors in March at an energy
conference in  New Orleans . “The Gulf of Mexico is as good as
it’s ever been. But it pales in comparison to the returns you
can make outside the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  