-- Li Ka-Shing Fails to Get Order Barring Striking Protesters
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-04-26T01:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/li-ka-shing-fails-to-get-court-order-barring-striking-protesters.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  failed to persuade a  Hong Kong  court to order
protesting dockworkers to leave immediately his building in the
city’s Central district.  High Court  of Hong Kong Judge Derek Pang said yesterday
that the request for an injunction to bar legislator Lee Cheuk- yan and unionists from Cheung Kong Center and surrounding areas
isn’t urgent and involves freedom of expression, so he will hear
arguments from all parties on May 3, according to a company
 press release  and a report on the website of government
broadcaster RTHK.  “In the meantime, the judge has indicated he would agree
that the demonstrators be restrained from unlawful entry into
Cheung Kong Center,” Hutchison said in the statement. While the
company respects freedom of speech, protesters haven’t been
peaceful and have caused “intolerable nuisance and
disruption.”  The dockworkers surrounded Li’s 70-story building -- home
to the offices of Barclays Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Bloomberg LP -- last week after rejecting as inadequate a pay
raise aimed at ending a strike. Dozens of striking workers are
sleeping in tents surrounding the building. They have put up
caricature pictures of Li while police and security guards
patrol the area.  Cheung Kong Center yesterday put up a notice telling the
workers that if they didn’t leave by noon, they could be subject
to criminal prosecution. As of 9 a.m. in Hong Kong, the
demonstrators with their tents surrounding the entrances showed
no signs of moving.  Occupy Delay  When protesters of the Occupy movement were given a
deadline last year to leave the premises of HSBC Holdings Plc’s
Asian headquarters, court bailiffs only moved them out more than
two weeks later.  The biggest industrial action ever faced by Li has led at
least 100 vessels to skip Hong Kong in favor of nearby ports.
The strike is at Hongkong International Terminals Ltd., which is
operated by  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , whose largest
shareholder is Li’s Hutchison Whampoa.  Hutchison regrets the strike has involved personal attacks
on its chairman and other management, the company said in an
advertisement published in the Chinese-language Ming Pao Daily
today. It hopes workers will resolve the issue with contractors
and return to their posts soon, it said.  Hutchison Port, along with partner  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) ,
dominates half of the capacity at Hong Kong, the world’s third-
largest container port behind Shanghai and  Singapore .  Workers employed by labor contractors at the terminals were
offered a 7 percent raise by their employers, compared with the
workers’ demand for a 23 percent increase amid rising living
costs and record  home prices . Government mediators have helped
narrow the differences between employers and workers, Labor
Secretary Matthew Cheung told reporters April 17.  Possible Escalation  The workers, who walked off the job on March 28, will
continue to press for better pay and working conditions, and
won’t rule out further escalation of protest, said Wong Yu-loy,
a representative of the Union of Hong Kong Dockers.  “We will continue to think about escalating actions,”
Wong said. “To be honest, we did expect the strike to last a
long period, but I have to say that we didn’t expect it could
last such a long time, four weeks. But we are determined.”  Li is  Asia ’s richest man with a total wealth of $27.5
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .
Hutchison Whampoa gained 0.9 percent to HK$83.80 at 9:22 a.m. in
Hong Kong. Hutchison Port Holdings Trust added 0.6 percent to 84
cents in Singapore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  