-- ICL Slumps as Potash Corp. Scraps Takeover Plan: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-04-25T12:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/icl-slumps-as-potash-corp-scraps-takeover-plan-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  dropped the
most in two weeks as  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  scrapped
a proposed takeover bid for the chemicals maker.  The  shares  of the company that extracts minerals from the
 Dead Sea  lost 4.4 percent, the most since April 11, to 43.45
shekels at 3:19 p.m. in Tel Aviv, as volume climbed to more than
double the three-month daily average. Controlling shareholder
 Israel  Corp. tumbled 4.3 percent, the most since April 10, to
2,364 shekels. The TA-25 Index fell 0.9 percent.  Optimism a deal would materialize helped boost Israel
Chemical’s stock 5.3 percent in the first quarter. “Now is not
the time to pursue this opportunity,” Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-
based Potash Corp. said today. “There must be receptivity to
foreign investment and certainty in the rules that govern such
investment.” Finance Minister Yair Lapid said he will adamantly
oppose  Potash Corp.’s (POT)  potential bid and ICL employees have
protested against the plan.  “This deal is dead,” Gilad Alper, senior analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Brokerage Ltd., said today by phone. “It
seems clear that in the foreseeable future Potash will not try
again.”  The transaction would have given Potash Corp. control of
the sixth-largest potash producer and boosted its share of
forecast global production capacity this year to about 27
percent, according data from fertilizer-industry information
service Green Markets. It would also have enabled the Canadian
company to vie with  Russia ’s OAO Uralkali, which according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, was the world’s biggest producer in
2011.  Israel Chemicals Chief Executive Officer Stefan Borgas said
this month the company would benefit from a takeover.  “This decision by Potash was expected given the strong
public opposition in Israel to the transaction,” Alper said.
“Still, this is clearly bad news for ICL’s share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  