-- Microsoft Debuts Euro Bond as Record-Low Yields Spur Issuance
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-25T13:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/microsoft-debuts-euro-bond-as-record-low-yields-spur-issuance.html
Microsoft Corp., the world’s
largest software maker, sold bonds in euros for the first time,
joining  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and  Nestle (NESN)  SA in
taking advantage of record-low borrowing costs.  Microsoft raised 550 million euros ($719 million) from 20-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
French luxury goods maker LVMH is marketing its first euro bonds
in two years, while Nestle, the world’s biggest food company,
sold its first securities in the currency since October.  It’s the busiest day in six weeks for issuance in  Europe ,
as non-financial companies sell 3.9 billion euros of bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield
investors demand to hold investment-grade corporate bonds in the
single currency has fallen to a record 1.84 percent, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  “People are desperate for yield and there is not much to
find in the government market so they will jump into corporate
bonds,” said Thomas Kristiansson, head of credit fixed income
at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “These deals are coming tight.”  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s deal was priced to yield 55 basis points more
than swaps. The Redmond, Washington-based company is also
selling five-, 10- and 30-year bonds denominated in dollars,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. Its the company’s first dollar sale
since November.  General Electric  LVMH is selling 500 million euros of notes due November
2019 that will be priced to yield 32 basis points more than the
mid-swap rate. The Paris-based company last sold euro-
denominated bonds in March 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle is raising 500 million
euros with bonds maturing May 2020 that will be priced to yield
17 basis points more than mid-swaps. The notes may be rated Aa2
by Moody’s Investors Service.  General Electric Co. (GE) , the largest maker of  jet engines ,
sold 750 million euros of floating-rate notes due May 2016 and
1.25 billion euros of fixed notes maturing May 2017.  The
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s three-year notes will
yield 45 basis points more than three-month Euribor and its
four-year securities will yield 50 basis points more than swaps.  Medi-Partenaires SAS is marketing a debut bond in the high-
yield market. The French private hospital operator is selling
385 million euros of senior secured bonds due 2020 that may be
called by the company after three years, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The notes may be rated B3 by Moody’s, six steps below
investment grade, according to the person who asked not to be
identified because they’re not authorized to speak about it. The
Paris-based company will use the proceeds to refinance a portion
of its senior and subordinated shareholder funding and to pursue
acquisitions, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  