-- If Syria Is Using Sarin, Obama Must Act
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-04-25T19:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/if-syria-really-used-sarin-obama-must-use-force.html
Well, Bashar, now you’ve done it.
We’ve seen that killing tens of thousands of your fellow Syrians
with conventional weapons is more or less acceptable to the
civilized world, as evidenced by the fact that the civilized
world hasn’t stopped you from killing tens of thousands of your
fellow Syrians with conventional weapons.  But now, if U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel is to be
believed -- and Hagel isn’t a man looking for excuses to get
entangled in the  Middle East  -- you have apparently used
chemical weapons (the nerve agent sarin, to be specific) on
civilians.  If you recall, President  Barack Obama  drew a “red line” for
you: no use of chemical weapons in your brutal attempt to put
down the uprising against your regime. Any use of such weapons
(even any “moving around” of such weapons) would “change my
calculus,” Obama said, “change my equation.” In other words,
welcome to the day in which the calculus might just be changing.  Hagel, speaking to reporters in  Abu Dhabi , said that U.S.
intelligence has come to believe -- like the Israelis, the
French and the British  before them  -- that President Bashar al- Assad’s regime seems to have used sarin “on a small scale.”  I spoke with Representative Mike Rogers, the Republican
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, who said that he
thinks the Obama administration is hesitant to face the truth
that the Assad regime has already used these sorts of weapons.
“Clearly the administration doesn’t want to see this,” he said.
“We have lost the confidence of the  Arab League  and the Syrian
opposition because of our inaction.” Rogers said he was
convinced at least a month ago that Syria had used a small
quantity of chemical weapons against civilians.  Before we get to the meaning and potential consequences of
this horrifying news, a brief primer on sarin, which was
invented in Nazi-era  Germany  for use as a pesticide, and which
was most famously used in the Tokyo subway attack by the Aum
Shinrikyo cult in 1995 and against Kurdish Iraqis during  Saddam Hussein ’s genocide campaign.  Convulsions, Death  Exposure to sarin gas, even in small doses, will cause
victims to experience vomiting, diarrhea, an increased heart
rate, eye pain and drooling. In larger amounts, the exposure can
cause convulsions, paralysis, breathing difficulty and, within a
short time, death. Sarin stops the body from controlling muscle
and gland functions, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, and this causes muscles to twitch and
breathing to become faster and irregular. Eventually, the body
is overwhelmed, and breathing stops. On a single day in 1988, in
a single town, Saddam’s forces killed some 5,000 Iraqi Kurds
using a combination of mustard gas, sarin, VX and tabun.  Assad has committed many terrible crimes against his
people, but if these latest reports are confirmed, he will have
entered into the pantheon of the modern era’s worst war
criminals, just as Saddam did in 1988. Back then, Saddam was
considered an ally by the U.S. (he was in the midst of a war
with  Iran ). So, to the everlasting shame of President  Ronald Reagan , the U.S. did nothing to stop his genocide.  Here is a chance to make amends, not to the Iraqi victims
of chemical weapons, but to the notion, shared by all non-
sociopathic people, that there are things that human beings
simply don’t do to each other. Obama has been rightly criticized
for drawing a line in the sand on chemical weapons. His
statements communicated to Assad that he was free to massacre
his people using conventional means without fear of undue
American molestation. If Assad has indeed crossed this line, he
has invited armed intervention. And if that intervention doesn’t
come, the consequences -- moral and political -- could be long-
lasting.  So what should Obama do? Sitting, as he is today, with
President  George W. Bush  at the dedication of Bush’s new
library, Obama is certainly aware of the risks of taking action
based on faulty, incomplete or flat-out wrong intelligence. So
nothing at all should be done until the evidence is absolutely
clear that sarin was used deliberately by the Assad regime.  Making Choices  At which point Obama has some choices to make. He could use
force to begin destroying or safeguarding Syria’s chemical
weapons stockpiles. This is dangerous, of course, and could even
involve the insertion of U.S. special operations forces trained
in such work. Obama’s other options include establishing no-fly
zones and openly arming Syria’s rebels, steps that could lead to
the quicker collapse of the regime. No-fly zones are expensive
and hazardous to maintain, but they would go a long way toward
degrading Assad’s power. Arming the rebels is similarly fraught,
because many of them are the sorts of people who seem likely to
one day turn these weapons back on the U.S. or its friends.  There are no good choices -- good outcomes in  Syria  are
impossible to imagine. But if it is proved to a certainty that
Assad is trying to kill his people with chemical weapons, then
Obama may have no choice but to act, not only because he has put
the country’s credibility on the line (Iran and  North Korea  are
undoubtedly watching closely), but also because the alternative
-- allowing human beings to be murdered by a monstrous regime
using the world’s most devilish weapons, when he has the power
to stop it -- is not a moral option for a moral man.  In a discussion about the long-term consequences of
interventionism I had with him when he was still a senator,
Obama said, “What I don’t want to see happen is for  Iraq  to
become an excuse for us to ignore misery or human-rights
violations or genocide.”  In Iraq, part of the challenge for U.S. intelligence was
that Saddam was suspected of hiding non-conventional weapons. It
is easier for intelligence services to find proof of chemical
weapons in active use than chemical weapons that are hidden.  Rogers thinks it is time for action. “We have unique
capabilities to make it very difficult if not impossible” for
the Syrian regime to launch further chemical attacks, he said.
“And I’m not talking about boots on the ground, period.”  If U.S. intelligence doesn’t find definitive proof that
these weapons are being deployed, Obama should not act. And if
he has to act, he should not commit U.S. ground troops to hold
Syrian territory. (As the former secretary of defense,  Robert
Gates ,  has said , “Any future defense secretary who advises the
president to again send a big American land army into  Asia  or
into the Middle East or  Africa  should have his head examined.”)  But if Assad is guilty of using chemical weapons on his own
people, we have reached the moment at which force is required to
match Obama’s words.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 