-- Life Technologies Investor Sues Over Thermo Fisher Deal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-25T15:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/life-technologies-investor-sues-over-thermo-fisher-deal.html
A Life Technologies Corp.
shareholder sued to block the $13.6 billion acquisition of the
biotechnology equipment maker by  Thermo Fisher  Scientific Inc.,
saying the offer is unfair to investors.  The deal proposes significant benefits for Thermo Fisher at
the expense of shareholders of Carlsbad, California-based Life
Technologies and doesn’t adequately reflect the company’s true
value, the trustee for the Herman Smilow 2011 Irrevocable Trust
said in a complaint filed in Delaware Chancery Court and made
public today.  “The proposed transaction lacks any of the fundamental
hallmarks of fairness,” according to the complaint. “The
company has been improperly undervalued and the sales process
unlawfully and unfairly favors Thermo Fisher.”  The $76-a-share offer also includes the assumption of
$2.2 billion in debt, Waltham, Massachusetts-based Thermo Fisher
said in a statement April 15. With the debt, the deal is valued
at about $15.8 billion. The per-share offer is 12 percent more
than Life Technologies’ closing  price  of $68 on April 12.  Thermo Fisher edged out smaller rival Sigma-Aldrich Corp.
in its pursuit of Life Technologies, which makes  laboratory
equipment  that helps map DNA. The deal expands Thermo Fisher’s
reach in medical testing.  Gene Mapping  Gene mapping is used to diagnose disease, identify risks of
certain conditions and better target medicines. The market for
gene tests may expand to $25 billion from $5 billion within a
decade, according to a report last year from UnitedHealth Group
Inc.  The transaction expands Thermo Fisher’s product  offerings ,
improving its competitive position in the life sciences market,
according to the complaint. It’s also expected to increase
Thermo Fisher’s annual revenue by about 30 percent and its
 earnings  by about 36 percent, while generating $275 million in
savings in manufacturing and distribution costs, according to
the complaint.  The plaintiff seeks to represent all Life Technologies
shareholders in its request for a court order barring the
transaction.  The case is Smilow, Trustee for the Herman Smilow 2011
Irrevocable Trust v.  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , CA8504, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  