-- Highest-Paid Workers Driving Shell Off Australian Shores
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-26T09:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/highest-paid-workers-driving-shell-gas-terminal-offshore.html
Escalating costs to build liquefied
natural gas plants on land in  Australia , where energy workers
earn the highest salaries in the world, are driving developers
out to sea in search of billions of dollars in savings.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  plans to use the world’s largest ship to
turn gas into liquid at an offshore field, eliminating the need
for investment in pipelines and port facilities.  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  is studying sea-based technology since ditching
plans this month for an onshore plant for its Browse project.  After starting work on $180 billion in LNG terminals on
land, developers are considering about $85 billion in floating
projects to keep Australia competitive with suppliers in North
America and East Africa. The floating export terminals will be
built in Asian shipyards where labor costs are lower, including
South Korea, the world’s biggest shipbuilder after  China .  “A lot of people have been saying Australian LNG is now
over, it’s going to be priced out of the market by U.S. LNG
exports and competition from  Canada  and East Africa,” Mark Greenwood, a Sydney-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a
phone interview. “In our view, we are going to see continued
investment in Australia, just a different sort.”  The engineering challenges are massive.  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ’s Prelude vessel, vying to be the first floating LNG
facility in the world, will be as long as the Empire State
Building and six times the weight of the largest aircraft
carrier. Exxon proposes a vessel spanning 495 meters (1,624
feet), or 7 meters longer than the Shell plant.  $163,600 Salary  Australian oil and gas workers earn $163,600 a year on
average, 35 percent more than employees in the U.S. and almost
double the global average, according to  a survey this year  by
recruiting company Hays Plc and Oil and Gas Job Search. That
compares with $93,400 in the U.K., according to the study, which
analyzed pay for engineers, geoscientists and related jobs.  Floating LNG may be almost 20 percent cheaper than building
a project on land for Woodside and its partners in the Browse
project, including Shell. Using three offshore vessels to
produce the gas would cost an estimated A$35 billion ($36
billion), compared with a cost of A$43 billion for a new
development on land,  John Hirjee  a Melbourne-based analyst for
Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an April 12 report.  That’s a cost of A$2.92 billion per million metric tons of
output for a floating LNG project producing 12 million tons a
year, compared with a cost of A$3.58 billion for a conventional
plant, Hirjee said. Companies also can invest in floating LNG
projects in phases rather than all at once, he said.  World Demand  Global LNG demand is estimated to grow to 400 million
metric tons a year by 2020 from 240 million tons last year,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., wrote in an e-mailed response to questions.  Of the 90 million tons a year of new projects that need to
be approved globally in the next three years to satisfy LNG
demand by the end of the decade, as much as a third of that may
come from proposed floating LNG plants and expansions of onshore
developments in Australia, he said.  Australia’s vast gas reserves and proximity to the largest
import markets in Asia have put the nation in pole position to
meet burgeoning demand in  Japan , China and South Korea and
become the world’s biggest exporter within the decade. The
country has six onshore projects with long-term contracts under
construction, with the first of those starting next year, in
addition to the three already operating.  Costs Soar  The resources boom in Australia has inflated costs to the
point where onshore developments are becoming too expensive,
while the industry also faces increasing global competition.  Woodside’s onshore plant would have created as many as
8,000 jobs during construction and generated as much as A$50
billion in gross domestic product, according to the company’s
website. The decision to scrap the proposal came a month after
Australia posted its highest jobless rate in three years.  Woodside will return about $520 million to investors in
dividends after dropping its Browse plan, saying earlier this
month it will pay a special dividend of 63 cents a share and
boost the payout ratio.  Three gas export projects have received permission to ship
LNG from Canada’s Pacific Coast, with another in the U.S., on
the Gulf Coast, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Eni SpA
and Anadarko Petroleum Corp. agreed last year to build the
world’s second-largest LNG export plant in  Mozambique .  Australia Exposure  While there is “upside” for future Australian LNG
projects, global competition is rising, and buyers may want to
diversify their supply sources away from Australia, Gavin Thompson, the Beijing-based head of Asia-Pacific gas and power
research at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said in a phone interview.  “There are a number of countries that have a very high
level of overall exposure to Australia,” especially Japan and
China, he said. “So how much more do they want?”  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the Malaysian state-owned oil
company known as Petronas, is moving ahead with plans to build
its first floating LNG project due to start in 2015.  Exxon’s Scarborough floating LNG project may cost about $15
billion, and Shell’s Prelude development, already under
construction, may cost $12 billion, Citigroup estimates.  Costs for LNG plants on land have escalated in Australia.
The budget last year for  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Gorgon project jumped
21 percent to A$52 billion because of higher labor expenses and
gains in the Australian dollar, and  BG Group Plc (BG/) ’s Queensland
Curtis LNG venture rose 36 percent to $20.4 billion.  Mozambique, U.S.  “The advantage is that a lot of the work can be done
outside the high-cost environment of Australia,” Anthony
Patten, a Perth-based partner and energy specialist at the law
firm Allens, said in a phone interview. “We’ve enjoyed an
enormous amount of activity over the past several years, but the
costs of Australian projects are going to be high compared with
emerging producers like Mozambique and the U.S.”  “Australia is a particular concern on cost inflation,”
Matthias Bichsel, Shell’s global director of projects and
technology, told analysts in November in New York. “Welders can
apparently earn $250,000 a year.”  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, is building the
Prelude vessel at  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140) ’s shipyard in
Geoje, an island off the southeast coast of South Korea. At the
peak of construction, the venture will employ 5,000 people.  Samsung Heavy, the world’s second-largest shipbuilder by
order-book, after Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., employed about
12,000 at the end of last year earning an equivalent of about
$70,000 a year on average, according to its annual report.  Prelude Start  When  Prelude  is complete, the ship will be towed to a site
off Australia about 200 kilometers from the nearest point on the
coast it will chill gas into liquid and transfer the fuel to
vessel for transport to customers. The project is due to start
production in about 2017.  “With floating LNG there is this massive jigsaw of
technical and execution challenges,” Susan Gourvenec, a
professor of the  University of Western Australia  in Perth and a
specialist in offshore oil and gas engineering, said by phone.
“You’ve got to encapsulate the production facilities and the
personnel accommodation and the storage and offloading
facilities all on this one unit, and it’s going to be moored
offshore in deep water and harsh weather conditions.”  Exxon plans to decide whether to do its Scarborough
floating LNG venture by 2015, with production starting by 2021,
according to documents filed this month with the Australian
government. The proposed venture would produce about 6 million
to 7 million tons of LNG annually, Exxon said April 2.  Best Option  Floating LNG is the best option for Scarborough,
“eliminating the need for infrastructure like LNG loading
jetties, dredging of shipping channels, pipelines and site
clearance,” Exxon said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil producer, will
consider cheaper alternatives for Browse, including a floating
LNG plant, a pipeline to existing facilities in Western
Australia or a smaller onshore plant, after concluding that the
initial plan wasn’t commercially viable, the company said.  Shell believes its floating LNG technology is “the
fastest, most economic and the best technical solution available
for Browse,”  Ann Pickard , chairwoman of the company’s
Australian business, said in an April 12 statement.  Among other floating LNG projects proposed off Australia to
tap Asian demand is Woodside’s Sunrise venture, which may cost
$13 billion, Deutsche Bank said.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl, considering floating LNG
off northern Australia, expects to decide in the third quarter
of 2013 whether to go ahead with engineering and design work to
develop the Cash and Maple fields, its Australian unit said in
an e-mail response to questions.  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO) 
plan the Bonaparte floating LNG development off northern
Australia. That project would cost $8 billion to $10 billion,
Greenwood of Citigroup estimates.  “It’s definitely a turning point with huge opportunities
for Western Australia to channel all of that engineering
expertise during the boom into a brand new industry and give it
a head start” on the technology, Gourvenec said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  