-- IMF Says Monetary Policy Should Remain Accommodative for Growth
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-25T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/imf-says-monetary-policy-should-remain-accommodative-for-growth.html
The International Monetary Fund
said today that monetary policy should remain accommodative to
boost growth in advanced economies, while complaints about
competitive currency devaluation appear “overstated.”  “Unconventional policies continue to provide essential
support to demand and have lessened bank vulnerabilities in
advanced economies,” the Washington-based IMF said in a report.
“But vigilance is needed to ensure that a prolonged period of
low interest rates and expanding central bank balance sheets
does not give rise to fresh financial excesses.”  Group of 20 finance chiefs and central bankers last week
backed the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s recent stimulus push, signaling its
focus on supporting domestic demand was strong enough for them
to ignore the side-effects of a sliding yen. At the same time,
nations from the  Philippines  to South Korea have enacted or are
considering policies to curb the effects of capital inflows.  The global recovery remains unbalanced with growth
prospects in the U.S. strengthening even as the euro area
remains stuck in “low gear” and  Japan ’s economic expansion may
be “sluggish” after the effects of its stimulus measures wear
off, the lender said. Advanced economies require more progress
with medium- and long-term fiscal adjustment plans, entitlement
reform and balance sheet repair, according to the report.  Amid concerns about the impact of monetary policy easing on
currency moves, there “appears to be no major deviations of
main currencies from medium-term fundamentals,” the IMF said.  To address these fears,  China  should allow its exchange
rate to be more market determined and implement policies to
promote consumption-driven growth, the IMF said. “Other
economies need to deploy structural policies to foster the
healthy absorption of capital inflows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  