-- Imperial Says Kearl Oil Sales to Start in Third Quarter
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-04-25T12:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/imperial-says-kearl-oil-sales-to-start-in-third-quarter.html
Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , the second-
largest Canadian oil producer, said sales from the C$12.9
billion ($12.6 billion) Kearl oil-sands project are expected to
begin in the third quarter.  “Start-up of the initial phase of the Kearl oil-sands
project is imminent,” Calgary-based Imperial said in a
statement distributed by CNW today. The project, which will have
initial output of about 110,000 barrels a day and expand to
345,000, was expected to start late last year. The company has
been saying for weeks that production would commence soon.  Imperial has said Kearl will develop 3.2 billion barrels of
crude in  Alberta ’s oil-sands region. The company, 70 percent
owned by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , on Feb. 1 raised its estimate for
initial costs because of “harsh weather” and issues delivering
heavy equipment to the site, 70 kilometers (45 miles) north of
Fort McMurray. Some Montana residents protested the truck
traffic through their state.  “First production was expected in early April,” Michael P. Dunn and Robert J. Fitzmartyn, analysts for FirstEnergy
Capital Corp., said in an April 18 research note. “It may be
mid-year before first sales occur, as Imperial must first fill
 storage tanks  and the pipeline to the facility.”  The Kearl notice was part of Imperial’s quarterly earnings
statement today. The company reported net income fell to C$798
million, or 94 cents a share, from C$1.02 billion, or C$1.19, a
year earlier. Excluding one-time items, per-share profit was 1
cent less than the 95-cent average of 12  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The price of Canadian heavy  crude  fell 12 percent from a
year earlier to average $66.99 a barrel in the quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Imperial gained 2.3 percent to C$40.09 at the close in
Toronto yesterday. The stock has one sell, five buy and 11 hold
recommendations from analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Suncor Energy Inc. is the largest Canadian oil producer by
market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  