-- India’s Petronet LNG Signs First Accord to Import Gas From U.S.
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-04-25T05:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/india-s-petronet-lng-signs-first-accord-to-import-gas-from-u-s-.html
Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) , India’s biggest
liquefied natural gas importer, signed its first agreement to
purchase the fuel from the U.S. as demand rises in Asia’s
second-biggest energy consumer. The  shares  rose.  Petronet will buy 4 million tons of LNG annually from
Houston-based United LNG LP’s Main Pass Energy Hub in the Gulf
of Mexico for 20 years, the New Delhi-based company’s Finance
Director R.K. Garg said in a phone interview. The price will be
linked to benchmark Henry Hub rates and a final agreement will
be signed by the end of this year, he said.  “Demand in India is rising and large volumes are available
in the U.S. at competitive prices,” Garg said. “This is our
first agreement from there and we’ll look for more.”  Petronet joins  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s biggest gas
distributor, in securing supplies from the U.S. where a surge in
production of the fuel from shale rock is turning the world’s
biggest economy to an exporter from an importer. Indian
companies including  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. are struggling to raise production at home, affecting
supplies to power stations and fertilizer makers.  Petronet  surged  as much as 3 percent to 139 rupees in
Mumbai and traded at 138.10 rupees as of 11:12 a.m. The stock
has declined 12 percent this year, compared with a 0.5 percent
drop in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index.  Natural gas prices in New York trading have increased 25
percent this year following a 12 percent gain last year. The May
contract rose 0.2 percent to $4.175 per million British thermal
units on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange as of 1 p.m. Singapore
time.  Japan  paid  $16.81 per million Btu  for LNG imports in
February. Henry Hub, in Erath,  Louisiana , is the delivery point
for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for the fuel.  Freeport McMoRan Energy LLC and United LNG are jointly
developing the Main Pass export terminal with a capacity of 24
million tons per year, according to United LNG’s  website . The
project will start exports in 2017, according to the website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  