-- Indian Foreign Minister to Visit China to Reduce Border Tensions
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-04-25T06:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/indian-foreign-minister-to-visit-china-to-reduce-border-tensions.html
India ’s foreign minister Salman Khurshid will travel to  China  next month on a trip aimed at
easing tensions between the world’s two most-populous countries
amid an ongoing dispute along their border.  Khurshid will visit Beijing for talks with Chinese
officials on May 9, he told reporters in New Delhi today.
India’s government has accused the Chinese army of straying into
its territory in Depsang valley in Ladakh, a claim denied by
China. Two meetings between the nations’ armies have failed to
resolve the matter.  “If your relationship deteriorates, trade obviously is a
factor,” Khurshid said. “That’s why we don’t want the
relationship to deteriorate.”  The nuclear-armed neighbors, home to more than a third of
the world’s people, have laid claims to territory held by the
other and clashed during a brief border conflict in 1962. India
accuses China of occupying 38,000 square kilometers of territory
in  Jammu and Kashmir  to the west, while the government in
Beijing says 90,000 square kilometers of land in Arunachal
Pradesh, a state in India’s northeast, belongs to China.  Indian and Chinese military commanders have met twice on
the border, the most recent one on April 23, with the aim of
resolving the dispute. Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai of the
South Asian country summoned Wei Wei, the Chinese ambassador in
New Delhi, for talks last week after the incident in northern
India close to the western border of  Tibet .  Trade Ties  Military relations between the two countries were suspended
in August 2010 after China issued a visa to an Indian army
officer in charge of forces in Kashmir without stamping his
passport, an act seen as questioning India’s rule over the
disputed Himalayan territory. China has a close alliance with
 Pakistan , which has waged two wars with India over Kashmir.  India and China, which went to war five decades ago over
part of their 3,500-kilometer (2,175-mile) boundary, have tried
to prevent their disagreements from affecting economic ties.
China is India’s second-largest trading partner and their
combined trade was $50.9 billion in the April-December period,
according to Indian government figures.  China is engaged in a series of territorial disputes, in
the South and East China Seas, with countries including Vietnam,
Malaysia and  Japan . China has sent air and sea patrols and
conducted military exercises across those areas in recent months
as it presses its claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  