-- Indonesian Two-Year Bond Yield at One-Month Low; Rupiah Gains
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-04-25T08:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/indonesian-two-year-bond-yield-at-one-month-low-rupiah-gains.html
The yield on Indonesia’s two-year
government bonds fell to a one-month low as foreign funds seek
higher-returning assets amid monetary easing in developed
nations. The rupiah strengthened.  Overseas funds have pumped 8.72 trillion rupiah ($897
million) into the country’s local-currency  notes  since April 3,
the day before  Japan ’s central bank said it would buy 7.5
trillion yen ($76 billion) of debt per month to stimulate its
economy, almost matching the Federal Reserve’s $85 billion of
purchases. Indonesia’s benchmark interest  rate  is 5.75 percent,
the highest among Southeast Asia’s five biggest economies and
more than Japan’s 0.1 percent.  The yield on the government’s 11 percent bonds due October
2014 fell two basis points to 4.32 percent in Jakarta, the
lowest level since March 25, according to prices from the Inter
Dealer Market Association. The rate dropped 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, in the last three days. The five-year
yield declined three basis points to 4.92 percent.  “There’s more demand from offshore investors given high
yields in  Indonesia ,” said Ezra Nazula, head of fixed income at
PT Manulife Asset Management Indonesia in Jakarta. “Yields have
been falling across all tenors and short-end bonds have
outperformed.”  Indonesia may raise fuel prices next month as policy makers
seek to reduce subsidies, Deputy Finance Minister Mahendra
Siregar said, predicting confidence in the rupiah will improve
as fiscal management is strengthened. The new policy may
encourage Standard & Poor’s to join Fitch Ratings Ltd. and
Moody’s Investors Service in ranking Indonesia investment grade,
he said in an interview in Jakarta yesterday.  The rupiah was little changed at 9,721 per dollar,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has weakened 0.9 percent this year following a 5.9
percent decline in 2012. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
fell two basis points to 5.67 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  