-- Iran Told Hezbollah to Join Syrian War, Says Ex-Leader
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-04-25T13:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/iran-told-hezbollah-to-join-syrian-war-says-ex-leader.html
Iran  pressed Hezbollah fighters to
join the civil war in  Syria  to bolster President Bashar al- Assad’s armed struggle, according to Sobhi al-Tofaili, a
disaffected former leader of the militant group.  The allegation, made on Lebanon’s Future Television, echoes
similar comments by George Sabra, interim leader of the Syrian
National Coalition, at a press conference in  Turkey  on April 22.  The former Hezbollah secretary said that at least 138
militiamen had died in Syria and scores had been wounded. The
organization is split over its involvement, he said.  Lebanese Sunni Muslim clerics called on April 23 for a holy
war to defend co-religionists in Syria from Hezbollah, amid
concern that Lebanon is being sucked into its neighbor’s
increasingly sectarian conflict. Lebanon’s President Michel Suleiman dismissed the calls. The uprising against Assad began
with peaceful protests in March 2011 that turned violent when
the government forces turned their guns on demonstrators.  “Hezbollah fighters have crossed the border and started to
kill our people to support the murderer Bashar al-Assad,” Sabra
said at a televised press conference. The group is “occupying
Syrian villages, murdering civilians, preventing them from
peacefully expressing their views.”  Extremist Merger  The Syrian government says the unrest is distinct from the
so-called Arab Spring uprisings that have toppled the leaders of
Tunisia,  Egypt , Libya and Yemen. It says it’s fighting an
Islamist insurgency, citing as evidence the recent merger of al-
Qaeda in  Iraq  and the al-Nusra Front in Syria.  Hezbollah has denied it is backing Assad in the fighting,
saying it’s helping Lebanese Shiites living in Syrian border
towns and villages to defend themselves against rebel assaults.
It has remained largely silent amid a wave of recent accusations
by Syrian opposition leaders and Lebanese groups about its
involvement in Syria.  “Hezbollah has not denied the claims and does not appear
very concerned about how its involvement will be interpreted,”
said  Paul Salem , director of the  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace’s Middle East Center  in Beirut.  After the protests evolved into armed conflict and the al-
Nusra Front’s involvement was highlighted, both Iran and
Hezbollah had a “convenient excuse -- that they are fighting
against militant jihadis and not an Arab Spring uprising,” he
said.  Stability Threatened  They may have concluded that “Assad is not about to fall
and that they’re not on the Titanic but on the side that’s going
to be around for a long time,” he said.  The group is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., U.K. and  Israel .  Syria’s conflict is rapidly deteriorating and is
threatening the stability of its neighbors, particularly
Lebanon,  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations ,
told the  Security Council  yesterday.  “Hezbollah not only continues to undermine Lebanon from
within by violating the government’s policy of disassociation,
but actively enables Assad to wage war on the Syrian people by
providing money, weapons, and expertise to the regime in close
coordination with Iran,” she said.  In a letter to Hezbollah chief  Hassan Nasrallah  from Moaz al-Khatib, former SNC leader, he said: “Is it satisfying to you
that the Syrian regime shells it citizens with fighter planes
and Scud missiles?  ‘‘I demand that you withdraw all Hezbollah troops from
Syria,’’ al-Khatib said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  