-- Iran to Maintain Import Subsidies for Staples as Prices Rise
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-04-25T09:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/iran-to-maintain-import-subsidies-for-staples-as-prices-rise.html
Iran ’s government said it will
continue providing U.S. dollars at a preferential rate to
exporters of essential goods, contradicting earlier comments by
ministry officials and parliament members who said the program
had been revised.  “Foreign currencies at a preferential rate are still being
allocated for essential goods,” Vice-President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said today during a visit to Isfahan, according to the
state-run Mehr news agency. “All goods that benefited from the
preferential rate will still continue to do so.”  Deputy Industry Minister Hassan Radmard told the state-run
Iranian Students News Agency two days ago that the government
would stop providing dollars at the cheap rate of 12,260 rials
apiece to importers of some staple goods, including meat,
chicken, cooking oil and sugar. Rahimi said that comment was
“baseless and announced without approval from the government.”  The greenback trades at about 36,200 rials on the streets
of Tehran, the rate used by most ordinary Iranians.  The confusion comes amid criticism of the government’s
handling of the economy less than two months before presidential
elections, in which the incumbent,  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , isn’t
eligible to run. Iran has been hit by financial and trade
sanctions over its nuclear program that have curbed oil exports,
restricted access to foreign currencies and weakened the rial.  The suggestion of a change in the subsidy policy was
condemned by members of parliament who warned of rising food
costs, while some Tehran residents rushed to stores to hoard
goods. Cooking  oil prices  increased by as much as 35 percent and
some Tehran supermarkets restricted purchases to six bottles per
family, the state-run  Fars  news agency said yesterday.  “When the country’s economy is suffering and we are
witnessing price increases every day, removing the people’s
staples from the program will lead to uncontrollable
inflation,” said Ebrahim Nekou, a member of the parliament’s
economic committee, according to the Donya-e-Eqtesad newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  