-- Israel Shekel Gains to 2-Week High on Bet Reforms to Spur Growth
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-04-25T11:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/israel-shekel-gains-to-2-week-high-on-bet-reforms-to-spur-growth.html
The shekel appreciated to the
strongest level in more than two weeks on investor bets the
government will implement reforms to boost economic growth.  The shekel rose 0.1 percent to 3.6059 a dollar, at 2:18
p.m. in Tel Aviv, the highest since April 8, the day the central
bank bought U.S. dollars for the first time in almost two years
in a bid to stem the currency’s rally. The currency is the
second-best performer after the Mexican peso in 2013 among a
basket of 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said yesterday strikes
won’t stop planned economic reforms to increase competition at
ports, break down corporate monopolies and lower the cost of
living. The economy will expand 3.4 percent this year after  3.2
percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of 14 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The state’s commitment to growth-promoting reforms and
the country’s interest-rate gap with major economies are
attracting investment in the shekel also by foreign investors,”
Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le- Israel  Ltd.
in Tel Aviv, said by phone. “If the currency gets below the
3.60 level we may see the likelihood that the central bank will
again intervene.”  Employees at  El Al Israel Airlines Ltd. (ELAL)  and two other local
airlines walked out April 21 after the government approved an
“Open Skies” agreement with the European Union to add new
routes and increase competition. The strike ended the next day
after the  Finance Ministry  agreed to cover the companies’ added
security costs.  Investment Boost  The gap between Israel’s benchmark interest rate and those
in major economies is spurring investment in the country’s
bonds,  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said on April 23.
The yield on the 4.25 percent benchmark notes due March 2023,
which was unchanged at 3.68 percent, slumped 23 basis points so
far this month, headed for the biggest drop this year.  The Bank of Israel has gradually reduced the borrowing rate
from 3.25 percent in 2011 in an effort to shore up the economy
amid the  European debt crisis . The monetary committee, led by
Fischer, 69, held the rate at 1.75 percent last month as policy
makers focused more on rising home prices than on the pace of
recovery in the global economy.  One-year interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, fell for the first time
since April 19, declining one basis point to 1.60 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  