-- J.C. Penney’s Shakeup Continues With More Departures
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-04-25T21:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/j-c-penney-s-shakeup-continues-with-more-departures.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the retailer
working to rebound after its worst sales year in more than two
decades, continues to shake up management with the departure of
three senior executives from its construction unit.  Michael Koch, vice president of construction, Robert
Laughrea and Todd York, directors in the same unit, have left
the Plano, Texas-based company, effective today, Joey Thomas, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Koch and Laughrea were recruited to the department-store
chain by  Ron Johnson , the former chief executive officer who
stepped down earlier this month. Johnson, a former Apple Inc.
executive, left after a failed revamp of the retailer’s stores
saw 2012 sales tumble 25 percent to $13 billion, leading to a
net loss of $985 million. York also joined during Johnson’s
tenure.  Ben Fay, executive vice president of real estate, store
design and development, has also departed, the company confirmed
April 23. That came about two weeks after Johnson was replaced
by Myron Ullman. Fay joined J.C. Penney a year ago from a
similar role at Apple.  Ullman has brought back Tom Clerkin, a former senior vice
president of property development, to advise on store
renovations, according to the company.  Chief Operating Officer Michael Kramer and Chief Talent
Officer Daniel Walker no longer work at the chain, J.C. Penney
said in public filings earlier this month.  J.C. Penney’s shares rose as much as 11 percent in extended
trading today after billionaire  George Soros  disclosed a passive
stake in the retailer. The shares rose less than 1 percent to
$15.24 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  