-- Japan Investment Banks Once Ugly Sisters Become Cinderellas
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-04-26T11:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/japan-s-investment-banks-once-ugly-sisters-turn-into-cinderellas.html
Investment banks are among the
first and biggest beneficiaries of  Japan ’s new economic-stimulus
policies, known as Abenomics.  Since Prime Minister Shinzo Abe came into office in
December with a plan to end more than a decade of deflation,
banks’ underwriting business for both equity and bonds is
soaring. Companies have more than tripled sales of stocks to 1.7
trillion yen ($17 billion) so far this year compared with the
same period in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Corporate bond issuances climbed to 3.1 trillion yen, the best
start to a year since 2009, the data show.  Investment banks are already enjoying rising brokerage-fee
income as the Abe-driven stock market rally increases trading.
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest securities firm, today
reported the highest quarterly  profit  in seven years, beating
analysts’ estimates.  “This is the industry that’s benefiting from Abenomics,”
said Shinichi Ina, a bank analyst at UBS AG in  Tokyo  who added
Nomura to his coverage in April with a buy rating. “Trading
volumes have gone up, which means brokerages can get more fees.
Next we’ll see the primary market come to life as companies
issue more stocks and bonds to raise funds.”  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  won an election in December
with a three-pronged strategy of fiscal spending, monetary
easing and deregulation to spur investing and hiring.  ‘Third Arrow’  The government unveiled 10.3 trillion yen of spending in
January, and the  Bank of Japan  this month said it will double
the monetary base within two years. Japanese Bankers Association
Chairman Takeshi Kunibe earlier this month urged Abe to follow
through with the “third arrow” of his policy that includes
pledges to reduce regulations, boost corporate investment and
increase trade, which haven’t yet been enacted.  Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares jumped 61 percent since his
campaign promises in November, as foreign investors bought into
the market. It slipped 1 percent by the close in Tokyo.  The  Topix Securities and Commodity Futures Index , which
includes the country’s major brokerages, is the biggest gainer
among the 33 groups on the benchmark gauge since mid-November,
surging 172 percent. That marks a turnaround from 2011, when the
industry was the worst performer, slumping 50 percent as
companies shunned the stock market after a record earthquake and
Nomura and closest rival  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  reeled from
faltering overseas expansions.  IPOs Rise  The 1.7 trillion yen of equity offerings underwritten in
Japan this year is the most since 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. So far this year, 18 companies have priced
initial public offerings, up from 15 in the same period of 2012,
the data show.  Nomura banker Satoshi Shiomi is trying to woo companies
that may eventually list their shares by inviting them to give
three-minute presentations on their business strategies to about
70 stock exchange officials, lawyers, accountants and private-
equity firms, followed by questions and answers.  “Abenomics is motivating more firms to consider IPOs,”
said Shiomi, 28, who started the 7 a.m. weekly events in
January. About 50 Japanese companies have attended so far,
including Shift Inc., a software-testing company started in
2005. Shift hired Nomura as the lead underwriter for an IPO
planned for early next year, said Masaru Tange, the 38-year-old
CEO and founder of the Tokyo-based company.  Higher Profit  Nomura’s  net income  more than tripled to 82.4 billion yen
in the three months ended March, the highest since the quarter
ended March 2006. Daiwa may report quarterly profit of 25
billion yen, the most in three years, on May 1, according to the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares of Nomura have jumped 167 percent in the past six
months and traded 0.7 percent lower to close at 762 yen. The
stock tumbled to 224 yen in November 2011, the lowest in at
least 37 years. Daiwa has gained 163 percent in six months and
slipped 1.1 percent today.  “Thanks to Abenomics, the business and market environment
has largely improved and we have benefited greatly from that,”
Nomura Chief Operating Officer Atsushi Yoshikawa said on a call
with analysts today. Still, he added, it’s too soon to be
optimistic about global business.  Confidence among financial-products  dealers  rose by a
record last quarter, according to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan
business survey. The sentiment index climbed to 60 from minus
28, the biggest jump since the central bank began compiling the
data in December 2003.  Mizuho’s Turnaround  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s equity sales team is getting
swamped with inquiries from overseas investors -- a turnaround
from a year ago, said Mikihiko Kitano, a spokesman for the
securities unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value.  “Our analysts used to struggle to get appointments with
these clients,” Kitano said, adding that customers have been
reactivating dormant trading accounts. “Now we’re trying hard
not to turn down their offers to meet.”  The firm plans to hold its Mizuho Investment Conference in
September in Tokyo in response to demand following a similar
gathering in February, Kitano said. It will invite more than 250
overseas investors, up from 170 at the previous event, he said.  Investment-bank hiring is also picking up, according to
executive recruiter John Byrne, 35, a partner at Tokyo-based
Ascent Global Partners who as recently as November considered
leaving equities recruitment because business was so bad.  “My work is much busier right now,” he said, adding that
recruiting season, which usually lasts from January until June,
will probably continue to September this year. “Japan used to
be the ugly sister of  Asia , but now it’s the Cinderella.”  Hiring Graduates  Securities units of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and Mizuho, Japan’s three
biggest banks, plan to increase the number of graduates they
recruit next year, according to spokesmen at the Tokyo-based
firms. Daiwa also targets an increase, as do Okasan Securities
Co. and Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., spokesmen said.  SMBC Nikko, the brokerage unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui , plans to
add 100 equity and bond sales staff, traders and bankers in its
offices overseas within three years, Chief Executive Officer
Tetsuya Kubo said in an April 17 interview.  Not all analysts are optimistic that brokerages will
continue to rally. Azuma Ohno at Barclays Plc in Tokyo says
growth at securities firms hinges on whether they can convince
Japanese households to move their savings into riskier assets.  “Individual investors must be very skeptical given that
they haven’t taken action yet despite the spike in stock
prices,” said Ohno, who has a sell rating on Nomura and Daiwa.
“We have to wait and see if this favorable market environment
will encourage them to move their funds.”  Hoarding Cash  Households, used to  deflation , kept more than half of their
1,547 trillion yen of financial assets in cash and less than 7
percent in stocks as of Dec. 31, central bank data show.
Individuals  sold  a net 2.5 trillion yen of Japanese stocks since
mid-November, according to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Locals still remember the collapse of the country’s asset-
price bubble more than 20 years ago. The  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  remains 64 percent below its 1989 peak.  Yoshio Emoto, 63, who owns an eel restaurant called
Matsuyoshi in Tokyo’s financial district, doesn’t see a return
to the bubble days of old. He said sales have been declining
since Yamaichi Securities Co., then Japan’s fourth-biggest
brokerage, collapsed during the country’s banking crisis in 1997
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s failure triggered the global
turmoil of 2008.  “Things aren’t getting better at all,” Emoto said. “I
don’t smell any bubble. All I smell is eel.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  