-- Kardemir Soars to Record as Railways Liberalized: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-04-25T13:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/kardemir-soars-to-record-as-railways-liberalized-istanbul-mover.html
Kardemir Karabuk Demir Celik Sanayi
ve Ticaret AS (KRDMD)  surged to the highest level on record after  Turkey 
approved a law to liberalize the railway industry, spurring bets
of higher sales.  Shares of the Turkish company that started making railroad
tracks in 2007 soared 4.2 percent to 1.99 liras at 4:13 p.m. in
Istanbul, the highest intraday level since the company listed in
June 1998. That brings a rally this year to 58 percent, compared
with an 8.7 percent advance in the benchmark  Borsa Istanbul
National 100 Index. (XU100)   Turkey’s parliament passed a law that will allow public and
private companies to build and operate their own railways,
state-run Anatolia news agency reported late yesterday. Rail
sales comprised 8.6 percent of Kardemir’s total revenue last
year, its 2012 financial statement shows. Kardemir is the only
company in Turkey that can produce rails as long as 72 meters,
according to its website.  “With the private sector stepping in, rail demand will
rise,” Umut Ozturk, an analyst at Burgan Securities in
Istanbul, said by phone today.  The ruling, subject to approval from President  Abdullah
Gul , also proposes the restructuring of Turkish State Railways,
the state company known as TCDD, as an infrastructure operator.
A separate company will be set up for railway operations,
Anatolia reported.  Kardemir’s first-quarter profit will probably drop 45
percent to 41 million liras ($22.8 million), according to the
median  estimate  of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Six
analysts recommend investors buy the shares, while four say hold
and two recommend selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  