-- Kawasaki Heavy Eyes Merger to Thin Shipbuilding Industry Ranks
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-04-25T03:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/kawasaki-heavy-eyes-merger-to-thin-shipbuilding-industry-ranks.html
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012) ,
 Japan ’s third-biggest shipbuilder, would consider merging to
thin out the number of Japanese companies operating in a crowded
field.  “In the future, a merger is one option to consider given
that there are too many companies in this industry” Senior
Executive Vice President Mitsutoshi Takao told reporters in
 Tokyo  today after the company reported that net income may rise
10 percent this fiscal year, lagging analysts’ estimates.  The comments follow a report April 22 in the Nikkei
newspaper that said Kawasaki Heavy and  Mitsui Engineering &
Shipbuilding Co. (7003)  are in talks to combine. Kawasaki Heavy hasn’t
entered into talks with Mitsui Engineering and a merger wasn’t
discussed at the company’s board meeting today, Takao said.  Pressure among Japanese companies has arisen in the face of
competition from lower-cost producers in  China  and South Korea.
Though it has weakened this year, the yen’s recent strength has
also acted as a catalyst.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  said last
year that they plan to combine their energy-equipment businesses
by January, deepening ties between two of Japan’s biggest
industrial manufacturers. Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp.,
the world’s second-biggest steelmaker, was formed by a domestic
merger in October to become more competitive with steelmakers in
China and South Korea.  Kawasaki Heavy, based in the western port city of Kobe, was
founded as a shipbuilder in 1878. The company has grown into one
of Japan’s  top three makers  of heavy machinery and produces
everything from submarines for Japan’s self defence forces and
high-speed trains to Ninja racing bikes.　  Japanese shipbuilders have lost market share to Chinese and
South Korean rivals, which expanded facilities and contracts by
taking advantage of lower costs.  Japan held a market share of 18.3 percent last year as
measured by ship completion, compared with China’s 40.9 percent
and  South Korea ’s 32.9 percent, according to the Shipbuilders’
Association of Japan, which cites researcher IHS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  