-- KKR Profit Falls 8.2% as Buyout Portfolio Trailed Markets
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-04-26T17:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/kkr-profit-falls-8-2-as-buyout-portfolio-trailed-markets.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , beat analysts’ estimates
as fee-related earnings rose and gains from the firm’s
investments increased.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of profit
excluding some costs, was $627.6 million, or 88 cents a share,
compared with $683.8 million, or 99 cents, a year earlier, New
York-based KKR said in a statement today. KKR beat the 80-cents
average  estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares
rose after KKR said it would increase payouts to shareholders.  KKR, like competitor  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , has broadened its
business beyond traditional leveraged buyouts by underwriting
stocks and bonds, managing funds of  hedge funds , and investing
in infrastructure and real estate. The firm, which is raising
its latest buyout fund with an $8 billion target, is also
seeking to access individual investors’ money through two credit
funds and new potential offerings.  “We continue to scale both our private equity and non-
private equity businesses, growing our assets under
management,” Kravis and Roberts said in today’s statement.  KKR rose 2.2 percent to $20.64 at 9:55 a.m. in New York
trading. The  shares  advanced 33 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with the 16 percent increase in the 20-
company  Standard & Poor’s  index of asset managers and custody
banks.  Dividend Policy  Distributable earnings, which include income generated from
the firm’s balance sheet investments, increased 77 percent to
$290.6 million as KKR sold shares of at least five portfolio
companies. KKR said it will pay a  dividend  of 27 cents per
common share on May 21, reflecting a new distribution policy
that will pay out 40 percent of earnings from the balance sheet
investments each quarter, in addition to the traditional fee
earnings and cash profits.  The value of KKR’s private-equity portfolio rose 5.9
percent during the quarter, compared with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index’s 10 percent  increase  during the first three months of
the year. Blackstone’s buyout holdings gained 7.9 percent.  The firm had “lower transaction-related fees and less
aggressive fund appreciation given more modest appreciation in
its privately held portfolio companies,”  Howard Chen , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, said in a note to
clients before the results were announced.  GAAP Income  KKR’s measure of ENI, which excludes some expenses tied to
a combination with the firm’s public fund that allowed KKR to
list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange in 2010, differs
from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under those
rules, known as GAAP, KKR reported net income of $193.4 million,
or 69 cents per common unit, compared with $190.4 million, or 80
cents, a year earlier.  The value of a private-equity firm’s buyout holdings
affects economic net income, or ENI, because the metric relies
on quarterly “mark-to-market” valuations of those investments.
Accounting rules require the firms to value their portfolio
holdings each quarter.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments to buy companies within about five
to six years, then sell them and return the funds with a profit
after about 10 years. The firms, which use debt to finance the
deals and amplify returns, typically charge an annual management
fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds and
keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Blackstone, which oversees $218 billion in assets, last
week reported first-quarter profit of $168 million, compared
with $58 million a year ago. Like KKR, New York-based Blackstone
says investors should focus on a non-standard measure of profit
that excludes some costs tied to its 2007 IPO. By that measure,
profit rose 28 percent to $628 million.  Real Estate  KKR’s assets under management rose to $78.3 billion from
$75.5 billion at the end of 2012. Dry powder, or committed
capital yet to be invested, is $16.2 billion.  The firm is preparing to market its first fund dedicated to
real-estate investments, starting with an initial $500 million
of commitments, two people familiar with the matter said last
month. KKR started a real-estate unit in 2011, following
Blackstone and  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , and has so far invested in
property deals primarily from its balance sheet.  The firm during the quarter agreed to buy industrial
equipment maker Gardner Denver Inc. for about $3.7 billion, and
it lost in bidding for Life Technologies Corp., which agreed
last week to be sold to Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. for $13.6
billion. KKR also signed a deal to acquire a 24.9 percent stake
in Bermuda-based hedge fund Nephila Capital Ltd., which makes
reinsurance-related investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  