-- KPN Selling New Shares at Discount to Raise 3 Billion Euros
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-04-25T10:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/kpn-selling-shares-at-62-discount-to-raise-3-billion-euros.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch company
holding a 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) stock sale to fund its
phone networks, set the terms at a discount of 62 percent from
the stock’s closing price yesterday.  KPN is offering 2.84 billion shares at 1.06 euros each,
compared with yesterday’s close of 2.78 euros in Amsterdam. The
stock dropped as much as 7.1 percent, the most in two months.
 Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  has agreed to buy shares
proportional to its stake in the carrier.  “The deep discount is basically forcing all shareholders
who still own KPN shares to subscribe,” said Corne Aben, a  fund
manager  at Amsterdam-based Optimix Vermogensbeheer who holds
about 150,000 KPN shares. “If you don’t take part, you will
face a huge dilution of your stake and lose quite a lot of
money.”  The Dutch phone company is seeking to strengthen its
balance sheet after spending 1.35 billion euros on wireless
spectrum to serve consumers seeking faster mobile networks amid
growing use of smartphones for surfing the Web, downloading
music and watching videos. This week, the carrier said it would
scrap dividends planned for 2013 and 2014.  KPN traded 5.5 percent lower at 2.63 euros at 12:44 p.m. in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 3.8 billion euros.  35% Discount  Investors are entitled to buy two offered shares for each
share right they hold. KPN said the theoretical share price
after the rights issue is 1.63 euros. That means the 1.06-euro
price is a 35 percent discount, said Marc Hesselink, an analyst
at ABN Amro Bank NV.  The rights offer starts tomorrow and will run through May
14. The deal follows hybrid-bond sales in March that included $2
billion of debt denominated in euros and pounds and $600 million
denominated in dollars.  “The proceeds will be used to reduce our net debt, and
this will give us the financial flexibility to support the
execution of our strategy,” Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok
said in a conference call today, adding the company plans to
invest in infrastructure and customers in the Dutch, Belgian and
German markets.  Blok attempted unsuccessfully to defend KPN last year
against a 2.6 billion-euro offer from  America Movil  for a stake
in the company and failed to sell its Belgian mobile-phone unit.
KPN also ended discussions on a potential merger with  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  involving its E-Plus wireless unit in  Germany .  KPN continues to see significant synergies from a deal in
Germany, either through in-market consolidation or through a
network sharing agreement, Blok said today.  The share sale is fully underwritten by a syndicate of
banks led by Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ABN AMRO, ING Groep NV and Rabobank Groep
are book runners and BNP Paribas SA, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Societe Generale SA and UniCredit SpA act as lead managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  