-- Kuehne & Nagel Hands VTG Heavy-Rail Flows to Focus on Containers
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-04-25T10:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/kuehne-nagel-plans-rail-logistics-merger-with-germany-s-vtg.html
Kuehne & Nagel (KNIN)  International AG,
the world’s No. 1 sea-freight forwarder, will fold parts of its
rail-transport business into a venture controlled by  VTG AG (VT9) ,
owner of  Europe ’s largest private railcar fleet.  The transaction will boost VTG’s share of the market for
moving industrial goods and materials such as  iron ore  while
sharpening Schindellegi, Switzerland-based Kuehne & Nagel’s
focus on container transport. VTG, which is better established
in liquids and agricultural products, will have a majority stake
in the new business, the companies said, without being specific.  Kuehne & Nagel’s Road & Rail unit, the smallest of four by
revenue, has suffered eight straight years of operating losses,
including a 16 million Swiss-franc ($17 million) shortfall in
2012. Today’s deal advances plans to concentrate rail work on
container traffic in support of the main sea-freight business.  “This is an important strategic step for VTG as it gives
access to Kuehne & Nagel’s customers away from the volatile
agricultural business,” said analyst Felix Wienen at Berenberg
Bank in  London , who has a “buy” rating on VTG and estimates the
deal may concern sales of 60 million euros to 100 million euros
($78 million-$131 million).  VTG, which has 54,000 railcars, rose 4.3 percent, its
biggest intraday jump in 3 1/2 months, before trading little
changed at 14.23 euros at 11:35 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has
added 17 percent in 2012, giving a value of 304 million euros.  Kuehne & Nagel gained as much as 1.2 percent and was later
priced 0.9 percent higher at 106.70 francs in Zurich for a value
of 12.8 billion francs, down 3 percent for the year.  Deutsche Bahn, DHL  Today’s move is unlikely to aid a turnaround of the Swiss
company’s surface-transport unit, which is dominated by trucking
activities, said William Foggon, also of Berenberg Bank.  The deal, which will cover the whole of Europe into Russia
and Turkey, builds on a 20-year partnership via the Transpetrol
petrochemicals venture, in which VTG holds 74.9 percent, with
its ally owning the rest.  Kuehne & Nagel’s road and rail division, centered on
overland transport with trucks, should improve its result this
year as sales gain as much as 5 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Reinhard Lange said April 15.  While the company doesn’t report separate figures for the
rail business -- which competes with  Deutsche Bahn  AG’s Schenker
unit,  DSV A/S (DSV)  and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL -- volumes have been
under pressure after a shift to roads, its annual report says.  Sales at VTG’s rail logistics unit rose 0.9 percent to 297
million euros in 2012, falling short of targets on tough market
conditions, according to its annual report. Spokeswoman Monika
Gabler said she could not reveal what activities will be part of
the merged operation, since talks haven’t been concluded.  Final terms following the signing of a letter of intent
will be subject to the approval of both boards and antitrust
authorities. A decision is expected in the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  