-- Nestle Loses U.K. Bid to Block Nespresso Rival Capsule Sales
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-25T14:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/nestle-loses-u-k-bid-to-block-nespresso-rival-s-capsule-sales.html
A  Nestle SA (NESN)  unit lost a patent
infringement lawsuit that sought to block a U.K. company from
making capsules for the Nespresso coffee-making machines.  Dualit Ltd.’s products don’t infringe Nestle patents for
the refill packs, Judge Richard Arnold said in a ruling on April
22. Nespresso customers “would assume that they were entitled
to obtain capsules to use with the machine from whatever source
they pleased,” he said.  While Nestle sold about 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.2
billion) worth of Nespresso products last year, that revenue is
under threat from companies making cheaper versions of the
coffee pods used in its machines. Nestle, the maker of Kit Kat
chocolate bars and Shredded Wheat cereal, lost legal bids in
 Germany  and Switzerland to restrict the sale of rival capsules.  The U.K. judgment “is inconsistent with the ruling by the
European Patent Office in April 2012, confirming the validity of
a key patent for the Nespresso system,” Nestle spokeswoman
Diane Duperret said in an e-mail.  Dualit said in a statement its capsules could now be sold
throughout the U.K.  Nestle, based in Vevey, Switzerland, stopped reporting
sales details for Nespresso midway through last year due to
“the competitive environment,” Chief Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello said at the time.  Ethical Coffee  In 2010, Sara Lee Corp. and Ethical Coffee Co. both
introduced refills compatible with Nespresso machines. Swiss
retailer Migros sells five flavors of capsules from 556 stores
in the country.  Nestle is also involved in a legal dispute with Ethical
Coffee in Paris over alleged unfair competition practices.  The company had its slowest first-quarter sales growth
since 2009 and said April 18 that full-year revenue growth will
be at the lower end of its forecast, amid a slowdown at the unit
that includes Nespresso. Revenue was also hit by the destruction
of a factory in  Syria  and by reduced demand for frozen food and
weight-loss products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  