-- New York Times Moves Toward Netflix Model as Ads Tumble
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-25T21:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/new-york-times-co-s-sales-miss-estimates-as-ad-revenue-dives.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  Chief Executive
Officer Mark Thompson is taking a cue from subscription services
like Netflix Inc. in a bid to transform the publisher into an
Internet company that relies less on advertising.  In an interview today, Thompson said the creation of new
digital products and services was based in part on company
research, which showed an appetite for lower-priced plans and
specialized subscriptions for coverage of areas such as politics
and technology. There are potential customers “numbering in the
many hundreds of thousands,” he said.  “It’s the single most important thing we’re doing in the
company,” he said of the digital strategy, speaking by phone
after the company’s quarterly earnings announcement this
morning. The move signals a shift toward a subscription-based
model that relies less on advertising, much like online video
providers such as Hulu LLC or  Netflix. (NFLX)   “That’s a fair characterization, but that doesn’t mean
we’re turning away from advertising,” Thompson said. “That
will still be very important to us.”  Times Co.’s stock  gained 5 percent to $9.45 at the close
today in New York. The shares have gained 11 percent this year.  In addition to cheaper plans, Times Co. expects to produce
a higher-end package that would provide broader access to online
features and let subscribers attend New York Times events, a
fast-growing area for the company. For example, the company held
its  Energy for Tomorrow Conference  today at its headquarters
building in  Manhattan .  Pricing Plans  Current online pricing plans range from $15 to $35 a month,
depending on how many devices the reader plans to use.  Thompson’s new strategy, slated to roll out in late 2013
and early 2014, also will include more online videos and games,
building on the success of the Times’ crossword application.  Thompson, who took the helm last November, is counting on
revenue from content to make up for an industrywide decline in
print advertising -- once the Times’ cash cow. Last year,
revenue from subscriptions overtook the publisher’s ad sales for
the first time. Still, advertising continues to drop faster than
circulation sales are growing.  “The reality of the New York Times is they are moving away
from ad dollars,” said Kannan Venkateshwar, a media analyst at
Barclays Plc in New York. “Thompson wants an  HBO  or a Netflix
model, which means growing content revenues as opposed to ad
revenues.”  Ad Revenue  Advertising dropped more than 11 percent to $191.2 million
in the first quarter, while subscription sales rose 6.5 percent
to $241.8 million, the company said today.  Total revenue fell 2 percent from a year earlier to $465.9
million, missing analysts’ estimates of $470.5 million on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding some
items, profit was  4 cents  a share, matching estimates.  While the company is selling more ads online, they don’t
command the kind of rates that print ads once did. That’s forced
the company to rely more on subscription revenue. The Times’ so-
called paywall, enacted in 2011, has encouraged Internet users
to sign up for subscriptions. Paying readers climbed to 676,000
at the end of March, a 45 percent gain from a year earlier.  In a bid to streamline its operations, the company has
refocused on its flagship media brand over the past two years.
It has sold assets unrelated to the New York Times newspaper,
including About.com, its regional newspapers and a stake in the
Boston Red Sox baseball franchise.  The company is currently in the  process of selling  its
Boston Globe unit and rebranding the International Herald
Tribune as the International New York Times. After the sale of
the Globe, the company will solely consist of the Times
newspaper and related assets.  Net income fell 93 percent to $3.14 million, or 2 cents a
share, from $42.1 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier. One-time
gains in the first quarter of 2012, such as the sale of the
company’s stake in Fenway Sports Group, bolstered profit in that
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  