-- NFL Rookies Risk Embarrassment With Decision to Attend Draft
-- B y   P a u l   W a c h t e r
-- 2013-04-25T19:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/nfl-rookies-risk-embarrassment-with-decision-to-attend-draft.html
It’s a familiar scene to 
National Football League fans: beaming young athletes in tailored 
suits sitting awkwardly in the green room, ready to go on 
stage at a moment’s notice to hoist up their new jerseys. 
It’s also a gamble: Will the player in attendance hear his 
name called first? Maybe 12th? What about not at all?  A month ago, the NFL contacted the nation's top 
college football players, inviting them to watch this year's 
draft at Radio City Music Hall in New York.  “It’s a tough decision whether to attend or not,” said
Rick Smith of Priority Sports & Entertainment, a Chicago-based
agency that has represented more than 30 first-round draft
picks.  Among enduring green room memories is one from 2005, when
cameras trained on Aaron Rodgers, the University of California
quarterback who finally was picked 24th by the Green Bay
Packers.  For what is comparable to a drawn-out legal proceeding on
television, the sweaty brows of players waiting to be selected
can be the most compelling drama. Last year, a combined 8.1
million viewers watched the first round of the NFL draft on ESPN
or the NFL Network, an increase of 16 percent from 2012, but
slightly below the 8.3 million viewers that tuned in 2010, when
the draft first debuted in primetime.  “It’s not our intention to make anyone uncomfortable,”
said Michael Signora, the NFL vice president of communications.
Players are welcome to leave the green room whenever they
choose, he adds.  Players Decide  Smith said the players, with his firm’s advice, make the
decision to attend.  “We do our due diligence, but it’s still early in the
process when we have to get back to the NFL and accept or
decline the invitation,” Smith said. “So we tell our players
where we think they’ll go, but we also tell them to understand
that anything can happen.”  The NFL begins the invitation process in late February,
around the time of the  NFL Scouting Combine , where potential
players are timed, measured and interviewed.  “We consider a number of factors,” said Signora. “Which
players are likely to be selected early, which ones make for
good stories, and also who has contacted us expressing interest
to go.”  The most interesting storyline in the NFL draft this year
concerns Manti Te’o, the Notre Dame linebacker who led his team
to the national championship game and was later under scrutiny
after acknowledging he lied to the media when he learned he was
caught in a hoax involving a fake online girlfriend. He also
underperformed at the combine. Te’o declined the NFL’s
invitation to wait in the green room.  Some Volunteer  Some others enjoy the attention. “Each year, we have a lot
of guys who aren’t likely to be selected in the first round ask
us for invitations,” Signora said. “It’s an exciting series of
events. They get to appear on a morning show on NFL Network,
host a youth football clinic at a public park and ring the
closing bell of the New York Stock Exchange.”  This year, 23 players have accepted invitations to wait in
the green room. Among them is Alabama offensive tackle and
Smith’s client D.J. Fluker, who analysts predict will be
selected in the middle of the first round. “We’ve done our
homework and are confident he’ll be picked,” Smith says. “But
D.J.’s also fine with whatever happens. It’s a big day for him,
and he wants to share it with the people that are close to
him.”  According to Smith, players like Fluker can rest easy.
“What you saw with Aaron Rodgers will never happen again,” he
said. “The problem was he was on camera the whole time -- the
camera never moved. If that happened today, the NFL would call
the player out of the room.”  Signora denies this. “There’s no edict handed down about
how to run the broadcast,” he said. “Before the draft, we tell
them that they’re part of the broadcast, and that there’s no
guarantee how it will unfold. Once the players are in the green
room, they’re on.”  In the end, Rodgers is better known for another performance
before television cameras: He led the Packers to the Super Bowl
title after the 2010 season and was the game’s Most Valuable
Player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Wachter in New York at 
 paul_wachter@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keenan Mayo at   kmayo3@bloomberg.net  