-- Nigeria Gripped by ‘Civil War’ in Graft Fight: Sanusi
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-04-26T14:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/nigeria-gripped-by-civil-war-in-graft-fight-sanusi.html
Nigeria  is gripped by a “civil
war” over political patronage and the corruption it fuels, with
government officials trying to end systemic graft at risk of
losing the battle, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  They “have to literally wage a war against those who
believe that we should continue doing things the way they’ve
always been done,” Sanusi, 51, said in an interview last month
in Lagos, the commercial capital. “I don’t think the reformers
are winning.”  Hopes for change have faded since 2011 when President
Goodluck Jonathan promised to fight corruption and named former
managing director of the  World Bank  Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as
finance minister, ex- Goldman Sachs (GS)  managing director Olusegun Aganga as trade and investment minister and retained Sanusi as
central bank governor. Sanusi said on March 20 he won’t seek a
second term when his contract ends in June 2014.  While the  International Monetary Fund  has praised the
government’s “prudent macroeconomic policies,” corruption is
costing Nigeria billions of dollars. The funds could be used to
reduce the poverty that fuels insurgencies by the Islamist group
Boko Haram in the north and militants in the southern oil-rich
Niger River delta.  As of 2010, more than 60 percent of the population of
 Africa ’s largest oil producer and most populous nation lived on
less than $1 a day, up from 51.6 percent in 2004, according to
the National Bureau of Statistics.  Ex-Boss Pardoned  “Political corruption has always been one of the drivers
of unrest and activism,” said Roddy Barclay, an analyst at
Control Risks, a London-based business consulting group. “It
plays into issues such as Boko Haram and the Niger delta
militant campaigns.”  Last month, Jonathan pardoned his former boss, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, the ex-governor of oil-rich Bayelsa state who
was convicted for corruption and money laundering in 2007.  The pardon, which allows Alamieyeseigha to return to
politics, “makes a joke of all the war against corruption,”
said  Nuhu Ribadu , 52, who headed the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission when its probe of the governor led to his
conviction. Alamieyeseigha pleaded guilty and returned about 43
billion naira ($270 million) of embezzled funds to state
coffers, Ribadu said in an interview.  The U.S. Embassy in Abuja, the capital, called the decision
“a setback in the fight against corruption.”  ‘Extremely Remorseful’  Okonjo-Iweala, in her book Reforming The Unreformable
published last year, hailed Alamieyeseigha’s sentencing to two
years in prison as one of the first high-profile convictions of
a corrupt official in Nigeria. “It was an important signal that
there could be no more impunity,” she wrote.  Jonathan’s spokesman Doyin Okupe said the pardon was
granted after Alamieyeseigha served his two-year jail sentence,
returned stolen funds and was “extremely remorseful.” He has
strong influence on militants who attack the oil industry in the
Niger River delta and “has been assisting this government to
ensure that the boys are kept quiet,” Okupe told reporters on
March 14.  The Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta , the
main rebel group in the oil-rich region of Nigeria, said on
April 3 it’s resuming assaults after a hiatus of about four
years following the imprisonment of its suspected leader.
Attacks, including kidnappings and bombings, cut Nigeria’s oil
output by more than 28 percent between 2006 and 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Rebuke  While the U.S. acknowledges the Nigerian government’s moves
against graft, more must be done, Ambassador Terence McCulley
said yesterday in an  op-ed  on the embassy’s website.  “Corruption in Nigeria diverts financial resources from
building roads, hospitals, schools, and otherwise investing in
infrastructure that would serve businesses, attract foreign
investment and create jobs,” McCulley said. It “serves to
promote criminal and extremist activity by creating barriers to
legitimate economic endeavors.”  Record-high  interest rates  and economic growth of more than
6 percent last year fueled foreign investment in stocks and
bonds. That has helped boost the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All
Share Index (NGSEINDX)  by 60 percent since the beginning of 2012 and
strengthen the naira 2.2 percent against the dollar over the
same period. Still, foreign direct investment is coming under
pressure.  An increase in militant attacks and the stalling of the
passage of a bill that will change the way the oil industry is
regulated led to a 45 percent slump in FDI to 393 billion naira
in the first half of 2012 compared with a year earlier,
according to the central bank.  Economic Cost  Corruption, the poor quality of infrastructure, high crime
and widespread insecurity cost Nigerian companies more than 10
percent of sales in 2011, a level that is twice as high as in
 South Africa ,  Brazil ,  Russia  and  Indonesia , according to the
World Bank. Berlin-based anti-graft group  Transparency
International  ranked Nigeria 139th out of 174 countries in its
2012 Corruption Perceptions Index, from 143rd the year before.  The officials trying to clean up Nigerian governance can’t
expect to make quick progress, said Abubakar Umar Kari, a
lecturer in the political sociology department at the University
of Abuja.  “They’re a tiny minority, because they are just like one
island within a sea of graft,” he said. “There’s a well-
entrenched system of graft and gratification system of
corruption in place, and until it’s extricated, uprooted,
individuals like Lamido Sanusi and Okonjo-Iweala will not make
much difference.”  Illicit Flows  Nigeria’s 53 years of independence from the U.K. have been
tainted by numerous examples of corruption, from the unfinished
$5 billion Ajaokuta Steel plant to last year’s conviction of
former Delta state Governor James Ibori for 13 years in the U.K
for stealing about $250 million of public funds.  Albert “Jack” Stanley, the former  KBR Inc. (KBR)  chief
executive officer, was sentenced in February 2012 to 2 1/2 years
in prison in the U.S. for bribing Nigerian officials to win $6
billion in natural gas contracts.  Between 2001 and 2010, Nigeria had the seventh-highest
level of illicit financial outflows out of 143 developing
nations, totaling $129 billion, according to Washington-based
Global Financial Integrity.  Gas Prices  A  task force  commissioned by the petroleum ministry to look
into graft found that Nigeria LNG, owned by state-run Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP)  and
 Eni SpA (ENI) , may have underpaid the country for gas before exporting
it to international markets. That cost Nigeria about $29 billion
in the decade through 2011, according to the report.  Nigeria relies on crude oil sales for about 80 percent of
government revenue and more than 90 percent of foreign income,
according to the central bank.  Since the report was submitted to Jonathan in November,
“not a word has been heard so far,” said Ribadu, who headed
the task force.  The report is “entirely flawed,” Nigeria LNG said in
November. NNPC spokeswoman Tumini Green and General Manager of
Media Relations Omar Farouk Ibrahim didn’t answer several calls
and text messages seeking comment.  Another parliamentary probe said the government paid 1.1
trillion naira illegally to fuel importers between 2009 and 2011
and recommended top officials be investigated.  “We just have to keep doing our best,” Sanusi said.
“Everybody just has to keep trying not to give up and maybe
something will give, and something has always given in the
history of every country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  