-- NII Is ‘Very Close’ to Selling Brazil, Mexico Towers, CEO Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/nii-is-very-close-to-selling-brazil-mexico-towers-ceo-says.html
NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , the provider of
Nextel mobile-phone service in Latin America, plans to sell
about 4,500 wireless towers in Brazil and Mexico by midyear to
focus investment on third-generation, or 3G, technology, Chief
Executive Officer Steven Shindler said.  The Reston, Virginia-based company will use the proceeds of
the sale of the towers and its Peru unit to expand networks and
marketing in Brazil and Mexico, where it’s concentrating the
bulk of $1 billion in  capital spending  this year, Shindler said.
The company is “on track” to introduce 3G and smartphones in
Mexico in the third quarter and in Brazil by year-end, he said.  “Mexico and Brazil are the most significant growth
opportunities for us,” Shindler said yesterday in an interview
on the sidelines of the  World Economic Forum  in Lima. “There’s
a big push for data, but there’s obviously still a very
significant need for voice.”  NII sold its Peruvian unit to Chile’s  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones SA  for $400 million earlier this month as the
company struggles in  Latin America  against larger competitors
such as  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and  Telefonica SA. (TEF)  NII, which posted a
$593 million loss in the fourth quarter, said new 3G networks
should help it gain more subscribers. The company plans to lease
back the Brazil and Mexico towers after they are sold.  Mexican  legislation  aimed at boosting competition in the
telecommunications industry, by allowing foreigners to hold
majority stakes in local units, is “a good trend,” Shindler
said. NII, which has 4 million customers in Mexico, will double
its target market to 50 million with the introduction of smart
phones, he said.  “The changes that are being discussed in the telecom act
create a better environment for us,” he said. “We think we can
compete and get back to growing in a profitable manner.”  The shares fell 3.4 percent to $8.16 yesterday at the close
in New York. NII, which plunged 67 percent last year, have
jumped 80 percent since announcing the sale of its Peruvian unit
on April 4.  The company is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings
on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  