-- Nippon Building Says Prime Office Prices Rising in Tokyo
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-04-25T06:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/nippon-building-fund-says-prime-office-prices-rising-in-tokyo.html
Nippon Building Fund Inc. (8951) , Japan’s
biggest real estate investment trust, said property prices for
prime office buildings have started to rise, signaling a
turnaround in a two-decade decline.  Demand to buy office buildings outpaced supply and has
pushed prices higher, said Kenichi Tanaka, president and chief
executive officer of Tokyo-based Nippon Building Fund Management
Ltd., which manages the REIT. The REIT has acquired 156.8
billion yen ($1.6 billion) of office buildings so far this year,
more than three times it had planned, he said.  “Even though the market hasn’t reached a point where you
can call it is overheated, it has become tight,” Tanaka said in
an interview yesterday. “We think it would be difficult to make
a similar amount of acquisitions in the second half.”  Real estate broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  and Barclays Plc
are forecasting rental for prime office space in the capital to
climb this year and next. The office vacancy rate, a measurement
of unoccupied office space, dropped to 8.6 percent in March in
Tokyo after rising to a record high in June, according to Miki
Shoji Co., an office brokerage company.  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield, for
office buildings in Tokyo declined for four straight months to
5.2 percent in February from 5.5 percent in October, the highest
since Real Capital Analytics Inc. started compiling the data in
2009. A drop in  the cap rate , which is a property’s net income
divided by the purchase price, usually signals an increase in
real estate prices.  Office Rebound  Japan  has been struggling with deflation that has caused
companies and households to put off spending since the late
1990s, after asset prices collapsed. Prices have declined for 21
years, cutting rents for all categories of offices in the city’s
five central wards by 63 percent, according to Miki Shoji.  Office rents in the central wards rose in the three years
to 2008, before the global financial crisis, as increasing
demand pushed vacancies to around 4 percent in 2005, leading
landlords to raise rents, according to Miki Shoji.  Nippon Building Fund closed 0.2 percent higher at 1.42
million yen in Tokyo, while the 39-member Tokyo Stock Exchange
REIT Index fell 0.5 percent. The REIT has risen 59 percent so
far this year, compared with a 44 percent gain by the index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  