-- No End to Power Rout as Carbon Market Vote Fails: Energy Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n ,   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-04-25T15:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/no-end-to-power-rout-as-carbon-market-vote-fails-energy-markets.html
Europe ’s failure to rescue the
region’s carbon market is likely to encourage utilities to burn
record amounts of coal, putting power prices in Germany on
course for the worst-ever sequence of quarterly declines.  Electricity for next year, the benchmark contract already
trading near an almost eight-year low, may drop a further 4.8
percent through June, according to a Bloomberg News survey,
extending an unprecedented eight quarters of losses. Coal-fed
power generation in Germany rose 16 percent last quarter,
Federal Statistical Office data show.  Rising coal consumption in the region’s biggest economy
belies a European Union goal of reducing emissions blamed for
 climate change  and stimulating use of cleaner alternatives. The
bloc’s Parliament last week rejected so-called backloading, a
proposal that would have cut the number of pollution permits to
shore up prices, threatening to turn the 27-nation area into a
“dumping ground” for coal, according to Jefferies Group LLC.  “The rejection of backloading is negative for power prices
and generation of power from gas,” Gareth Griffiths, chief
commercial officer of the trading unit of EON SE,  Germany ’s
biggest utility, said at an April 17 conference in Dusseldorf,
Germany. “Emission permits would have to be almost 15 times
more expensive to incentivize companies to move away from coal
burn to gas.”  German year-ahead power may fall to 37.45 euros ($48.86) a
megawatt-hour through June, according to the average forecast of
six traders and analysts in the Bloomberg News survey. The
contract rose 0.4 percent today to 39.32 euros on the European
Energy Exchange AG in Leipzig. It averaged about 50 euros in the
past 10 years, exceeding 90 euros a megawatt-hour in 2008.  EU Vote  Power and emissions prices plunged after the April 16 vote
in the bloc’s assembly in Strasbourg,  France , against the
proposal to delay the sale of 900 million permits over the next
three years and reintroduce them to the market in 2019 and 2020.
European carbon for December fell as much as 45 percent to a
record 2.46 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  and traded at 2.96 euros today.  “The vote sent a strong signal to U.S. coal producers to
further increase their exports to the EU,”  Matthew Gray , an
analyst for Jefferies in London, said in an April 16 report. If
the EU maintains existing climate policies, it will undoubtedly
become the global dumping ground for cheap coal.’’  German electricity prices should rise or fall 90 euro cents
a megawatt-hour with every euro change in carbon costs,
according to Robert Schramm-Fuchs, an analyst in London at
Macquarie Group Ltd. Coal emits about twice as much carbon
dioxide as gas in power production.  ‘Dirty Coal’  German electricity generation from lignite, the most
carbon-intensive type of coal, rose 9.8 percent in the first
quarter to 40.9 terawatt-hours from a year earlier, while
generation from hard coal, a less-polluting grade, increased 23
percent to 36 terawatt-hours, data from the  Federal Statistical
Office  show.  The  premium  in Germany for power produced by plants burning
the fuel rather than gas for next quarter widened to a record
29.65 euros a megawatt-hour on March 28 and was at 25.98 euros
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Cleaner gas is losing out to dirty coal on pricing
economics,” Sabine Schels, an analyst for Bank of America Corp.
in London, said in an April 9 report. “Germany is not only
boosting utilization rates of coal and lignites, but also
building out coal capacity.”  Carbon Windfall  Electricity produced from renewable sources has zero fuel
costs and priority to meet demand, according to German law. Coal
is the cheapest  fossil fuel  in power generation, according to
UBS AG.  “Hard coal’s role as the power-price setter will diminish
and could be increasingly replaced by lignite,” Schramm-Fuchs
said. “Cheaper lignite could have more of an impact on the
forward power price curve.”  Some EU member measures to cut emissions from power
generation may help support electricity prices, according to
 Gerard Mestrallet , chief executive officer of  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,
Europe’s biggest utility by market value. The U.K. has
introduced a minimum carbon price, while the Netherlands has
imposed a tax on coal.  “We do not expect prices to further materially decrease,”
Mestrallet said on an April 23 earnings call. “The
implementation of mechanisms to strengthen environmental
standards should be considered in order to penalize the most
polluting coal plants, which today benefit from a windfall
effect linked to the collapse of the carbon market.”  Additional steps to promote renewables at a national level
undermine the EU’s internal trade rules, Peter Styles, chairman
of the electricity committee at the European Federation of
Energy Traders, said by e-mail.  Downward Pressure  Next-year coal for delivery to northwest Europe has dropped
8.3 percent this year to $94 a ton, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg, as producers including Colombia and
 Australia  boosted supply at a time when the region’s economies
are struggling amid the debt crisis.  For Martin Brough, a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG who has worked in the  energy industry  for 10 years,  China ’s
quest to curb pollution may turn the nation, the world’s biggest
energy user, into an exporter of the fuel.  That may add “downward pressure on prices,” he said
yesterday by e-mail. “Coal prices have been just as significant
as carbon in driving power prices down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  