-- Nobel Laureates Urge Guatemala to Restart Genocide Trial
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-25T21:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/nobel-laureates-urge-guatemala-to-restart-genocide-trial.html
Seven Nobel Peace Prize laureates
including Archbishop Desmond Tutu urged  Guatemala ’s judicial
system to continue the genocide trial of former dictator Efrain Rios Montt after his case was halted last week.  Rios Montt, 86, is being prosecuted for genocide and crimes
against humanity during the Central American country’s 36-year
civil war. The former dictator held de facto military power in
Guatemala for 17 months from 1982-1983 and is accused of
overseeing the killing of more than 1,700 indigenous Ixil Mayans
while in power. Rios Montt denies the charges.  The court was preparing to hear closing arguments last week
when Judge Carol Patricia Flores, who was removed from the case
in 2011 and reinstated this month after an appeal, said the case
should be annulled and returned to the stage it was at when she
was removed.  “The dark forces in the country that orchestrated the
genocide are united and strong,” said Guatemalan Rigoberta Menchu, who was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize in 1992, on a
conference call organized by the Nobel Women’s Initiative.
“Justice is the only way that we can dignify the victims, but
currently we are facing a very complicated situation.”  During the trial, which began on March 19, dozens of Ixil
Mayans testified against the former president, recounting
stories of murder and rape, according to Kate Doyle, a senior
analyst of U.S. policy in Latin America at the National Security
Archive in  Washington .  Flores’s ruling to vacate the trial is “a transparent
effort to sabotage a case that was two or three days away from
its conclusion,” Doyle said on the conference call.  The trial is stalled as Guatemala’s constitutional court
rules on 12 legal challenges presented by civil parties and
defense attorneys. A decision on the trial is expected in the
coming days, Doyle said.  Other Nobel winners supporting the continuation of the
trial are Jody Williams, Jose Ramos-Horta, Mairead Maguire,
Shirin Ebadi and Leymah Gbowee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  