-- Obama Administration Asks High Court to Back Labor Picks
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-25T19:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/obama-administration-asks-high-court-to-back-labor-picks.html
President  Barack Obama ’s lawyers
asked the U.S. Supreme Court to uphold three appointments he
made to a federal labor board without Senate confirmation, in a
separation-of-powers appeal with implications for a number of
regulations.  The appeal, filed today in Washington, contends that Obama
made the appointments to the  National Labor Relations Board 
while the Senate was in recess, as the Constitution permits. A
federal appeals court said the president’s recess-appointment
power applies only at end of Congress’s two-year sessions.  The case may affect as many as 1,000 decisions and orders
issued by the NLRB since January 2012. Supreme Court review may
also have a ripple effect on the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, a watchdog agency created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law.
Obama appointed  Richard Cordray , the former attorney general of
 Ohio , to direct the bureau the same day he installed the NLRB
officials.  The appeal stems from a 2011-12 dispute between the
administration and congressional Republicans. Aiming to block
Obama from making appointments during Congress’s holiday break,
House and Senate Republicans refused to formally adjourn. The
Senate held so-called pro-forma sessions that sometimes involved
a single senator’s appearance in the chamber every third day.  Obama, saying lawmakers were in recess, made the
appointments Jan. 4, 2012, in a bid to bypass Senate
confirmation.  The timing of today’s filing means the justices probably
will say whether they will hear the case before they take their
three-month recess starting in late June.  The case involves Noel Canning Corp., a soda bottling
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  