-- Obama Consoles Families of Victims in Texas Plant Blast
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-04-25T22:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/obama-consoles-families-of-victims-in-texas-fertilizer-blast.html
President  Barack Obama  led a Texas
town in memorializing the emergency workers and residents killed
in a fire and explosion at a fertilizer plant near Waco.  For the second time in a week, the president stood before
mourners to offer the thoughts and prayers of the nation and
praise for those who volunteered to help and who stand ready to
place themselves in peril to aid fellow citizens.  “Even amid such sorrow and pain, we recognize God’s
abundance,” he said at Baylor University’s Ferrell Center in
Waco, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) south of West, Texas, a
tight-knit farming community of 2,800 that was home to the
industrial plant. “Your country will remain ever-ready to help
you recover and rebuild.”  The service was to honor the firefighters and emergency
medical personnel who were among at least 14 people who died in
the April 17 explosion at Adair Grain Inc.’s fertilizer
facility. The blast generated a magnitude 2.1-degree earthquake,
according to the U.S. Geological Survey, and damaged structures
in a 37-block area.  On the trip to Waco from  Dallas , the president’s helicopter
circled the site of the disaster.  Investigating Cause  State and federal investigators are seeking the cause of
the blast. In the months before the explosion, agencies from the
Homeland Security Department to the U.S. Chemical Safety Board
were faulted by government watchdogs for taking too long to act
or failing to persuade regulators to impose stricter safety
rules on facilities that make or store dangerous chemicals.  Democratic lawmakers today asked congressional
investigators for a report on regulatory lapses.  “We are also concerned that such an explosion may be
possible at similar facilities across the nation and that other
workers and the communities may not be adequately protected,”
Representatives George Miller of  California  and Joe Courtney of
 Connecticut , wrote to the Government Accountability Office, the
investigating arm of Congress.  In West, “people are really excited and overwhelmed that
the president’s coming,” Jenene Picha, 39, manager of the Czech
American Restaurant on Main Street, said before Obama arrived.
“I knew most of the people killed, known them for a long time.
It’s heartbreaking. Doesn’t seem real, still.”  Celebration, Sorrow  The president’s day mixed celebration with sorrow. He
traveled to Waco from Dallas, where he had joined four former
presidents in the dedication of the George W. Bush Presidential
Center on the campus of Southern Methodist University.  A week ago, the president was at an interfaith service,
offering words of comfort to thousands shaken by terror attacks
that left three dead and more than 260 injured in the  Boston
Marathon bombings . Today in Texas, though circumstances are
different, Obama said the emptiness and heartache from the loss
of loved ones is the same.  “Today I see in the people of West, in your eyes, is what
makes West special isn’t going away,” Obama said. “It has
simply revealed who you’ve always been.”  In a final tribute to the fallen firefighters, their last
names were read and bells chimed, as their last alarm.  Explosion Aftermath  The explosion blew through a 3-foot concrete foundation and
left a crater 93 feet by 10 feet, Special Agent Robert Champion
of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
told reporters yesterday in West.  Pieces blown from the plant have been found throughout the
damaged area, and other wreckage could be seen in a field, about
150 yards east of the blast site.  The fertilizer plant was last inspected by the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, a unit of the Labor
Department, 1985. The risk plan filed with government regulators
listed no flammable chemicals.  The Homeland Security, Labor, Agriculture and
Transportation departments have joined the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Chemical Safety Board and the ATF in the
investigation, along with state authorities.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican, said it’s “a
little premature” to reach a conclusion about the cause of the
explosion and a course of action. He questioned he plant’s
proximity to homes and a school and suggested local zoning
regulations may need to be reexamined.  In West, people are sorting out their lives and struggling
to regain their footing. Charity groups have been making
donations of everything from food to clothing, said Picha, the
restaurant manager. The General Motors Foundation donated a
$100,000 grant to the American Red Cross for shelter, meals and
relief efforts to those in need, Picha said.  “People are coming from everywhere to lend a hand. It’s
been great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Waco,  Texas , at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  