-- Occidental Profit Falls Amid Shareholder Leadership Vote
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-04-25T11:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/occidental-profit-falls-amid-shareholder-leadership-vote.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the oil
and natural gas producer on the brink of a shareholder vote that
may eject longtime Chairman Ray Irani, said fourth-quarter
profit fell as declining overseas production pared sales.  Net income declined to $1.36 billion, or $1.68 a share,
from $1.56 billion, or $1.92, a year earlier, Los Angeles-based
Occidental said in a statement on  Business Wire  today. Per-share
profit excluding one-time items was 15 cents more than the
average of 23  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Maintenance in Qatar, pipeline disruptions in  Colombia  and
production contracts in the  Middle East  and North Africa were
behind a decline in sales volumes equivalent to 40,000 barrels
of oil a day from the fourth quarter, reducing earnings by as
much as $300 million, according to slides from a company
presentation released March 18.  Investors including First Pacific Advisors LLC, Livermore
Partners Inc. and Cambiar Investors LLC have complained that
Occidental’s February announcement that it planned to replace
Chief Executive Officer Stephen I. Chazen was a mistake and that
Irani should depart instead. The California State Teachers’
Retirement System joined First Pacific to publicly express
support for Chazen.  Proxy advisers Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass
Lewis & Co. have recommended that Occidental investors vote
against re-electing Irani to the board at the company’s May 3
annual meeting.  Management Split  Speculation about a rift between Irani and Chazen that
followed the company’s announcement that it would seek a new CEO
is unfounded, Occidental said in a statement April 8.  The uncertainty around who will ultimately lead the company
has made some investors cautious,  Philip Weiss , an analyst with
Argus Research in New York, said in a telephone interview before
earnings were announced.  Irani plans to retire at the end of 2014. If the majority
of votes are cast against his re-election next week, the former
CEO will have to tender his resignation, according to company
filings. The company has not announced a time line for replacing
Chazen.  Chazen plans to cut drilling costs 15 percent in 2013,
saving as much as $400 million, while boosting output by as much
as 5 percent. Occidental, the largest crude producer in the
continental U.S., had increased oil and gas production in the
U.S. for nine consecutive quarters through the end of 2012.  Earnings were announced before regular trading began in
U.S. markets. Occidental rose 3.2 percent to $84.33 yesterday in
 New York . The shares, which have 19 buy ratings and eight holds
from analysts, are up 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  