-- Ohio Teen Rape Investigation Continues With New Searches
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-25T23:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ohio-teen-rape-investigation-continues-with-new-searches.html
Ohio  Attorney General Mike DeWine
said search warrants were executed in the investigation of the
sexual assault of a teenage girl by two Steubenville High School
football players last year.  Searches were made today at the Steubenville Board of
Education offices, Steubenville High School and at a Medina,
Ohio, business, Vestige Ltd., DeWine’s office said in a
statement.  Vestige is engaged in data recovery and digital forensics,
according to its  website . DeWine didn’t say what connects
Vestige to the case, and his spokesman, Dan Tierney, declined to
comment on the question in a phone interview.  “The court signed orders sealing documents associated with
these search warrants,” DeWine said in a statement.  The students, Trent Mays and Ma’lik Richmond, were found
delinquent on March 17 on accusations of digitally penetrating a
16-year-old girl. Mays was also accused of disseminating nudity-
oriented materials of a juvenile.  Each was sentenced to at least a year in a juvenile
detention facility.  The case garnered national attention because visual
evidence of the crime had been shared on smartphones and through
social media.  Text Analysis  After the trial, DeWine said his office’s Bureau of
Criminal Investigation had analyzed almost 400,000  text
messages , more than 300,000 photos, 940 video clips and more
than 3,000 calls.  The office is continuing to investigate “to learn if any
other individuals committed any crimes,” he said in a March 17
 statement .  Agents of his office interviewed almost 60 people in
connection with the incident, which involved two house parties.
Sixteen people refused to be interviewed, he said.  DeWine also said he would ask a state court to convene a
grand jury to consider evidence of broader complicity among
those aware of the crime.  That panel is scheduled to start hearing evidence on April
30, he said today.  Don Wochna , chief legal officer for Vestige, declined to
discuss the matter in a telephone interview.  Vestige Attorney  “Vestige’s corporate policy is not to comment upon any
matter entrusted to us,” Wochna said.  There was no immediate response to a voice-mail request for
comment on the searches left with the office of  Steubenville
Board of Education  Superintendent Michael McVey.  Richmond’s attorney,  Walter Madison  of Akron, Ohio, said
last month he would appeal the delinquency ruling. He didn’t
immediately respond today to a telephone message seeking comment
on the case.  Mays’s attorney, Brian K. Duncan, said in a phone interview
today that he hadn’t known about the searches announced by
DeWine and wasn’t familiar with Vestige. Duncan, a partner in
the Columbus, Ohio-based  Duncan Simonette  law firm, also said he
and his client had decided to accept the judge’s trial ruling.  “We’re not intending to file an appeal,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 