-- Olam Drops Profit Target as It Cuts Spending After Review
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-04-26T01:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/olam-drops-profit-target-as-it-cuts-spending-after-block-attack.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader targeted by short-seller  Carson Block , said it
will cut spending and sell assets to boost cash while warning it
will miss a target to grow profit to $1 billion by 2016.  Capital spending will be slashed by around S$1 billion
($808 million), the Singapore-based company, the world’s second-
largest rice trader, said yesterday in its annual business
review. It will seek to raise approximately S$1.5 billion in
cash by fiscal 2016 by selling assets and scaling down some
operations.  The results of the review come five months after Block and
his research firm Muddy Waters LLC first questioned the finances
of Olam and likened it to failed energy traded Enron Corp. Olam
Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said the review had been
broad and the changes come after stakeholder feedback.  “We have listened to our fiercest critics as well as our
most ardent advocates,” Verghese told reporters yesterday in
 Singapore . “The process has been very thorough.”  Shares of Olam gained as much as 3 percent, the most since
March 18, and traded 2.1 percent higher at S$1.705 in Singapore
as of 9:09 a.m. local time. The  stock slumped  to as low as
S$1.395 following Block’s assertions. It closed at S$1.74 on
Nov. 19, before the short-seller’s first attack.  “While initiatives to improve balance sheet strength and
cash flow will be looked upon favorably, this will be weighed
against a slower profit growth trajectory,” James Koh, an
analyst with Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said in
a report today.  Miss Target  The company in 2011 revised its target for  profit after tax 
to $1 billion by 2016, up from a goal of $454 million by 2015
set two years earlier. Net income was S$370.9 million last
fiscal year.  “We will miss that $1 billion target,” Verghese said.
“You will see some trade-offs when you’re slowing down the
investment pace.”  Olam will spend between S$1.2 billion to S$1.6 billion in
the three years through fiscal 2016, compared with an earlier
target of S$2.2 billion to S$2.6 billion, it said. It also wants
to cut its gearing ceiling, or the ratio of its debt to equity,
to a maximum of 2 times, from 2.5 times, as it seeks to become
free cash flow positive from fiscal 2014.  “They played into what the market wanted to see,” Tanuj
Shori, a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst in Hong Kong, said
yesterday.  Muddy Waters  Muddy Waters in a November report questioned Olam’s debt,
acquisitions and accounting, and likened it to Enron, the
Houston-based company that was once the world’s largest energy
trader before it plunged into bankruptcy in December 2001. Olam
rejected the assertions and sued Block, a case it dropped this
month after investor feedback.  “Olam is now saying the right things, and one hopes
they’re sincere,” Block said by e-mail yesterday. “However, we
question whether this is too little, too late given Olam’s
existing debt load and asset quality.”  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state investment firm and
Olam’s top  shareholder , remains comfortable with Olam’s credit
position and longer term prospects, it said in a statement after
the review was released.  Olam will also seek to reduce its stake in a proposed
fertilizer plant in the Republic of Gabon, originally slated to
cost $1.3 billion, to less than 50 percent. It prefers to have
“joint control” with strategic partners or industry players,
according to a presentation yesterday.  The commodity trader also wants to save as much as S$100
million in costs a year by 2016. Job cuts are not the company’s
focus, Anantharaman Shekhar, Olam’s executive director, said
yesterday. The company will seek to restructure its wood and
dairy businesses, and make its sugar business “more asset
light,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  