-- Hong Kong to Compile Yuan Interbank Rate Fixing on Loan Demand
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-04-25T09:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/hong-kong-to-compile-yuan-interbank-rate-fixing-on-loan-demand.html
Hong Kong’s Treasury Markets
Association will start compiling an interbank  interest rate 
fixing for offshore  yuan  in June amid rising demand for loans in
the currency outside of  China .  Hong Kong Monetary Authority will also relax yuan capital
rules for local banks by scrapping a limit on net open positions
and a minimum requirement for the lenders’ liquid assets in the
Chinese currency, Chief Executive  Norman Chan  told reporters
today at a press briefing in the city. Instead, the same rules
that apply to other currencies will be applicable to offshore
yuan, he said.  Currently, 13 banks including HSBC Holdings Plc and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. publish their yuan interbank offered rates
through the Treasury Markets Association each trading day.
Today’s one-year yuan interbank rate ranged from 2.7 percent to
3 percent, TMA data showed. The new fixing will be based on 
contributions from 15 to 18 banks, TMA said in a statement.  “After having detailed discussions with the industry and
having a trial offshore yuan fixing system in place for more
than a year, the HKMA thinks that the timing is now mature for
 Hong Kong ,” Chan said. The fixing system “will greatly promote
the yuan lending market and the development of financial
products that are related to interest rates,” he said.  The tenors of the yuan interbank fixing system will range
from overnight to one year, he said.  ‘Spearhead’ Swaps  Hong Kong holds the world’s biggest pool of yuan deposits
outside China as the city is designated as a hub to promote the
currency’s usage in global trade and finance. The Qianhai
district of Shenzhen, a city that borders Hong Kong, was picked
as the testing ground for cross-border yuan loans in which 15
banks based in Hong Kong provided about 2 billion yuan ($324
million) to companies in January.  The fixing will “support the further growth of the
offshore  renminbi  loan market by providing a reliable benchmark
for the pricing of loan facilities,” Peter Pang, chairman of
the TMA executive board and deputy chief executive at the HKMA,
said in a statement today. “The fixing will also spearhead the
development of the offshore RMB interest rate swap market.”  Outstanding yuan loans in Hong Kong totaled more than 70
billion yuan in October 2012, compared with 31 billion yuan at
the end of 2011, according to HKMA data.  Hong Kong’s deposits and certificates of deposits were over
810 billion yuan in March, an increase of about 30 billion yuan
from the previous month, Chan said. The city’s banks handled 830
billion yuan of cross-border trade settlements in the first
quarter, a 45 percent increase from a year earlier, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  