-- OPEC to Bolster Exports on Asian Demand, Oil Movements Reports
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-25T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/opec-to-bolster-exports-on-asian-demand-oil-movements-reports.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase shipments by 60,000 barrels a
day through to the middle of May because of rising demand in
 Asia , according to tanker tracker Oil Movements.  The group that supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil
will boost exports by 0.3 percent to 23.61 million barrels a day
in the four weeks to May 11, the researcher said today in an e-
mailed report. The figures exclude  Angola  and  Ecuador .  “It’s all going east at the moment, which means that the
Chinese are buying,”  Roy Mason , the company’s founder said by
phone from Halifax,  England . “Westbound sailings from the Gulf
are drooping.”  Middle East shipments will rise by 0.5 percent to 17.3
million barrels a day in the period, compared with 17.21 million
in the four weeks to April 13, according to Oil Movements. That
figure includes non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  While total OPEC sailings will probably increase in about a
month as seasonal demand for driving fuels in the northern
hemisphere climbs, the acceleration will probably be weaker than
in previous years because of elevated levels of crude
inventories held by refiners, Mason said.  Crude on board tankers will average 470.66 million barrels
to May 11, up 0.6 percent from the previous period, Oil
Movements’ data show. Oil Movements calculates the volumes by
tallying tanker bookings. Its figures exclude crude held on
vessels for storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The group will next meet on May 31 in
Vienna to discuss output policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  