-- Orlen Profit Falls on Crude Oil Reserves, Beating Estimates
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-04-25T06:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/orlen-profit-falls-on-crude-oil-reserves-beating-estimates.html
PKN Orlen SA (PKN) , Poland’s biggest oil
refiner, said first-quarter profit fell 88 percent after a one-
time gain from the revaluation of its crude inventories wasn’t
repeated.  Net income  fell to 149.3 million zloty ($47 million) from
1.26 billion zloty a year earlier, the Plock, Poland-based
company said in a regulatory filing today. That beat the 137.3
million-zloty average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Rising  oil prices  boosted the value of crude in Orlen’s
tanks and helped boost earnings before interest and taxes 738
million zloty last year, while a stronger zloty boosted net
income by cutting foreign currency-denominated debt by about 400
million zloty. Oil prices fell this year, reducing Ebit by 53
million zloty, while the weakening Polish currency cut its net
income by a further 200 million zloty, Orlen said today.  “The results are generally positive although on the
operating level they are a bit below expectations,” Wojciech
Kozlowski, a Warsaw-based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank, said by phone today. “Earnings shouldn’t have a big
impact on the share price today as investors should pay more
attention to refining margins, which are at a good level.”  Oil Reserves  State-controlled Orlen and its domestic competitor  Grupa
Lotos SA (LTS)  are obliged to store and pay for oil reserves, making
their earnings sensitive to market price moves. The government
is preparing a law that will allow the companies to cut the
amount of oil they’re required to hold as reserves to help
reduce the volatility.  Orlen’s Ebit declined to 341 million zloty from 938.8
million zloty. The petrochemical business contributed 512.1
million zloty to the profit, while its refinery units posted an
operating loss of 34.1 million zloty and retail business added
37.2 million zloty.  Throughput in Orlen’s Polish, Czech and Lithuanian
refineries rose to 7 million tons in the first quarter from 6.7
million tons a year earlier. Sales at its retail unit fell 4
percent to 1.66 million tons, led by a decline of more than 5
percent in the Polish market as demand dropped.  Refining margins rose to $5.7 a barrel in April from $5.4
in March, while the differential, or the difference in price
between the Urals crude it refines and Brent, which determines
product prices, fell to $2 a barrel from $2.2 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  