-- Osborne Wins Reprieve as Britain Escapes Triple-Dip
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-25T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/osborne-wins-reprieve-as-britain-escapes-triple-dip.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  won a round in his defense of austerity yesterday as
Britain escaped a triple-dip recession.  The  0.3 percent expansion  in economic output in the first
quarter, three times more than economists had estimated, allows
Prime Minister  David Cameron  to deflect criticism from his
closest lieutenant, whose deficit-cutting strategy has been the
cornerstone of their policy, from within the Tory party.  “This buys him some time but, politically, this debate
will go on and on and will only make things better for a week or
so,” Stephen Driver, a professor of politics at Roehampton
University in London, said in a telephone interview. “Unless
something goes seriously wrong, it would be a political disaster
for Cameron to replace Osborne because it would be a signal that
the government is not working.”  Cameron and his Liberal Democrat coalition partners have
made austerity the glue that binds the government together,
resisting calls from some Tory lawmakers to do more to spur
growth at a time when the economy remains mired in a slump.  Osborne is instead relying on the  Bank of England ’s 375
billion-pound ($579 billion) quantitative-easing program,
 interest rates  at a record low, and this week’s expansion of a
plan to provide cheaper loans to consumers and companies to
support the economy. When the central bank’s new governor,  Mark Carney , starts work in July, he’ll have a wider remit to loosen
policy.  Credit Downgrade  Yesterday’s growth figure provides relief for Osborne and
Cameron a week after  Fitch Ratings  stripped the U.K. of its top
credit grade, becoming the second company to do so, and the
 International Monetary Fund  called on Osborne to relax his
fiscal tightening.  “I can’t promise the road ahead will always be smooth, but
by continuing to confront our problems head on, Britain is
recovering and we are building an economy fit for the future,”
Osborne said.  The pound soared against the dollar after the data were
published and was up 1.1 percent on the day at $1.5434 as of
6:05 p.m. in London. The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 10.83 points, or
0.2 percent, to 6,442.59 at the close. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year gilt rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.73 percent.  “We are not by any means there, but we can see light and
the end of the tunnel,” Tory lawmaker Robert Halfon said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Today’s news is a step in
the right direction and, while I don’t agree with him on
everything, Osborne is right.”  Longest Slump  While the U.S., German and Canadian economies are back
above their pre-recession levels, U.K. GDP remains 2.6 percent
below its peak in the first quarter of 2008. It means Britain
remains stuck in its longest peacetime slump since at least
1920, according to the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research.  Since Cameron took office, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index has
 returned 36 percent , lagging behind the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index’s 46 percent, while outgaining benchmarks in  Canada ,
France and Germany.  The economy has grown 1.2 percent since the third quarter
of 2010, just after the coalition came to power in May of that
year. Osborne’s opposite number in the  Labour Party ,  Ed Balls ,
called the latest growth data “lackluster.”  Osborne “has avoided another hurdle although I don’t think
his job was at risk,”  Andrew Russell , a professor of politics
at the  University of Manchester , said in a telephone interview.
“He will be very pleased but he has been very cautious.”  Shared History  Just like Labour’s  Tony Blair  and his chancellor,  Gordon Brown , a decade ago, Cameron and Osborne’s fortunes are
intertwined and often stand against the rest of their party.  The two Tories are bound together not just by their
economic policy but by their political philosophy. While they
both attended Oxford University and were both members of the
exclusive and riotous Bullingdon dining club, they weren’t
contemporaries, and didn’t come to know each other well until
they were both elected to Parliament in 2001.  Osborne ran Cameron’s campaign for the Conservative
leadership in 2005. As Tory party modernizers, they spent the
period until the 2010 election aiming to make the Conservatives
electable following three consecutive defeats to Blair.  It’s a policy both men have continued while in government
even though it’s at times put them at odds with their rank-and-
file. Osborne has spearheaded efforts to get his party to
support gay marriage in the face of opposition from Tory
traditionalists. Similarly the chancellor has failed to give tax
breaks to encourage marriage, facing down demands from the Tory
back benches in the Commons.  Short Stroll  Osborne is a regular user of his office in 11 Downing
Street, next door to Cameron’s official residence at No. 10.
Internal doorways mean his desk is a short stroll from the prime
minister’s.  Brown was a rarer user of No. 11, preferring to stay at his
desk in the Treasury and avoid Blair. The pair had shared an
office when they were first elected to Parliament for Labour in
1983, in a relationship that Blair, in his memoirs, compared to
the intensity of a love affair.  That soured in 1994 when Blair overtook Brown to become
Labour leader. Once they took power in 1997, Brown ran economic
policy with barely any reference to Blair, who feared the
consequences of firing his chancellor.  “The difference with Blair and Brown is that Brown was the
most coherent alternative to Blair in the Labour Party,” said
Manchester University’s Russell. “It’s not a shift from George
Osborne that the Tories would be seeking, but something
different altogether,” were Cameron to consider changing
course.  Heath’s Failure  Any temptation on Cameron’s part to abandon austerity may
be tempered by the memory of  Edward Heath , the Tory prime
minister from 1970 to 1974. In the face of rising unemployment,
he u-turned in 1972 and adopted stimulus measures. While they
worked in the short term, they didn’t stop him being turned out
of office.  The authorized biography of  Margaret Thatcher , published
this week, shows the political calculations in the mind of a
prime minister. After the Argentine invasion of the Falklands in
1982, Defence Secretary John Nott was determined to resign.
Thatcher resisted, according to the author, Charles Moore,
because “she feared that the departure of the only other
Cabinet minister apart from herself who had been involved in the
debacle would leave her own position vulnerable.”  Still, the pressure on Osborne over his handling of the
economy is likely to persist in part because of his growth
record since taking office.  Shallow, Bumpy  Growth is “not out of line with the pattern of the last
few quarters, an upward trend but a shallow one and quite
bumpy,” the  Office for National Statistics ’ chief economist,
 Joe Grice , told reporters.  A month after Osborne became chancellor, the  Office for
Budget Responsibility  that he set up forecast that the economy
would grow by 8.2 percent in the three years through 2013. That
prediction is now for an expansion of 1.9 percent. The Bank of
England’s February projections show GDP will not return to its
pre-recession peak until the fourth quarter of 2014, so a
depression of almost seven years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  