-- House Seeks Step-by-Step Immigration Plan Senators Oppose
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/house-immigration-rewrite-to-be-long-process-goodlatte.html
The Republican-led House plans to
rewrite U.S. immigration law through a step-by-step process of
individual bills, an approach that sponsors of a comprehensive
Senate measure say won’t work.  “This process can be long,” House Judiciary Committee
Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, told reporters
yesterday in  Washington . Revamping immigration law “is not an
easy task, but a solution is not out of reach,” he said.  The House is taking a different approach than the Senate,
where the Judiciary Committee plans next month to consider an
immigration plan introduced last week by a bipartisan group of
senators. President  Barack Obama  has called the Senate
legislation “largely consistent” with his views.  “It has got to be a comprehensive approach,” Senator John McCain, an  Arizona  Republican and a co-sponsor of that chamber’s
plan, said yesterday at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast.
There is “no way of getting this job done” unless it includes
a path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented workers in the
U.S., as the Senate bill does, he said.  Pushing separate bills “is just not going to work,” said
another sponsor of the Senate bill,  New York  Democrat Charles Schumer, at the breakfast.  “We can’t do individual bills because the problem is
people say, ‘What about me?’” Schumer said. “The best way to
pass immigration legislation is actually a comprehensive bill
because that can achieve more balance and everybody can get
much, but not all, of what they want.”  Bipartisan Bill  The Senate bill introduced last week was the product of
months of negotiations between four Republican and four
Democratic senators. They sought to strike a balance: provide a
path to citizenship that Democrats insist must be part of any
broad rewrite and tie it to enough border security enhancements
to satisfy Republicans.  The Senate measure includes a deal between labor and
business leaders on a low-skilled guest-worker program and an
accord between farm workers and agricultural businesses on
revisions to the visa program for fruit and vegetable
harvesters.  Goodlatte said his panel will start with the introduction
of two bills this week: one focusing on farmworkers and another
on an electronic system used by employers to verify workers’
legal status.  McCain said he and Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina
Republican co-sponsor of the Senate plan, had spoken with House
Republicans to encourage them to support a comprehensive
overhaul.  Completed Package  “The time to do that is probably after we finish on the
floor of the Senate with a completed package so we can go over
specific points with them,” McCain said.  In the House, a bipartisan group has been working on a
rewrite of immigration laws for more than four years and is
poised to present its plan in the coming weeks.  Goodlatte said his committee will examine how immigration
proposals would fit with the bipartisan group’s plans. He said
“no decision” has been made on how to address a proposal by
the bipartisan group, and that his panel will allow lawmakers to
ensure their constituents’ views are heard.  Representative Trey Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican who
leads the Judiciary panel’s immigration subcommittee, said while
standing alongside Goodlatte that the House approach would
ensure “this is the last time we have this conversation as a
country.”  Citizenship Path  The bipartisan House group is discussing a plan to provide
a path to citizenship taking at least 15 years for many
undocumented immigrants now in the U.S., according to a
congressional aide who last week asked not to be identified
because the plan hadn’t been completed.  Undocumented immigrants would have a probationary period of
two to five years and would have to wait in line behind those
seeking to live in the U.S. legally, the aide said.  The House negotiators include Republicans Mario Diaz-Balart
of  Florida , John Carter and Sam Johnson of  Texas  and Raul Labrador of  Idaho , along with Democrats Zoe Lofgren and Xavier Becerra of  California , Luis Gutierrez of  Illinois  and John Yarmuth of  Kentucky .  A rewrite of the immigration laws has “got to be this
year,” Diaz-Balart told reporters at the Capitol. “Once you go
into congressional elections, then the focus changes, the
priorities change. Things get a lot more difficult.”  ‘Doesn’t Happen’  If Congress doesn’t enact a plan “it potentially doesn’t
happen for the next number of years,” Diaz-Balart said.  The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to start
considering amendments to the measure May 9. Senators said they
will allow an open amendment process to gain support.  “It would be wonderful if we could get a majority on both
sides” of the aisle to vote for passage of the Senate bill,
Schumer said.  McCain added, “It’s very do-able.” He said the Senate
bill’s authors are open to changes needed to prevent another
attack like the April 15  Boston Marathon bombings , though he
said it’s “way too early” to know what might be needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  