-- Pernod Quarterly Sales Miss Estimates as Chinese Sales Slow
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-04-25T07:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/pernod-quarterly-sales-miss-estimates-on-china-brazil-slowdown.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , France’s biggest
distiller, reported third-quarter revenue that missed estimates
as a slowdown in demand in over Chinese New Year outweighed
better-than-anticipated results in  Europe .  So-called organic sales, which exclude acquisitions,
disposals and currency fluctuations, increased 6 percent in the
three months ended March 31, the Paris-based company said today
in a  statement . That missed the 7.4 percent median estimate of
12 analysts. Nine-month sales on the same basis rose 4 percent.  “Americas and  Asia  disappointed,” Laetitia Delaye, an
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris, wrote today.
“France and Europe surprised positively.”  The performance marks a reversal of regional patterns for
the distiller, which has benefited from strong demand for cognac
and whisky in  China  amid slowing demand in Europe. The head of
its Asian unit in March reported “softness” over the key
Chinese New Year period, when consumers buy high-priced spirits
for celebratory gifts including its Martell cognac.  Pernod fell as much as 2.9 percent in Paris trading, the
most in more than a month. The stock was down 1.9 percent at
95.03 euros as of 9:18 a.m.  China Slowdown  Sales in Asia and the rest of the world rose 2 percent,
missing the 5.8 percent median estimate. The company said that
wholesaler depletions were “stable” during Chinese New Year.
Demand for Scotch whisky was weak in South Korea and  Thailand 
and slowed in China, it said.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, this month reported quarterly sales that rose 4
percent in Asia Pacific as declining Scotch whisky sales in
 South Korea  held back improvements.  “The third quarter big trends have been in line with the
first half, with the exception of China where we saw some
slowdown after a flat New Year in terms of consumer volumes,”
Chief Financial Officer Gilles Bogaert said today by phone.  Higher-end products such as Martell’s XO range and Royal
Salute whisky were more affected by a less favorable environment
for gift-giving and banqueting following the appointment of a
new goverment in China, but the company sees this as a largely
technical effect and will continue to increase prices, Bogaert
said, albeit at a slower pace than previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  