-- Pfizer’s Arthritis Drug Rejected by European Regulators
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-25T21:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/pfizer-s-arthritis-drug-rejected-by-european-regulators.html
  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s rheumatoid arthritis
pill failed to win the backing of European drug regulators, who
said the drug already approved in the U.S. isn’t effective
enough against the condition.  The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use, or CHMP, recommended that Pfizer’s pill
Xeljanz not be approved for sale, the New York-based drugmaker
said today in a statement. The drug gained marketing clearance
in the U.S. in November.  “Pfizer intends to appeal this opinion and immediately
seek a re-examination of the opinion by the CHMP,” the company
said. The committee decided the drug didn’t show a favorable
risk versus benefit profile, Pfizer said.  Xeljanz inhibits part of the immune system that can cause
rheumatoid arthritis. The first of a new type of therapies for
the disease, the pill is one of Pfizer’s top new products. If
approved in  Europe , it may generate sales of $510 million there
by 2018, according to  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with
International Strategy & Investment Group in New York. The
medicine would compete with AbbVie Inc.’s  Humira (ABBV)  and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Remicade.  “Pfizer will appeal, but history teaches that odds are
against them,” Schoenebaum said today in a note to clients.
More data might help Pfizer on appeal, which may take six
months, he said.  Comittee’s View  The European regulators said the drug didn’t show enough
effectiveness in reducing the disease’s activity in the body or
slowing damage to joints, even though it improved symptoms,
Pfizer said. There were also concerns about side effects
including tumors and infections.  The European Commission usually adopts the committee’s
advice, though it isn’t required to do so.  Pfizer  shares  declined 2.4 percent to $29.53 in extended
trading at 5:50 p.m.  New York  time after the announcement. The
shares closed at $30.26 today and have gained 32 percent in the
past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  