-- Philippines Ready to Act on Property Loan Surge: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-04-26T05:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/philippines-ready-to-act-on-property-loan-surge-southeast-asia.html
The Philippine central bank is
reviewing property loans data to determine whether cooling
measures are needed to avert a bubble, Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla said in an interview.  “Our source of concern is the rapid growth of credit,”
Espenilla said in his office on April 24. “The central bank is
very mindful of seeing the foundation of an asset bubble that
can burst and create dislocations in the economy.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, which yesterday cut the rate
on its special deposit accounts for a third time this year, is
monitoring the  property market  after bank loans and investments
surged to a record, based on the most recent central bank data.
Rising prices have spurred developers including  Ayala Land  Inc.
to build more homes.  Property loans and investments rose 18.9 percent to a
record 561.6 billion pesos ($13.6 billion) at the end of the
first half of 2012, according to the latest central bank data.
Lending expanded by 4.4 percent in the three months ended June
from the previous quarter, it said.  “The central bank is just being prudent and it’s not
making these moves because it already sees a bubble,” said Rico Gomez, who helps manage $2.8 billion at Rizal Commercial Banking
Corp. in Manila. “When things are buoyant, it’s always prudent
to remain vigilant.”  The Monetary Board may be presented with the latest data as
early as next week and will assess if any action is needed,
Espenilla said. “There is a range of options and I don’t want
to preempt the Monetary Board,” he said when asked to elaborate
on the possible measures.  Property Proportion  Real estate made up 15 percent of total loans in the first
half of 2012, increasing from 14.3 percent a year earlier, the
central bank said. Lending to the property industry rose to 17.6
percent of total loans last year from 16.1 percent at the end of
2011, Espenilla said, declining to give more details on the
latest report.  Bangko Sentral currently caps banks’ real-estate lending to
 20 percent  of total outstanding loans, with some exclusions.  “Demand is still growing,” Henry Sy Jr., chief executive
officer of  SM Development Corp. (SMDC) , said in an April 24 interview.
“But there’s danger in some areas because good days don’t last
forever.”  SM Development, which is controlled by the  Philippines ’
richest family, plans to spend 71 billion pesos on expansion up
until 2015, President Jeffrey Lim said this week.  Record Profit  Residential land values in central business districts in
the Philippines rose 8.3 percent in 2012 from a year earlier,
and are expected to increase 6.2 percent this year as the
economy expands and demand from expatriates rises, according to
a quarterly report by Colliers International UK Plc.  Ayala Land, the nation’s biggest developer, expects a
record profit this year as it takes advantage of a shortage of 4
million homes, President Antonino Aquino said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on March 20.  Century Properties Group Inc. (CPG) , a builder of residential
towers, forecasts reservation sales, or the value of pre-sold
units, will climb to 30 billion pesos in 2015 from an estimated
24 billion pesos this year as it expands outside of the capital,
Chief Financial Officer Carlo Antonio said last month.  The central bank ordered lenders to provide more details on
their real-estate loans in August as capital inflows rose to a
10-year high in 2012, adding to concern that some areas may be
vulnerable to excessive valuations.  Excess Liquidity  Low borrowing costs at the end of the last decade inflated
property prices, leading to housing bubbles in countries from
the U.S. to Ireland and  Spain .  The collapse of those markets contributed to the global
economic downturn, prompting the world’s biggest central banks
to stimulate their economies and flood markets with liquidity.
That money has found its way into  emerging markets , pushing down
borrowing costs and driving up housing prices.  “There could be some surplus in the upper end of the
market,” central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told
reporters yesterday. “On the more significant parts of the
market like the low-cost, socialized and medium-cost, there are
no signs of a bubble formation.”  Deploying Funds  Bangko Sentral yesterday cut the rate on 1.9 trillion pesos
($46 billion) in its special deposit accounts to 2 percent from
2.5 percent, the third such reduction this year, a move that may
encourage funds to seek other investments.  Asia ’s emerging
economies should consider reining in monetary stimulus to curb
the risk of asset bubbles, the  World Bank  said in its East Asia
and Pacific Economic Update released on April 15.  “Investors are buying property shares calculating that the
central bank’s cut in special deposit accounts will force banks
to deploy these funds to more productive use,” said  James Lago ,
head of research at Manila-based PCCI Securities. “These funds
will likely go to housing and consumer loans, which provide
higher rates than these accounts.”  The Philippine Stock Exchange Property Index rose 1.4
percent as of 1:46 p.m., snapping three days of declines. Ayala
Land rose 2.3 percent, while Megaworld Corp. advanced 3.2
percent. SM Development fell 1.6 percent.  High-End Segment  “It’s those in the high-end segment that merit a second
look,” SM Development’s Sy said. “The middle to affordable
markets still look good.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  has climbed 20 percent
this year, reaching a record 7,120.48 this week.  Prices of luxury condominiums in the central Makati
district rose 1.6 percent to as much as 155,850 pesos per square
meter ($351 per square foot) in the last quarter of 2012 from
the previous quarter,  Colliers  said. Prices are expected to
climb more than 6 percent in these districts in the last quarter
of 2013 from a year earlier, it said. Land values in Makati are
expected to gain more than 5 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, it said.  “I don’t see any signs of overheating,” Rizal Bank’s
Gomez said. “Property developers have properly spaced their
project rollouts, prices haven’t significantly risen and banks
remain very prudent with allowable mortgages to equity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at   mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  