-- Philippine Five-Year Bonds Decline Most in a Month; Peso Steady
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-25T04:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/philippine-five-year-bonds-decline-most-in-a-month-peso-steady.html
Philippine five-year bonds fell the
most in a month on speculation some investors sold the notes to
lock in gains from a rally that drove yields to an all-time low
yesterday. The peso was steady.  The rate on government debt due 2018 slid 24 basis points
this month to 2.83 percent yesterday, extending a 104 basis
point drop in March, on bets the central bank will lower the
rate on its special deposit accounts today. Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas will reduce the  SDA  rate to 2 percent from 2.5 percent
after two reductions this year, according to 12 of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Three forecast a decrease to 2.25 percent
and one sees no change. All predict the benchmark overnight
borrowing rate would be left at 3.5 percent.  “Some investors are locking in gains and trimming their
positions before today’s priced-in SDA rate cut,” said Dave Estacio, an assistant vice president at First Metro Investment
Corp. in  Manila . “Some investors may be looking at other
outlets that will provide higher yields.”  The yield on the 5.875 percent bond due January 2018 rose
10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 2.93 percent, the
biggest increase since March 26, according to midday fixing
prices at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  The peso was little changed at 41.283 per dollar at the
noon trading break, from 41.285 yesterday, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 15 basis
points to 4.85 percent.  Additional Measures  The central bank isn’t ruling out a further cut in the so-
called SDA rate and is “always thinking of additional
measures” to manage liquidity, Felipe Medalla, a member of the
central bank’s Monetary Board, said on April 18. Inflation
slowed to 3.2 percent in March from a five-month high in
February, the government reported this month.  Bangko Sentral has cut the rate on $46 billion in its
special deposit accounts by about half-a-percentage point each
in January and March, while holding its benchmark measure at a
record low. The central bank announced on April 18 that it’s
doubling the amount of dollars residents can freely buy and
broadened the range of approved outward investments to spur
capital outflows and slow peso gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  