-- Philippines Cuts Special Deposit Account Rate, Holds Benchmark
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-04-25T07:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/philippines-cuts-special-deposit-account-rate-holds-benchmark.html
The  Philippines  cut the rate it
pays on special deposit accounts for a third time this year,
boosting efforts to curb capital inflows and avert asset bubbles.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lowered the rate on SDAs to 2
percent effective immediately, according to a statement in
Manila today. The decision was predicted by 12 of 16 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . It kept the  rate  it pays lenders for
overnight deposits at a record-low 3.5 percent, as forecast by
all 19 economists surveyed.  The Philippines, which won its first investment-grade
ranking from  Fitch Ratings  last month, is seeking to slow a
surge in capital inflows that has boosted property prices and
lifted stocks to a record this week. Policy easing in developed
nations is adding to pressure on inflation and asset prices in
Asia’s emerging economies, the  World Bank  said this month.  “Capital inflows are a key concern,” said Michael Wan, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Money is
still flowing in, and with the rating upgrade, more investors
will try to take opportunity of the growth story. With inflation
manageable, what better time for BSP to cut SDA rates than
now.”  Bangko Sentral last week relaxed curbs on dollar purchases
to restrain the peso, doubling the amount of dollars residents
can freely buy and broadening the range of approved outward
investments to encourage outflows.  Philippine stock valuations surged to an all-time high of
20.4 times projected 12-month profits on April 22, or twice the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index multiple, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The peso has declined about 0.7 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  this year after trading at near a five-year high in March.  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
this year while seeking more than $17 billion of investments in
highways and airports to spur annual growth to as much as 7
percent. Fitch upgraded the Philippines on March 27, citing
moderate budget deficits and a “strong” policy-making framework
among reasons, including efforts to manage capital inflows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  