-- Phoenix CEO Faces Philippine Prosecutor’s Oil Smuggling Charges
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-25T07:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/phoenix-ceo-faces-philippine-prosecutor-s-oil-smuggling-charges.html
The Philippine justice department
ordered the filing of smuggling charges against the head of
 Phoenix Petroleum Philippines Inc. (PNX)  Stocks fell.  Justice Secretary Leila de Lima today ordered government
prosecutors to sue Phoenix President and Chief Executive Officer
Dennis Uy and Customs broker Jorlan Cabanes, reversing a Nov.
16, 2012 ruling that cleared both.  “We are extremely surprised by the reversal of the
original decision absolving Dennis Uy of the unsubstantiated
charges,” Raymond Zorrilla, Phoenix assistant vice president,
said in a mobile-phone text message. “We insist on our right to
due process and fair play as we seek to refute the allegations
of Customs.”  Phoenix, which sells refined petroleum products and
operates oil depots, didn’t pay taxes on 5.98 billion pesos
($145 million) of oil shipments in 2010 and 2011, according to a
copy of a resolution issued yesterday, released to the media
today. Shares fell 9.2 percent to 9.44 pesos, the sharpest
decline since March 12.  The  Philippines , under pressure to curb  tax evasion  and
boost revenue, filed separate complaints today at the justice
department against sugar traders for alleged smuggling. A
discrepancy between 106.9 million barrels of oil demand in 2011
against 67.6 million barrels imported indicated smuggling,
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said on April 2. The nation
imports almost all its oil needs.  Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon is working on a plan to
curb smuggling and the reforms will be significant, President
 Benigno Aquino  said this month.  Import documents submitted by Phoenix “raise serious
doubts as to the legality of the importation and are indications
that fraudulent acts were committed in the process,” de Lima
said in the order.  Uy and Cabanes had worked on the processing and release of
oil shipments that had been abandoned in favor of the government
for failure to file import entries, according to the April 24
order.  Import documents submitted by Phoenix during the
preliminary investigation had “discrepancies, inconsistencies
and variance” compared with data from the Bureau of Customs,
which filed a complaint against Phoenix in 2011, de Lima said in
the order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  