-- Poland Left Rates Unchanged in April on Ambiguous Recovery Signs
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-04-25T13:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/poland-left-rates-unchanged-in-april-on-ambiguous-recovery-signs.html
Polish central bankers didn’t vote
on interest-rate cuts this month because of “ambiguous” signs
of a recovery in the European Union’s largest eastern economy,
 minutes  released today showed.  Still, some members of the 10-person Monetary Policy
Council argued further monetary easing could be justified in the
coming months if there were no “clear” signals of a rebound,
according to an e-mailed document from the April 10 meeting.
Others argued growth “was anticipated” to pick up in the
coming quarters and further cuts were unnecessary.  Policy makers kept  interest rates  unchanged for the first
time in five months in April on expectations that record-low
borrowing costs will revive the economy. The reports released
since the decision showed inflation slowed to the weakest pace
in more than six months and industrial output shrank in March,
prompting the statistics office to say that “nothing” suggests
“a breakthrough” in the first quarter.  “While discussing the level of  interest rates  it was
agreed that these should be kept unchanged at the present
meeting, in particular amid ambiguous signs of a possible
economic recovery in the subsequent quarters,” according to the
document.  Some central bankers said a “relatively large” interest-
rate disparity between  Poland  and advanced economies may
encourage inflows of “portfolio capital.” This could lead to
an “excessive” rise in government bond prices and increase
“the macroeconomic risk” in the case of sudden outflows.  ‘High Level’  “A few” Council members believed more reductions in
borrowing costs might limit the scale of restructuring of
unprofitable companies, according to the minutes.  Other central bankers also argued that keeping real
interest rates at “relatively high level” would boost deposit
growth and help support the stability of the banking industry
amid the debt crisis in the euro area, the document showed.  Governor  Marek Belka  used his tie-breaking vote to cut
rates by 50 basis points to 3.25 percent in March, according to
the  voting tally  released separately today by the central bank.
None of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted the
decision, which was also backed by  Andrzej Bratkowski , Elzbieta
Chojna-Duch, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka and  Jerzy Hausner .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  