-- Pot-Smoking Teen Drivers Say Weed Aids or Isn’t Hindrance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-04-25T16:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/pot-smoking-teen-drivers-say-weed-aids-or-isn-t-hindrance.html
Most teenagers who drove under the
influence of marijuana said the drug either improves their
performance behind the wheel or is no hindrance, according to a
survey by insurer  Liberty Mutual  Holding Co. and a safety group.  Thirty-four percent of those who have driven while high say
the drug makes them a better motorist, and 41 percent said it
had no effect, Boston-based Liberty Mutual said. Among teens who
drove under the influence of alcohol, 62 percent said drinking
affected their driving for the worse.  Teens’ attitudes show that parents need to do a better job
of educating children about safe driving, Liberty Mutual and
Students Against Destructive Decisions said in a statement today
disclosing survey results. They found that 23 percent of teens
had driven under the influence of alcohol, marijuana or
prescription drugs used illegally.  “We’ve been stressing the dangers associated with drinking
and driving, and drugging and driving, for years and years and
years,” Dave Melton, who helps oversee safety initiatives at
Liberty Mutual, said in an interview today. “Our kids are still
doing the same kinds of things.”  Parents need to set a good example for their children and
enforce driving rules to keep them safe, Melton said.  While there’s a clear association between alcohol and
increased  car-crash  risk, the link between marijuana use and
accidents is less certain, according to NORML, which seeks to
decriminalize marijuana use by adults. Stoned drivers may slow
down and require greater time to respond, the organization said
on its  website .  ‘Risky Manner’  “This reaction is just the opposite of that exhibited by
drivers under the influence of alcohol, who tend to drive in a
more risky manner proportional to their intoxication,” NORML
said on its site.  Still, the organization said people shouldn’t drive after
being impaired by marijuana use.  Teen drivers say using a mobile phone is at least as
distracting as driving under the influence of alcohol, marijuana
or  prescription drugs , Liberty Mutual found. Three quarters of
teens said driving while high on marijuana is at least slightly
distracting, and 86 percent said the same of driving under the
influence of alcohol.  The data are based on completed surveys from 1,708 11th and
12th graders at 26 high schools across the U.S., according to
Liberty Mutual.  Melton said he was shocked by teen acceptance of driving
after marijuana use.  “I don’t understand how they think it improves their
driving,” he said. “Maybe they think that their senses are
enhanced as a result of using a mind-altering drug. I just can’t
say, I have no idea.”  Editors: Dan Kraut, David Scheer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  