-- Potash Corp. Scraps Proposed Takeover Bid for Israel Chemicals
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-25T10:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/potash-corp-scraps-proposed-takeover-bid-for-israel-chemicals.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer, scrapped a proposed
takeover bid for  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  after opposition to the
deal from workers and Israeli politicians.  “Now is not the time to pursue this opportunity,”
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. said today in its
first-quarter earnings statement.  “While we continue to believe that such a transaction
would be of tremendous benefit to stakeholders of both companies
and the State of  Israel , there must be receptivity to foreign
investment and certainty in the rules that govern such
investment.”  The takeover would have given Potash Corp. control of the
sixth-largest potash producer and boosted its share of forecast
global production capacity this year to about 27 percent,
according data from fertilizer-industry information service
Green Markets. It would also have enabled the Canadian company
to vie with Russian competitor OAO Uralkali, which according to
data compiled by Bloomberg was the world’s biggest producer in
2011.  Israel’s proximity to  Asia  would give Potash Corp. an
advantage in selling to  India , one of the world’s largest
importers, John Chu, a Toronto-based analyst at AltaCorp Capital
Inc., said in an interview .  Israel Corp., which is controlled by billionaire Idan Ofer,
has a 52 percent stake in Tel Aviv-based Israel Chemicals. The
Israeli government can block takeover bids for the chemicals
company using its so-called golden share.  Potash Corp.,  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  of the U.S. and Calgary-based
 Agrium Inc. (AGU)  own Canpotex Ltd., which sells their potash exports.
In a similar arrangement, Belarusian Potash Co. sells exports
from Uralkali and Belarus’s Belaruskali. Potash Corp.’s
acquisition of Israel Chemicals would have put more than 70
percent of global production capacity in the hands of the two
export groups, from about 66 percent now, Chu said.  Potash helps crops withstand drought and strengthens roots.
Potash Corp.’s largest potash mines are in the Canadian province
of Saskatchewan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  