-- Pound Gains Most Since July as U.K. Avoids Recession; Gilts Fall
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-25T15:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/pound-strengthens-a-fourth-day-versus-euro-before-u-k-gdp-data.html
The pound rose by the most since
July against the dollar after a government report showed the
U.K. economy grew more last quarter than analysts forecast,
ensuring the nation avoided a triple-dip recession.  Sterling advanced at least 0.4 percent against all 16 of
its major counterparts as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the data are an encouraging sign the economy is
improving. The  Bank of England  next meets on May 8-9 after
policy makers were split this month on the need to provide more
monetary stimulus to spur growth. U.K. government bonds fell as
demand for safer assets waned.  “Sterling is trading higher and I would expect further
gains,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “The data puts another
nail in the coffin for further money printing.”  The pound jumped 1.1 percent to $1.5436 at 4:10 p.m. in
London after rising to $1.5480, the highest level since Feb. 19.
The U.K. currency strengthened as much as 1.4 percent, the
biggest intraday gain since July 26. Sterling advanced 1.2
percent to 84.26 pence per euro after touching 84.10, the
strongest since Jan. 24.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the first
quarter, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London. The
median forecast of economists in a  Bloomberg News  survey was for
growth of 0.1 percent. From a year earlier, GDP expanded 0.6
percent, the most since the fourth quarter of 2011.  Britain Recovering  “I can’t promise the road ahead will always be smooth but
by continuing to confront our problems head on, Britain is
recovering and we are building an economy fit for the future,”
Osborne said in a statement released by the Treasury.  The pound has strengthened 2 percent in the past month, the
second-best performer after the  New Zealand dollar  among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. Sterling has still depreciated 2.6 percent
this year.  Strength in the pound may be sustained, enabling it
appreciate to as high as $1.60 by the end of the year, James Kwok, head of currency management at Amundi Asset Management in
London, said in an interview with John Tucker on  Bloomberg
Radio ’s “The First Word.”  “The consensus has been too bearish on sterling for a long
time,” he said. “A lot of bad news is already in the price.”  The pound’s advance saw it strengthen beyond its 100-day
moving average against the euro, currently at 84.46 pence, for
the first time since Nov. 8.  Gilts Decline  The yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.72 percent after climbing
to 1.74 percent yesterday, the highest level since April 17. The
1.75 percent bond due September 2022 fell 0.3, or 3 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 100.23.  Today’s GDP report is a preliminary estimate and based on
about 44 percent of the data that will ultimately be available.
Six of the 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
predicted a contraction.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has wanted to expand
so-called quantitative easing for three consecutive months but
has been outvoted by a majority on the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee, minutes of their meetings show.  “The data is a negative for gilts in that it allows the
BOE not to embark on more QE or cut rates,” said Jason Simpson,
a rates strategist at Banco Santander SA in London. “I don’t
think the underperformance will be sustained given recent moves
have been international in nature. The data is prone to revision
and there’s some fairly optimistic assumptions. There will
probably be some sort of downward revision.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year gilts
instead of similar-maturity German bunds yields climbed four
basis points to 49 basis points, the most since April 11.  U.K. gilts returned 1.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds gained 0.9 percent and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  