-- PPR First-Quarter Sales Trail Estimates as Gucci Slows
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-04-25T18:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ppr-first-quarter-sales-trail-estimates-as-gucci-disappoints.html
PPR SA (PP)  reported first-quarter
revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates as Gucci posted its
weakest quarterly growth in more than three years amid a more
volatile business climate in Europe.  Sales from continuing operations climbed 1 percent to 2.37
billion euros ($3.1 billion), the Paris-based company said today
in a statement after markets closed. Analysts predicted 2.41
billion euros, according to the average of four  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding acquisitions and currency
fluctuations, revenue rose 3.1 percent.  Comparable sales at Gucci advanced 4 percent, the weakest
increase since the fourth quarter of 2009. That missed the 6
percent median estimate of 13 analysts. The brand’s performance
in Asia Pacific was mixed in the period, PPR said.  “PPR luxury numbers disappoint,” said  Luca Solca , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, by e-mail. “We were expecting
better momentum on the back of marginally better space growth
contribution and pricing mix.” Solca has an outperform rating,
the equivalent of buy, on the stock.  PPR joins  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and  Hermes
International (RMS)  SCA in reporting slowing sales. LVMH this month
posted its weakest quarterly growth in fashion and leather-goods
revenue since 2009, citing a decline in Japanese tourism and
fewer store visitors in  China . Conditions in Europe are more
difficult and may remain so in the current quarter, PPR Chief
Financial Officer Jean-Marc Duplaix said today on a call.  Remains ‘Confident’  PPR, which yesterday agreed to acquire Italian jeweler
Pomellato, remains “confident” of improving its performance in
the full year, it said in the statement.  The  shares  rose 0.5 percent to 178.50 euros in Paris
trading today, bringing this year’s gain to 27 percent.  Sales at handbag maker Bottega Veneta grew 8.8 percent on a
comparable basis, slowing from 33 percent in the year earlier
period and the fourth quarter. Mixed performances in wholesale
penalized strong growth in retail, PPR said. Saint Laurent sales
gained 19 percent, while revenue from other luxury brands
advanced 6.9 percent, PPR said.  Overall, first-quarter sales at the luxury division rose
6.4 percent on a comparable basis, about a third of the rate of
the year earlier period. Sports-and-lifestyle revenue declined
2.5 percent, weighed down by a difficult textile and sporting-
goods market, especially in western  Europe , PPR said. Puma sales
fell 2.3 percent.  The company didn’t report profit for the quarter.  PPR plans to spin off the Fnac media and electronics chain
in June and sell online and mail-order retailer La Redoute in
the second half of the year. To mark its transformation into a
specialist in luxury products and sporting goods, the company
will change its name to Kering, it said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  