-- Prim Capital’s Lombardo Charged in NBA Player Union Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-04-26T14:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/prim-capital-s-lombardo-charged-in-nba-player-union-probe.html
Joseph Lombardo, founder of  Prim
Capital Corp. , which advises the National Basketball Players
Association, faces U.S. criminal charges that he obstructed a
federal grand jury probe of a $3 million fraud scheme.  Lombardo and Carolyn Kaufman, a Prim principal who served
as president of the company’s advisory services unit, were
charged in a criminal complaint unsealed yesterday in federal
court in  Manhattan  with obstructing the investigation.  In the complaint filed yesterday by the office of Manhattan
U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , Lombardo, 72, of Gates Mills, Ohio,
is also charged with one count of attempted  wire fraud  and one
count of attempted mail fraud.  Prim was the primary outside advisory firm entrusted with
the union’s investments and finances from 2001 to 2013,
according to the complaint. Prim helped in the management of as
much as $250 million of the association’s assets.  In May 2012, as part of a U.S. Department of Labor
investigation, Prim was served with a subpoena seeking documents
pertaining to agreements between the association and Prim,
prosecutors said. Prim produced copies of its agreements with
the union, including a purported 2011 contract listing Prim’s
fee as $602,000 a year for a five-year term, prosecutors said.  The contract was signed by Gary Hall, the union’s former
general counsel. Bharara said an investigation revealed that
Hall’s signature wasn’t authentic and was created at Prim,
months after Hall’s death in March 2011, Bharara said.  Grand Jury  Lombardo and Kaufman, 72, of Hudson,  Ohio , were later
summoned to appear before a federal grand jury in  New York 
investigating the matter and provided false testimony,
prosecutors said.  Lombardo and Kaufman were arrested yesterday in their homes
in Ohio and presented before U.S. Magistrate Judge Greg White in
federal court in  Cleveland , Bharara said. They are scheduled to
appear in federal court in New York on May 2, prosecutors said.  The two were released by White on $100,000 personal
recognizance bonds. Both were represented by lawyer Sam Zingale,
who didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message after regular
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the charges.  Lombardo faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted
of wire or mail fraud, Bharara said in a statement. Lombardo and
Kaufman face a maximum 20-year sentence if convicted of
obstruction, Bharara said.  Union Turmoil  Lombardo’s arrest follows months of turmoil at the union,
whose members in February voted to fire  Executive Director   Billy Hunter  after an independent investigation found that the former
federal prosecutor put his own interests ahead of the players’.  Hunter’s son, Todd, was a principal at Prim Capital. Billy
Hunter in January purged family members from union roles after
the investigation conducted by the New York law firm Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison was critical of nepotism at
the organization.  The New York-based union paid almost $4.8 million to
Hunter’s family members and their professional firms since 2001,
according to public records. Billy Hunter also severed ties with
Prim.  The investigation concluded that Hunter didn’t do anything
illegal.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan started
investigating the union after the association’s president,  Derek Fisher , called for a review of business practices, including
nepotism.  Union Chief  Hunter, a former National Football League  player , had
guided the union since 1996. Union attorney Ron Klempner is
running the association while the players search for a new
executive director.  Billy Hunter says the players owe him the remaining
$10 million left on his contract. The Paul Weiss report
concluded that Hunter hid the fact his contract wasn’t properly
ratified, rendering it invalid.  The case is U.S. v. Lombardo, 13-01072, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Soshnick  in New York
at   ssoshnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 