-- Putin’s Medieval Peace Pact in Chechnya
-- B y   B e n   J u d a h
-- 2013-04-25T22:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/putin-s-medieval-peace-pact-in-chechnya.html
The involvement of two ethnic
Chechens in the Boston Marathon bombing came as a brutal
reminder of the wars that ravaged the Russian republic more than
a decade ago. Less understood is that they aren’t over.  Vladimir Putin  said when he first ran for president in 2000
that his “historic mission” was to resolve the situation in the
North Caucasus. To do so, he oversaw a second war in Chechnya,
already devastated by Russia’s failed attempt to subdue the
republic in 1994-1996.  Instead of solving the North Caucasus issue, however, Putin
created a monster. To end the fighting, he cut a deal with
Chechnya’s rebel Kadyrov clan: In exchange for loyalty to the
Kremlin, they received power and reconstruction aid.  This was a medieval deal that made Akhmad Kadyrov, a rebel
commander and Sufi mufti, Putin’s feudal liege. The aim was to
co-opt the more religiously moderate Sufis among Chechnya’s
rebel fighters, marginalize the Salafist jihadists who appear to
have fascinated the Boston bombers, and enable the Russian
military to declare victory and draw down.  It was a false triumph. Kadyrov was assassinated in 2004.
But under his son, Ramzan, Chechnya today remains a gray zone,
neither independent, nor under Russian control, nor at peace.  Kadyrov is the only leader in any of  Russia ’s 21 republics
to have his own militia. So sure is he of his indispensability
to the fragile Pax Putina in the North Caucasus that he once
strode into the Kremlin wearing a tracksuit and jogging shoes.
Few others would risk such a mark of disrespect to Putin.  Virtue Campaigns  Russia’s writ runs weak in Chechnya. Kadyrov has imposed
elements of Islamic law, including a ban on unveiled women in
public buildings. He likes to race up and down the capital
Grozny’s new Vladimir Putin Avenue at night, occasionally
pulling his sports car over to holler at women he considers
immodest. His so-called virtue campaigns have included a
clampdown on alleged sorcerers.  Putin pays a high price for the allegiance of this warlord.
The Russian government  spent  $30 billion in the North Caucasus
from 2000 to 2010, and plans to deliver a  further  $80 billion of
federal funds to the region’s 9 million population by 2025.
Among the projects this tide of cash will pay for is a world-
class ski resort in Chechnya. Even so, unemployment in the
republic  remains  at more than 36 percent; poverty in the
villages is grinding; and hundreds of people die every year in
continuing clashes with mainly jihadist guerrillas.  Kadyrov spends Putin’s largesse like a Gulf sheikh. Grozny,
reduced to rubble during the wars, now has blue-glass office
towers and a state-of-the-art soccer stadium (Kadyrov’s father
was killed in the old one) with the capacity to hold 30,000
people.  Now 36 years old, Chechnya’s president likes to pose for
the cameras with his gold-plated pistol, and he posts snaps of
his life on the photo-sharing site Instagram. In an average
week, he might cuddle a baby tiger, wave traditional swords or
box government ministers. (Boston bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev
identified with a long Chechen boxing tradition.)  Kadyrov is untouchable in Russia and, as a result, Putin’s
political opponents see the Chechen leader as the Kremlin’s
gangster ally, licensed to operate a mafia network throughout
the federation.  These accusations, dismissed by the Kremlin and Kadyrov
alike, have turned Russian nationalism upside down. When Russian
troops charged into Chechnya, it was the nationalists who
demanded that not a centimeter of territory be allowed to
secede. Now, furious at the price that Russians have to pay for
this policy, the same nationalists are screaming that Russia
should expel the North Caucasus republics from the federation
and “declare independence” from Chechnya.  Rallying Cry  “Stop Feeding the Caucasus” has become a rallying cry for
Russia’s political opposition. Although the Moscow protest
movement that emerged in December 2011 is mostly liberal, it is
also happy to attract as many anti-Chechen nationalists as it
can.  Alexey Navalny, the opposition leader on trial for
corruption charges that appear to be fabricated, is as famous
for  lashing  out at Chechens as he is for his anti-corruption
campaigns. Navalny despises Kadyrov, whom he accuses of ordering
murders across Russia, and of theft and extortion from the
Russian state. Kadyrov has denied these and other allegations.  Chechen-bashing works politically for Navalny because Putin
cannot fight back. The Kremlin can mimic Navalny’s anti-
corruption campaign, but it can’t start attacking Kadyrov. That
would threaten the Pax Putina in the Caucasus. Navalny can
therefore paint Putin as weak, accusing Russia’s president of
paying billions of rubles in tribute to a Chechen warlord, so
that Chechens won’t let off bombs in Moscow. “The Godfather of
all Chechen bandits and thugs is not sitting in Grozny, but in
the Kremlin,” Navalny has said.  Navalny  appears  to have much of the public on his side when
it comes to Chechnya. According to a 2011 opinion poll by the
independent  Levada Center , 51 percent of Russians wouldn’t care
if Chechnya was thrown out of Russia and 59 percent agree with
the xenophobic slogan “Russia for Russians.” A further 56
percent say they worry that ethnic clashes might soon occur. And
there is overwhelming public support to cut the handouts to
Chechnya.  For Kadyrov, the end of subsidies from Moscow would be
disastrous. About 90 percent of the Chechen government budget
consists of transfers from Moscow, and a huge chunk of
employment is dependent on the Grozny reconstruction boom that
Moscow funds. If it stopped, Kadyrov would quickly have a revolt
of the jobless on his hands and would risk being toppled.  Wild Speculation  The belief that Kadyrov would do whatever it takes to keep
Putin in power breeds wild speculation in Moscow. It was widely
believed during the December 2011 opposition protests, for
example, that “Putin’s Chechens” were camped out inside the
unfinished Hotel Moscow, just off Red Square, and would be
released to shoot ethnic Russian demonstrators should they march
on the Kremlin. No Chechens emerged.  Putin can’t rule forever. Because Putin can’t solve the
Kadyrov problem, it is likely to explode the moment his grip on
power falters. Whether the result is an independent Chechnya, a
weak leader in Moscow unable to control Kadyrov, or a third
Chechen war, Putin has failed in his “historic mission” -- to
resolve the North Caucasus issue. Chechnya remains fertile
territory for conflict.  (Ben Judah is the author of “Fragile Empire: How Russia
Fell In and Out of Love With Vladimir Putin,” to be published
by Yale University Press in May 2013. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ben Judah at  bjudah@esiweb.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 