-- Putin Says Boston Bombing Bringing Russia, U.S. Closer Together
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-25T13:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/putin-says-boston-bombing-bringing-russia-u-s-closer-together.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
urged closer cooperation with the U.S. in combating terrorism
after the Boston bombings in which two ethnic Chechen immigrants
are the suspects.  “I am simply appealing for this tragedy to bring us
together in fighting common threats, of which one of the most
important and dangerous is terrorism,” Putin said in a
nationwide live call-in show today. “If we really unite, we
won’t allow these strikes to happen and suffer such losses.”  Authorities say Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, and his brother
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, were responsible for setting off two
bombs at the Boston Marathon on April 15. The attack killed
three people and injured more than 260. Dzhokhar is charged with
crimes that carry the death penalty including conspiring to use
a weapon of mass destruction resulting in death. Tamerlan died
after a shootout with police.  U.S.- Russia  relations have worsened since Putin returned to
the presidency last year, with disputes over U.S. human-rights
sanctions, support by President  Barack Obama ’s administration
for democratic rights in Russia and American efforts to oust the
leadership of Soviet-era ally  Syria .  Putin criticized Western governments and media for their
failure to condemn militants in Russia’s mainly Muslim North
Caucasus, including in Chechnya where there have been two
conflicts since the mid-1990s.  Terrorism Victim  “Russia is itself a victim of international terrorism, one
of the first victims,” he said.  The nationalities or religion of the attackers is
irrelevant, according to Putin, who said the Boston assault was
motivated by “extremist views.”  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , at the request of
Russia’s domestic intelligence service, conducted a three-month
review of Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s activities in 2011, which included
interviews with Tsarnaev and his family members, and an
examination of communications and Internet usage, according to
two law-enforcement officials who asked not to be named because
the bombing investigation is continuing.  The FBI investigated the Russian tip thoroughly “and did
not find terrorist activity, domestic or foreign,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said April 22. Subsequently, Russia didn’t
cooperate with the FBI’s request to know if it had more specific
information, according to Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican who’s chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  