-- Putin Denies ‘Stalinism’ as Critic Navalny Ridicules Fraud Case
-- B y   D e n i s   S h a d r i n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-25T16:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/putin-denies-stalinism-as-critic-navalny-ridicules-fraud-case.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
denied he’s resorting to Stalin-era tactics by locking up
opponents as a leading critic, Alexey Navalny, ridiculed fraud
charges he’s facing.  “Stalinism is about a cult of personality and mass
violations of the law, with repression and camps,” Putin said
today in response to a question about Navalny during a televised
call-in show that lasted almost four hours and 50 minutes.
“There’s no such thing in  Russia  and I hope there never will
be, no one is being jailed for political reasons.”  Navalny, 36, faces as much as 10 years in prison over
charges that he defrauded state timber company Kirovles of 16
million rubles ($514,000). He denies any wrongdoing and says the
case is payback for helping lead the biggest protests against
Putin’s 13-year rule in 2011.  The anti-corruption blogger and lawyer today cross-examined
a key prosecution witness, prompting laughter in court when
former Kirovles general director Vyacheslav Opalev repeatedly
failed to answer his questions.  Investigators allege Navalny and two others embezzled more
than 10,000 cubic meters of wood products at state-owned
Kirovles between May and September 2009. The Investigative
Committee said in February 2011 on its website that Navalny had
threatened the manager of the timber company with dismissal to
pressure him into signing a contract with another company,
Vyatskaya Lesnaya Kompaniya.  ‘Eat You?’  The lawyer was working at the time as an unpaid adviser on
corporate governance in Kirov, 900 kilometers (560 miles)
northeast of Moscow, to regional governor Nikita Belykh, who’s
defended Navalny.  “How and when did I demand and force you to cooperate with
Vyatskaya Lesnaya Kompaniya?” Navalny said on the third day of
his trial in Kirov. After Opalev replied that he didn’t
remember, Navalny continued: “Well, did I say: ‘I’ll fire you,
I’ll eat you?’”  Federal investigators twice overruled regional prosecutors
who’d dropped the case against Navalny. He yesterday denounced
the proceedings as “political revenge” and vowed to keep up
his campaign to uncover fraud at state companies.  The trial follows the case against three members of all-
female punk group Pussy Riot, who were convicted last August
after a protest targeting Putin inside Moscow’s Christ the
Savior cathedral. One was later freed on appeal.  Protesters are also being prosecuted for taking part in
anti-Putin rallies that ended in violent clashes. One of them,
Konstantin Lebedev, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years today for
organizing mass unrest in last May, Interfax reported.  Russian authorities opened a fourth criminal case against
Navalny on April 18, with all relating to separate cases of
alleged fraud. The trial will be conducted “absolutely
objectively,” according to Putin, who said anti-corruption
activists must be completely honest themselves or their work
turns into “political self-advertising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  