-- PwC Affiliate Among Two Bidders to Price BNDES Distressed Debt
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-04-25T21:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/pwc-affiliate-among-two-bidders-to-price-bndes-distressed-debt.html
Brazil asset manager JGP Gestao de
Credito Ltda. and a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP affiliate
submitted bids to BNDES, the nation’s development bank, to price
6.1 billion reais ($3 billion) of nonperforming loans.  The bids from PricewaterhouseCoopers Corporate, Finance &
Recovery Ltda. and Rio de Janeiro-based JGP were disclosed today
on the government bank’s website.  “We have a very diligent team that has been able to
recover a large portion of distressed assets,” BNDES President
 Luciano Coutinho  said in a conference call. “We have other,
particularly small, credits in the past that we’ve been
struggling to recover and maybe we should follow the example of
many other banks in having adequate pricing for these, so we’re
hiring expertise for how to better recover credit.”  The 6.1 billion reais represents the value of 1,020 loans
on the day the borrowers defaulted, plus two months’ interest.
They would be valued at 37 billion reais when accounting for
inflation, penalties and accrued interest on the loans, some of
which are more than 20 years overdue. Investors seek to turn a
profit by recouping money from borrowers after buying the soured
loans at a steep discount.  The transaction would be BNDES’s first distressed-asset
sale, which could reduce the bank’s delinquency rate and boost
its capacity to make more loans. The tender process should be
completed by the end of the year, according to Rio de Janeiro-
based BNDES, which would determine whether to sell the
nonperforming loans after the winning bidder conducts a study.  BNDES, with a total credit portfolio of 492 billion reais
and 716 billion reais of assets, disbursed 156 billion reais of
loans last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  