-- Quarterback Drought at NFL Draft Brings Offensive Linemen to Top
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-25T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/quarterback-drought-at-nfl-draft-brings-offensive-linemen-to-top.html
Andrew Luck  and Robert Griffin III
helped make 2012 the year of the rookie quarterback in the
 National Football League  after becoming the first duo at the
position selected first and second in the draft in 13 years.  This year’s draft projects to be much different, coaches
and analysts said, notable for its lack of premier talent at
quarterback. Last year’s selections produced starters Russell Wilson, Ryan Tannehill and  Brandon Weeden  in addition to Luck
and Griffin, who both led their teams into the playoffs.  When the  Kansas City Chiefs  start the three-day player
draft tonight at 8 p.m. in New York, it probably will mark the
third time in 13 years that a quarterback isn’t taken with the
top pick. An offensive lineman may instead be the first choice,
pushing quarterbacks out of the premier spot for the first time
since 2008.  “There is not an Andrew Luck or RG3 or someone that you
say ‘that guy’s going to be a 10-year All-Pro, one of the
best,”’ said Philadelphia Eagles first-year coach Chip Kelly,
who has the fourth pick. “I don’t see that type of can’t-miss
guy in this draft, at any position. But I think depth-wise there
are a lot of quality players.”  Five years ago, the  Miami Dolphins  took offensive lineman
Jake Long with the No. 1 pick. The Chiefs may also take a left
tackle, with ESPN and NFL.com draft analysts projecting it will
be Texas A&M’s 6-foot-6, 306-pound Luke Joeckel.  “This year the offensive line position has some true
prospects in it,” Chiefs General Manager John Dorsey told
reporters last week, while declining to talk specifically about
individuals.  The Chiefs  last took  an offensive lineman with their first
pick in 1999 when they selected John Tait from Brigham Young
University.  Top Picks  Offensive tackles Eric Fisher of Central Michigan and Lane
Johnson of the University of Oklahoma also are potential top
picks, as are defensive linemen Sharrif Floyd of Florida,
Ezekiel Ansah of  Brigham Young , Dion Jordan of Oregon, Star
Lotulelei of Utah and Barkevious Mingo of Louisiana State.  The highest-rated quarterbacks are Geno Smith of West
Virginia, Ryan Nassib of Syracuse, E.J. Manuel of Florida State,
Matt Barkley of Southern California and Mike Glennon of North
Carolina State. Where they’ll be picked remains unclear.  “I’m just glad we’re not in that market, let’s put it that
way,” said Broncos executive vice president of football
operations  John Elway , who acquired Peyton Manning last year, as
he talked with reporters last week. “It’s not nearly as strong
as a class as it was last year.”  The Chiefs picked up their starting quarterback last month
when new coach  Andy Reid  acquired  Alex Smith , the No. 1 draft
pick in 2005, from the  San Francisco 49ers .  Top 10  The  Jacksonville Jaguars  have the No. 2 pick, followed by
the  Oakland Raiders , Eagles,  Detroit Lions , Cleveland Browns,
 Arizona  Cardinals, Buffalo Bills,  New York Jets  and Tennessee
Titans. The Jets also have the 13th overall pick, which they
acquired in the trade last weekend that sent cornerback  Darrelle Revis  to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Jets are the first NFL
team since 2000 to have two of the top 13 picks in the draft.  “Very few teams are going to look at a quarterback
early,” ESPN draft analyst Mel Kiper Jr. said on a media
conference call. “You have a first-round quarterback in Geno
Smith. He’s going to go in the top 10, but everybody thinks he’s
a 20 to 32 talent, so it has been an interesting dynamic trying
to evaluate where he’ll project.”  Disappointing Seasons  Barkley and Oklahoma quarterback Landry Jones a year ago
were both considered potential early first-round picks, then had
their draft stock drop after opting to return to school for
their senior seasons.  “When you get a guy like Barkley who is a very competitive
kid and the team wasn’t anywhere as good as they expected to be,
I think he started to force things,” NFL Network draft analyst
Mike Mayock said. “Barkley is still going to go somewhere in
the first round, probably the bottom third. I’m not sure where
yet, but it’s probably a team trading up from the second round
to the first to get him.”  Beside the quarterbacks, perhaps the biggest question is
where Notre Dame linebacker Manti T’eo is taken.  Te’o was the Heisman Trophy runner-up as college football’s
top player last season, yet has faced questions both on and off
the field. Te’o struggled defensively in Notre Dame’s loss to
the University of Alabama in last season’s national championship
game and came under further scrutiny after acknowledging he lied
to the media after learning he was caught in a hoax involving a
fake online girlfriend.  Kiper has the  Chicago Bears  taking Te’o with the 20th pick
in his mock draft, one pick after the  New York Giants ’ first-
round selection.  “If not, the latest I think he falls is to Minnesota at
23,” Kiper said. “It’ll be interesting to see if a team like
Minnesota, knowing that Chicago could have an interest, the
Giants could have an interest at 19, tries to move up a little
bit to get Te’o.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  