-- R.A. Dickey’s Knuckleball Slows as Batters Become Less Befuddled
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/r-a-dickey-s-knuckleball-slows-as-batters-become-less-befuddled.html
R.A. Dickey’s knuckleball is
proving almost as difficult for him this season as it was for
batters in 2012.  It’s slower, the Toronto  Blue Jays  pitcher is throwing it
more and right-handed batters are finding it easier to hit,
according to  Bloomberg Sports  data.  Dickey, who won the Cy Young Award as the National League’s
best pitcher last season with the  New York Mets , has mostly
struggled through his first five starts after being traded to
Toronto in December and signing a two-year, $25 million contract
extension. He’s scheduled to start against the Yankees this
weekend in  New York .  He’s been pitching through an upper back and neck injury
that has reduced his velocity. Right-handers are averaging .302
against him this season, 84 points higher than in 2012,
according to Bloomberg Sports. The right-handed pitcher’s strike
percentage is down to 62.6 percent from 68.9 percent and he’s
walked 11.1 percent of hitters faced, almost twice the 5.8
percent he walked last year.  Unlike other pitches, knuckleballs don’t spin, causing
erratic, unpredictable movement. Batters may be catching on:
Last year they swung at 31.5 percent of his pitches outside the
strike zone. They are swinging at 21.8 percent in 2013.  “It’s a tougher pitch than any other pitch is to repeat,
so if you have something nagging at you, it’s definitely going
to affect it,” Mitch Williams, a former All-Star who pitched in
the major leagues from 1986-97, said in a telephone interview.  Slow Start  The Blue Jays, in last place in the  American League East 
with a 9-14 record after last night’s 5-3 loss at the  New York
Yankees , have started slowly after offseason acquisitions that
included pitchers Josh Johnson and  Mark Buehrle , shortstop  Jose Reyes  and outfielder Melky Cabrera, all of whom have been All-
Stars. Reyes probably is out until the All-Star break in July
with an ankle sprain.  Dickey will face Yankees right-hander  Phil Hughes  in his
next start April 28.  The 38-year-old went 20-6 last season with a 2.73 ERA for
the Mets, becoming the first knuckleballer in Major League
Baseball history to win the Cy Young Award.  He moved to Toronto in a seven-player swap after agreeing
to the contract extension. Dickey is making $5 million this
season in the final year of his previous deal.  Dickey has relied on his knuckleball more this year,
throwing it 89.5 percent of the time, compared with 84.8 percent
last year. The velocity of his fastball has dipped to 82.3 miles
per hour from 83.4 mph, while his average knuckleball speed,
which has decreased in each of his starts this season, is 75.7
mph, down from 77.2 mph in 2012.  Release Point  “Obviously, when you’re throwing a ball that’s not
traveling as fast, you’ve got to start it higher in order to get
it to the plate and strike zone,” Dickey told reporters after
his last outing, according to MLB.com. “If I throw a 79-mph
knuckleball, I can start it a little bit more on plane. I’ve
done it before, I can continue to do it, I’m just trying to get
ahead of the condition here.”  Dickey throws the knuckleball harder than any of his major
league predecessors and he relies on that speed and late
movement of the pitch, said Williams, who now is an analyst for
 MLB Network .  “So he’s got to get himself healthy, because if he’s
thinking about his neck and his back, he ain’t thinking about
the release, and that’s the most important part of a
knuckleballer,” Williams said.  “If you look back to last April his numbers are almost the
same,” he said. “So as long as his neck and back get right, I
expect Dickey to be fine.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  