-- Raiffeisen’s Biggest Owner Passes Dividends on to Local Lenders
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-25T14:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/raiffeisen-s-biggest-owner-passes-dividends-on-to-local-lenders.html
Raiffeisen-Holding Noe-Wien regG,
the largest indirect holder of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
is increasing its dividend even after writedowns and
revaluations led to its first-ever loss.  Raiffeisen-Holding, the biggest of the interconnected
cooperatives that own 78.5 percent of Raiffeisen Bank
International, will pay a dividend of 41.5 million euros ($54.3
million) to its 170 members, which include mutual banks,
farmers’ cooperatives and individuals, it said in an  annual
report  today. The payout is 6 percent higher than last year,
while the company reported a 64.1 million-euro loss, the first
since at least 2001 when it was created in its present form.  “This loss has been caused by valuation effects and isn’t
cash-relevant,” Chief Executive Officer Klaus Buchleitner told
journalists in Vienna. “The dividend income we had from our
holdings was more than sufficient. That’s why we rely on
continuity in this respect.”  Raiffeisen-Holding’s dividend increase mirrors higher
payouts by other banks in the Raiffeisen group, defying falling
profits and calls by regulators and investors to retain earnings
and strengthen capital. A low level of capital reserves is
Austrian banks’ key weakness,  Standard & Poor’s  said last week.  513 Coops  Raiffeisen Bank International is the second-biggest lender
in eastern  Europe  after  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and caters to large
corporate clients in  Austria . Through several  layers  of local
and regional banks, it is ultimately owned by about 1.7 million
members of 513 local Austrian credit cooperatives.  The local cooperatives own eight regional banks, of which
Vienna-based Raiffeisen-Holding is the largest, followed by
Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberoesterreich. Those regional banks own
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich, which in turn owns 78.5
percent of Raiffeisen Bank International.  Raiffeisen Bank International is  raising its dividend  by 11
percent while  net income dropped  25 percent last year, bringing
its payout ratio to 43 percent. RZB will pay out 48 percent more
than last year, or more than two-thirds of its net income, which
also fell in 2012.  Raiffeisen Holding’s net loss was caused mainly by an 80
million-euro loss it posted on the sale of a Hungarian bank
stake as well as other revaluations, and by a 31 percent decline
in net interest income that was due to an increase in more
expensive long-term funding, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  