-- Trainer Mahmood Al Zarooni Banned Eight Years for Horse Doping
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-25T18:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/trainer-mahmood-al-zarooni-banned-eight-years-for-horse-doping.html
Trainer Mahmood Al Zarooni was
suspended for  eight years  for administering anabolic steroids to
horses in his care, the British Horseracing Authority said in a
statement on its website.  In addition, 15 horses trained by Al Zarooni have been
banned from racing for six months, the BHS said in a second
statement.  The 37-year-old appeared today before a BHA disciplinary
hearing in  London  after tests by the governing body this month
found anabolic steroids ethylestranol and stanozolol in 11 of 45
horses trained by him at the Godolphin stables in Newmarket,
 England . The trainer earlier this week said he had made a
“catastrophic error” in issuing the drugs.  Goldolphin is owned by Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashin Al Maktoum, who announced yesterday the stable was in a
lockdown until all its horses pass drug tests. Sheikh Mohammed
said earlier this week he was “appalled” over the positive
tests.  Among the 15 horses banned was Certify, a former favorite
in the 1000 Guineas who was scheduled to run the Newmarket race
again on May 5. The three-year-old filly was unbeaten in four
races in 2012.  The ban on the horses is backdated to April 9, the date of
the first drug test, the BHA said.  “The length of suspension reflects the period beyond which
the BHA is confident that the horses in question can have
derived no performance related benefit from the administration
of these prohibited substances,” Jamie Stier, the BHA’s
director of raceday operations and regulation, said in the
organization’s statement.  Sheikh Mohammed  Sheikh Mohammed, who’s also the prime minister of the
 United Arab Emirates , is the world’s biggest owner of race
horses. In addition to  Godolphin , he owns stables and stud farms
in the U.K., Ireland, the U.S. and  Australia . Dubai hosts the
Dubai  World Cup , the world’s richest horse race, and Godolphin
has won 202 Group One races in 12 different countries, according
to its website.  In 2009, Sheikh Mohammed was banned from long-distance
racing for six months after his horse tested positive for banned
substances, the International Equestrian Federation (FEI) said
at the time. His stable manager, Abdullah Bin Huzaim, told an
FEI inquiry that he had approved the drugs without Sheikh
Mohammed’s knowledge because he thought the horse needed them,
the FEI said in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 