-- Reaching a Final Verdict on Syria’s Chemical Weapons
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-25T21:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/reaching-a-final-verdict-on-syria-s-chemical-weapons.html
The U.S. got in line today with its
European allies on the question of  Syria  and chemical weapons:
It  now says  it has evidence that Syria used sarin gas, but that
this evidence needs to be confirmed before devising a U.S.
response.  Only a day earlier, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel had
deflected reports of an Israeli general’s blunt assertions that
Syria had used chemical weapons. “Suspicions are one thing.
Evidence is another,” Hagel said. We are skeptical that new
evidence suddenly came to light in the past 24 hours, and have
our own suspicions -- namely, that President  Barack Obama  was
intent on blurring the one red line that he has said would
trigger “consequences” for the regime of Bashar al-Assad.  Even so, we agree with the White House that a higher
standard of proof is required to launch a military response.
“Given the stakes involved, and what we have learned from our
own recent experience,” the White House wrote in a letter to
senators, “intelligence assessments alone are not sufficient --
only credible and corroborated facts that provide us with some
degree of certainty will guide our decision-making.”  Yes, we all remember  Iraq ’s missing weapons of mass
destruction.  So what will it take to achieve that clear proof? A United
Nations investigation has been stalled by Syria’s insistence on
limiting its scope to a March clash in which government and
rebel fighters have accused each other of chemical strikes. The
UN wants to explore other reports as well.  The U.S. and its allies should press  Russia , which has the
same interest as other world powers in containing the chemical
threat, to persuade its ally Assad to give the UN team a full
mandate.  In the meantime, the U.S. should work with rebels and
refugees to collect  samples  of soil and  foliage , as well as hair
and urine from people in areas said to have been hit. It was
 France  and the U.K. that tested samples and took the results to
the UN to demand a full investigation. The U.S. can’t afford to
take a back seat again.  Here’s what we do know: Syria has one of the world’s
largest stockpiles of chemical weapons, including mustard gas,
which is a blistering agent, and sarin and VX, both nerve gases.
The use of these weapons has been prohibited since the signing
of the  Geneva Protocol  in 1925; the  Chemical Weapons Convention 
in 1997 committed its signers, including the U.S. and Russia, to
the verified destruction of their chemical arsenals. As of
February, signatories had destroyed  76 percent  of their chemical
weapons. Syria is one of eight nations that haven’t signed the
treaty.  If the Syrian regime begins to distribute weapons for use
against the opposition, it may also be emboldened to pass some
to its Hezbollah allies in Lebanon, presenting a clear threat to
 Israel . If Assad begins to lose control, chemical weapons may
fall into the hands of al-Qaeda-linked fighters, posing a global
threat.  The Pentagon estimates that at least 75,000 troops would be
needed to secure Syria’s chemical weapons if the country came
apart. Such daunting numbers must not be allowed to block action
if proof of chemical weapons use emerges. Instead, a graduated
range of responses to Syria’s chemical threat seems both
feasible and desirable.  Any tactical use of weapons should draw a response. That
could mean strikes by cruise missiles tipped with high-
temperature warheads, to destroy a known chemical weapons depot,
parked Syrian jets or any military target. The nature of the
target is less important than the clarity of the message sent.  The U.S. and its allies should also condition more help for
the Free Syrian Army on its commitment to secure and later
destroy these stocks. A new Syrian government should sign the
Chemical Weapons Convention.  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, recently stressed that any military intervention in
Syria must have a clear, achievable outcome, and that none was
obvious. Securing chemical weapons, if that becomes necessary,
would be such a goal.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 