-- Treasuries Rally Most in Nine Months on Slowing Growth
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-25T05:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/treasuries-rally-most-in-nine-months-on-slowing-growth.html
Treasuries are rallying by the most
in nine months as signs of slowing growth lead Federal Reserve
officials to examine the need to increase the bond-purchase
program they use to support the economy.  U.S. government securities have returned 1 percent this
month, which is the most since July. The  MSCI All-Country World
Index (MXWD)  of stocks gained about the same amount after accounting
for reinvested dividends, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of commodities tumbled 6 percent. The U.S. is scheduled to sell
$29 billion of seven-year notes today.  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 1.71
percent at 6:48 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 2 percent note due in February
2023 was 102 5/8. The rate touched 1.64 percent this week,
approaching the record low of 1.38 percent set in July.  “The economy is still in a recovery,” said Park Sungjin,
head of asset management in  Seoul  at Meritz Securities Co.,
which oversees $7 billion. “The speed is less than expected.
The Fed will continue the easing policy. Yields will stay low.”
Park said he dropped a bet in March that rates would rise and
prices would fall.  Japan’s 10-year yield slid one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 0.58 percent today. The nation’s debt
market has declined 0.5 percent in April, the Bank of America
data show.  Fed Stimulus  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
a month to support the economy by putting downward pressure on
borrowing costs, a policy known as quantitative easing.  At their meeting last month, several members of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  advocated slowing purchases and stopping
them by year-end. Since then, seven have voiced support for
maintaining the current pace, including five who vote on the
policy making panel: Governor  Daniel Tarullo ,  New York  Fed
President William C. Dudley,  James Bullard  of  St. Louis ,
Chicago’s  Charles Evans  and Boston’s  Eric Rosengren .  “More needs to be done,” Dudley said April 22.  Bullard said April 17 that inflation has fallen too far
below the Fed’s 2 percent goal, and a further decline could
prompt increased asset purchases.  Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in February from a year
earlier, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge of costs in the
economy, less than the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  The seven-year sale today follows $35 billion auctions of
five-year notes yesterday and two-year securities April 23.  Slowing Bids  Bidding has slowed at Treasury auctions this year, with the
$702 billion in debt sales attracting an average of $2.98 in
orders to buy per dollar of debt sold, compared with a record
$3.15 in 2012, data released by the Treasury and compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The decline in government rates is driving a hunt for
assets outside the sovereign  debt market .  The premium investors demand to hold high-yield, high-risk
bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed to 4.67 percentage points
yesterday, the least since November 2007, the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  A survey of 60 central bankers this month by  Central
Banking Publications  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  showed
23 percent said they own shares or plan to buy them.  U.S. employment and manufacturing expanded less in March
than economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast, while
retail sales and durable goods orders dropped.  GDP Report  Gross domestic product expanded at a 3 percent rate in the
first quarter, after growing 0.4 percent in the final three
months of 2012, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the department issues the figure
tomorrow. A weekly government report today may show initial
claims for jobless insurance was little changed at 350,000,
based on responses from economists.  “The second quarter will be weaker than the first,” said
Genzo Kimura, a Tokyo-based investor at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $42.3
billion. “The  U.S. economy  is not doing well.” An end to the
Fed bond purchases is “far away,” he said.  Kimura said he purchased 30-year bonds several times in
April and may buy more if their yields rise. The securities have
returned 4.7 percent this month, Bank of America indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  