-- Record Risk Discounted as Bonds Pass 110 Cents: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-04-25T09:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/record-risk-discounted-as-bonds-pass-110-cents-credit-markets.html
Corporate bond prices worldwide are
poised to set a record as easy money policies by central banks
push investors into riskier investments even with the potential
for losses at about an all-time high.  Bondholders are paying an average of 110.22 cents on the
dollar for the right to receive 100 cents back at maturity plus
the interest from coupon payments, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporate & High Yield Index. At the same
time, the so-called effective duration that measures how
sensitive bond prices are to changes in yield has jumped, making
the securities about the riskiest to hold ever.  Central bank purchases of  government bonds  to contain
 borrowing costs  and stimulate economic growth have led investors
to pour money into the $10 trillion global market for corporate
bonds as they search for yield. Besides betting that interest
rates won’t rise anytime soon, investors also face increased
risk from restructurings. Cyprus and the Netherlands imposed
losses on bondholders as part of their bank workouts, while a
rise in leveraged buyouts globally threatens to trash credit
ratings.  “We don’t like bonds with prices that move significantly
above par, especially in financials,” said Chris Bowie, the
London-based head of credit portfolio management at Ignis Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees about $110 billion. “There’s
interest-rate risk and on top of that, we’re in a world where
we’ve seen depositor haircuts and bondholder expropriations when
things go wrong, as well as the usual buyouts and mergers.”  Diageo Offering  For every 50-basis-point jump in yields, prices would drop
an average 2.85 percent, compared with a low of 2.36 percent in
September 2008, according to the average effective duration of
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Bond prices rose to a
record 110.28 cents on the dollar in November. In 2009, the
securities were trading below par.  Investors are paying about 152 cents on the dollar for
Citigroup Inc.’s $2.5 billion of 8.125 percent debentures that
mature in July 2039 and 137 pence for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
500 million pounds ($764 million) of 7.25 percent securities due
April 2028, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Diageo Plc, the seller of
Johnnie Walker Scotch and Crown Royal Canadian whisky, raised
$3.25 billion in its first bond offering in almost a year.  John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager trying to recover from more than
two years of losses in some of his funds, told investors he
likes convertible bonds. The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.
unveiled a product that will help participants in the
syndicated-loan market accurately record the amount allocated to
them in a deal.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell for a second day, declining 0.41 basis
point to 13.15 basis points, the lowest level since Jan. 16. The
gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. fell for a fourth day, with the Markit CDX North American
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropping 0.7 basis
point to a mid-price of 80 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since March 15.  JPMorgan Bonds  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings, rose 1.2 to 107 as of 10:35 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  was little
changed at 111, according to data provider CMA.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers, accounting
for 5.4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The largest  U.S. bank 
by assets sold $2 billion of 10-year subordinated notes
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mortgage Debt  Diageo’s sale consisted of $750 million of three-year,
0.625 percent debt to yield 35 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries; $650 million of five-year, 1.125 percent
notes at a relative yield of 55 basis points; $1.35 billion of
10-year, 2.625 percent securities at a 95 basis-point spread and
$500 million of 30-year, 3.875 percent debt at 105, Bloomberg
data show.  The world’s biggest distiller last sold debt in May,
raising $2.5 billion in a three-part offering, including $1
billion of 2.875 percent, 10-year debentures to yield 107 basis
points more than benchmarks.  Paulson, speaking on a conference call with clients, also
said mortgage-backed securities have been performing well within
the firm’s Credit Opportunities Fund, according to a person who
listened and asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. The strategy is Paulson’s biggest with $5.9
billion in assets, according to a letter obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Leveraged Loans  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index was little
changed at 98.49 cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks
the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,
has gained 2.6 percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  The DTCC offering comes amid increased use of security
identifiers through the use of CUSIPs and ISINs in the market
for senior floating-rate debt, and participants are choosing
electronic messaging over facsimile machines to save time as
stock, bond and commodities exchanges have done for years.  “To create liquidity and transparency in the market, you
need to have basic financial infrastructure in place,” Mathew Keshav Lewis, a London-based vice president for DTCC, said in a
telephone interview. “There is still no central securities
repository or a broadly adopted messaging format to standardize
communication between agent and lender.”  Emerging Markets  In  emerging markets , relative yields declined 1 basis point
to 293 basis points, or 2.93 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index , which had averaged 280 this year.  Central banks from the U.S. to  Europe  and Japan have driven
 interest rates  to record lows and experimented with bond
purchases to push down long-term yields to revive their
economies. U.S. five-year Treasuries yield about 0.70 percent,
while yields on similar-maturity German debt, which were as low
as 0.22 percent in July, are now at 0.34 percent.  The average yield on bonds in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s broadest government bond index is about 1.34 percent,
down from more than 4 percent in 2007. For corporate debt
securities, the payout is about 3.17 percent, compared with 9
percent at the peak of the credit crisis following the failure
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in late 2008.  Rate Risk  There are now 13,347 bonds with a face value of $8.91
trillion included in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporate & High Yield Index, up from 10,082 issues with a value
of $6.21 trillion at the end of 2008.  “People are taking on interest-rate risk,” said Robert Smalley, a strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Money is still coming into fixed income, especially investment
grade, but the expectation, at least until recently, is for
rates to move up. In a market with low yields and tight spreads,
a jump in interest rates will cause pain if you’re unhedged.”  Issuance of $1.3 trillion this year of corporate bonds
follows an unprecedented $3.97 trillion in 2012, Bloomberg data
show. Sales reached $3.94 trillion in 2009, the prior record, as
companies rushed to issue with credit markets thawing.  The prospects for rising rates was dimmed earlier this
month when the  International Monetary Fund  trimmed its 2013
global growth expectations for a fourth time. The Washington-
based fund said April 16 it now estimates an expansion this year
of 3.3 percent, down from a 3.5 percent forecast in January.  Growth Forecast  Defaults are low, and are forecast to stay that way,
bolstering investor confidence that they will get their money
back. The global default rate was 2.4 percent at the end of the
first quarter, down from 2.8 percent in December, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. The firm expects the rate to be 2.8
percent by year-end, it said in a report on April 8. Moody’s
attributes the “remarkably steady” rate over the past 12
months to accommodative monetary policy and weak growth.  Bonds with the longest maturities are typically priced at
the highest above par.  Canada ’s second-largest wireless carrier,
 BCE Inc. (BCE) , has seen its C$150 million ($146.2 million) of 10
percent notes due December 2054 rise to 173 Canadian cents on
the dollar, while Virginia Electric & Power Co.’s $700 million
of  8.875 percent debentures maturing November 2038 are at 173
cents, according to the indexes.  Besides interest rates, corporate bond buyers must also
contend with credit risk.  Credit Risk  The Netherlands seized the subordinated bonds of  SNS Reaal
NV (SR) , the country’s fourth-largest bank, after nationalizing the
lender, whose soured real-estate loans threatened it with
collapse. Cyprus wiped out bondholders of Cyprus Popular Bank
Pcl and will force uninsured depositors to accept losses as it
closes down the country’s second-largest lender in return for
the nation’s 10 billion-euro ($13 Billion) bailout.  Those events have helped boost the appeal of non-financial
corporate bonds, according to Barnaby Martin, a strategist at
Bank of America in London.  “Cyprus was the game changer, it was a very scary
policy,” he said. “If you try and target bank depositors in a
resolution you’re going to get a reallocation out of banks and
into assets such as high-grade credit.”  In  North America , the value of mergers and acquisitions
announced year to date is about $300 billion, a 26 percent
increase from the $238 billion announced in the same period a
year ago, Bloomberg data show.  Bonds of H.J. Heinz Co. plunged when  Warren Buffett  and his
partners announced their $23 billion buyout in February. The
company’s 6.75 percent securities due March 2032, which traded
at 123.3 cents on Feb. 11, fell 19.3 cents to as low as 104
cents on Feb. 19 after the bid, Trace prices show.  While individual investors have pulled back from
investment-grade debt, institutions are still a net 28 percent
overweight, Bank of America’s Martin said, citing an investor
survey published on March 15.  “Our survey is far from suggesting the days of reaching
for yield in credit are over,” he said. “Quite the opposite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  