-- Red Wings Win to Move Into Last West NHL Playoff Spot
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-04-25T14:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/red-wings-beat-kings-to-move-into-last-nhl-playoff-berth-in-west.html
(Corrects team name in eighth paragraph.)  The Detroit  Red Wings  defeated the
Los Angeles Kings 3-1 to move into the final playoff spot in the
National Hockey League’s Western Conference.  The Red Wings (22-16-8) have 52 points, one more than the
Columbus Blue Jackets (22-17-7). The Minnesota Wild are seventh
in the standings, one point ahead of Detroit.  The Red Wings haven’t missed the postseason since 1990 and
brought the Stanley Cup back to Detroit for a U.S. record-
extending 11th time in 2008.  Detroit has two games left in the regular season, tonight
at home against the Nashville Predators and on April 27 at the
 Dallas Stars .  Minnesota hosts the Edmonton Oilers tomorrow and completes
its schedule the following night at the  Colorado Avalanche . The
Blue Jackets are at the Stars, who have 48 points for 10th place
in the standings, tonight and wrap up their regular season on
April 27 against the visiting Nashville Predators.  Kyle Clifford put the Kings ahead in the second period at
Joe Louis Arena in Detroit last night and Pavel Datsyuk tied it
five minutes later. Goals from Jordin Tootoo and Johan Franzen
in the third period gave the win to the home team.  Tonight, the  New York Rangers ,  Ottawa Senators  and Winnipeg
Jets, who are battling for the final two playoff spots in the
Eastern Conference, are in action.  The Rangers, who are tied with Ottawa on 52 points for
seventh place in the standings, can clinch a playoff berth with
an eighth consecutive win against the Carolina Hurricanes.  New
York  also would advance to the postseason if the Jets lose their
regular-season finale in regulation play to the Montreal
Canadiens, or if both the Jets and Rangers earn a point.  The Senators will also reach the playoffs with a win at the
Southeast Division-champion Washington Capitals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 