-- Riksbank Declares Rally in Krona Over as Watch Intensifies
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-04-25T13:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/riksbank-declares-rally-in-krona-over-as-watch-intensifies-1-.html
Sweden ’s central bank is watching
the krona as it predicts the currency’s recent gains are coming
to an end, First Deputy Governor Kerstin af Jochnick said.  The krona’s impact on prices is “important,” af Jochnick
said yesterday in an interview in Stockholm. “There are
fundamental factors for why the krona is at about this level. We
think that it will remain at about this level.”  The bank is stepping up its efforts to bring price growth
close to the targeted 2 percent after failing to reach its
inflation goal since 2011. Annual headline inflation accelerated
to zero in March from minus 0.2 percent a month earlier.
Governor  Stefan Ingves , who in a February interview said he was
“happy” with the krona’s strength, this month acknowledged the
bank won’t reach its price target next year.  The bank on April 17 kept its repo rate at 1 percent, while
pushing back a planned tightening cycle until the second half of
next year. Five days later, Deputy GovernorLars E.O. Svensson
said he was stepping down after criticizing what he called
“poor” price target attainment at the Riksbank.  “We have to make sure to become even better at reaching
the inflation target,” af Jochnick said. The krona is
“important for inflation. It’s important for us to continue to
monitor” the  exchange rate , she said.  Stalled Prices  Price growth has stalled as the krona has gained. Sweden’s
currency has soared 27 percent against the euro since the end of
2008, pushing import prices lower. A report from the Statistics
Office today showed the  producer price index  slid 4.4 percent in
March from a year earlier, with the import price component
dropping 7.4 percent.  The krona today slid 0.6 percent to 10.1679 against the
U.K. pound and 0.1 percent versus the Norwegian krone today as
of 3:03 p.m. in Stockholm. Sweden’s December repo rate futures
slid to 0.79 percent, the lowest since Jan. 16.  The Riksbank last week lowered its forecast for inflation
this year to 0.1 percent after the krona gained 6 percent
against the euro since May last year. The bank sees prices
rising 1.4 percent next year, down from a February forecast for
2.1 percent.  “A lot of things have happened in the last five years that
were very difficult for us to predict,” af Jochnick said. The
Riksbank’s decision to pay closer attention to the krona will
dent its image as a one of the few central banks to avoid
currency wars. Still, af Jochnick said Sweden’s strong currency
is a reflection of a healthy economy.  Swedish Growth  “It, of course, also puts demands on Swedish industry, and
there are adjustment demands there, but those would probably
have occurred anyway,” she said. “We have very low demand, not
least from  Europe , and we’re dependent on European growth
picking up. That’s what will help us to also get Swedish growth
going.”  Sweden, which exports half its economic output and sends 70
percent of sales abroad to Europe, will expand 1.4 percent this
year after growing 0.8 percent in 2012, the Riksbank estimates.
Unemployment will average 8.2 percent this year, versus 8
percent in 2012, it said. The bank cut rates four times since
December 2011 over the following 12 months before shelving its
easing cycle.  “We can of course cut further, but you also have to
consider what kinds of problems we have in the labor market and
quite a lot of the problems we’re seeing there are of a
structural nature,” af Jochnick told reporters. “We also have
household indebtedness, which of course has been part of what
we’re considering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  