-- Rio Tinto Appoints Mongolian Ex-Banker Bold as Copper President
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-04-25T04:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/rio-tinto-appoints-mongolian-ex-banker-bold-as-copper-president.html
Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group Plc., in talks to
mend a rift with  Mongolia ’s government over a $6.6 billion
copper and gold project in the country, will appoint Mongolian
national Bold Baatar as president of its copper group.  Bold will be based in London as head of international
operations, overseeing mines in countries including  Australia ,
 South Africa  and Papua New Guinea, Rio Tinto said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. An adviser to Rio for three years, Bold
will take up the new role starting June 3 and report to Jean-
Sebastian Jacques, chief executive officer of the copper
business, Rio said.  Rio’s scheduled June start of production at the Oyu Tolgoi
mine in Mongolia, the world’s biggest untapped resource of gold
and copper, was thrown in doubt earlier this year as the
nation’s government clashed with the world’s second-largest
miner over cost overruns at the project. Mongolian President
Tsakhia Elbegdorj said in February the country wants more of its
nationals in key positions and greater control of a project that
will represent 30 percent of its economy once in full production.  Bold, formerly an investment banker with JPMorgan Chase &
Co. based in New York, London and Moscow, has also worked as
chief executive officer of Mongolia’s Newcom Group, which among
other assets co-owns the country’s biggest telecommunications
network together with Japan’s  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and  KDDI Corp. (9433) 
U.S.-educated, Bold in 2011 acquired gold mining company ZAO
Zolotoy Vostok Mongolia together with entrepreneur Ganbold
Tordai for about $300 million, Ganbold said at the time.  Bold’s advisory role to Rio Tinto over the last three years
was focused on Mongolia business, Burenbayar Chanrav, a
spokesman for Oyu Tolgoi LLC, the Rio-controlled company that’s
developing the namesake mine, said by phone today in Ulaanbaatar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  