-- Russia’s Tight Monetary Policy ‘Largely Justified,’ Putin Says
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-25T10:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/russia-s-tight-monetary-policy-largely-justified-putin-says.html
President  Vladimir Putin  said he
broadly agrees with the central bank’s restrictive policy,
suggesting he’s siding with a view opposing monetary stimulus.  While some government members are critical of what they see
as an “overly tight” monetary policy, it’s “largely justified
because it’s aimed at subduing inflation,” something that’s
“in the interests of citizens and the economy,” Putin said
during a live televised call-in show today.  Russia ’s $2 trillion economy is growing at the weakest pace
since a 2009 contraction as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs exports
and investment and state spending is scaled back after
presidential elections a year ago. Outgoing central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev has resisted calls to trim borrowing
costs, even as government members including Economy Minister
Andrei Belousov blame high  interest rates  for contributing to a
worsening growth outlook.  Gross domestic product will rise 2.4 percent this year,
according to the Economy Ministry, which downgraded an earlier
projection of 3.6 percent. The central bank this month took the
biggest step toward easing monetary policy since raising all
rates in September, with policy makers cutting some borrowing
costs on less frequently used credit instruments.  Subduing consumer-price growth should remain the focus of
monetary policy,  Elvira Nabiullina , who replaces Ignatiev in
June, told lawmakers April 9.  While Russia has “room to maneuver” in terms of easing
rates, a reduction would require slowing economic growth and
higher unemployment and should be made based on a full analysis
of the situation, said Nabiullina, Putin’s former economic aide.  Even if some “adjustments” may be necessary, the
principles of economic policy will remain unchanged, Putin said
today.  “We will primarily pay attention in the future to
macroeconomic indicators and guide the real economy to meet the
population’s social needs,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  