-- Rwanda Debut $400 Million Eurobond Yields at Bottom of Range
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-04-25T14:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/rwanda-debut-400-million-bond-said-to-yield-at-bottom-of-range.html
Rwanda raised $400 million in its
debut dollar bond at the lowest end of yield guidance given to
investors, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  The 10-year Eurobond offering was priced to yield 6.875
percent, or 498.7 basis points more than the mid-swap rate, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Final guidance had ranged up to 7
percent, according to the person.  The East African country joins other sub-Saharan African
nations including Nigeria, Zambia,  Ghana , Gabon,  Senegal  and
 Namibia  in selling international debt. Less than 20 years after
a genocide that killed about 800,000 people, President Paul Kagame is boosting transport links and promoting regional trade
with the aim of lifting the land-locked tea- and coffee-growing
nation into a middle-income economy by 2020.  The Eurobond offering falls short of the $500 million
needed to be eligible for inclusion in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
emerging-markets bond index.  “Given that it’s not in an index this is a good yield for
a single B credit debut,” Charles Robertson, global chief
economist at Renaissance Capital, said in a phone interview
today from London. “Investors get diversification, a pick-up in
yield relative to Nigeria, still-low public sector debt ratios
and exposure to arguably the most reformist government in
 Africa .”  Nigeria Yields  Rwanda’s government appointed BNP Paribas SA and Citigroup
Inc. as lead managers for the offering, it said last week. The
country is rated B with a stable outlook by both Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, five levels below investment grade.  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer and rated BB- by S&P
and Fitch, has yields of 4.06 percent on its Eurobonds maturing
January 2021, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ghana’s
dollar bonds due October 2017, rated B by S&P, yielded 4.71
percent at 10:39 a.m. in London.  Zambia, rated at B+ by S&P and Fitch, sold $750 million of
Eurobonds in September with a final yield of 5.625 percent.  Rwanda  ranks eighth out of 185 countries for the ease of
starting a business, according to the World Bank, and 52nd on
its measure on the ease of doing business, the highest in sub-
Saharan Africa after South Africa.  Rwanda will use $200 million to repay loans on the Kigali
Convention Centre and a development plan for RwandAir, the
national carrier, according to a copy of a prospectus obtained
by Bloomberg News. Another $150 million will be spent completing
the center and $50 million on a hydropower plant, according to
the prospectus.  Stake Sales  The country plans to raise about 10 billion Rwandan francs
($15.7 million) by selling stakes in 13 state-owned companies
focusing on agriculture, services, transport, banking and
insurance industries by the end of the fiscal year of 2014 to
2015, according to the prospectus.  Rwanda is seeking funds to boost an economy that doubled to
about $6.4 billion in the nine years through 2010 as it rebuilds
from the 1994 genocide.  Rwanda’s economic expansion may slow to 7.5 percent this
year from 7.7 percent in 2012, Paulo Drummond, the International
Monetary Fund’s mission chief to the country, told reporters in
the capital Kigali on April 16, with risks to growth including
aid cuts and project delays. About 40 percent of the country’s
budget is financed by grants, making up 11 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010-2011, according to the World Bank.  Last year a United Nations group of experts accused Rwanda
of supporting M23 rebels in neighboring Democratic Republic of
Congo’s mineral-rich east, a charge Rwanda denies. Several
countries cut aid to Rwanda because of the accusations. The
government cut spending in the 2013 fiscal year by 54 billion
Rwandan francs following reductions in aid.  Bond holders “will be paying some attention to Rwanda’s
relations with the international community, that will still
matter,” said Robertson. “Rwanda’s medium-term plan is to
remove the need for support from the international community.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  