-- Santander Profit Falls on Slump in Lending Revenue
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-25T16:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/santander-quarterly-profit-falls-on-slump-in-lending-revenue.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest
bank, said first-quarter profit slid 26 percent, missing
analysts’ estimates, as income from lending fell in its home
market,  Brazil (SANB11)  and the U.K.  Santander declined as much as 4.3 percent in Madrid trading
after reporting  net income  of 1.21 billion euros ($1.6 billion),
down from 1.63 billion euros a year earlier and less than the
1.31 billion-euro average  estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Saenz said this week that a
“new cycle” of  profitability  is starting that will lead to at
least three years of strong earnings growth for the bank after
it completes a clean-up of Spanish real estate. Still, shrinking
lending margins in Spain together with a 22 percent decline in
earnings from  Brazil  undermined first-quarter profit.  “This looks like a weak set of results with the key area
of disappointment being Brazil, where people will be looking at
the weak lending, revenue and provisioning results,” Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd in  London ,
said in a phone interview.  Santander closed down 2.4 percent at 5.49 euros in Madrid
trading. The stock has lost 10 percent this year compared with a
4.2 percent gain for the 40-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index  and a 4.9 percent  advance  for  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank, which
reports earnings tomorrow.  Below Expectations  Bad loans as a proportion of total loans rose to 4.76
percent from 4.54 percent in December, Santander said. Net loans
newly classified as in default increased to 3.8 billion euros
from 3.7 billion euros in the fourth quarter.  Net interest income, or the excess revenue generated from
interest earned on assets compared with payments to depositors,
fell 14 percent to 6.65 billion euros in the first quarter from
a year earlier. Net loans dropped 2.8 percent and deposits
increased 1.6 percent.  “The group trend on net interest income was significantly
below our expectations,” said Creelan-Sandford.  Spanish banks face worsening conditions in a home market
where rising unemployment is sapping demand for loans and
driving up defaults.  The nation’s jobless rate reached 27.2 percent in the first
quarter, the highest level in at least 37 years, according to
data published by the National Statistics Institute today. A
plunge in benchmark  interest rates  -- average 12-month Euribor
fell to 0.57 percent in the first quarter from 1.67 percent a
year ago -- is also squeezing margins for lenders.  Bankia, Caixabank  Bankia SA (BKIA)  said yesterday that net interest income plunged
39 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as its bad
loan ratio increased to 13.1 percent from 13 percent at the end
of last year.  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA, Spain’s third-biggest lender, said
its ratio climbed to 9.4 percent from 8.62 percent three months
earlier.  “We are still concerned about loan-loss provisions in
Spain and that remains a hotspot,”  Neil Smith , an  analyst  at
Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf, said before Santander’s
earnings were published.  Santander targets a Basel III core capital ratio of 9.2
percent by the end of this year, taking into account all the
adjustments that have to be made by 2019, said a spokesman for
the bank, who asked not to be identified in line with company
policy. Core capital under  Basel II  rose to 10.67 percent in
March from 10.33 percent in December, the bank said.  Brazil Decline  Profit from Brazil plunged 22 percent from a year ago to
499 million euros as net interest income fell 17 percent, the
bank said. Costs for covering asset impairments rose 5.5 percent
from the fourth quarter to 1.47 billion euros as the bad-loan
ratio at the unit increased to 6.9 percent from 6.86 percent.  Earnings in Spain rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier to
207 million euros as lower provisions offset a 17 percent drop
in net interest income after lending contracted an annual 3.8
percent. Profit at Santander’s U.K. bank slumped 23 percent to
224 million euros as net interest income fell 11 percent.  Santander said it repaid 31 billion euros borrowed under
the  European Central Bank ’s long-term refinancing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  