-- Schaeffler Said to Consider Initial Share Sale Next Year
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-25T10:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/schaeffler-said-to-consider-initial-share-sale-next-year.html
Schaeffler AG, the family-owned
industrial bearing maker that’s the biggest investor in
 Continental AG (CON) , is exploring an initial public offering next
year in Germany, three people familiar with the matter said.  The Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company is discussing
options that include a share sale, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the deliberations are private.
Another option would be bringing in a large investor as an owner
alongside the family, one of the people said.  The talks are at a very early stage and no decision has
been made, they said. “This is pure speculation and we don’t
comment on it,” said Marcus Brans, a Schaeffler spokesman.  Schaeffler’s revenue last year increased 4 percent to 11.1
billion euros ($14.5 billion), led by 7.1 percent growth at the
automotive division. Earnings before interest and taxes fell 16
percent to 1.41 billion euros. Chief Financial Officer Klaus Rosenfeld said last month the company would comment “once we’re
ready,” when asked about opening up Schaeffler for investors
outside the family.  “An IPO makes a lot of sense, if Schaeffler wants to keep
its Continental stake,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at
Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg, Germany, said in a phone
interview. “Schaeffler would get money to reduce its debt and
still keep the major influence over the company.”  Schaeffler offered to buy Hanover, Germany-based
Continental in July 2008, two months before the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Co. The manufacturer’s plan only to
seek a 49.99 percent stake backfired when more investors than it
expected accepted the bid as markets tanked in the global credit
crunch.  Lowering Debt  Following the bid and Continental’s earlier purchase of
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s VDO car-parts division, combined debt totaled 22
billion euros.  Net debt at Schaeffler narrowed to 6.8 billion euros at the
end of 2012 from 7.1 billion euros a year earlier. Continental,
 Europe ’s second-largest maker of auto parts, said in March that
net debt was reduced almost 22 percent to 5.3 billion euros last
year.  The manufacturer raised 1.25 billion euros in a high-yield
bond sale this week. Proceeds from the oversubscribed offering
are being used to reduce bank debt and improve credit terms.  Closely held Schaeffler, whose roller-bearings are used in
the London Eye Ferris wheel and Airbus SAS’s double-decker A380
airliner, now owns 49.9 percent of Continental after gradually
reducing the holding from more than 90 percent.  The most recent disposal was a 10 percent stake sold in
September that raised the amount of freely traded stock,
supporting Continental’s return to  Germany ’s benchmark DAX Index
after a 45-month absence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  