-- Shareholders Force Firms to Reveal Secret Political Funds
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/shareholders-force-firms-to-reveal-secret-political-funds.html
Investors have pushed more than 120
public companies in the U.S. to reveal previously confidential
details of their political spending even as regulators remain
deadlocked over whether to mandate such disclosures.  Thirty-one companies -- up from 28 last year -- will hold
shareholder votes in 2013 on resolutions calling for disclosure
of how much they spend to influence politics, according to the
Washington-based  Center for Political Accountability , which
helps write the resolutions. The first of those votes, at  Humana
Inc. (HUM) ’s annual meeting, is scheduled for today.  Another 16 companies, including  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  KeyCorp (KEY) ,
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , have agreed to
provide investors with data on their political spending this
year in an effort to avoid shareholder votes mandating the
disclosures.  State pension funds and activist investors are increasingly
using their sway as shareholders to dislodge details about
corporate political funds even if it is not required by law.
These disclosures include so-called “dark money” provided to
trade groups and third parties that aren’t required to name
their donors.  “This private ordering is making good progress,” said
Anne Sheehan, director of corporate governance at the California
State Teachers’ Retirement System, the U.S.’s second-largest
government pension fund by total assets. “Some have done a very
good job of disclosure.”  Top Vote-Getter  Debate over corporate political spending gained new
attention after the  Supreme Court  ruled in a 2010 case known as
 Citizens United  that companies and unions could spend unlimited
money on election ads.  Political-activity resolutions generated more shareholder
votes last year than any other topic, including efforts to
separate the roles of chief executive and chairman, according to
a paper published this month in The Georgetown Law Journal by
Lucian A. Bebchuk of  Harvard Law School  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts and Robert J. Jackson Jr. of  Columbia Law School 
in New York.  Those resolutions helped push the Securities and Exchange
Commission to announce in January that it would consider
requiring public companies to disclose political spending.  The measure divides the SEC, with the five-member
commission’s two Republicans opposed. One commissioner whose
support is needed to advance it, Democrat Elisse B. Walter, said
she doesn’t consider it a priority for the agency, which is
still working to complete regulations required by Congress.  Parties Split  The SEC’s announcement also divided  Capitol Hill , where
many Democrats express support for it. In a letter sent to new
SEC Chairman Mary Jo White yesterday, a group of 66  House
Republicans  sought assurance the agency won’t move forward with
a rule.  “If the SEC embarks on this partisan rulemaking path
during a time of fiscal tightening, it would raise serious
questions about the Commission’s political agenda and
stewardship of taxpayer funds,” said Kansas Republican
Representative Kevin Yoder, who coordinated the letter.  Current law requires public companies to report donations
made through political action committees, but not contributions
to third parties, including industry groups such as the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce that conduct advocacy campaigns and fund
political ads for and against candidates.  Groups that don’t disclose their donors reported spending
$308 million to influence elections during the 2012 cycle,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based nonpartisan group that tracks money in politics. For
instance, Crossroads GPS, an outside group co-founded by
Republican political strategist  Karl Rove  that doesn’t disclose
donors, spent $71 million on ads last year that mostly targeted
Democratic candidates.  Same-Sex Marriage  Proponents, including public pension funds and labor
unions, say investors deserve to know about corporate political
activity that could offend customers and, if controversial
enough, impact a company’s bottom line. Skeptics, including many
business trade groups, say political spending is modest compared
to other expenses and won’t affect profits or returns to
shareholders.  Companies such as Target Corp., the second-largest U.S.
discount retailer, have sparked controversy with donations to
political groups that proved unpopular with some customers and
shareholders. In 2010,  Minneapolis , Minnesota-based Target gave
$150,000 to a nonprofit group that supported a Minnesota
gubernatorial candidate who opposed same-sex marriage, prompting
public protests and an apology by the company’s CEO.  “For many investors, the idea that their money will be
spent to support a political message that they abhor has special
meaning,” said Jackson, who co-wrote an August 2011  petition 
asking the SEC to regulate corporate political donations.  Citizens United  The Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling freed
corporations and labor unions to spend unlimited money in
candidate elections, with the majority of justices deciding that
such spending is equivalent to free speech. The justices also
agreed that Congress could pass a law to require companies to
disclose their spending on election ads, giving voters context
to judge the ads.  Opponents of an SEC rule say most political spending is
already disclosed through federal, state and local government
websites. Moreover, only 30 percent of shareholders support the
political-spending disclosure proposals, according to
Institutional Shareholder Services, a Rockville, Maryland-based
firm that tracks and makes recommendations on resolutions.  “This is probably one of the hottest topics right now in
corporate governance and disclosure, but the fact is that rank-
and-file investors don’t really care about these issues,” said
Keir D. Gumbs, a partner at Covington & Burling LLP’s Washington
office who advises companies on shareholder resolutions.  Preemptive Disclosure  Companies have agreed to enhance transparency of political
spending even without a resolution getting majority support,
said Bruce Freed, president of the Center for Political
Accountability. The CPA, which describes itself as non-partisan,
has received funding from  George Soros ’ Open Society Institute
and the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, according to its website.  In some cases, public companies have agreed to share more
information when votes in favor of the resolution exceed 30
percent, Freed said. Shareholders of Louisville, Kentucky-based
Humana and  AT&T Inc. (T)  in Dallas are scheduled to vote this week
on resolutions calling for reporting of any political donations
or expenditures made with company funds.  In response to such pressure, some companies have put more
restrictions on donations to trade groups and other nonprofits,
Freed said. Boeing, for instance, tells trade groups and
nonprofits that its contributions can’t be used for political
expenditures. Last year, Boeing asked outside groups to attest
to compliance with the policy.  ‘More Walls’  “Companies are placing more and more walls on their
political spending,” Freed said. “Disclosure in many cases
means companies are limiting what they are spending.”  Gumbs, the Covington & Burling lawyer, disagreed, saying
it’s not clear companies have reduced contributions as a result
of disclosure campaigns. However, businesses are asking their
trade groups more questions about whether their funding will
used for political ends, Gumbs said.  Pension funds active in such efforts include the New York
State Common Retirement Fund, which sued Qualcomm in January
seeking to inspect the telecommunications company’s records of
donations to outside political groups. The New York fund
withdrew the suit in February after San Diego-based Qualcomm
agreed to disclose all contributions.  Qualcomm’s  disclosure  showed that it contributed $1.84
million to trade associations, including $385,000 to the U.S.
Chamber, and $90,000 to advocacy groups such as Immigration
Voice, which pushes to end green-card backlogs.  U.S. Chamber  Reports by other companies, including  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  and 3M
Co., also show donations to the Chamber.  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based 3M reported giving $515,500 to the Chamber last year,
according to a report posted on the company’s website.  Freed said the reports are meaningful because investors can
connect them to the Chamber’s independent expenditures. The
Chamber spent $32.2 million during the 2012 election cycle on
ads advocating for or against candidates, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics.  “With company money going into a pot, that means some of
that money is being used for” political purposes, unless the
corporation restricts it, Freed said.  Proponents of an SEC rule say voluntary disclosure isn’t a
substitute for regulation, because the agreements can’t be
enforced and don’t yield the same information for all
participants. A review last year of 75 companies’ compliance
with their disclosure agreements found that 10 were in
“significant non-compliance” with the terms, according to CPA.  ‘All Over’  “One of the strongest reasons it’s so clear the SEC needs
to step in is that the disclosures we are getting are all over
the place,” said Jackson, the Columbia law professor.  David Hirschmann, director of the Chamber’s Center for
Capital Markets Competitiveness, said the SEC could hurt its
relationships with lawmakers by trying to advance the petition.  “Given what the SEC has on its plate, to insert it into
the politics game would be a mistake,” Hirschmann said. “It
would weaken the SEC’s position in terms of attracting
additional resources” from Congress.  The SEC announced in January that it could propose a rule
as soon as this month. Groups supporting the petition, including
the Council of Institutional Investors and the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, note that
more than 500,000  comments  have been filed in response to the
request and called on White, who took over as SEC chairman on
April 10, to make it a top priority. White, 65, hasn’t expressed
a view on the issue, spokesman  John Nester  said.  Non-Material Information  SEC Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher, 40, a Republican,
said political spending isn’t “material,” meaning it doesn’t
influence an investor’s willingness to own a company’s stock. In
an interview, Gallagher equated a political-spending rule with
regulations requiring companies to report their use of so-called
conflict minerals mined in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  “We should be done with mandating non-material
disclosures,” Gallagher said. “The more we adulterate it, the
less important that disclosure is to investors.”  Democratic appointee Luis A. Aguilar, 59, has publicly
advocated for the rule, while fellow Democrat Walter, 63, hasn’t
publicly stated her position.  “It’s not high on our agenda,” Walter said in an
interview. “I do think it’s an important question and I would
like to talk to more investors about their opinion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  