-- SHFE Copper Volume Rises to Record as LME Competition Heats Up
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-25T04:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/shfe-copper-volume-rises-to-record-as-lme-competition-heats-up.html
Copper’s aggregate trading volume
and open interest in  Shanghai  rose to records as prices fell to
the lowest in three and a half years, amid competition to
replace London as the world’s largest metals marketplace.  Trading volume on the Shanghai Futures Exchange advanced to
1.63 million lots yesterday, while open interest  reached  an all-
time high of 924,712 lots on April 23, bourse data showed. One
lot is equal to five metric tons. The most-active contract
slumped to 48,460  yuan  ($7,854) a ton on April 23, the lowest
level since October 2009.  China , the biggest consumer of the metal used in cables and
wires, accounts for more than 40 percent of world consumption.
Trading volume was about 30 percent of that on the  London  Metal
Exchange last year in terms of tonnage, data from the two
bourses showed. The Shanghai exchange has been seeking to
attract overseas investors, extend trading hours and expand its
warehouse networks to become a more global market.  “The price slump is another showcase that night-trading
hours are urgently needed,” Pang Juan, an analyst at Jinrui
Futures Co., said by phone from Shenzhen. “The record open
interest and trading volumes indicate domestic market
participants’ diverged views on market outlook.”  Long Positions  The most-active contract on the SHFE gained 1.3 percent to
51,280 yuan a ton at 11:30 a.m. local time, poised to lose 6.5
percent this month, the most since May 2012.  Long-position holders believe that demand isn’t as bad as
it seems, while short sellers’ pessimism has been enhanced by
losses in gold, said Bonnie Liu, an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd. Gold has lost 9.6 percent this month.  “There may be some tentative copper buying from
speculators and for hedging needs from manufacturers, while
everyone else still bets on rising supplies and tepid demand,”
Jinrui’s Pang said. Jinrui is a unit of China’s largest copper
producer  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358)   The Shanghai bourse is close to adding night-trading hours,
an official said March 13. Chairman Yang Maijun proposed to the
nation’s top legislature to allow overseas investors to trade
local commodity derivatives in March. The exchange trades copper,
aluminum, zinc, lead, natural rubber, fuel oil, steel, gold and
silver futures.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  