-- Shiseido Drops After Unexpected Loss on U.S. Unit: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-04-25T09:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/shiseido-drops-after-unexpected-net-loss-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Shiseido Co. (4911) ,  Japan ’s biggest
cosmetics maker, fell the most in more than two months in  Tokyo 
trading after reporting its first annual loss in eight years as
it struggles to boost sales at a U.S. unit.  The makeup and toiletries maker fell 4.1 percent to 1,516
yen, the biggest drop since Feb. 1, as of the close in Tokyo.
Net loss was 14.7 billion yen in the year ended March, compared
with a forecast for net income of 10.5 billion yen, the company
reported yesterday on a preliminary basis.  Shiseido said it would close some stores this year at its
U.S. unit, Bare Escentuals, while the business expands marketing
to rely more on “consumer-facing” promotions, television
advertisements and the QVC home shopping network.  The cosmetics
maker will book an impairment loss of 28.6 billion yen ($287
million) on goodwill after paying $1.7 billion for Bare
Escentuals in March 2010, the Tokyo-based company said yesterday
in a  statement .  “It’s a little bit hard to imagine the recovery
strategy,” said Hisae Kawamoto, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “They’re posting an impairment
loss only three years after the acquisition, which gives a
negative impression. The company says they will close
unprofitable stores, but it doesn’t explain how the business is
going to improve.”  The cosmetics maker is scheduled to formally report
earnings for the year ended in March tomorrow in Tokyo.  Shiseido had  net income  of 14.5 billion yen in the year
ended March 2012, less than half its profit in the fiscal year
it bought  San Francisco , California-based Bare Escentuals. Since
announcing the offer for Bare Escentuals in January 2010,
Shiseido has declined 22 percent in Tokyo trading, compared with
a 22 percent climb for the broader Topix index.  Bare Escentuals’ “sales have remained lower than
expected,” Shiseido said in its statement. “Bare Escentuals
has taken longer than initially envisioned to grow its retail
business. The gap between its sales budget and sales performance
has been widening during recent months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  