-- Short Sales Double as Profits Tumble: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-25T17:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/short-sales-double-as-profits-tumble-corporate-brazil.html
Short sellers in  Brazil , whose
favorite targets tumbled five times faster than MSCI Inc.’s
country stock index this year, are boosting bearish wagers to a
record after valuations rose to the highest levels since 2008.  MSCI Brazil (MXBR)  Index shares on loan more than doubled in the
past 12 months to 5.9 percent of stock available for trading on
April 19, the most since Bloomberg began compiling the data in
2010. Corporate profits fell 36 percent in the period, exceeding
the index’s 5.2  percent drop  and sending the price-to-earnings
ratio to a level last reached at the market peak in May 2008.  Bets against companies from  Eletropaulo Metropolitana
Eletricidade de Sao Paulo SA  to PDG Realty SA are growing as
government intervention, accelerating inflation and falling
commodities spurred the biggest earnings drop in  emerging
markets . While stocks are posting the longest rally since
September and former central bank President Arminio Fraga says
investor pessimism is overdone, forecasters who predicted the
retreat at Marketfield Asset Management and Deutsche Bank AG say
losses will continue as consumer spending wanes and  China ’s
economic slowdown curbs exports.  “I don’t think we’ve put in the ultimate low,” said
 Michael Shaoul , the New York-based chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management, whose $8 billion MainStay Marketfield Fund has
outperformed 95 percent of peers tracked by Bloomberg during the
past 12 months. His firm started betting on declines in
Brazilian shares in mid-2011, Shaoul said in an April 24 phone
interview.  Prescient Trades  Short sellers have proved prescient this year. Companies in
the MSCI Brazil gauge with the highest percentage of shares on
loan at the end of December dropped an average 19 percent, with
eight out of 10 stocks posting declines, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with the index’s 4.3 percent
decline in local-currency terms and an average gain of 6.8
percent for the least-shorted shares.  The 69-stock  Ibovespa (IBOV)  gauge is down 9.8 percent this year
after gaining 4 percent in the past five days, as commodities
rebounded and the government announced tax breaks for industries
including petrochemicals. The benchmark rose 0.4 percent to
55,196.02 at 2:23 p.m. in Sao Paulo today.  Short interest as of April 23 was about 5.5 percent of
shares available for trading, or float, in the MSCI index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In a short sale, traders sell
borrowed stock, anticipating the price will drop so they can
profit by buying back the shares at a lower price.  Earnings Outlook  The increase in short selling could indicate a lack of
certainty about earnings or Brazil’s economic outlook and
policies, according to Otavio Vieira, who helps manage 330
million reais ($164 million) as a partner at hedge fund Fides
Asset Management, which shorts stocks as part of its strategy.  “We’re probably still going to have some effects of the
slow growth last year in first-quarter earnings, with some
companies having difficulty meeting their guidance,” he said by
phone from  Rio de Janeiro .  Equity loans may also be used to implement arbitrage
strategies or fulfill an obligation to deliver the securities to
settle another transaction, according to the website of
 BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , operator of Brazil’s exchange.  Eletropaulo tumbled 52 percent this year as short interest
 increased  to 28 percent of float, the highest level in the MSCI
index, from 23 percent at the end of December.  Interventionist Government  PDG Realty, a Rio de Janeiro-based homebuilder,  retreated 
29 percent as short interest increased to 19 percent of float
from 9.5 percent at the end of 2012. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the Rio de Janeiro-based oil producer
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , dropped 66 percent as
short interest rose to 21 percent of float from 11 percent.  Press officials at PDG, OGX and Eletropaulo declined to
comment on the short selling.  Short sales have been increasing in part because government
policies aimed at reviving the economy are weighing on some of
Brazil’s biggest industries, according to Eduardo Guardia, the
chief financial officer at BM&FBovespa.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has intervened to
curb utility rates, bank lending margins, mobile-phone fees and
fuel prices -- reducing earnings prospects for sectors with a
combined  weighting  of about 50 percent in the MSCI Brazil index.  Energy, Raw Materials  “The business environment in Brazil is being questioned,”
Guardia said in an interview at the Bloomberg office in  Sao
Paulo  on April 18.  The combination of falling commodities prices and rising
wage costs is also curbing profits, said Stefan Hofer, an
emerging market economist at Bank Julius Baer & Co., which
oversees about $215 billion.  MSCI Inc. gauges of Brazilian energy and  raw-materials 
companies, including Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) 
and  Vale SA (VALE5) , have tumbled at least 16 percent in local currency
terms in the past 12 months as the S&P GSCI Spot Index of
commodities  slid  8.9 percent.  Brazil increased its  minimum wage  by 9 percent effective
Jan. 1, according to a decree signed by Rousseff. The central
bank raised borrowing costs for the first time since July 2011
on April 17 after annual inflation accelerated to 6.59 percent
at the end of March, breaching the central bank’s target range.  ‘Real Problem’  “The real economy has a real problem with slowing growth
and relatively high inflation,” John-Paul Smith, the London-
based emerging market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, who has
had an underweight rating on Brazil for the past two years, said
in an April 19 phone interview. “It’s very difficult to find
stocks you want to buy.”  The 36 percent drop in MSCI Brazil index earnings during
the past 12 months is the biggest among equity gauges in 21
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg and compares with a 3
percent retreat in MSCI Emerging Markets Index profits during
the same period.  The Brazil index’s  valuation  has climbed to about 17 times
reported earnings, matching the level in May 2008 when share
prices peaked before the global financial crisis. The emerging
markets gauge has a multiple of 12, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Economists surveyed by Brazil’s central bank have reduced
their estimate for 2013 gross domestic product growth to 3
percent as of April 19 from an estimated 4.25 percent a year
ago. In China, Brazil’s biggest trading partner, GDP growth
unexpectedly decelerated to 7.7 percent in the first quarter as
factory output weakened.  Fraga’s Optimism  While Brazil’s economy faces challenges, investors have
probably turned too bearish, said Fraga, the former central
banker and founder of Gavea Investimentos Ltda., with about $7.3
billion under management as of March.  “I don’t think that this is one of those jump out the
window type of situations,” Fraga said at an event organized by
the Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce in  New York  on April
22. He cited voters’ intolerance for a return to high  inflation 
and the country’s growing class of entrepreneurs as reasons to
be optimistic.  Analysts are predicting a 24 percent rebound in MSCI Brazil
index earnings this year, according to more than 800 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Based on those projections, the gauge has
a forward price-earnings multiple of 11, in line with the
emerging market index.  BlackRock’s View  Brazilian stocks “are poised to have a better performance
this year and that’s what we’re betting on,” Will Landers,
manager of the $4.4 billion BlackRock Latin America Fund, said
in an April 23 interview on Bloomberg Television.  It’s too early to call the bottom in earnings,  Julius
Baer ’s Hofer said in an April 18 phone interview from  Hong Kong .
The same analysts predicting a rebound this year had anticipated
15 percent profit growth a year ago, estimates that missed the
mark by about 50 percentage points, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Retail sales in Brazil declined 0.2 percent in February
from a year earlier, the first annual drop since November 2003.  “You’re in the middle of a period of economic
difficulty,” said Marketfield’s Shaoul. “There’ll be good news
and bad news, but the balance is going to be bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  