-- Sony Posts First Profit Since 2008 on Asset Sales, Yen
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-04-26T07:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/sony-raises-annual-profit-forecast-on-asset-sales-weaker-yen.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest
television maker, reported its first annual profit in five years
after selling assets and benefiting from a weaker yen that
boosted overseas revenue.  Net income was probably 40 billion yen ($403 million) in
the year ended March 31, compared with a net loss of 456.7
billion yen a year earlier, the company said in a preliminary
earnings statement yesterday. The  average  of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 43.3 billion yen.  Selling properties and stock holdings generated about $2
billion in profit for Sony as it stumbles from losses in its TV
business and mobile-phone unit. Games, cameras and mobile
devices, including Xperia smartphones, are central to Chief
Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai’s plan to revive the consumer-
electronics business after losing ground to Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co.  “Asset sales are one-time gains, and the challenge this
year will be to generate as much profit from businesses,” said
Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo .  Sony  rose  0.3 percent to 1,631 yen at the close of trade in
Tokyo. Sony, which earlier  projected  net income of 20 billion
yen for the last fiscal year, is up 70 percent this year,
outperforming Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which
has added 34 percent.  Higher Profit  “The stock may react positively to the numbers but won’t
probably continue rallying,” Hiroshi Shin, an analyst for
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., said in a report
yesterday.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, was probably 230 billion yen in the
year, compared with a year earlier operating loss of 67.3
billion yen and the company’s February  forecast  for earnings of
130 billion yen, Sony said yesterday.  Sales rose 4.7 percent to 6.8 trillion yen in the year, the
company said. That’s higher than its earlier forecast of 6.6
trillion yen as a weaker yen boosted overseas earnings and
higher stock prices helped Sony’s  financial unit , it said.  “It’s hard to say Sony made a revival,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based  analyst  at  Iwai Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707)  “We
want to see how Sony will rebuild its main electronics
business.”  In February, the maker of PlayStation game players
predicted a 115 billion-yen gain from the sale of a stake in
health-care data provider  M3 Inc. (2413)  While selling 6 percent of M3
to Deutsche Bank AG’s securities arm, most of the gain is coming
from a revaluation of its remaining 49.8 percent holdings in M3,
Sony said Feb. 21.  Manhattan Offices  The company expects a profit of $685 million from selling
its 37-story Manhattan offices, as well as a 41 billion-yen gain
from selling an office building in Tokyo’s Shinagawa ward, where
the company is based.  Sony will sell its entire stake in social-game website
operator DeNA Co., booking a 40.9 billion yen gain on the sale.  The company is set to disclose full earnings on May 9.  Hirai, who took over as CEO from  Howard Stringer  in April
2012, also agreed to  sell  a chemicals unit and a stake in a
display-making venture. He wants to generate 70 percent of
revenue and 85 percent of operating profit in Sony’s electronics
from games, digital imaging and mobile devices by March 2015.  PlayStation Preview  The manufacturer is heading for a ninth straight annual
loss at its TV-making unit amid slowing demand and rising
competition. Sales of Xperia smartphones and tablets trail
Apple’s iPhones and iPads as well as Samsung’s Galaxy devices.  In February, Sony previewed the PlayStation 4, which will
go on sale for the year-end holiday season. The company’s first
home console in seven years will make its debut amid an industry
shift toward games played on smartphones and tablets.  Competitor Microsoft Corp. plans a May 21 “unveiling”
related to its Xbox console.  Mobile games and those downloaded to computers are taking a
bigger portion of sales at the expense of traditional gear. U.S.
revenue from those titles rose 16 percent last year to $5.9
billion, according to  Port Washington , N.Y.-based researcher NPD
Group Inc.  The company’s  credit rating  was cut three levels to BB-, a
non-investment grade, by  Fitch Ratings  in November. Slumping
demand for TVs and weakened economic conditions at home and
overseas will leave the company struggling to regain
technological leadership, Fitch said at the time.  Sony raised 150 billion yen selling five-year convertible
 bonds  in November, its first offering of similar securities
since 2003. The Walkman inventor, which announced 10,000 job
cuts, lost about 31 percent of its market value last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  