-- Southwest Shifts Atlanta Flights in Sharper Delta Rivalry
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-25T14:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/southwest-shifts-atlanta-flights-in-sharper-delta-rivalry.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  is shifting
its flight strategy at the Atlanta airport, the world’s busiest,
in an escalating challenge to larger  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  for
local traffic.  No more than 20 planes will be on the ground at any one
time instead of 30 now, so the daily schedule of 175 flights can
be spread more evenly into times desirable for business fliers,
Dallas-based Southwest said today. The new timetable will take
effect in November.  Southwest’s changes will adapt Atlanta to the point-to-
point flying model, instead of using the airport as a base to
collect passengers bound for other hubs. That was the approach
at AirTran Holdings Inc., which Southwest acquired in 2011 to
grab a foothold in Delta’s home airport.  “It’s going to allow us to compete even more effectively
with Delta,” Chief Commercial Officer Bob Jordan said in an
interview. “We’re doing really well today, actually gaining
local market share. That’s the name of the game. It’s higher-
yielding passengers too.”  Delta is the world’s second-biggest carrier by passenger
traffic, while Southwest is No. 4 in the U.S. Even after adding
AirTran and a network that includes service to  Mexico  and the
Caribbean, almost all of Southwest’s flights are in the U.S.,
making it the largest airline on domestic routes by passengers.  AirTran had half its capacity in Atlanta in an operation
that was “not successful,” Chief Executive Gary Kelly said.  Competitive Schedule  “We will have a more competitive local schedule to compete
in Atlanta and for customers flying to Atlanta,” Kelly said in
an interview. “My prediction is we will win a lot more
customers.”  For example, the current timetable calls for three Atlanta
departures a day to  Kansas City ,  Missouri , at 10 a.m., 3 p.m.
and 9 p.m., said Jordan, who also runs the AirTran unit. The new
lineup will put those flights at 8 a.m., noon and 6 p.m.,
meeting business fliers’ needs, he said.  Corporate passengers are prized by airlines because they
typically fly the most and do so on short notice, paying the
highest fares.  “Our Atlanta customers, particularly business travelers,
choose to fly Delta because we offer what other airlines
can’t,” said Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman. He cited
1,000 daily nonstops from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta
International Airport to more than 200 destinations.  Delta dominates Atlanta with 66 percent of passengers there
in the 12 months ended in January, according to the U.S. Bureau
of Transportation Statistics. Southwest and AirTran combined had
about 16 percent.  Southwest’s move will eliminate 300 jobs for ground
workers, who will be offered transfers, Kelly said. The change
puts Atlanta staffing in line with other cities in the carrier’s
system, Kelly said.  “We’ll find them a job,” he said of displaced workers.
“In fact, we have been holding off filling positions throughout
the company to make sure we have spots for everybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  