-- Srbijagas Needs $484 Million to Pay Back Debt, Boost Liquidity
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-25T13:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/srbijagas-needs-484-million-to-pay-back-debt-boost-liquidity.html
Srbijagas JP,  Serbia ’s state-owned
gas monopoly, wants the government to help pay back 120 million
euros ($157 million) of debt this year and secure a further 250
million euros to improve its financial liquidity.  The Novi Sad, Serbia-based company, which owes 1.2 billion
euros ($1.57 billion) to commercial lenders, won’t be able to
service its debt payments without the government help, General
Manager Dusan Bajatovic told reporters in Belgrade today. The
biggest “financial strain” will come in 2014 and 2015, when
“most of our debt matures,” Bajatovic said.  The company posted a $410 million net loss in 2012, while
its operating loss was 12 billion dinars ($141 million), he
said. Bajatovic said the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development declined to provide financing, while  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  “wants their money back.”  Serbia seeks to curb losses at state-owned companies and
stopped backing their loans, trying to narrow the budget gap to
3.6 percent of gross domestic product this year from 6.7 percent
in 2012 as it plans to start talks next month with the
International Monetary Fund on a new precautionary loan
agreement. The IMF wants Serbia to overhaul its public sector.  Price Cap  Srbijagas has relied on sovereign-backed loans to bolster
liquidity as the government kept gas prices below market levels
amid recession and rising unemployment. The company has sold gas
“on average 25 percent below the cost” of imports to all
consumers and had to take over its biggest debtors to save
12,500 jobs, Bajatovic said.  “Those are clear subsidies and this is a hidden fiscal
deficit,” Bajatovic said. Of its total debt, the government
must take over “at least 500 million euros” or nearly 2
percentage points of GDP as its own.  Energy Minister Zorana Mihajlovic presented a plan this
week to overhaul Srbijagas, separating trade and distribution
from storage and transportation through 2014, to meet European
Union requirements. She also wants to ban Srbijagas from taking
new loans.  Bajatovic asked the government to consider an alternative
scenario to financially consolidate Srbijagas and develop it
into a “highly integrated holding company” in control of
separated units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  