-- Swiss Stocks Advance as U.K. Economy Grows, Nobel Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-04-25T14:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/stocks-in-switzerland-decline-as-roche-logitech-retreat.html
Swiss stocks  advanced as data
showed the U.K. economy avoided a triple-dip recession,
offsetting worse-than-estimated results from  Logitech (LOGN) 
International SA.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG rallied to its highest price since
June as profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and  Geberit
AG (GEBN)  climbed more than 1 percent, following European construction
companies higher. Logitech, the world’s largest maker of
computer mice, sank the most in three months after posting a
quarterly loss.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.3 percent to 7,881.96 at 4:15
p.m. in Zurich. The equity benchmark completed the largest two-
day gain since Jan. 4 yesterday as investors bet the European
Central Bank will lower interest rates next week. The gauge has
rallied 16 percent this year. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 0.4 percent today.  “The financial markets are focusing on the quarterly
reports of numerous companies today,” said Alessandro Fezzi,
senior market analyst at LGT Bank Schweiz AG in Zurich.
“Results were rather mixed, which is reflected in the share
price movements today. Investors are waiting for tomorrow’s U.S.
GDP data.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 8 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Britain’s economy avoided a triple-dip recession in the
first quarter with expansion that exceeded economists’
forecasts.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the
period, the Office for National Statistics said today. The
median forecast of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for 0.1 percent growth.  Nobel, Holcim  Nobel Biocare (NOBN)  surged 8.4 percent to 10.30 francs. The
world’s second-biggest maker of dental implants reported first-
quarter net income of 13.3 million euros beat the average
analyst estimate that called for 11.7 million euros.  Holcim, the world’s largest cement maker, gained 2.1
percent to 71.85 francs, while Geberit, a manufacturer of
toilets and bathroom piping, added 1.1 percent to 225.10 francs.
 Sika AG (SIK)  climbed 1.6 percent to 2,240 francs. A gauge of European
construction companies posted the  fourth-biggest gain  of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Logitech fell 6.5 percent to 6.36 francs after reporting a
fourth-quarter loss of $36 million, compared with a net income
of $28 million a year earlier.  “Logitech remains a construction site with restructuring
continuing and repositioning in progress,”  Michael Foeth , an
analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients
today. “We remain on the sidelines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  