-- MTU Aero Engines Accelerated Dollar Hedging to Secure Lower Rate
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-25T08:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/mtu-aero-engines-accelerated-dollar-hedging-to-secure-lower-rate.html
  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX)  Chief
Financial Officer Reiner Winkler said  Germany ’s largest engine
maker has intensified currency hedging to lock in advantageous
dollar rates.  Effort to secure long-term dollar contracts were increased
in recent months, with about 80 percent of sales this year
covered, Winkler said on a call. Hedges were bought at around
$1.30 per euro, and the cover rate compares with 70 percent at
the same time last year, he said.  European aerospace companies such as MTU have large
exposure to swings in the dollar exchange rate with sales
denominated in the U.S. currency while much of their cost base
is in euros. The currency contracts are intended to reduce
earnings volatility.  MTU’s average currency hedge rate for 2013 has declined to
$1.31, according to a presentation to analysts from the Munich-
based company. The hedge rate for this year was $1.33 a year ago
when about half the contracts were covered.  The hedge rate for 2014, where MTU has 56 percent of sales
covered, is $1.30, with a further improvement to $1.27 in 2015,
the company said as it reported first quarter results that saw
sales increase 35 percent.  The revenue boost reflects strong growth in commercial
engine activities, departing Chief Executive Officer Egon Behle
said on the call. Increasing production of International Aero
Engine V2500 powerplants for the Airbus SAS A320 airliners
helped lift commercial powerplant sales by almost 65 percent.  New Engines  MTU is in talks with other engine companies to secure work
on several new aircraft programs.  Boeing Co. (BA)  last month named
 General Electric Co. (GE)  the exclusive engine provider for its
future 777X long-haul plane. MTU is seeking a role on that
powerplant, said Behle, who will leave the company at year-end.  Boeing Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney said yesterday
the engines and a new composite wing should deliver 90 percent
of the improved value the 777X is supposed to deliver. A
decision to offer the aircraft to customers could come this
year, with first deliveries around the end of the decade, he
said.  MTU also is in talks with  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt
& Whitney unit about a role on the geared turbofan engine
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  will use on its modernized regional jets, Behle said.
MTU is already a partner on the engine to be used by aircraft
such as the Airbus A320neo and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CSeries.  Behle said orders and options, including some not yet
announced, take the backlog for the geared turbofan beyond 3,500
engines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  