-- U.K. Has Unwinnable Battle on Tax Avoidance, Panel Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-04-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-k-has-unwinnable-battle-on-tax-avoidance-panel-says.html
The U.K. government is fighting an
unwinnable battle against tax avoidance, lawmakers warned, as
they called for greater transparency from companies and more
resources to police compliance.  The imbalance between the four biggest accountancy firms
and staff at the tax agency, Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs,
means the government is unable to challenge avoidance, according
to a report published in  London  today by the House of Commons
Public Accounts Committee.  “HMRC is engaged in a never-ending game of cat and
mouse,” committee chairwoman Margaret Hodge said in an e-mailed
statement. “Among those ranged against it are the big four
accountancy firms who employ nearly 9,000 people just to provide
tax advice to companies and wealthy individuals,” she said.
“Between them they boast 250 transfer-pricing specialists,
whereas HMRC has only 65 people working in this area.”  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Deloitte & Touche LLP, Ernst &
Young LLP and KPMG LLP earned 1.85 billion pounds ($2.86
billion) from tax practice in the U.K. in the financial year
ending April 2012, the committee said. They advised companies
including Google Inc., Starbucks Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.,
which were also called to testify to the panel after public and
media anger about the amount of corporation tax they pay.  ‘Fair Share’  Increased transparency about companies’ tax affairs would
build pressure on multinational businesses to “pay a fair
share” of tax in the countries where they operate, and the U.K.
should push for international agreement on standards of
transparency, the committee said.  There should also be a simplification of tax law and
international rules should be overhauled to reflect ways of
doing business, the report said. Modern communications have made
it too easy for companies to register in tax havens rather than
paying tax where their business takes place, the lawmakers said.  “We believe that simplicity is key to fighting tax
avoidance. The four firms agreed with us that tax law is too
complex and a simpler system is in everybody’s interests,” the
committee said. “It is disappointing that HM Treasury’s Office
of Tax Simplification is working with fewer than six full-time
staff.”  The committee also called for an end to the practice of
accountancy firms seconding staff to the Treasury to advise on
tax legislation.  ‘Inside Knowledge’  “When those staff return to their firms, they have the
very inside knowledge and insight to be able to identify
loopholes in the new legislation and advise their clients on how
to take advantage of them,” Hodge said. “This is a ridiculous
conflict of interest which should be banned in a code of conduct
for tax advisers.”  The accountancy firms told the committee that they no
longer sell the aggressive tax-avoidance packages they did 10
years ago, though the report said they have moved on to helping
clients utilize the lowest international tax rates. HMRC does
not have the resources to challenge some of these in court, the
committee said.  “The four firms have developed internal guidelines on
where the line between tax planning and aggressive avoidance
lies, but these principles do not stop them selling schemes with
as little as a 50 percent chance of succeeding if challenged in
court,” according to the report. “Clearly HMRC has to consider
the risk to the taxpayer of a protracted legal battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  