-- U.K. Fracking May Fail to Cut Local Gas Prices, Report Shows
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-04-26T11:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-k-fracking-may-not-reduce-domestic-gas-prices-report-shows.html
Developing U.K. shale gas may fail
to follow U.S. precedent and cut local prices due to differences
in geography, population density and environmental controls and
as world fuel demand grows, according to a parliamentary report.  On the flipside, shale would benefit the U.K. by reducing
reliance on gas imports and adding to tax revenue, the House of
Commons  Energy and Climate Change Committee  said in the report.  “Ministers should be careful not to base energy policy on
an assumption that gas prices will fall in future as a result of
shale gas production,” Tim Yeo, chairman of the committee and a
lawmaker from the ruling Conservative Party, said in a statement
on today’s report. “Rising global demand for gas, particularly
from Asia, could limit any potential price reductions.”  The U.K. is preparing tax breaks to spur shale and expand
gas resources as North Sea supplies dwindle. At the same time,
the energy department has set out plans for as many as 30 new
gas-fired power plants as a fifth of the current capacity is due
to close in the next decade, while Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne has promoted the fuel as cheaper than renewables.  “Due to a combination of factors including geological
differences, population density and environmental safeguards, it
cannot be assumed the U.K. will enjoy the low gas prices
experienced in the U.S.,” the committee said in its report.  Substantial Resources?  U.S. natural-gas prices fell to $1.80 per million British
thermal units in March 2012 after surging shale output, from a
record $12 in 2008, and were at $4.15 today. In the U.K., gas
traded on the ICE Futures Europe exchange was at 65.15 pence, or
$10.08 per million Btu, as of 12:15 p.m. in London.  “If substantial shale resources do turn out to be
recoverable in the U.K. -- and community concerns can be
addressed -- then it could limit future energy price rises,
reduce our reliance on imported gas and generate considerable
tax revenues,” Yeo said in today’s statement.  The government lifted an 18-month moratorium on hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, used to exploit shale deposits in
December after the completion of an investigation into two small
earthquakes caused by drilling by Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.  Cuadrilla has said its Bowland acreage in the northwest of
 England  may hold as much as 200 trillion cubic feet of gas, more
than  Iraq ’s reserves. It has delayed exploratory testing until
next year to carry out environmental assessments.  Environment  Another explorer, IGas Energy Plc said today it plans to
drill two wells this year to study the potential in its Bowland
prospect. It climbed 11 percent to 76 pence in London trading.  The U.K. needs to produce 4 billion to 4.5 billion cubic
feet of gas a day and drill about 10,000 wells over 15 years to
reduce imports, Bloomberg’s New Energy Finance said in February.  The country’s higher population density, tougher planning
rules and stronger environmental movement may lead to slower
development in the U.K. than in the U.S., the researcher said.  Environmental groups such as Greenpeace and Friends of the
Earth say fracking, using blasts of water, sand and chemicals to
release fuel trapped in shale, contaminates water supplies.
“This report confirms that what we know about U.K. shale gas is
that we don’t know much,” Greenpeace said today. “The only
thing most experts agree on is that it won’t reduce bills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  