-- U.K.’s Davies Seeks Carbon Vote in EU Assembly Before End-July
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-04-25T12:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-k-s-davies-seeks-carbon-vote-in-eu-assembly-before-end-july.html
The European Union proposal to
temporarily cut oversupply in its carbon market should be put to
a new vote in the full European Parliament before the end of
July at the latest, according to EU lawmaker Chris Davies.  Representatives of all but one of the political groups in
the EU assembly’s environment committee agreed today that the
rescue plan for the emissions market should return to the
plenary after the full Parliament rejected it last week, Davies
said after the meeting. No decisions on the exact timeline were
taken and legislators agreed they need further clarification on
the rules of procedure, according to Davies.  “I think we should have a plenary vote before the summer
recess” that starts in August, Davies, a U.K. member of the
Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, said
in an interview in Brussels today.  The environment committee has two months to inform the full
assembly about its recommendation on the future steps of the
carbon proposal, which aims to bolster prices in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade program by delaying auctions of some
allowances. The Parliament last week declined to support the
measure and decided to send it back to the environment panel for
further discussion.  Some lawmakers, such as members of the European  People’s
Party , want “as much time as possible” before the next vote,
according to Davies, who supports the stopgap measure, known as
backloading. The EPP, a majority of whose members voted against
the proposal last week, sees a “very narrow” room for maneuver
on the measure, Richard Seeber, a member of the group, said in
an interview yesterday.  German Elections  Some German lawmakers say their country is unlikely to
adopt a position on backloading before general elections in
September, pointing out that the Parliament should vote only
after the polls, Davies said.  A number of lawmakers are considering the consequences of
their refusal to back the carbon-market rescue plan, according
to Davies. EU emission allowances for delivery in December
slumped 45 percent, the biggest drop ever, after the
Parliament’s April 16 vote and extended their slide the next
day, hitting an all-time low of 2.46 euros ($3.22) a metric ton.
They rose as much as 5 percent to 3.17 euros today and were at
3.10 euros on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange as of 1:14 p.m. in
 London .  “We can win the second vote,” Davies said. “We should
amend the proposal to take into account the concerns of those
who voted against it.”  Coordinators from political groups in the environment
committee agreed today that they will discuss procedural issues
in about two weeks, Davies says. The panel is scheduled to hold
its next meeting on May 6 and May 7 in Brussels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Dublin at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  