-- U.K. Banks Said to Be Rattled by Regulator’s Capital Silence
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-26T15:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-k-banks-said-to-be-rattled-by-regulator-s-silence-on-capital.html
Britain’s new banking regulator has
rattled lenders by holding off disclosing how much capital each
firm will have to raise after ordering the industry to plug a 25
billion-pound ($38 billion) shortfall by the end of the year,
three people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The Prudential Regulation Authority, the unit of the Bank
of England that took over supervision of the industry from the
Financial Services Authority this month, isn’t expected to
detail the steps all banks need to take to bolster their balance
sheets until mid-May at the earliest, said two of the people who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Banks
had expected to be told in March, one of the people said.  That delay could leave banks less than seven months to plug
the gap identified by the Bank of England. The regulator is
recommending the firms raise capital to cover bigger potential
losses, possible fines for mis-selling and stricter risk models.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne in February ruled out
injecting any more public money into state-owned  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc .  “It’s surprising that they haven’t been told yet,” said
Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
London. “The PRA is getting off to a bad start, potentially
destabilizing the financial system rather than stabilizing it.”  The banks will hold within the next three weeks their first
formal meetings with the PRA since the central bank published
its report on March 27, the people said. They will discuss the
assessment by the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee
and the capital plans the banks have already outlined, the
people said.  Capital Ratios  RBS fell 1.9 percent to 295.10 pence in London trading
today,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  declined 1 percent to 290.70 pence and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  slipped 0.5 percent to 52.91 pence.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  climbed 1.4 percent to 699.90 pence and
Standard Chartered Plc rose 1.1 percent to 1,632.5 pence.  Officials at RBS, Lloyds, HSBC and the PRA declined to
comment on the discussions. Barclays Finance Director Chris Lucas told reporters this week that talks with the regulator are
continuing.  HSBC and Standard Chartered, the two British banks that get
most of their profit from Asia, have the strongest core Tier 1
capital ratios under the latest rules set by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision of 9.8 percent and 10.7 percent. Barclays
has a ratio of 8.4 percent, Lloyds 8.1 percent and RBS 7.7
percent, according to company filings.  Selling Assets  Britain’s lenders have been selling units and detailing
plans to bolster their businesses since the central bank
initially said in November it was concerned that banks weren’t
holding enough capital.  Since then, Lloyds has sold a 20 percent stake in wealth-
manager St. James’s Place Plc and is considering a sale of its
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership division. Edinburgh-based
RBS said in February it would sell a 25 percent stake in
Citizens Financial Group Inc., the U.S. consumer and commercial
lender acquired in 1988, and would further shrink its investment
bank. Barclays, Lloyds and RBS also plan to sell contingent
convertible notes to boost their financial strength.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  