-- U.K. Ministers Urge Caution After Triple Dip Averted
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-25T10:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-k-ministers-urge-caution-after-triple-dip-averted.html
Senior ministers in Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s government voiced caution after official data
showed Britain  avoided a triple-dip recession  with stronger-
than-expected growth in the first quarter.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  spoke of
indications the economy is recovering, while Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  said there was no room for complacency.
Business Secretary Vince Cable described the figures as
“modestly encouraging.”  “Today’s figures are an encouraging sign the economy is
healing,” Osborne said in a statement released by the Treasury
in London. “Despite a tough economic backdrop, we are making
progress.”  Britain’s economy  grew by 0.3 percent in the first three
months of the year, the  Office for National Statistics  said.
That was more than the median 0.1 percent forecast in a survey
of 37 economists by  Bloomberg News . The figures provide relief
for the government after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the U.K. and
the  International Monetary Fund  called on Osborne to relax
fiscal tightening last week. The opposition  Labour Party  said
the data are “lackluster.”  “We all know there are no easy answers to problems built
up over many years, and I can’t promise the road ahead will
always be smooth, but by continuing to confront our problems
head on, Britain is recovering and we are building an economy
fit for the future,” Osborne said.  ‘Better Number’  “It’s a better number than many people had been
anticipating,” Clegg, who heads the Liberal Democrats in the
Tory-led coalition, told LBC radio. “That’s obviously a welcome
thing but I don’t want anyone to think we are out of the woods
yet.”  Similarly, Cable, another Liberal Democrat, said the
recovery is a “marathon, not a sprint.”  “Today’s figures are modestly encouraging and, taken
alongside other indicators such as employment figures, suggest
that things are going in the right direction,” Cable said.
“However, there is still a long way to go.”  While the U.S., German and Canadian economies are back
above their pre-recession levels, U.K. GDP remains 2.6 percent
below its peak in the first quarter of 2008. It means Britain
remains mired in its longest peacetime slump since at least
1920, according to the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research.  The economy has grown 1.2 percent since the third quarter
of 2010, just after the coalition came to power in May of that
year.  “People are worse off than when this government came to
office,” Labour’s Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , said in an e-
mailed statement. “The longer we continue to bump along the
bottom the more long term damage will be done. Britain’s
struggling families and businesses cannot afford another two
years of this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  