-- U.S. House Plans Hearings on Federal Ethanol Mandate This Year
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-04-25T17:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-s-house-plans-hearings-on-federal-ethanol-mandate-this-year.html
A U.S. House committee plans
hearings this summer on the federal government’s Renewable Fuels
Standard, the 2007 law that mandates ethanol use.  Lawmakers including Representative  Fred Upton , the Michigan
Republican who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee, and
 Henry Waxman  of  California , the panel’s ranking Democrat, are
issuing  white papers  reviewing the law to determine its
effectiveness, Karen Lightfoot, a spokeswoman for Waxman, said
in a telephone interview.  Ethanol advocates and petroleum interests are debating
whether the U.S. should keep the law and whether it has worked
as intended. The RFS calls for the nation to use 13.8 billion
gallons of ethanol this year and 14.4 billion in 2014.  No date has been set for the hearings,  Charlotte  Baker, the
committee’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “We think this is part of the reform process,” said Tim Cheung, a research associate at ClearView Energy Partners LLC in
 Washington . “It comes in pieces. This is why we think the
reform prospects are heating up.”  Denatured ethanol for May delivery rose 1.5 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $2.45 a gallon as of noon local time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Prices have gained 12 percent this year.  Ethanol is typically blended and sold at filling stations
in a formula of 10 percent of the renewable fuel and the rest
gasoline. In order to meet the federal targets, U.S. refiners
would have to sell fuel that contains more than 10 percent of
the biofuel.  Higher Blends  The EPA has approved blends of up to 15 percent of ethanol
for vehicles made in 2001 and later. The  American Petroleum
Institute  and the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers
say more testing is needed to determine whether that level is
safe for cars.  Cheung said the U.S. will probably revise the mandate
within the next two years.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, and a
bipartisan group of legislators earlier this month introduced a
bill that would eliminate requirements for ethanol made from
corn, in favor of more advanced biofuels, and cap the amount of
the fuel that can be mixed in gasoline at 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  