-- U.S. Halts Largest HIV Vaccine Trial on Treatment Failure
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-25T18:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-s-halts-largest-hiv-vaccine-trial-on-treatment-failure.html
The largest and most advanced study
under way of a vaccine to prevent HIV infection was stopped by
U.S. government researchers after an interim look at the data
showed it was unlikely to help recipients.  The  National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases 
said it will no longer give the injection, a combination of a
DNA-based vaccine to prime the immune system and a booster shot
with a weakened virus carrying genetic material that expressed
HIV antigens. The vaccine didn’t prevent HIV infection or reduce
the amount of virus in those who became infected, the agency
said in a  statement .  The vaccine was developed by the agency’s Vaccine Research
Center. Volunteers who received the active vaccination
unexpectedly had higher rates of HIV than those given a placebo,
though the difference wasn’t large enough to rule out a chance
finding, the agency said. The researchers will follow those who
participated in the trial, which started in 2009, to see if
other differences develop.  “While today’s result is disappointing, we need to look at
the bigger picture of AIDS vaccine science,” said Mitchell Warren, executive director of AVAC: Global Advocacy for AIDS
Prevention. “It’s not the answer we hoped for, but the search
doesn’t end here.”  Funding Efforts  It is critical to fund efforts to develop an HIV vaccine
and other methods to prevent infections in order to help end the
AIDS epidemic, Warren said in a statement. A number of
approaches different from that used in the current trial, known
as HVTN 505, are showing promise and more data from the failed
study will help refine those efforts, he said.  Doctors currently prescribe potent HIV drugs such as Gilead
Sciences Inc.’s Truvada to those without the disease to prevent
infection. Taking the pill daily can reduce the risk of
contracting HIV by 94 percent. Developing an immunization that
permanently prevents infection, without lifelong, expensive
pills, would be a breakthrough, researchers said.  The U.S. study involved 2,504 volunteers in 19 cities
across the country who received three shots over an eight-week
period. After seven months, there were 27 HIV infections among
those who got the vaccine and 21 infections in those given a
placebo. When including everyone who participated, even those
who hadn’t been in the trial for 28 weeks, there were 41 HIV
infections in those given the vaccine and 30 in those given the
placebo.  Numerous HIV vaccine efforts, including one with a similar
approach to the current trial, have failed to show a benefit.
Researchers continue to hunt for an immunization that can
prevent infection after the first partially successful HIV
vaccine trial in  Thailand  in 2009. That study showed two
inoculations that hadn’t worked on their own offered some
patients protection when given in combination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  