-- U.S. Risk Council Says Big Broker Failure Still Stability Threat
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-25T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/u-s-risk-council-says-big-broker-failure-still-stability-threat.html
The risk of so-called fire sales if
a major broker-dealer were to default “remains a financial
stability concern,” a U.S. council of regulators said in its
annual report.  “Reforms made since the financial crisis, such as higher
capital and liquidity requirements, have reduced the risk of a
dealer default,” according to the report released today by the
Financial Stability Oversight Council in  Washington . “However,
the council recognizes that a major broker-dealer’s default
could threaten financial stability as the broker-dealer’s
creditors liquidate the collateral pledged against their tri-
party repo lending.”  The council, or FSOC, will “soon” vote on whether to
designate an initial set of non-bank financial companies as
being systemically important and warranting Federal Reserve
supervision, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said at a
council meeting.  The U.S. needs to strengthen markets that may be
susceptible to destabilizing runs and fire sales, increase
vigilance to operational risks and attract private capital to
the housing finance system, Lew said.  The report, which evaluated potential risks to the
financial system, also raised concerns about cyber-security. In
2012, more than a dozen financial institutions received attacks
on their public websites, “all of which were attributable to
one group,” according to the report. The report didn’t name the
group.  “These particular attacks, which began in September, were
targeted, persistent and recurring,” the report said.  The report also said a “shock” to so-called agency real
estate investment trusts “could induce repo lenders to raise
margins or pull back funding, which in turn could compel agency
REITs to sell into a declining market.” Agency REITs invest in
agency mortgage-backed securities and are mainly funded through
repo markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  