-- Spurs, Thunder, Pacers Win to Lead NBA Playoffs 2-0 in Games
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-25T04:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/thunder-pacers-open-2-0-leads-in-nba-playoff-first-round-series.html
The  San Antonio Spurs  defeated the
 Los Angeles Lakers  after the Oklahoma City Thunder and  Indiana
Pacers  also won, giving all three victors two-games-to-none
leads in their National Basketball Association playoff series.  The Spurs beat the Lakers 102-91 after the Thunder
weathered a fourth-quarter surge by the  Houston Rockets  to win
105-102 in last night’s other Western Conference game. In the
East, the Pacers eased past the Atlanta Hawks 113-98.  Tony Parker  led the Spurs with 28 points at the AT&T Center
in San Antonio, while  Dwight Howard  and Steve Blake each scored
16 points for the Lakers. After two games on the road against
the second-seeded Spurs, the Lakers host the next two games in
the best-of-seven series, tomorrow and on April 28.  The Lakers are without five-time NBA champion  Kobe Bryant ,
who ruptured his Achilles tendon on April 13, as they seek to
avoid a first-round playoff exit for the first time since 2007.
San Antonio reached the Western Conference finals last year,
losing to the Thunder.  Russell Westbrook  and  Kevin Durant  each scored 29 points at
Chesapeake Energy Arena in Oklahoma City last night for the
Thunder, the top seed in the Western Conference.  James Harden 
had 36 points for Houston, which lost guard Jeremy Lin in the
third quarter with a bruised chest muscle.  After outscoring the Rockets by one point in each of the
first two quarters, Oklahoma City opened an 11-point lead in the
third with a 13-0 run.  Durant’s Shot  The Thunder extended their lead to 15 points with nine
minutes, 23 seconds to play in the fourth quarter before Houston
struck back with a 21-2 run to take a 95-91 lead with 3:27
remaining.  Durant hit a 3-pointer, his first score of the quarter, to
give Oklahoma City the lead for good at 98-97 with 2:28 to play.
Thabo Sefolosha made it 101-97 with 61 seconds left and the
Rockets didn’t get closer than two points the rest of the way.  “During this time of the year, as a team we’ve got one
goal and we can’t let nobody get in the way,” Westbrook said in
a news conference. “That’s how I feel and that’s how I want my
team to respond as well.”  After two games in Oklahoma City, the best-of-seven series
now moves to Houston for matchups on April 27 and 29.  The Thunder lost in the NBA Finals a year ago to the  Miami
Heat . The Rockets, who won back-to-back NBA titles in 1994 and
1995, are in the playoffs for the first time in four seasons.  Indiana also plays on the road April 27 and 29 after back-
to-back home wins against Atlanta. Paul George led the Pacers
last night with 27 points at Bankers Life Fieldhouse in
Indianapolis.  ‘Play Physical’  “We naturally just play physical,” George said. “It
wasn’t like, ‘Hey, let’s play physical, let’s retaliate.’ That’s
just how we play. That’s how we approach the game. We just have
to keep playing how we play.”  The Pacers lost in six games to the Heat in the second
round of the playoffs last year, while the Hawks were eliminated
in the first round last year after three consecutive trips to
the second round of the postseason.  Tonight, the Brooklyn Nets are in Chicago, seeking to
rebound from a home loss to the Bulls that tied their Eastern
Conference series at a game apiece.  Also in the East, the  Milwaukee Bucks  will look to avoid
moving within one loss of elimination against the visiting Heat,
while the  Los Angeles Clippers  will seek to take a 3-0 lead
against the host Memphis Grizzlies in their Western Conference
series.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  