-- Munich Re Sees 1-Billion Euro Profit in First Quarter
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-04-25T08:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/munich-re-sees-1-billion-euro-profit-in-first-quarter.html
Munich Re, the world’s biggest
reinsurer, said profit in the first quarter was “close to 1
billion euros” ($1.3 billion) after a slight increase in prices
and no major natural catastrophes.  “We had a good start to the current year,” Chief
Executive Officer Nikolaus von Bomhard said in a copy of a
speech handed to reporters at an annual shareholders’ meeting in
Munich today. “Despite a strong supply in capacity and thus
keen competition, we succeeded in slightly increasing the price
level.”  Reinsurers such as Munich Re and Zurich-based  Swiss Re (SREN)  are
seeking to bolster profit this year partly by investing in
higher-yielding assets such as property after returns from bonds
declined. Last year, the firms benefited from fewer losses from
natural catastrophes and a market rally.  Munich Re said profit in the year as a whole will be little
changed at “close to” 3 billion euros, reiterating an estimate
it made last month. First-quarter results should not “simply be
extrapolated for the year as a whole,” von Bomhard said in a
statement.  “We do not expect any rapid and appreciable rise in
capital markets interest rates in 2013,” he said. “This means
that regular income from investments will tend to fall
further.”  The estimated first-quarter disaster bill in  Europe  was
$1.8 billion as heavy snowfall, sub-freezing temperatures, high
winds, ice and flooding spurred claims, according to a report by
reinsurance broker Aon Benfield three weeks ago.  Natural disasters caused $77 billion in global insured
losses in 2012, down from $119 billion the previous year,
according to Swiss Re Ltd.  Munich Re is due to report first-quarter earnings May 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  