-- Unilever Reports Slowest Quarterly Sales Growth in Two Years
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-04-25T08:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/unilever-reports-slowest-quarterly-sales-growth-in-two-years.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-
biggest consumer-goods company, reported the slowest quarterly
growth in two years as demand in  Europe  was held back by weaker
 consumer confidence  and sales of ice cream and spreads faltered.  So-called underlying sales, which exclude acquisitions,
disposals and currency fluctuations, rose 4.9 percent from a
year earlier, the London- and Rotterdam-based maker of Dove soap
said today. The average estimate of 12  analysts  surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 5.5 percent gain. Units sold increased 2.2
percent, less than the 3 percent gain estimated by analysts.  Sales fell 3.1 percent in Europe, the steepest rate of
decline in more than three years, as “difficult markets” and
cold spring weather sent ice cream sales plunging by more than
10 percent, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said in an
interview. Europe makes up about 25 percent of revenue.  “This is a disappointing start to the year, with weaker
than expected progress in particular in Europe and in the
spreads category globally,”  Graham Jones , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon, said today in a note to clients.  Unilever  shares  dropped as much as 3.5 percent in Amsterdam
trading, the steepest intraday decline in more than a year. They
were down 1.9 percent at 31.91 euros as of 10:09 a.m.  Spreads Drop  Unilever’s sales growth still topped that reported this
month by  Nestle SA, (NESN)  the world’s largest food maker, and  Procter
& Gamble Co., (PG)  the world’s biggest consumer-product company.
Nestle’s so-called organic sales growth was 4.3 percent in the
first quarter, while P&G’s revenue on that basis rose 3 percent.
All three trailed  Danone (BN) , which posted a 5.6 percent gain.  Unilever’s food revenue fell 0.5 percent, hurt by a decline
in its margarine business, which includes brands like Flora and
Becel. Huet said the business “is taking longer than we would
like” to turn around, as consumers opt for lower-priced butter.  “We can do a better job,” he said. “This is self-
inflicted and we need to rectify it. It’s no quick-fix.”  Unilever has been pruning its food business to focus on
faster-growing beauty products. The company  sold  its Skippy
peanut butter brand earlier this year.  “Spreads was the real area of weakness, and we question
whether it is getting to the stage when Unilever needs to start
considering disposals in this persistently disappointing
category,” Panmure Gordon’s Jones said.  North America  First-quarter sales in  North America  rose 0.3 percent,
Unilever said, a deceleration from previous quarters, with gains
in personal-care offset by lower growth from food.  Sales in developing markets such as China and Indonesia
rose 10 percent. The company has said they will account for more
than 90 percent of its annual sales growth this decade.  “We remain focused on achieving another year of profitable
volume growth ahead of our markets, steady and sustainable core
operating margin improvement and strong  cash flow ,” Chief
Executive Officer Paul Polman said in the statement.  Unilever is also seeking  acquisitions , mainly of companies
worth 1 billion euros to 2 billion euros.  Underlying sales rose 8.3 percent in the personal-care
segment, the company’s largest business, fueled by deodorants,
shampoos, and skin care products. Revenue rose 9.4 percent in
the home-care unit during the quarter, helped by laundry
detergents in  emerging markets  like  Brazil  and the  Philippines .  Sales in the quarter advanced 0.2 percent to 12.2 billion
euros. Analysts had  estimated  revenue of 12.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  