-- United Posts Sole Airline Loss as Southwest Beats Views
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-25T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/united-posts-sole-airline-loss-as-southwest-beats-views.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
posted a first-quarter loss, the only one among the major U.S.
carriers, while  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  joined peers with profits
in the slowest travel period of the year.  United’s adjusted loss of $325 million, or 98 cents a
share, was narrower than analysts’ estimates. While Southwest
and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  beat profit projections today,  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU)  trailed estimates as fallout from Hurricane Sandy
eroded revenue.  Today’s earnings reports capped results for the biggest
U.S. airlines, with six of the seven making money in a quarter
that’s often unprofitable as winter weather damps travel. Higher
fares, curbing expenses and lower fuel prices helped. United,
the world’s largest carrier, was hurt by a 1.3 percent rise in
total operating costs.  “We are focused companywide on operating more
efficiently,” United Chief Financial Officer John Rainey said
in a statement.  Southwest, JetBlue and Alaska follow peers  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) ,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and American Airlines parent  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ)  in posting adjusted profits for the first quarter.  Southwest’s  earnings  excluding some gains were $59 million,
or 7 cents a share, trouncing the 2-cent average projection
among 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. JetBlue’s profit
slipped to 5 cents a share, trailing the 10-cent estimate by
analysts, while Alaska’s 62-cent profit topped forecasts of 56
cents.  Stock Reaction  United fell 1.6 percent to $30.89 at the close of trading
in New York, and JetBlue dropped 4.6 percent, the most in the
Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index, to $6.85. Southwest was unchanged
at $13.42. Alaska fell 1.1 percent to $60.24.  The loss at United included costs of $11 million from
grounding its six  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners, which were taken
out of service Jan. 16 following battery failures on two planes
flown by Japanese airlines. U.S. regulators approved fixes on
April 19 that would allow Dreamliner flights to resume.  United spent 7.6 percent more on aircraft maintenance and
12 percent more on wages as the Chicago-based airline reached a
higher-paying contract with the union for fleet and passenger
service workers. The airline also had to keep paying 787 pilots
through the grounding.  Sales rose 1.4 percent to $8.7 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  