-- UPS Profit Tops Estimates Amid Boost From Online-Shopping
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-25T20:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ups-profit-tops-estimates-amid-higher-online-purchase-deliveries.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  posted
higher first-quarter earnings than analysts estimated as the
world’s largest package-delivery company carried more purchases
to online shoppers.  Profit of $1.04 a share, excluding some costs and gains,
topped the $1.01 average estimate from  analysts . The Atlanta-
based company also reiterated its full-year forecast of $4.80 to
$5.06, which compared with the $4.99 average of 30 estimates
from analysts.  UPS benefited from a 4.4 percent increase in domestic
deliveries driven by consumer purchases and returns of items
such as clothing and electronic devices. That helped push  sales 
up 2.3 percent to $13.4 billion. The company handles more than
16 million packages and envelopes a day worldwide, making it a
bellwether for the economy.  “It was a so-so quarter, and it’s been that way for a few
quarters,” said Logan Purk, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis , who has a hold  rating  on the stock. “The U.S.
business seems to be doing just fine, but international markets
are weak on volumes and yields. The results were buoyed by
domestic.”  Profit in the  U.S. package delivery  business climbed 9
percent while the operating margin expanded 70 basis points to
13.1 percent. The international package unit’s earnings dropped
4.2 percent, excluding charges from the company’s attempt to
purchase  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)   UPS paid TNT a breakup fee of 200 million euros ($261
million) in the first quarter after dropping the 5.16 billion-
euro deal when European regulators moved to block it.  U.S. Economy  “Domestically, we’re fairly confident the  U.S. economy 
will be stable, if unexciting,” Chief Financial Officer Kurt
Kuehn said on a conference call today. “International trade
flows are volatile so we have to be aware of that.”  As some customers shift from next-day shipments to cheaper
services, UPS is expanding in high-margin deliveries of health-
care products. The company said today that it bought a Hungarian
pharmaceutical logistics firm called Cemelog Zrt, which adds
250,000 square feet of space and 270 employees that will help
UPS distribute more drugs and medical devices in eastern  Europe .  The purchase brings UPS’s dedicated health-care space to
6.5 million square feet globally, executives said.  UPS climbed 2.3 percent to $85.42 at the close of today’s
trading in  New York . The shares rose 5.1 percent in the 12
months through yesterday, compared with a 6.2 percent gain for
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and 15 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Including an after-tax benefit from a currency gain, UPS’s
net income rose 6.9 percent to $1.04 billion, or $1.08 a share,
from $970 million, or $1.  Demand in January benefited from customers returning
holiday purchases through the UPS Returns service, UPS said. The
company also introduced Access Point locations in the  United
Kingdom  to give customers alternatives to receiving deliveries
at home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  