-- Veolia Sees Growth in Hazardous Oil Waste, Chemical Pollutants
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-25T12:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/veolia-sees-growth-in-hazardous-oil-waste-chemical-pollutants.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  expects
profit to grow in the business of treating and recycling
hazardous waste like used fuel from refineries and chemicals
from drugmakers and paint factories.  In the next five years, Veolia’s operating profit in the
industry could increase 15 percent annually and sales by 10
percent as new rules take effect on how companies have to deal
with waste, Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot said in
Paris. Veolia’s hazardous waste sales jumped 30 percent to 782
million euros ($1 billion) in 2012 compared with 2009 while
adjusted operating cash flow rose 43 percent.  “We believe that extracting value from industrial waste
provides a competitive advantage for a company,” Frerot said
today at a press conference. Veolia,  Europe ’s biggest water
company, is investing about 80 million euros annually in new
installations and research into ways factories can reuse what
was previously considered trash.  Frerot, into his second of a two-year plan to curtail debt
and scale back Veolia’s geographic reach, has announced a series
of initiatives this year to take the utility into new businesses
like nuclear dismantling and treating water from shale-energy
drilling. The utility will focus more heavily on  emerging
markets  and tackle the “most complex” environmental problems,
he has said.  The European market for so-called special industrial waste
is about 35 million tons a year, according to today’s
presentation. Veolia sees “considerable” growth potential
because it currently treats about 3 million tons a year.  “The economic balance is changing,” Frerot said.
Companies that used to pay Veolia for removing waste now realize
there is value that can be extracted from it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  