-- Volvo First-Quarter Orders Rise 11% on Europe Renewals
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-25T09:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/volvo-first-quarter-profit-plunges-92-on-production-cuts.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-
largest truckmaker, posted its first order growth in six
quarters as customers in recession-plagued  Europe  prepared to
replace vehicles in advance of stricter emissions rules.  Volvo rose to a three-week high after saying sales
contracts in the first three months of 2013 increased 11 percent
from a year earlier to 61,045 trucks, the Gothenburg, Sweden-
based manufacturer said today in a  statement .  Sales of commercial vehicles in Europe dropped for a 14th
consecutive month in February amid a recession in the 17 nations
using the euro. Volvo introduced a new version its FH freighter
line in 2012, and said today that transport and construction
companies in the region may be buying vehicles before tighter
environmental rules lead to a shift to more expensive models.  “Order intake is clearly improving” and “that’s a
positive,” Mattias Eriksson, a Stockholm-based equity
strategist at Nordea, said by phone. “They seem to be doing
better in handling the situation than in the severe downturn in
2008-2009.”  Volvo  gained  as much as 3.8 percent to 93.7 kronor, the
highest intraday price since April 4, and was trading up 2
percent at 11:11 a.m. in  Stockholm . The stock has gained 3.7
percent this year, valuing the company at 196 billion kronor
($29.8 billion).  Ebit Plunges  First-quarter earnings before interest and taxes plunged 92
percent to 482 million kronor from 6.24 billion kronor a year
earlier, Volvo said today. The net loss was 304 million kronor
compared with profit of 4.05 billion kronor in the 2012 period.
Group revenue declined 25 percent to 58.3 billion kronor, and
deliveries fell 23 percent to 38,416 trucks.  Daimler AG said yesterday that Ebit in the period at its
truck unit, the world’s biggest maker of the vehicles, plunged
69 percent because of the western European sales decline and
investment spending in India and  China . Swedish competitor
 Scania AB (SCVB) ’s operating profit fell 17 percent.  “This should definitively be the low point for the year,”
Nordea’s Eriksson said. “The second quarter will be better than
the first with the improving order intake, which allows them to
adjust production and leads to less under-absorption” of costs.  Earnings at Volvo were hurt by 1.9 billion kronor in costs,
including 1.5 billion kronor at the truckmaking operation,
because of low capacity utilization, the company said today.  Orders Continue  Volvo continued to see “good demand” for trucks in the
first weeks of the second quarter, and it’s gradually adding
production in Europe, Chief Executive Officer Olof Persson said
at a press conference in Stockholm. He reiterated a forecast
that the truck market in the region should improve in the second
half of the year.  First-quarter operating profit at the truck unit dropped 97
percent to 101 million kronor, while earnings at the
construction-equipment business fell 76 percent to 500 million
kronor, Volvo said. Currency effects reduced profit by 168
million euros at the manufacturing operations, it said.  The Swedish company faces growing competition as  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, seeks a larger presence in the
heavy truck industry through its control of Scania and Munich-
based  MAN SE. (MAN)  Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler is underscoring
ambitions to maintain leadership with the appointment of car-
industry veteran  Wolfgang Bernhard  to run the truck unit.  Changeover ‘Challenge’  “The second quarter of 2013 will pose a challenge for us
and our suppliers, with respect to the changeover to new
products and the ramp-up of the industrial system to higher
volumes,” Persson said in the statement.  “At the same time,
we are focusing on our strategy with all the important measures
aimed at improving the overall profitability” of the group  Introduction costs for new models and spending on research
and development will peak in the second quarter, Persson told
journalists, while burdens from under-utilization of factories
will cease. “By the end of the quarter we’ll have a good
balance between demand and output,” he said.  Scania said earlier this month that it’s adding sales and
service offerings in  emerging markets  and preparing for growth
opportunities in the longer term as truck fleet operators in
Europe increasingly need to replace older vehicles. Sales
contracts announced this year include a 709-bus order in  Russia 
and 81  dump trucks  for a power-plant construction project in
 Colombia .  Volvo, which also makes Mack trucks in  North America  and
Renault-brand heavy vehicles in Europe, reiterated forecasts
that industrywide North American truck deliveries this year will
about match the 250,000 vehicles sold in 2012, with the European
market probably increasing 4 percent to 230,000 trucks and
Brazilian demand totaling 105,000 trucks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  