-- VW, Garcia Sanz Face Compliance Probe in T-Systems Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-04-25T09:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/vw-garcia-sanz-face-compliance-probe-in-t-systems-case.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Francisco Javier Garcia Sanz, a member of its management board, are under
investigation by German prosecutors over allegations they failed
to prevent corruption at the company.  Prosecutors in Stuttgart,  Germany , are reviewing whether
Garcia Sanz and Volkswagen didn’t prevent an illegal sponsorship
for the German soccer club VfL Wolfsburg, Claudia Krauth, a
spokeswoman for the authorities, said today. They are probing
administrative, not criminal violations, she said.  Prosecutors charged three former employees and consultants
of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Systems unit and two Volkswagen
employees with bribery in 2011. The probe is looking into
whether T-Systems managers tried to get an order for
telecommunications supplies from Volkswagen worth 345 million
euros ($450 million) in exchange for continuing a sponsorship
deal with the  soccer club  for 16 million euros.  “The administrative probe is linked to the criminal case
and may later be added to the court case, but that’s still
unclear,” Krauth said.  Eric Felber, a spokesman for Wolfsburg, Germany-based
Volkswagen, said the company won’t comment on a pending case.
The allegations that Volkswagen didn’t do enough to prevent
bribery are “baseless,” he said.  Internal Review  The sponsorship was discovered after an internal review at
Deutsche Telekom, which alerted prosecutors and dropped the
deal. Deutsche Telekom spokesman Stefan Koenig said it’s up to
the courts to handle the issue.  The Stuttgart Regional Court, which ruled that the charges
may proceed, hasn’t scheduled a day for the trial opening.  Under German law, companies can’t be suspects in criminal
cases. They can be investigated under administrative rules that
punish failures for organizing a company in a manner that
prevents illegal actions. These rules were also used in the
 Siemens AG (SIE)  bribery case.  Sueddeutsche Zeitung   reported  the compliance probe earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  