-- VW Seeks to Offset European Turmoil With 60 New Vehicles
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-25T11:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/vw-seeks-to-offset-europe-turmoil-by-rolling-out-60-new-models.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
automaker, aims to offset plunging European demand this year by
rolling out 60 new and updated models, including luxury cruisers
like the Bentley Flying Spur.  “The  European debt crisis  remains a source of far-reaching
turmoil,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said today
at the company’s shareholders meeting in Hanover,  Germany .
“Regardless of whether we are in an upturn or a downturn, our
goal is to ensure the Volkswagen group reaches the top of the
automotive industry.”  VW is targeting higher auto sales and revenue this year as
the revamped Golf, an updated Skoda Octavia and a new Audi A3
sedan help make up for a slowdown in Europe, where demand is
heading to a 20-year low. Maintaining growth momentum is key for
the company, which aims to overtake  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  by 2018 to become the world’s largest
automaker.  “Volkswagen will continue to do better than the market,”
said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in
 Frankfurt . “March was relatively weak, but with rising Golf
sales the group should perform better.”  VW  gained  as much as 3.15 euros, or 2.1 percent, to 153.85
euros and was up 0.8 percent as of 1:56 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The stock has declined 11 percent this year, valuing
the automaker at 69 billion euros ($90 billion).  New Dealers  The manufacturer’s growth all but stalled last month as
sales edged up 0.2 percent to 864,400 cars, restraining the
first-quarter advance to 5.1 percent as sales in in its home
German market tumbled 17 percent.  To further dilute its exposure to Europe’s car market, the
company will open 1,500 sales outlets in growth regions in the
medium term, adding to its network of 20,000 dealers around the
world, Winterkorn said.  Shareholders today are voting on approving a dividend of
3.50 euros per share for common stock and 3.56 euros for
preferred shares. Wolfgang Porsche, the cousin of Chairman
 Ferdinand Piech , is also being proposed for a new term to the
carmaker’s supervisory board.  Volkswagen is pinning its hopes for keeping up sales
volumes on new models, such as the seventh generation of its
best-selling Golf compact, introduced at the end of last year.
The Audi premium brand, VW’s largest earnings contributor, has
been rolling out the revamped A3 hatchback and will add a sedan
version of the model later this year to lure American and
Chinese buyers seeking a small car with a separate trunk.  Luxury Expansion  Luxury brands account for more than half of VW’s earnings
and the presence in this market segment will expand.  “The Volkswagen group’s unparalleled know-how and strength
in the premium segment is -- quite literally -- paying off,”
said Winterkorn. “We will further extend our excellent position
in this highly profitable business.”  Porsche will add the Macan compact sport-utility vehicle at
the beginning of next year and development of an ultra-luxury
SUV for the British Bentley unit is “well under way,” he said.  The Czech Skoda brand will double its lineup in  China  to
six models, including the new Rapid compact sedan, which was
unveiled at the Shanghai auto show last weekend. The Spanish
Seat unit, VW’s only money-losing brand, is rolling out a
revamped version of the Leon hatchback in a bid to spice up its
image and return to profit.  Emerging Markets  VW’s presence in China,  Brazil  and  Russia  has enabled it to
steer through the European industry gloom better than mass-
market rivals  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest
carmaker, and  Renault SA. (RNO)  Peugeot is eliminating jobs and
closing a factory to end losses as the region’s auto market
shows no signs of a rebound.  VW yesterday reported that first-quarter  operating profit 
fell 26 percent to 2.34 billion euros, matching the average
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The carmaker
stuck to a goal for full-year operating profit to be on the same
level as 2012.  VW’s revenue declined 1.6 percent in the first quarter
revenue. That compares with a 6.5 percent drop at Peugeot and a
12 percent plunge at Renault. Peugeot said yesterday additional
cost savings may be necessary next year if the market doesn’t
improve.  Higher Investments  Winterkorn said today that European markets will remain
“extremely weak for the foreseeable future.”  VW has ramped up investments to boost its manufacturing
footprint outside Europe and roll out a new modular technology
to speed up development and production of new vehicles.  It has seven new Chinese plants in various stages of
planning, part of $19 billion in investments in production
outside Europe expected by 2017. After spending $1 billion on a
factory in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , the company may further
increase U.S. capacity with production of a sport-utility
vehicle based on the Crossblue concept.  In addition to expanding its passenger-car operations,
Volkswagen is forging a heavy-truck alliance with its Scania and
MAN units to benefit from economies of scale through closer
cooperation and take on global market leader  Daimler AG. (DAI) 
Volkswagen made a low-ball initial offer on March 22 to other
holders of MAN stock as it pushes for full control.  VW, which already owns 75.03 percent of the Munich-based
company’s voting rights, will offer 80.89 euros per share.
Investors who don’t accept the cash offer will receive a
guaranteed annual dividend of 3.07 euros per share.  Hans Dieter Poetsch, VW’s chief financial officer, said at
the shareholder meeting today that the VW and MAN supervisory
boards have approved VW’s plan for a profit transfer and
domination agreement at MAN, whose shareholders still need to
vote on the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  