-- Wadhwani Says London Homes Seem Place to Park Cash in Crisis
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-26T08:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/wadhwani-says-london-homes-seem-place-to-park-money-in-crisis.html
London  has cemented its status as a
haven for rich foreigners whose homebuying is stoking property
prices there and masking weakness elsewhere, according to former
 Bank of England  policy maker Sushil Wadhwani.  “The  euro zone  has eased up, but then there always seems
to be a crisis somewhere in the world and the money seems to
regard London and a few other places as the appropriate place
for it to be parked,” Wadhwani said in an interview in the U.K.
capital yesterday. “The 2008 experience has scared rich people
so much, they’re willing to pay quite a lot for what they deem
as insurance.”  Investors from regions such as the  Middle East  and the euro
area are fueling purchases of real estate in prime London
districts from Belgravia to Mayfair as a haven from economic and
political unrest at home. Along with Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s Help-to-Buy plan and the central bank’s credit
program, that demand is supporting property values in the city
to record levels as weakness prevails in other areas of Britain.  The national housing market “on some aggregate  measures 
does look overvalued,” said Wadhwani, founder and chief
executive officer of Wadhwani Asset Management LLP. “But if you
look at those aggregate measures, it’s really driven by
London.”  The pound’s decline has also helped attract international
investors. Sterling has fallen about 2.8 percent this year on a
 trade-weighted basis , and is the worst performer after the yen
among 10 developed-market currencies. Sterling was little
changed against the dollar at $1.5435 as of 9:50 a.m. in London.  `Stable' Conditions  Central London luxury-home prices rose 8.4 percent in
February from a year earlier, the biggest gain in 10 months,
Knight Frank LLP said last month. Values excluding the capital
city rose an annual 0.5 percent in March, Acadametrics Ltd. said
on April 12.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , the U.K’s second-largest homebuilder by
volume, said yesterday that national market conditions were
“stable” and London was of “growing importance” as south
east  England  led an increase in customer interest.  While it’s difficult to argue that property in some areas
outside the capital is “egregiously overvalued,” London “is a
different  kettle of fish ,” Wadhwani said.  Osborne’s announcement in his March 20 budget to use
taxpayers’ money to make interest-free loans to homebuyers and
guarantee mortgages risks inflating  house prices , a panel of
lawmakers said last week. The initiatives follow the Bank of
England’s Funding for Lending Scheme introduced in August to
boost  mortgages  and company loans.  “It’s the paradox of policy that we want to avoid the
mistakes we made before, but in the meantime in order to get
some growth we’re willing to do the same things that we did
before,” said Wadhwani, who was a BOE Monetary Policy Committee
member from 1999 until 2002. “To some extent, that is what is
occurring now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  