-- What Apple Can Learn From Warren Buffett
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-04-25T22:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/what-apple-can-learn-from-warren-buffett.html
Give credit to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and its
chief executive officer,  Tim Cook , for getting serious about
returning unneeded capital to shareholders. As for the details,
some of them don’t seem well thought out.  The maker of iPhones and iPads this week said its board
approved a sixfold increase in its stock-repurchase plan to $60
billion. Not long ago, even discussing the idea of large share
buybacks was a nonstarter for Apple. Now that its stock has
 tanked , the company is acting like they are a must-do, no matter
what else the future might bring. At about $408 a share, down 42
percent since its record high in September, Apple has a  stock-market value  of $383 billion.  “This is the largest single share repurchase authorization
in history and is expected to be executed by the end of calendar
2015,” Apple said in an April 23  news release , the same day the
company  reported  its first quarterly profit decline in a decade.  How could Apple be so confident it will spend the whole $60
billion by then? That’s hard to say. The company is under no
obligation to complete the repurchase program, although it
obviously wants the markets to believe it will. Apple’s
statements this week suggested it would carry out the plan
without regard to price, which should be the most important
consideration of all.  Shunning Repurchases  Nobody knows what Apple’s stock will do next month or next
year. Would Apple keep doing buybacks if its  price-earnings
ratio  tripled? That would be a high-class problem to have if the
P/E soared because of a rising share price, but not if the main
reason was a plunge in profits. Either way, you have to think
Apple would reconsider its plans, except Apple didn’t say what
might cause its expectations to change. The stock now trades for
a mere 9.8 times earnings for the past four quarters.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the conglomerate run by  Warren Buffett , also used to shun buybacks. Like Apple, it, too,
changed tacks recently. In 2011, Berkshire  said  it would begin
repurchasing shares for as much as a 10 percent premium to its
book value, or common shareholder equity. The company’s board
raised the limit in December to 20 percent. (Berkshire had paid
about $1.4 billion to buy back stock as of the end of last
year.)  Unlike Apple, Berkshire provided well-defined parameters
from the outset. The  stock  currently trades for a 41 percent
premium to book, so investors have a clear understanding that
Berkshire isn’t a buyer at today’s prices. The company has said
it wouldn’t do buybacks if they would reduce Berkshire’s cash to
less than $20 billion. It also has said it expects the program
to continue indefinitely. There is no timetable.  Apple’s  buybacks  are part of a program to return $100
billion to shareholders by the end of 2015, including $11
billion of annual dividend payments. The company had $12 billion
in cash and $133 billion of  marketable securities  as of March
30. About 70 percent of that was held offshore, which means the
company would face a large tax bill if it repatriated the assets
under current laws. Because of that, Apple this week said it
plans to borrow money to help pay for returning capital to
shareholders. The company has no debt now.  Criticisms of Apple’s disclosures may seem minor, compared
to the important step the company is taking to bring some
rationality to its  capital structure . Apple doesn’t need $145
billion of cash and securities on its balance sheet earning next
to nothing. No company does. Most of it belongs in the hands of
 shareholders  who can put the money to better use.  That said, there’s little to be gained from creating long-range expectations that later might prove unwise to fulfill.
Sure, Apple used wiggle words to describe its intentions. It
also created a needless risk to its credibility in the event
that circumstances warrant a change. The board would have been
better off simply authorizing more buybacks and describing the
conditions under which Apple would follow through with them. An
Apple spokesman, Steve Dowling, declined to comment.  Buyback Missteps  Plenty of technology companies, notably Dell Inc., have
hurt themselves by repurchasing huge quantities of their own
stock at inflated levels. (For more on Dell’s disastrous
buybacks, see this excellent  column  from January by Floyd Norris
of the  New York  Times.) If the shares stop looking like a
bargain to Apple, it shouldn’t hesitate to quit buying them.
Other methods for distributing capital, such as a large special
dividend similar to the one Microsoft Corp. paid in 2004, might
be a better option at some point.  Apple will have lots of chances to improve its transparency
and better explain how it will execute its buyback plan. It
should take a cue from Berkshire: The more detail, the better.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  