-- Why the NFL Draft Didn’t Make Your Team Better
-- B y   D a v i d   G e o r g e   S u r d a m
-- 2013-04-25T17:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/why-the-nfl-draft-won-t-make-your-team-better.html
Starting today, the  National
Football League  holds its annual draft of collegiate stars. ESPN
and other sports news outlets have spent the past weeks
breathlessly analyzing top prospects.  The NFL’s player draft wasn’t always so glamorous or so
well-publicized. Many of today’s fans may spend more time and
effort studying the draft than NFL owners did during its early
years.  Consider the experiences of Bert Bell, the owner of the
woebegone  Philadelphia Eagles  in the 1930s (the team had a 9-21-1 record during its first three seasons). Each time he hoped to
sign a promising player, a wealthier owner would swoop in and
offer more money and a chance to play for a winning team. Stuck
at the bottom of the rankings, Bell proposed a reverse-order
draft in 1935, in which the last-place team would get first
choice. The league minutes blandly stated that such a draft was
approved; they don’t include any record of the discussion, so
the other owners’ motives are unknown.  In later years, when he was  NFL commissioner , Bell would
extol the draft for its salutary effect on competition. Having
the right to the best collegiate player, he claimed, could lift
a woeful team to mediocrity, maybe even beyond.  Competitive Balance  The idea that the reverse-order draft would foster a
competitive balance is intuitively appealing. Basketball fans
will certainly remember how, in the  National Basketball
Association , No. 1 picks such as  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  and  Magic Johnson , reversed their teams’ fortunes. In the early years of
the  NFL draft , though, the competitive balance was little
changed.  According to the historian  Craig Coenen , four pathetic
teams -- the Eagles, Pittsburgh Steelers, Chicago Cardinals and
 Brooklyn Dodgers  -- won 35.2 percent of their games from 1932
through 1935. In the 10 seasons after the implementation of the
draft, these four teams won 29.1 percent of their games.  Why did they fail to improve? The answer may be that many
of these draft choices never actually played in the NFL. For
example, the struggling Eagles failed to sign any of their nine
draft choices of February 1936. During the league’s first three
drafts, fewer than three-fifths of the players drafted in the
first five rounds played in the NFL. This proportion rose to
more than three-quarters by 1956-58.  Even teams that selected and signed players weren’t assured
of success. In fact, many of the era’s best players were
overlooked in these early draft picks. Of the 155 players voted
All-NFL in the 1950s, 66 had been selected in the fifth round or
later. Eighteen were never drafted at all, including  Hall of
Fame  players Eugene “Big Daddy” Lipscomb, Dick “Night Train”
Lane and Emlen Tunnell. All three were black, and scouts didn’t
investigate such players as much as white players.  The  Washington Redskins , for example, had plenty of good
draft positions in the 1950s, but refused to sign black players.
Partly as a consequence, Washington draftees were selected to
the All-NFL lists only eight times from 1950 to 1960; the Los
Angeles Rams and  New York Giants , by contrast, each had 52
selections to the All-NFL list during the same period.  Bell often lauded owners of successful teams for their
benevolence toward their less-fortunate peers. The owners of
better teams, however, weren’t always so altruistic and wanted
to have an occasional first pick in the draft. The league
instituted a lottery system, which enabled one lucky team to
make a pick before the regular draft. Once a team received a
lottery pick, it was ineligible for another until every team
received one.  Aside from Chuck Bednarik and Paul Hornung, these lottery
picks weren’t particularly successful; team owners often
selected Notre Dame quarterbacks who flopped once they turned
pro.  Bargaining Leverage  So if the draft wasn’t effective in fostering a competitive
balance, why did the owners maintain it? Economists suspect a
less benign motive for the reverse-order draft: By forcing young
players to negotiate with only one team, team owners gained
bargaining leverage, enabling them to suppress salaries.  In no other industry is such a violation of a person’s
right to their labor tolerated. A reverse-order draft of young
law-school graduates, for example, would immediately incite
outrage. Why parents allow their star football-player sons to be
subjected to such a rigged market is hard to explain; perhaps
they are taken in by the trappings of honor and glory
surrounding the draft.  Bell and other early owners would have been flummoxed by
the hype that has come to surround an event that, even today,
rarely transforms teams that get the first pick.  ( David George Surdam  is associate professor of economics at
the University of Northern Iowa. This post is adapted from his
book, “ Run to Glory and Profit: The Economic Rise of the NFL
During the 1950s ,” to be published  by the University of
Nebraska Press. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
David George Surdam  at  David.surdam@uni.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  