-- Widmer-Schlumpf Says Capital-Flow Limits Are Last Resort
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-04-25T08:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/widmer-schlumpf-says-capital-flow-limits-are-last-resort.html
Measures to halt inflows of capital
from abroad should be used only if other options fail and
central banks must eventually prepare to reverse unconventional
monetary policy, said Switzerland’s Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf.  “Capital flow measures should only be applied as a last
resort,” Widmer-Schlumpf told the International Monetary Fund’s
International Monetary and Financial Committee on April 20,
according to  comments  published on the IMF’s website. The first
line of defense should be steps to help an economy absorb large
inflows or withstand large outflows, she said.  The Swiss National Bank  cut rates to zero  in August 2011
and before setting a ceiling of 1.20 per euro on the franc a
month later. This followed a rise in haven flows to Switzerland
due to the surrounding euro area’s debt crisis, which threatened
to tip the country into deflation and a recession.  “Policy-makers are well advised to prepare now for an
eventual exit from unconventional monetary policies,” Widmer-
Schlumpf said. “It is crucial that central banks possess the
legal and operational independence to implement an unwinding of
those policies, if and when needed, to absorb excess liquidity
and tighten monetary conditions.”  The SNB, which has repeatedly said that it has the right
tools to withdraw liquidity when the time is right, spent 188
billion francs ($199 billion) on buying up foreign currency last
year to defend the franc. Earlier this month, European Central
Bank Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said the SNB’s cap on
the franc is acceptable so long as it didn’t create spillover
for other countries.  ‘Indispensable’ Cap  SNB President Thomas Jordan said in  Washington  last week
that the franc remains highly valued against the euro and he has
no intention of loosening the cap of 1.20 per euro. The ceiling
was “indispensable,” Jordan said.  The central bank’s loose policy has made mortgages cheap,
contributing to a strong rise in Swiss real estate prices. The
government is now requiring banks to hold more capital to guard
against bad real-estate loans.  In her remarks, Widmer-Schlumpf said both rules and
regulations should be used to mitigate unintended side effects
of unconventional monetary policy.  “We should all be mindful of the risks associated with the
potential side effects of unconventional monetary policies,”
she said. “These risks must be carefully assessed.”  The 17-nation single-currency region is Switzerland’s
biggest trading partner. The SNB warned in its most recent
policy review in March that the risk of tensions in the euro
area is increasing again, which would increase upwards pressure
on the franc.  Widmer-Schlumpf made the statement on behalf of Azerbaijan,
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan ,  Poland ,  Serbia ,  Tajikistan , and
 Turkmenistan , who are all part of Switzerland’s constituency at
the Washington-based organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  