-- World-Beating Bonds Mask Irish Bailout Exit Hurdles: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-04-25T09:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/world-beating-bonds-mask-irish-bailout-exit-hurdles-euro-credit.html
Ireland’s dash to the bailout exit
door is turning into more of a stagger than a sprint.  Labor unions representing government-paid workers staged
their biggest revolt after five years of spending reductions and
tax increases. They voted last week against salary cuts and
longer working hours aimed at saving 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) a year and narrowing the third-biggest budget shortfall
in the euro region. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is trying to find
a way to break the impasse.  “The rejection of the pay deal serves as a reminder of the
banana skins that still exist in reducing budget deficits to
sustainable levels,” said  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at
 Goodbody Stockbrokers , adding Ireland still remains “odds-on”
to become the first country to exit a rescue program.  Renewed confidence in the country’s ability to pay its
debts helped Irish bonds return 7 percent in dollar terms this
year, the world’s best performers based on 26 indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bonds fell 60 basis
points this month to 3.62 percent today.  Austerity Hit  The pushback in Ireland reflects a wider debate across the
euro region on the merits of cutting deficits so quickly.
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said this week that
austerity had “reached its limits in many aspects.”  Until now, Ireland has soaked it up without the widespread
opposition and civil unrest seen in  Greece , the first recipient
of international aid and where voters deserted the two main
political groups. In  Portugal , which is seeking to follow
Ireland in exiting its bailout program, protesters gathered in
cities on March 2 as the government raises taxes.  Kenny, who turned 62 yesterday, took power two years ago
following his Fine Gael party’s best election result since Irish
independence from the U.K. in 1922. Kenny told lawmakers two
days ago that the government has asked a mediator to see if
there’s a basis for reopening talks with the unions. He expects
an answer within two weeks, he said.  “Increased political risk may well become a variable that
investors will have to assess,” said Ryan McGrath, a Dublin-
based analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP. “Noise surrounding the
public pay deal may have some limited impact on bond yields, but
a lot will depend on how the government handles the issue in the
coming weeks.”  Cutting Effect  Kenny’s coalition is three-quarters of the way through 33.4
billion euros of budget savings, equivalent to about a fifth of
the economy, planned through 2015. The underlying fiscal deficit
is on track to narrow to 7.4 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 11.5 percent in 2009, the government forecasts.  Reassured by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
pledge last year to do whatever it takes to defend the euro,
investors are rewarding Ireland and paving the way toward
exiting the November 2010 bailout by the end of the year.  The drop in Ireland’s 10-year bond yields narrowed the
extra cost of borrowing over German bunds to 2.38 percentage
points from a high of 11.5 percentage points in July 2011. The
yield on  two-year Irish notes  was 0.94 percent today, the least
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2003.  The absence of any serious resistance to deficit cutting
ended a week ago when the most powerful labor group, SIPTU,
rejected government proposals to reduce salaries for some of the
best-paid public workers by at least 5.5 percent.  Next Move  Now, Kenny has to decide on his next move. So far, he has
said little beyond expressing disappointment with the result and
maintaining savings still have to be found.  One option is to push through a unilateral, across-the-
board 7 percent pay cut for all public workers the government
had threatened before the deal was rejected. That risks
triggering a “mutually destructive” row,  Jack O’Connor , head
of SIPTU, told broadcaster  RTE  two days ago.  Complicating matters is the position of the  Labour Party ,
the junior coalition party that traditionally draws support from
the unions. Labour’s support among voters has slumped since the
2011 election, polls show, testing its willingness to force
through more cuts for workers who have seen earnings drop an
average 14 percent over the past five years.  As yet, investors have paid little attention to the
rejection of the pay deal. In a sale of 500 million euros of
Treasury bills two days after the union vote, the average yield
dropped to 0.195 percent from 0.24 percent a month earlier.  No Standoff  In part, that may reflect a belief that the government will
avoid confrontation by cutting a deal with the unions.  While Kenny has committed to 3.1 billion euros of further
austerity measures next year, he may have scope to do less as
the deficit narrows faster than estimated. The shortfall last
year was 7.6 percent, compared with the 8.6 percent target set
by the European Union,  International Monetary Fund  and ECB, the
European Commission said this week.  Already, the government has pushed back a plan to introduce
water charges next year. Welfare Minister  Joan Burton , a member
of the Labour Party, said in a speech last week that the limits
of austerity had been reached.  “Any unilateral legislation for cuts would be a
politically risky move so I would expect there will be a
consensual solution to this,” said Philip O’Sullivan, an
economist at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin. “There will be sense
of realism on both sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  