-- Yahoo’s Fred Amoroso Resigns as Chairman, Plans to Leave Board
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/yahoo-s-fred-amoroso-resigns-as-chairman-plans-to-leave-board.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web
portal, said Fred Amoroso resigned as chairman and won’t seek
re-election as a director while the company undergoes a fresh
turnaround effort by Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer.  Maynard Webb, who joined the board in February 2012, will
serve as interim chairman, Yahoo said in a statement. Amoroso,
who became a director at the same time as Webb, told the board
when he became chairman in May that he planned to serve in that
role for a year, according to yesterday’s statement.  Yahoo, which has weathered a series of management and board
changes in the past two years, is adding tools and services to
help woo users and advertising dollars under Mayer, who joined
the Sunnyvale, California-based company in July. With Mayer at
the helm, Yahoo isn’t likely to be hurt by the shift in board
leadership, said Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Co.  “It should be fine for Yahoo -- Marissa is at the driver’s
seat at this point,” Sinha said. “She has significant
influence.”  In the statement, Amoroso said the company has made strides
since he became chairman. Amoroso is a former International
Business Machines Corp. executive who ran  Rovi Corp. (ROVI)  until 2011.  “I’m very grateful and proud of the progress Yahoo has
made,” Amoroso said in the statement. “Yahoo hired a great new
CEO, brought on a fantastic management team, revitalized the
employee base, and has begun to release top-notch new
products.”  Yahoo  shares  were little changed in extended trading after
the announcement. The stock had gained 1.8 percent to $25.20 at
yesterday’s close in New York, and has increased 27 percent so
far  this year .  Amoroso had given early support to former interim CEO Ross Levinsohn two months before Mayer left  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to take the 
permanent CEO position in July. Amoroso had said in a meeting 
May 2012 with employees that he would like to see Levinsohn 
appointed permanently, according to a person who was briefed 
on the matter at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  