-- ThyssenKrupp Said to Narrow Bids for Steel Americas Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-04-25T16:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/thyssenkrupp-said-to-narrow-bids-for-steel-americas-unit.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, narrowed the bidders for its U.S. and Brazilian
assets in a sale process that may fetch more than $3 billion,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID) , a Brazilian steelmaker, is
planning a binding offer for both a site in  Alabama  and a plant
in the state of  Rio de Janeiro  without the direct financial
support of the Brazilian development bank, known as BNDES,
according to one person, who asked not to be identified because
talks are private. The company intends to make a $3 billion
offer in May, the person said.  Ternium SA (TX)  has already made a binding bid for the Brazilian
plant, the people said.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  with  Nippon Steel &
Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401)  and  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  are in the running for
the U.S. site, while Japan’s  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  and  Nucor (NUE)  of the
U.S. are out of the running, they said. The U.S. site may fetch
between $1.5 billion and $2 billion, according to the people.  ThyssenKrupp Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  is
selling the Steel Americas plants as waning demand from the auto
and construction industries and competition from China weakens
prices and squeezes profit margins. The company, based in Essen,
Germany, in December canceled its  dividend  after posting a
second-straight annual loss following a 3.6 billion-euro ($4.7
billion) writedown on the Americas unit.  Shrinking Business  ThyssenKrupp plans to select a winner before a board
meeting scheduled for the middle of May, two of the people said.  “The sale process is proceeding to plan,” Stefan Ettwig,
a spokesman at ThyssenKrupp, said by phone from Essen, declining
to comment on timetables, bidders or valuations.  Representatives for ArcelorMittal, CSN, Nippon Steel,
Nucor, Ternium and U.S. Steel declined to comment. JFE couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment after business hours. BNDES
also declined to comment on the matter.  The sale of the Steel Americas division would cut the
number of business units to five from eight. Steel Americas,
labeled a discontinued operation, reported an adjusted loss
before interest and taxes of 87 million euros the fiscal first
quarter, compared with a loss of 288 million euros a year
earlier. ThyssenKrupp said in February group profit slumped 38
percent in the period as the economic slowdown eroded demand.  CSN, as the third-largest Brazilian steelmaker is known,
 gained  0.6 percent to 8.08 reais at 12:58 p.m. in  Sao Paulo ,
erasing a 5.2 percent drop earlier. The company rose 2.3 percent
on Jan. 29 after newspaper  Valor Economico  reported CSN may get
as much as 4 billion reais ($2 billion) from BNDES to buy the
ThyssenKrupp assets. ThyssenKrupp rose 1.5 percent to close at
14.25 euros in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in em São Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  