-- Yuan Jumps to 19-Year High on PBOC Fixing, Rising Global Usage
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-04-25T08:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/yuan-jumps-to-19-year-high-on-pboc-fixing-rising-global-usage.html
The yuan climbed to a 19-year high
as the central bank set a record  reference rate  amid growing
usage of the currency for worldwide trade and investment.  Global yuan payments increased 32.7 percent in March from
the previous month and the currency ranked 13th in terms of
international payments, Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunication said today.  Hong Kong  Monetary
Authority said today that value of trade settled in  China ’s
currency by the city’s banks rose 45 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter to 830 billion yuan ($135 billion), while
 Australia ’s central bank announced plans yesterday to put about
5 percent of its foreign-exchange reserves in China.  “Australia’s plan is very positive for the yuan as that
suggests increasing demand,” said Banny Lam, the Hong Kong-
based co-head of research at Agricultural Bank of China
International Securities Ltd., a subsidiary of the nation’s
third-largest bank. “Capital inflows continue to be strong and
band widening could happen as soon as this weekend. Yuan usage
has been rising globally.”  The yuan climbed 0.12 percent to close at 6.1707 per dollar
in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It touched 6.1694 earlier, the strongest level since the
government unified the official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. The currency was at a 0.96 percent premium to the
People’s  Bank of China ’s  reference rate , which was raised by
0.13 percent to 6.2300. The spot rate is allowed to diverge from
the daily fixing by a maximum 1 percent.  Trading Band  The yuan’s trading band against the dollar is likely to be
widened around June, before the U.S.-China Strategic and
Economic Dialogue in  Washington  during the week of July 8-12,
Christy Tan, a foreign-exchange strategist in  Singapore  at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note yesterday. Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said China won’t relax limits on
yuan moves for at least four months as capital inflows are
keeping the currency near the top of its existing trading range.  Speculation for a change was heightened on April 18 when
PBOC Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  said the band would be widened “in
the near future.”  The last revision, which doubled the band, was announced on
April 14, 2012 and the currency traded 0.1 percent weaker than
the PBOC fixing on average in the month leading up to the move.
The yuan has been at least 0.9 percent  stronger  than the
reference rate every day since February.  Based on the previous adjustment, the central bank probably
won’t move “until the yuan is trading closer to the midpoint,”
said Khoon Goh, a senior strategist at ANZ in Singapore.  Offshore Deposits  Hong Kong’s total yuan deposits and certificates of
deposits denominated in the currency increased by about 30
billion yuan during March, HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said
today at press briefing in the city. Australia’s planned shift
in its reserves would lead to investment of as much as A$2.4
billion ($2.5 billion) in yuan and domestic government bonds,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  estimated.  Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd. and  FTSE Group  will develop
a new index that tracks the performance of offshore yuan-
denominated bonds, King Au, chief executive officer of BOCHK
Asset Management, said today at a press briefing in Hong Kong.
There’s growing demand for yuan fixed-income assets among global
investors as the currency’s volatility remains low, Au said at a
press conference today.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.36 percent. Only the
pegged Hong Kong dollar has a lower reading among 23 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the  yuan  rose 0.05 percent
to 6.1680 per dollar, earlier touching a record 6.1648,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards advanced 0.1 percent to 6.2430, trading at
a 1.2 percent discount to the spot rate in Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  