-- Hyundai Motor Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates; Shares Gain
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-04-25T09:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/hyundai-motor-reports-first-quarter-that-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s
largest carmaker, reported first-quarter profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates, driven by record sales in China. The shares
rose the most in a year.  Net income  fell 15 percent to 2.09 trillion won ($1.9
billion), compared with 2.45 trillion won a year earlier, the
Seoul-based company said in a statement today. Profit beat the
1.99 trillion won average of 18 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg for 28 days. Sales increased 6 percent.  Hyundai’s China sales jumped 41 percent, helping the
company narrow the gap with Tokyo-based Nissan Motor Co. as
consumers in the world’s largest auto market shun Japanese
vehicles because of a territorial dispute. The surge in  China 
sales comes as the Korean carmaker contends with a 25 percent
gain in the won against the yen in the past year and labor
concessions hindering the company’s domestic output.  “Although concerns on the strong won and weak yen that
hurt our cost competitiveness still remain, it will be something
that we will be able to manage,” Lee Won Hee, Hyundai’s chief
financial officer, said during a conference call today. “We
expect the sales contribution from developing markets to
increase as the new plants in China and  Brazil  enhance our
productivity.”  Operating profit , or sales minus the costs of goods sold
and administrative expenses, fell 11 percent to 1.87 trillion
won. That compares with the 1.85 trillion won average analyst
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai shares rose 5.7 percent to 195,500 won at the close
of trading in Seoul, the biggest gain since April 2012. The
benchmark Kospi index climbed 0.8 percent.  Currency Edge  Still, Hyundai and smaller affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  are
the worst performers on the  Bloomberg World Auto Manufacturers
Index (BWAUTM)  in the past year as the won appreciates against the yen.  In the past six months, the yen has weakened against every
major currency, including 19 percent versus the dollar. The yen
will probably weaken to 101 a dollar by the end of the year,
while the won is projected to gain more than 3 percent to 1,080
per dollar, the sharpest rise among Asian counterparts, the
surveys show, according to average estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hyundai has  forecast  this year’s sales to rise at the
slowest pace since 2007, projecting deliveries to increase 5.9
percent to 4.66 million units. Combined sales at the carmaker
and Kia will probably increase 4.1 percent to 7.41 million
units, the lowest growth in seven years, according to the
companies.  Yen Forecast  Hyundai’s projections for the yen this year are more
“conservative” than the 100 yen to the dollar exchange rate
that banks are projecting for the year, Lee said, without giving
a more specific target.  Exports out of South Korean plants slumped 11 percent last
quarter after the company reduced working hours by ending
overnight shifts in March. The new schedule reduced production
by three hours each day and production at the Korean plants fell
19 percent in March alone, according to the company’s website.  The labor union has also refused overtime work on weekends
unless compensation is increased, according to a statement on
the union’s website. The company estimates that has cost the
company about 48,000 vehicles, or 950 billion won, in production
over seven weekends.  Domestic production will recover from the second quarter
onward once the union and the company reach an agreement on the
issue of weekend overtime, Hyundai’s CFO Lee said. The company
will meet its annual sales target by making up the loss in
output, he said.  U.S. Sales  Hyundai’s  sales  in the U.S. rose less than 1 percent as
deliveries of the Sonata mid-size sedan fell 14 percent,
offsetting the 34 percent jump in sales of the  Santa Fe  sport
utility vehicle, according to the company.  The company set aside 90 billion won in the first quarter
to manage the recalls in the U.S. on electronic defects, Lee
said. Earlier this month, the company and affiliate Kia recalled
more that 1.7 million vehicles from five model years on stop-
lamp switch defects.  In  Europe , where industry demand is at a 20-year low,
Hyundai’s sales fell 11 percent as deliveries of its Tucson SUV
and i10 compact slumped.  Hyundai vehicles sales in China increased 41 percent to a
record last quarter, selling 260,716 units, according to an e-
mailed statement from Hyundai on April 3.  China Gains  Honda Motor Co. and Toyota sales in China have yet to
recover after violent protests broke out across the country last
year over a territorial dispute with  Japan . The riots have
subsided, while Japanese carmakers are continuing to lose market
share.  While Toyota has said it doesn’t expect sales in China to
fully recover before autumn, this year’s sales growth will also
hinge on a recovery there. The Japanese carmaker recorded its
first annual sales decline last year in China since at least
2002. Its sales in China fell 13 percent last quarter, excluding
its Daihatsu Motor Co. and  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205)  units, spokesman Ryo
Sakai said.  Beijing Hyundai Motor, the Korean company’s Chinese
venture, is targeting to boost sales to 1.4 million units by
2015. That’s more than 60 percent higher than its deliveries
last year.  “The company has been doing very well in China, thanks to
the enhanced production at its third plant,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co. “Hyundai is
by far one of the best players in China at the moment, and I
expect the growth to continue into the second quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  