-- Ziggo Owners Make $4.4 Billion as Warburg, Cinven Sell
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-04-26T15:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/ziggo-owners-selling-1-2-billion-stake-to-exit-cable-company.html
Ziggo NV owners  Warburg Pincus  LLC
and Cinven Ltd. sold their residual holdings in the Dutch cable
television operator a year after its listing, generating a
combined 3.4 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in proceeds from their
investments.  Warburg and Cinven had gross proceeds of 329 million euros
each from today’s sale and 1.7 billion euros each in total
proceeds, they said in statements. Cinven said it made a return
of 2.8 times its original investment. Warburg’s multiple was
about 4 times, said a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified as the information isn’t public.  The deal comes as secondary-sale volumes in Europe have
risen about 60 percent from last year, with investors cashing
out as global equity markets trade near 4 1/2-year highs.
Companies in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa raised more than
$30 billion in additional share sales including block deals this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The private equity firms sold 34 million shares at 25.75
euros apiece, according to a statement from Ziggo. That
represents a discount of 7.5 percent to yesterday’s closing
price. Ziggo dropped 4.1 percent to 26.70 euros at the close of
trading in Amsterdam today.  Ziggo shares had jumped about 50 percent since the initial
public offering in March last year. A spokeswoman for Warburg
declined to comment on the returns the company made on its
investment.  Fixed Assets  Warburg and Cinven sold their stakes as European fixed-line
assets draw interest from network operators.  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
agreed in February to acquire U.K. cable provider  Virgin Media
Inc. (VMED)  Liberty Global and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  are considering
potential bids for Germany’s Kabel Deutschland Holding AG,
people familiar with the matter have said.  Liberty Global purchased a 12.7 percent stake in Ziggo last
month from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  after the British bank failed to attract
sufficient interest in an earlier disposal by Warburg Pincus and
Cinven.  Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  is studying a potential sale of its
fixed-line assets in Germany, people familiar with the matter
said yesterday.  Deutsche Telekom AG Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann 
is set to take the same role at Ziggo, which is based in
Utrecht, Netherlands, and competes with domestic rivals
including former Dutch phone monopoly Royal  KPN NV. (KPN)   UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG managed Ziggo’s share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  