-- ZTE, Boston Strong, Allen & Unwin: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-25/zte-boston-strong-allen-unwin-intellectual-property.html
ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-biggest
maker of mobile-phone equipment, signed a patent-licensing
agreement with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for technology used in
smartphones and tablet computers.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed, Microsoft said in a blog
posting announcing the deal. The agreement gives Shenzhen,
China-based ZTE access to Microsoft technology for use in its
phones, tablets, computers and other devices that run on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android and Chrome OS operating systems.  With ZTE and other licensees, Microsoft gets royalties from
80 percent of the Android smartphones sold in the U.S. and more
than half of those sold worldwide,  Horacio Gutierrez , deputy
general counsel at Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, said in
the blog posting. Google’s Motorola Mobility and ZTE’s crosstown
competitor Huawei Technologies Inc. are the two largest
holdouts.  “There’s no one that can build a great product these days
without using the ideas of other companies,” David Kaefer,
general manager of Microsoft’s intellectual property licensing,
said in an interview. “ZTE and Huawei look at each other as
competitors. Having ZTE licensed only convinces others there is
good value there.”  Microsoft has been embroiled in patent litigation with
Motorola Mobility for more than two years. It won a ruling that
limited U.S. imports of Motorola Mobility phones that have a
feature for syncing schedules between phones and personal
computers, and is awaiting a final decision in a case that
targets the Xbox video-gaming system.  ZTE and Huawei have their own fight going on, with patent-
infringement suits against each other in Europe.  ZTE had 4.4 percent of the global smartphone market in the
fourth quarter of 2012, making it the fourth-biggest
manufacturer of smartphones, just behind Huawei. The field is
dominated by Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , based in Suwon, South Korea, which together
made half the smartphones sold in the world during the last
three months of the year, according to Bloomberg Industries data
from researcher IDC.  Last week, Microsoft announced it had reached a similar
licensing agreement with  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, and its
Foxconn unit. Microsoft also has  agreements  with LG Electronics
Inc. and Samsung.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Two Different Applications Filed for ‘Boston Strong’ Trademark  Two applicants are seeking to register “Boston Strong” as
a trademark, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
trademark office.  The phrase became a symbol of the city’s recovery from last
week’s bombing of the Boston Marathon.  One of the applications was filed by Born Into It Inc. of
Woburn, Massachusetts. The company indicated it plans to use the
mark on clothing and accessories.  The other application was filed by an individual, Kerim
Senkal of Allston, Massachusetts. His application is for use of
the mark on clothing, accessories, and mugs.  Born Into It, which does business as  Chowdaheadz , said in  a
blog posting  that it filed the trademark application before the
phrase “really caught on.”  The company had no idea it would
“become such a big rally cry for our city,” according to the
blog.  The company said it has “Boston Strong” T-shirts ready to
ship and that 20 percent of all of its online sales through
April 30 will be donated to The One Fund, which was set up to
help people recover from injuries suffered in the bombing and
related events. According to that charity’s website, more than
$21 million has already been raised.  Meanwhile, others have been getting on the “Boston
Strong” bandwagon.  Redwood City , California-based Zazzle Inc., which prints T-
shirts and other items on demand, lists  458 different items 
bearing that phrase.  CafePress Inc. (PRSS)  of San Mateo,  California ,
which also prints items on demand, presently has  435  “Boston
Strong” gift designs. And a search yesterday of San Jose,
California-based  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s Internet auction site yielded  2,470 
“Boston Strong” items.  Lions Gate  Says ‘Mad Men’ Opener Doesn’t Infringe Model’s Rights  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., the Santa Monica,
California-based film and television studio, has responded to a
suit related to the  opening credits  for the “ Mad Men ”
television series.  On March 1, Gita May Hall filed suit against Lions Gate,
claiming the sequence makes use of her image without
authorization. She was a model in the 1960s, and the opening
sequence uses an  image  from a  Revlon Inc. (REV)  ad in which she was
featured.  Hall is seeking compensation for the use of her image for
commercial purposes.  In its response, Lions Gate says the use of her likeness
was “fleeting” and “expressive.” The studio claims Hall’s
suit impinges on the studio’s right of free expression,
potentially violating a California statute that would inhibit
the exercise of free-speech rights.  The opening sequence of “Mad Men” is “highly
transformative,” Lions Gate claims, that comes “nowhere
close” to being a literal depiction of the former model for
commercial gain.  The case is Gita May Hall v.  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF) , BC502104, California Superior Court, Los Angeles County.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Allen & Unwin Ordered to Pay Damages to Drug Smuggler’s Family  Allen & Unwin Pty Ltd., an Australian  book publisher , was
found to have infringed copyrights belonging to the family of a
convicted drug smuggler and was ordered to pay out A$54,250
($55,700) in damages, the Sydney Morning Herald  reported.   Australia’s Federal Court said the publisher made
unauthorized use of five photos supplied to news media by the
family of  Schapelle Corby , who was arrested in Bali on drug-
smuggling charges, according to the newspaper.  Although the family had supplied the photos to news media,
the court said the publisher was required to obtain separate
permission to use them in “Sins of the Father,”  Eamonn Duff ’s
book about Corby’s conviction, the newspaper reported.  The court also ordered that all copies of the book in the
publisher’s possession must be destroyed, according to the
Herald.  AF Holdings Disses EFF, Loses Motion to Dismiss Case  In a case filing related to unauthorized downloading of
adult-film content,  San Francisco ’s  Electronic Frontier
Foundation  was characterized as an organization with the same
goals as “the anti-government group ‘Anonymous’ as well as the
terrorist group ‘Wiki-leaks.’”  This filing, in federal court in Gainesville, Georgia, was
made in response to EFF’s motion for sanctions on behalf of the
defendant. Plaintiff in the case is AF Holdings LLC. EFF has
 accused  counsel for AF Holdings as both a “copyright troll”
and a “porn troll.”  In a separate AF Holdings case in California, a federal
judge granted a defendant’s motion to dismiss the case while
rejecting AF’s similar request. U.S. District Judge Edward Chen
said that AF had an “apparent inability to prove standing to
assert its claim of copyright infringement.”  Chen said he was unpersuaded by AF’s argument that it was
dismissing the case because the defendant had allegedly damaged
the evidence or the company couldn’t afford to post the $50,000
bond required by the court.  He said there was no evidence to suggest that AF actually
investigated whether the defendant deliberately damaged the
evidence. He found AF’s financial-hardship argument
“unconvincing,” noting that “as the plaintiff which initiated
the action, AF knew at the outset that a bond might be
required.”  AF had sought a dismissal under terms that would permit
refilling of the case at a future date. Instead, Judge Chen
granted a dismissal “with prejudice,” which bars AF from
filing the claim a second time against the defendant. He said
that this order didn’t preclude the defendant’s filing a motion
seeking attorney fees from AF.  The Georgia case is AF Holdings LLC v. Rajesh Patel, 2:12-
cv-00262-WCO, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia
(Gainesville).  The California case is AF Holdings LLC v. Joe Navasca,
3:12-cv-02396-EMC, U.D. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  A third AF case was dismissed April 9 because the defendant
was never served with the complaint. That case is AF Holdings
LLC v. Christopher Heggum, 2:12-cv-02130-SRB, U.S. District
Court, District of  Arizona  (Phoenix).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  U.S. Making Cybertheft Focus of Talks With China, Donilon Says  The U.S. has taken a hard line and insisted cybersecurity
be central to any economic dialogue with China, given the scale
of attacks waged against U.S. companies, White House National
Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said.  “The only way to deal with this was to bring it to the
center of the relationship and to present the proposition that
any economic discussion with the United States -- given the
threat to the United States, the degree of theft that is going
on -- was going to involve cyber,” Donilon said yesterday at
 Columbia University  in New York.  Ties between the U.S. and China have been strained by a
report from a U.S. security company, Mandiant Corp., saying
China’s army may be behind cyberattacks on companies worldwide.
Chinese officials have rejected the findings.  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, met this week with Fang Fenghui, chairman of the
People’s Liberation Army General Staff, who compared the effects
of an Internet attack to those of a nuclear bomb. Still, no
specifics measures on a code of conduct for cybersecurity were
discussed.  Donilon said the U.S. asked the Chinese to recognize the
scope of the problem, to begin an investigation of computer
crimes and to engage in a discussion on a set of rules.  “We are moving on all of them, they have agreed to open up
a dialogue,” he said. “This is not general cybercrime or
hacking, this is a direct theft of United States private and
government assets for use for advantage. That is the discussion
we are having with the Chinese.”  In a speech last month, Donilon said that the widespread
theft of  intellectual property  and  trade secrets  through
“cyberintrusions emanating from China at a very large scale”
has become a point of contention with the Chinese government.  Donilon has said the U.S. would do everything necessary to
shield the nation’s computer networks from attacks on vital
infrastructure, such as power grids and transportation links.  Mandiant, based in Alexandria, Virginia, said in a February
report that the Chinese army may be behind a hacking group that
has hit at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 