-- ‘Mileage May Vary’ All Too True Spurs More U.S. Car Tests
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/-mileage-may-vary-all-too-true-spurs-u-s-to-test-more-cars.html
The buying decisions of Consumer
Reports’ 8 million subscribers hinge partly on Joe Veselak’s
right foot.  Veselak, a 29-year-old auto technician, tests new-vehicle
fuel economy for the magazine, a job that has grown in
importance after fuel-rating restatements by  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp. over the past 13 months
raised questions about the methods used by carmakers and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  It’s work relished by a car guy finishing a mechanical
engineering degree.  “By the end of a day doing this, you just smell like
gasoline,” Veselak said last month as he calibrated a meter to
measure fuel flowing from a Volkswagen Jetta’s tank to its
engine at the magazine’s test track in East Haddam, Connecticut.
“When I was taking night classes for school, I’d leave here, go
to class, and people were like, ‘This guy stinks!’”  The EPA has made few changes to the way it rates the fuel
economy of cars since it began testing  in 1971 . Manufacturers
put their own vehicles, which are usually pre-production
prototypes, on treadmill-like devices called dynamometers and
report results to the agency.  Top Priority  The EPA has used the disclaimer “your mileage may vary”
to warn drivers that real-world fuel economy may not live up to
its certified ratings. To prevent that mantra from becoming
“but nobody gets that,” the agency is stepping up the portion
of vehicles it reviews and confirms for mileage. Also in the
works is a data-customization project to allow drivers to search
for what fuel economy they can realistically expect based on how
aggressively they drive and under certain conditions.  “There is no higher priority for the EPA than to make sure
that consumers have all the information they need when they’re
making typically the second-largest purchase that they make,”
Christopher Grundler, the agency’s top auto-industry regulator,
said in a telephone interview.  The EPA has generally audited about 10 percent to 15
percent of the vehicles at its own laboratory in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan. The agency is now reviewing and confirming 15 percent
to 19 percent in recent years, Grundler said.  Adjustments ‘Due’  “There’s general agreement that EPA tests do not reflect
reality,” Peter Appel, a former Transportation Department
researcher and now a Washington-based director at consulting
firm AlixPartners LLP, said by telephone. “There have been
modest fixes to the EPA testing a couple times in the last 30
years. They’re probably due for another one.”  The EPA plans to issue a proposal within the next year to
close a loophole that gives the same rating to models that use
the same engine and transmission and fall into the same weight
class, even if they are a different size or shape, Grundler
said.  Beyond this remedy, which addresses how Ford was allowed to
assign the rating for its hybrid Fusion sedan to its C-Max
wagon, the EPA has no plans to change how it rates cars powered
by a combination of gas and electricity.  Both Consumer Reports and Ford disagree with that decision
to keep current tests for hybrids -- and so does Christine
Hanson, a 62-year-old semi-retired legal worker in Tacoma,
 Washington . She and her husband paid $35,000 for a Ford C-Max
hybrid in June, drawn by its 47 miles (76 kilometers) per gallon
city and highway ratings.  Counting On Mileage  “Everything else that went along with it -- the handling,
the extra cargo in the back -- that was all icing on the cake,”
she said.  The mileage she got was less, around 37 mpg, and she wasn’t
alone. Ford lowered the rating on C-Max to 43 mpg for combined
city and highway driving in August and started sending what it
called “goodwill payments” of $550 to buyers and $325 to
lessors of the car a month later.  “With hybrids, the mileage is very sensitive to driving
conditions and driving styles of the consumer,” Ford Chief
Operating Officer Mark Fields told Bloomberg Television in
August. “In the case of the C-Max, we saw feedback from
consumers, so we acted very proactively to make sure we
addressed that customer satisfaction issue.”  Hanson, the C-Max owner, said she has no intention of
cashing her $550 check from Ford. She’s involved in a class-action suit against the company in the Southern District Court
of  New York .  Hybrid Tests  Ford planned to continue working with the EPA to improve
the accuracy of hybrid ratings, Fields said. After extensive
testing that the agency did this summer on C-Max and other
hybrids, the EPA has concluded its tests are capturing hybrid
fuel-economy performance just fine, Grundler said.  “Our test results, other manufacturers’ test results, and
consumer reporting through our website all suggest what most
consumers are getting in the real world on their hybrid is what
our label is suggesting they would,” he said.  Hyundai and Kia’s restatements were different. The Seoul-based affiliates, which share engines and model platforms, said
“procedural errors” at their testing facility in  South Korea 
caused overly rosy ratings.  Common Errors  As it happens, the 37 mpg reading in Hanson’s C-Max matches
the fuel economy that  Consumer Reports  achieved in its  testing 
of the C-Max late last year. The magazine has said that 55
percent of hybrids and 28 percent of cars with small
turbocharged engines fall short of their EPA mileage ratings by
at least 10 percent.  EPA tests are at lower speeds and slower acceleration than
how many Americans drive.  At Consumer Reports, Veselak and other technicians attach
meters to the fuel lines of vehicles that measure the number of
cubic centimeters of gasoline going into the engine.  The highway test is run over a five-mile loop on Route 2
near the magazine’s Connecticut track. The technicians flip the
switch on a device on the dash that turns the meter on and off
once they get up to 65 mph and pass specific highway road signs.  During a drive back from the highway test and through the
wooded rural neighborhood back to the track to demonstrate the
city loop, Veselak said he and other Consumer Reports auto
staffers spoke with the EPA on a conference call last year. The
agency wanted to know more about how the magazine conducts its
tests after it called out shortcomings in Ford hybrid mileages.  Same Route  “To me, driving like this is what a lot of people are
probably going to do when they’re on the highway,” he said.  The city test is done at the south end of Consumer Reports’
track, which the magazine’s owner purchased in 1986. The
quarter-mile racetrack used to be the  Connecticut  Dragway, and
the old timing tower still stands.  On the south end of the track, every vehicle is driven the
same speed on the same stretch of stop-and-go driving through
loops, twists and turns. Two drivers each do three runs to try
to account for any variation in how the tests are done.  Hanson, the C-Max owner, did extensive research before
buying her car. She plans to spend even more time looking at
sites like Consumer Reports and inquire with people exiting
their cars in parking lots about the fuel economy they’re
getting before buying her next vehicle.  “I really enjoy the car,” she said of the C-Max. “I
would probably buy it again if we were just rolling in money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  