-- ‘Rebecca’ Press Agent Claims Breach of Contract in Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-11-14T00:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/-rebecca-press-agent-claims-breach-of-contract-in-suit.html
The former press agent for the
would-be Broadway musical “Rebecca” sued the producers for
breach of contract, unjust enrichment and fraud, saying they
duped him into participating in a scheme to raise money for the
show.  Marc Thibodeau, who has worked as a theater publicist for
30 years, brought his counterclaims in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan  yesterday in a case the producers filed
against him and Mark Hotton.  Hotton, a former Oppenheimer & Co. broker, has admitted to
taking part in a scheme to defraud the producers of the show
based on Daphne du Maurier’s 1938 novel. Prosecutors said he
misled the producers into believing he had secured $4.5 million
from overseas investors to meet a budget shortfall.  Thibodeau said in his filing that he began working for the
producers, Ben Sprecher and Louis Forlenza, in 2008 and
continued to represent the musical through May 2012 even though
he was never paid a “single penny.” He said he continued to
work without pay, “on good faith,” even after productions of
the show were postponed three times due to lack of money.  Dead Investor  He said he was called to a meeting with the producers in
September 2012, a month before the musical was scheduled to
premiere on Broadway, and was asked to draft a press release
stating that a wealthy businessman in South Africa who had
invested in the show had died and that others were refusing to
invest as a result.  Thibodeau said he became suspicious “that a fraud was
afoot” after the producers refused to give him information on
the investor when a  New York  Times reporter inquired about his
identity, according to the filing.  He said he eventually realized the dead investor didn’t
exist. The producers kept that information from the public so as
not to endanger an investment from a man who agreed to put money
in “Rebecca” only because its main backer had died, he said in
the filing.  Had news of the fraud broken then, it would have ruined
their chances of getting funding for the show, he said.  Thibodeau said he decided to write an e-mail warning the
investor at 5 a.m. on Sept. 27, 2012, as he was unable to sleep
“with the weight of the largest fraud in the history of
Broadway weighing on him,” according to the filing.  Hotton was arrested in October 2012.  Claims Dismissed  Sprecher and Forlenza sued Hotton and his wife, Sherri,
over the collapse of the musical that same month. They added
Thibodeau to the suit in January. A judge last month dismissed a
claim of breach of fiduciary duty against Thibodeau while
allowing counts of defamation and breach of contract to remain.  Ronald G. Russo, an attorney representing Sprecher, said
the producers didn’t do anything wrong.  “Thibodeau had an obligation to leave or to go to the
authorities if that’s what he thought was going on,” Russo said
in a phone interview. He was “not to use information he was
provided based upon his confidential relationship with the
musical for which he was the publicist -- and damn all the other
investors who are at risk because of this e-mail that he sent
out,” the lawyer said.  Hotton pleaded guilty in July to two counts of wire fraud
and said he took part in a scheme to defraud the show’s
producers out of at least $500,000. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission said its investigation of the show is
complete and that it’s taking no action, Russo said.  The case is Rebecca Broadway LP v. Hotton, 653659/2012, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  