-- Abenomics to Fail Without ‘Third Arrow,’ Allianz Global
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-11-13T13:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/abenomics-to-fail-without-third-arrow-allianz-global.html
The policies of Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe and the  Bank of Japan  will fail to reignite
long-term growth in the Asian nation as they don’t address
structural flaws in areas such as labor and immigration, Allianz
Global Investors’ chief investment officer said.  “The effects of this major monetary policy will wear off,
and then we’re going to be back where we are now,” Andreas Utermann said in an interview in Paris. “Anyone investing in
 Japan  now is living on borrowed time.” Allianz Global
Investors, a unit of Allianz SE, oversees about $424 billion.  The policies dubbed Abenomics have so far relied on the
first two “arrows” of Abe’s plan, namely  government spending 
and BOJ Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda ’s commitment to achieve 2
percent inflation by increasing money supply. The prime minister
has yet to fire his third arrow -- changes to the economic
structure of Japan to reduce the fiscal burden, boost employment
and attract talent from outside.  “Without structural reforms in a major way, reforms in the
pension system and in immigration for example, you’re not going
to get there,” Utermann said following a presentation today.
“We need a social crisis to trigger major structural changes.
There is no crisis in Japan, therefore no urge to reform.”  Abenomics has helped to weaken the yen and boosted exports
as the government aims to end 15 years of deflation. The
policies have fueled a 65 percent gain in the  Topix Index (TPX)  since
the end of 2011, including a 40 percent advance this year, the
best performance among 24 developed-market indices tracked by
Bloomberg.  Utermann said investors should continue to favor equities
next year.  “It’s risky not to be in risky assets,” the CIO said.
“Any weakness in risk assets, our view is that that is a
continuing buying opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  