-- Thailand Spurns IMF’s Call to Rethink Rice-Purchase Program
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j a t t a n a
-- 2013-11-13T09:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/thailand-spurns-imf-call-to-rethink-state-rice-buying-program.html
Thailand said that it will press on
with a $21 billion rice-purchase program, spurning a call from
the  International Monetary Fund  to end the loss-making
intervention and telling the lender its approach is better.  “The government has our ways to help farmers,” Finance
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong told reporters in Bangkok today
after the IMF released a macro-economic assessment of the
country, known as an Article IV consultation. “We listened to
different points of view but the IMF needs to profoundly
understand the situation before giving theoretical comments,”
he said, adding that he hadn’t yet read the report.  The third-largest shipper started buying rice from farmers
at above-market rates in 2011 to shore up rural incomes,
fulfilling a campaign pledge by the Pheu Thai Party, which won a
parliamentary majority that year. The program spurred the
buildup of record reserves and helped to dethrone the country as
the largest exporter. The IMF said in the report that if left
unchanged, it’ll hurt confidence in public finances and generate
further losses in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy.  “We cannot look at one side of the program, that it causes
a fiscal burden,” Deputy Commerce Minister Yanyong Phuangrach
said today. “The program actually helps to reduce farmer debt
and spur domestic consumption.”  The price of Thai 5-percent broken white rice, a  benchmark
grade  for the staple for half the world, slumped 25 percent this
year to $439 a ton. The grade touched $432 a ton in October, the
lowest level since January 2008. The government has bought the
crop at a maximum of 15,000 baht ($474) a ton.  Budgetary Transfers  The government should replace the program with budgetary
transfers targeted at low-income farm households, the IMF said
in the  report , which also highlighted the country’s skillful
macroeconomic management, strong fundamentals, high
international reserves and moderate public debt. Changing the
rice program will help reduce the fiscal deficit and ensure the
country can meet its goal of a balanced budget by 2017, it said.  While the government has committed 410 billion baht to a
so-called revolving fund to manage the rice-purchase program, it
is unclear how losses will be contained within the size of the
fund, the IMF said in the report.  “Uncertainty and lack of data concerning the rice paddy
pledging scheme has eroded confidence in  Thailand ’s public
finance,” the IMF said. “With the pledging prices about 40
percent above market prices, it is inevitable for the government
to incur losses as long as the scheme remains unchanged.”  Moody’s Concern  The rice-buying policy has attracted concern from overseas
before. A committee representing World Trade Organization
members asked for more information earlier this year after the
U.S., European Union,  Australia  and  Canada  questioned whether
Thailand was breaching domestic-support limits. In September,
Moody’s Investors Service said the program heightens risks for
Thailand achieving its goal of a balanced budget by 2017.  Thailand has spent 678 billion baht since October 2011
buying about 29 million tons of milled rice. Annual losses from
the program after selling stockpiled grain will not exceed 200
billion baht, Commerce Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan said
Nov. 6. Former finance minister Pridiyathorn Devakula estimated
losses over two years at as high as 425 billion baht.  The government’s rice purchases will boost the country’s
reserves to a record 15.5 million tons in 2013-2014, according
to an estimate from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . India
and  Vietnam  are the world’s biggest rice exporters.  Thailand’s biggest opposition party stepped up attacks on
the government’s rice strategy in recent months, highlighting
mounting losses, the policy’s distortive effect on international
trade and disruption to the nation’s commodities exporters.  Members of the IMF agree to subject their economic and
financial policies to scrutiny, including visits from the fund’s
economists as well as providing data, according to the lender’s
website. Consultations are known as Article IV talks after the
group’s Articles of Agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  