-- Taiwan Restricts Chinese Investment Amid Trade Pact Review
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e   a n d   A r g i n   C h a n g
-- 2013-11-14T03:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/taiwan-says-it-strengthened-rules-on-china-investment-projects.html
Taiwan  announced stricter rules for
investment projects by Chinese companies as President Ma Ying-jeou seeks to overcome lawmaker resistance to legislation that
would boost economic ties with China.  In new rules effective today, the Ministry of Economic
Affairs’ Investment Commission, which vets proposals for China
investments, said it won’t approve transactions deemed
politically sensitive and will now require more Chinese-invested
companies to report financial information, according to a
commission  statement  yesterday.  The new restrictions come as lawmakers prepare to consider
a trade accord signed between Taiwan and China in June that
would open up as many as 80 sectors, including banking,
brokerages and e-commerce. The government is refining existing
rules on Chinese investment based on input from various groups,
said Chu Ping, a director at Taiwan’s Investment Commission.  “As the services pact is still under legislative review,
the government wants to reduce space for opposition,” said Leon
Chu, a Taipei-based economist at Jih Sun Securities Co.  Taiwan’s opposition party, concerned that Chinese
competition will hurt domestic industries, called for a detailed
review of each provision of the trade agreement, which allows
certain industries to hold controlling stakes in joint ventures
across the  Taiwan Strait . Ma’s administration has  offered
support  to industries such as traditional Chinese medicine and
beauty salons as part of its outreach campaign for the deal.  Sensitive Enterprises  Enterprises judged by the commission to be politically,
socially or culturally sensitive will have their investment
licenses revoked, the Investment Commission said yesterday. The
rule also applies to companies that create monopolies, threaten
national security, or damage economic development or financial
stability.  Chinese companies with paid-in capital of more than NT$30
million ($1 million) must now submit financial statements to
regulators, compared with a previous threshold of NT$80 million,
according to yesterday’s statement.  The commission also said the government won’t approve any
stake sales by Chinese-invested corporates if they affect
national security or the public interest.  Deal Collapses  Existing restrictions on telecommunications assets caused
the collapse of  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ’s plan to buy part of Far
EasTone Telecommunications Co., the first investment by a
Chinese state-owned company in Taiwan in six decades. The
companies waited four years for Taiwan to lift the bans before
abandoning the plan.  The planned $670 million deal by China’s biggest bank by
assets, Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., to take a 20
percent stake in Taiwan’s Sinopac Financial Holdings Co. is in
limbo, pending pending passage of the services trade pact and
regulatory sign-off.  The Taipei-based Economic Daily News reported Oct. 25 the
trade agreement is unlikely to pass the legislature by the end
of this year based on the schedule of public hearings.  Tensions between  China  and Taiwan eased after Ma took
office in 2008 and worked to build cross-strait economic ties.
The governments have ruled in parallel since 1949, when the
Kuomintang government fled to Taiwan during a civil war against
Communist forces. There are currently 275 China-invested
projects in Taiwan, according to the Investment Commission’s
statement.  China President Xi Jinping said in October at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit that the two sides should
resolve their political disagreements and avoid passing the
problem onto future generations, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported. Taiwan’s defense ministry last month predicted China’s
military will be able to successfully invade Taiwan by 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net ;
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  