-- Alitalia Said to Delay Capital Increase as Air France Holds Out
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-11-13T13:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/alitalia-said-to-delay-capital-increase-as-air-france-holds-out.html
Alitalia SpA plans to postpone a
capital increase as it seeks support from investors, with its
biggest shareholder,  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, still opposed to
participating, two people familiar with the matter said.  The Italian airline is set to extend the Nov. 14 deadline
by as long as 10 days and will discuss its rescue package at a
board meeting tonight, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Air France-KLM,
which owns 25 percent of the Rome-based carrier, doesn’t plan to
buy new shares, another person said.  Alitalia needs fresh funds after losses piled up and
reserves dwindled. Italy’s government has brokered a rescue
package that includes the 300-million euro ($402 million)
capital increase, with the state-owned postal service
contributing 75 million euros and backing from the country’s two
largest banks. In return,  Alitalia  management is willing to cut
about 2,000 jobs, people briefed on the talks have said.  The measures are still being discussed and a final decision
on the number of job cuts and saving has not yet been made, they
said. Spokesmen for Alitalia and Air France-KLM declined to
comment.  The board, which is scheduled to meet at 7 p.m. in  Rome ,
will discuss a saving plan for about 250 million euros, which
includes the job cuts, two of the people said.  Even a 10-day delay may not be sufficient to persuade Air
France to inject fresh money into the Italian company via new
stock, one person said. Air France, which paid 323 million euros
for its stake in 2009, has lost 96 percent of its investment
since, and the French carrier is working on a savings program of
its own to rein in costs.  The delay may facilitate Poste Italiane SpA’s investment
before a final step-back from Air France as Alitalia Chief
Executive Officer Gabriele Del Torchio seeks a new international
partner, two of the people said. Alitalia was valued at 50
million euros before the capital increase and the new stock is
being offered at a 40 percent discount to the market value.  Air France-KLM would be willing to invest in Alitalia only
if the Italian carrier agrees to a broad restructuring that
would include jobs cuts as well as a reduction of debt, Chief
Executive Alexandre de Juniac said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  