-- Hamburger Hafen Profit Falls on Terminal Expansion Costs
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-11-13T09:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/hamburger-hafen-profit-falls-on-terminal-expansion-costs.html
Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG (HHFA) , the
handler of about three in four containers at Hamburg’s port,
posted a 16 percent drop in nine-month profit as modernization
of a terminal drove up costs. The shares fell the most in three
months.  Earnings before interest and taxes fell to 121.4 million
euros ($163 million) from 143.8 million euros, the Hamburg-based
company said today in a  statement . The terminal operator
reiterated a full-year forecast of Ebit at the lower end of a
range of 155 million euros to 175 million euros.  “The additional expenses for personnel and equipment
incurred by the delayed dredging of the navigation channel of
the river Elbe, together with the costs of modernizing and
expanding the container terminal Burchardkai led in large part
to the year-on-year decline in the operating result,” the
company said.  HHLA shares fell as much as 4.4 percent, the most since
Aug. 2, and traded 2.8 percent lower at 17.43 euros as of 10
a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 1.3 billion euros.  Hamburg, Europe’s second-biggest container port, has been
handling an increasing number of big box ships, while a dredging
project to deepen and widen the navigation passage of the Elbe
connecting the port and the  North Sea  has been delayed by an
environmentalist lawsuit.  Hamburg Economy Minister Frank Horch  said  on Nov. 8 that he
doesn’t expect  Germany ’s Federal Administrative Court in Leipzig
to issue a ruling on the dredging dispute this year, while he
rejected speculation the case may have to be discussed at a
European court.  Volume Increases  Nine-month container throughput at Hamburg and the port
operator’s terminals in Odessa, Ukraine, rose 5.1 percent to 5.7
million standard 20-foot containers, the company said today.
Revenue increased 2.5 percent to 868 million euros. The company
reiterated a full-year forecast of 1.1 billion euros to 1.2
billion euros in sales.  Growth in market share “resulted primarily from the
substantial increase of 10.1 percent in feeder traffic to the
Baltic states and  Russia , as well as the renewed increase of 6.5
percent in the handling of containers from and to the  Far
East ,”  Hamburger Hafen  said.  New rail and road connections in Germany as well as to
 Austria ,  Switzerland  and Polish sea ports boosted container
transport at its HHLA Intermodal operations by 21 percent to
883,000 20-foot equivalent units, the company said.  “We are increasingly focusing on our own rolling stock and
inland terminals,” Chairman Klaus-Dieter Peters said in the
statement. That way the company is gaining market share in the
transport business and bundling cargo flows for its container
terminals, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  