-- AMR-US Airways Seen Ceding Little in U.S. Suit Settlement
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-11-13T04:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/amr-us-airways-seen-ceding-little-in-u-s-suit-settlement.html
When the U.S. Justice Department
went to court to block the American Airlines- US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  merger, antitrust chief Bill Baer signaled he was gearing
up for an all-or-nothing fight.  Stopping the deal, he said, was “the right outcome for
consumers.” The Justice Department hadn’t mapped out fixes that
would salvage the combination, he told reporters on an Aug. 13
conference call.  Thirteen weeks later, the department announced a settlement
that requires few concessions from  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American and  US
Airways  and clears the way for a $17 billion tie-up creating the
world’s largest airline. The carriers said yesterday that their
goal of $1 billion in savings and new revenue remains intact.  “You just wasted a lot of our tax money on a bad
lawsuit,” said  Mike Boyd , a former airline executive who has
run his Evergreen, Colorado-based consulting firm Boyd Group
International Inc. since 1984. “The airlines didn’t give up
much of anything.”  To resolve regulators’ concerns that the deal would give
the merged airline too much clout at Washington’s Ronald  Reagan
National  Airport and boost prices, American and US Airways
agreed to divest 52 pairs of takeoff and landing slots there.
That still would leave the combined carrier with more than half
the daily departures.  Providing access for  lower-fare rivals  was a narrower
remedy than once seemed possible under the initial Justice
Department objections to the deal, which included concern that
US Airways would end a discount ticket offering and that the new
American would have too much control over certain routes.  ‘Save Face’  “This was just enough for the government to save face,”
said Savanthi Syth, a  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  analyst in
 St. Petersburg , Florida.  The merged carrier will retain American’s name and
headquarters in Fort Worth, Texas; U.S. hubs in  New York , Miami,
 Dallas , Chicago, Washington,  Los Angeles , Phoenix, Philadelphia
and Charlotte, North Carolina; and partnerships such as
American’s trans-Atlantic alliance with British Airways to
jointly plan schedules.  AMR’s plan to exit bankruptcy is based on the merger with
Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways. The judge overseeing that case
set a hearing for final consideration of the restructuring on
Nov. 25 -- the day that the airlines and the Justice Department
had been set for trial in the antitrust suit. The antitrust case
judge also must approve the settlement.  Auction Planned  The accord sets in motion an eventual auction of the Reagan
National flight slots along with 17 pairs -- each representing
one takeoff and one landing -- at New York’s LaGuardia. At five
other airports not subject to U.S. controls on flight slots, the
merging airlines will have to cede gates.  Making room for low-cost carriers will help stimulate the
competition that the  Justice Department  sought, Baer said.  “This settlement improves on a problematic status quo,”
Baer told reporters on a call. “It provides more competition
than exists today in this industry, and that is obviously good
news for consumers all across the country who stand to benefit
from more choice and more competitive airfares.”  US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker, who will
run the post-merger American, said low-fare competition is
nothing new. The concessions won’t dent the combined carrier’s
status atop the U.S. industry or its ability to take advantage
of its new-found clout, he said.  “There’s definitely nothing at all we view as a financial
risk to the companies or we would not have agreed to it,”
Parker told reporters on a conference call.  Flight Pairs  At Reagan National, for example, eight of the 52 daily slot
pairs covered by the settlement already were leased by American
to  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  At Dallas Love Field, home to  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV) , American is ceding two idle gates now being leased
to  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   “Why mince words?”  Jamie Baker , a New York-based analyst
for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said in a note to clients. “‘A win
for the airlines’ is how we view the negotiated settlement.”  Investors sent AMR up 26 percent to $12 in over-the-counter
trading in New York, because equity holders will get a payout as
part of the bankruptcy restructuring. US Airways rose 1.1
percent to $23.52, pushing its year-to-date gain to 74 percent.  Baker recommends AMR as neutral and US Airways as
overweight, the equivalent of buy, while Raymond James’s Syth
rates US Airways as market perform. Syth doesn’t cover AMR.  The settlement will help smaller airlines such as JetBlue,
said Jeff Straebler, managing director for aerospace in John
Hancock Financial Services’ bonds and corporate finance group in
Boston.  Discount Preference  Baer signaled that the Justice Department would give
preference to discount carriers as the takeoff and landing
rights are sold at Reagan and LaGuardia and gates made available
in Dallas, Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami and Boston.  Southwest anticipates a “fair and transparent process” to
win the right to expand at Reagan National and LaGuardia, said
 Brad Hawkins , a spokesman. A JetBlue spokeswoman, Jenny Dervin,
reaffirmed the New York-based airline’s Reagan National interest
and is “looking at other opportunities this proposed settlement
creates as well.”  While the settlement doesn’t address Advantage Fares, as US
Airways calls one of its discount ticket categories, the Justice
Department wouldn’t want an agreement that regulates pricing,
said  Jonathan Lewis , an antitrust lawyer at  BakerHostetler  in
Washington.  ‘Competitive Prices’  “They’re not going to go in there and micromanage what the
fares should be,” he said. “The preferred remedy always is
structural or divestiture. The idea is if there is enough to be
divested, then marketplace will take care of the pricing. The
competitive marketplace will result in competitive prices.”  The merger will shrink the ranks of U.S. full-service
carriers to just three, with American, United and Delta, and
leave Southwest, the biggest discounter, in fourth place by
traffic. JetBlue is No. 5.  The deal also will widen the size gap between the largest
airlines and the low-fare carriers that the government seeks to
nurture in Washington, New York and elsewhere. Traffic through
September at  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE) , for example, was about 6
percent of the combined total for American and US Airways.  “We think it would have been better to just stop the
merger,” said Bert Foer, president of the Washington-based
American Antitrust Institute, which advocates strong enforcement
of antitrust laws.  “The Justice Department seems to have traded a strong
national player in return for a future hope -- the hope that
some of these low-cost carriers will grow into much more
significant competitors,” Foer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  