-- AMR-US Airways Deal Opens DC Airport to Discount Carriers
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/amr-us-airways-deal-opens-dc-airport-to-discount-carriers.html
The U.S. settlement allowing the
merger of American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways 
Group Inc. to go through will open the door to more low-cost
carriers at  Washington ’s Ronald Reagan National Airport.  The combined new airline, which would have controlled 69
percent of traffic at the airport closest to the U.S. capital,
has to sell off rights to 104 flights, according to an  agreement 
with the U.S.  Justice Department  announced yesterday. The merged
carrier also agreed to maintain its commuter operations at the
airport to serve small- and mid-sized markets.  The agreement, which resolves a U.S. lawsuit to stop the
merger, was designed to encourage new competition at the
capacity-controlled airport from carriers such as  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU) ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , Spirit Airlines Inc. and
Virgin America Inc., Hubert Horan, an airline competition
consultant, said in an interview.  “There will be a couple isolated cases where consumers
will feel something on service and price,” the Phoenix-based
Horan said. “But overall it will still be one of the most
expensive places in the country to fly in and out of, and the
airlines will still be making good money there.”  Justice officials will approve a list of “low cost”
carriers that will be eligible to purchase slots at Reagan
National as well as gates and ground facilities, according to a
 press release .  “We anticipate that list will be only the low-cost
carriers, the seven or eight we all know about,”  Steve Johnson ,
US Airways executive vice president for corporate and government
affairs, said yesterday during a conference call. “We don’t
expect the list will include any legacy carriers.”  Low-Cost Carriers  JetBlue will be allowed to buy the 16 arrival and departure
slots it leases from American, according to the Justice
Department release.  US Airways is the leading carrier at National, which is one
of four airports where flights are limited by the U.S.
government, with 55 percent of flights. That amounts to as many
as 471 arrivals and departures a day, according to the U.S.
Department of Transportation.  Under the agreement, the merged carrier will have 58
percent or 485 flights. The airport has a maximum of about 830
flights on its busiest days, Rob Yingling, a spokesman for the
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, said in an
interview.  “It appears that competition will ramp up significantly”
at the airport, Charles Leocha, director of the Springfield,
Virginia-based Consumer Travel Alliance, said in an interview.  The group had urged the Justice Department to insist that
the airline divest flights at Reagan National, also known by its
three-letter designation DCA.  Competition Debated  “This isn’t going to increase competition,” said  Michael Boyd , a former airline executive who leads aviation consultant
Boyd Group International Inc. “It’s only going to have other
airlines operating monopoly routes into DCA.”  The new American will get the proceeds of the sale of slots
and other assets. The flights must be bundled together to give
an airline a viable schedule, according to the Justice
Department release.  Preference will be given to airlines that “do not
currently operate a large share of slots or gates,” the agency
said in the release. The department can appoint a trustee to
monitor the sales.  The combined carrier will also give up 34 flights at  New
York ’s  LaGuardia Airport .  Slots Trade  US Airways, the fifth-largest U.S. airline, went to 55
percent of flight slots at Reagan National in 2011 from 44
percent in a trade that let  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  grow at
LaGuardia.  Fort Worth , Texas-based American, the third-biggest
U.S. carrier, is restructuring in bankruptcy.  US Airways, based in Tempe,  Arizona , and American currently
operate as many as 140 flights a day at Reagan National on
commuter aircraft.  The airlines will operate 75 percent of those into smaller,
non-hub airports and 25 percent into medium-sized airports,
according to a separate agreement with the Department of
Transportation. They can’t fly those planes to any of the 29
largest U.S. airports under that deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  