-- Arabtec Quarterly Profit Almost Triples on Project Awards
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-11-13T13:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/arabtec-third-quarter-profit-almost-triples-beating-estimates.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC) , the biggest
construction  company  in the United Arab Emirates, said third-quarter profit almost tripled, beating analyst estimates, as
revenue was bolstered by new contracts.  Net income  jumped  to 100.8 million dirhams ($27 million),
or 3 fils a share, from 35 million dirhams, or 2 fils, a year
earlier, Arabtec said in a statement today. That beat 54 million
dirhams, the average of five analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Arabtec, which helped build the world’s tallest tower in
Dubai, said revenue grew to 1.9 billion dirhams from 1.4 billion
dirhams in the quarter. The backlog rose 29 percent to 23.5
billion dirhams from a year earlier.  “The huge influx of contract awards is trickling into the
revenue,” said Taher Safieddine, an analyst at Shuaa Capital
PSC. “They have been doing a decent job at increasing
productivity and improving margins.” He rates the stock hold
with a price estimate of 2.35 dirhams and is reviewing his
rating.  Arabtec said it canceled the second part of a  rights issue 
and will consider alternatives if it needs more funding. The
contractor raised 2.4 billion dirhams selling new shares in July
to bolster its oil-and-gas construction and affordable housing
businesses.  “Our growth strategy will help us achieve our aim of
growing Arabtec’s existing business and expanding into higher-margin and higher-growth sectors,” Chief Executive Officer
Hasan Ismaik said in the statement.  Abu Dhabi  The contractor is building a branch of the Louvre museum
and the Midfield Terminal Building in Abu Dhabi. It will bid for
construction of the Guggenheim and Zayed museums in the U.A.E.’s
capital. Arabtec is evaluating more than 100 billion dirhams
worth of projects mostly in civil engineering, infrastructure
and oil and gas, Ismaik told CNBC Arabia in August.  Arabtec’s gross margins widened to 12 percent in the third
quarter from 11 percent a year earlier. The contractor is
collecting late payments from developers, allowing it to recoup
provisional losses taken in 2010 and 2011 after Dubai’s property
market crashed, Safieddine said.  Earnings were reported after the close of trading. Arabtec
has gained 39 percent in Dubai this year, compared with 73
percent for the Dubai benchmark  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)  The
contractor’s shares today closed up 1.2 percent at 2.59 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 