-- Asia Stocks Drop on China Plenum Disappointment, Fed Bets
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-11-13T08:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/asian-stocks-halt-two-day-gain-on-u-s-tapering-outlook.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index headed for a five-week low, after  China ’s
leaders failed to outline steps to curb state dominance of the
economy and amid bets the  Federal Reserve  may start reducing
stimulus next month.  Banks slumped in  Hong Kong  after a communique at the end of
China’s four-day plenum made scant mention of financial reforms.
Tencent Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest Internet company, fell 4
percent after a news report quoted its chairman saying the
company’s valuation is “scarily” high. Noble Group Ltd. lost
2.8 percent in  Singapore  after Asia’s largest commodity trader
by sales said profit slumped. Pioneer Corp. surged 22 percent
after the Japanese maker of car stereos posted an unexpected
first-half operating profit.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.9 percent to 138.50
as of 5:19 p.m. in  Tokyo , poised for its first decline in three
days and the lowest close since Oct. 8. All 10 industry groups
on the measure fell.  “Quite a few people put on their positions ahead of the
communique, expecting actionable moves to be made, but that’s
not the case,” said  Andrew Sullivan , director of sales trading
at Kim Eng Securities in Hong Kong. “The market is just
disappointed.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 1.9 percent to its
lowest in 10 weeks as financial and communications shares led
declines. China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.8 percent.
 Japan ’s  Topix index  lost 0.1 percent as investors weighed
corporate earnings. A report today showed the country’s
machinery orders dropped in September.  Regional Gauges  Taiwan’s Taiex Index slid 1.1 percent, and Singapore’s
Straits Times Index lost 0.4 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index dropped 1.4 percent, while  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index
added 0.1 percent.  South Korea ’s  Kospi index  fell 1.6 percent as
Samsung Electronics Co., which gets 43 percent of its  revenue  in
the Americas and China, slid 2.5 percent to 1,419,000 won.  China stopped short of unveiling detailed policy shifts
after President Xi Jinping oversaw the gathering of Communist
Party leaders in Beijing. The nation will make markets
“decisive” in allocating resources, according to yesterday’s
communique from the third full meeting of the party’s 18th
 Central Committee . At the same time, the state will remain
“dominant” in the economy, indicating limits on reducing
government’s role.  Investors Disappointed  “It underwhelmed, replete with visions but short on
details,” Hao Hong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Bocom
International Holdings Co., said in an e-mail. “Judging from
investors’ response, they are disappointed.”  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. sank 3.6 percent
to HK$5.16. China Construction Bank Corp., the second-biggest
mainland lender, declined 2.9 percent to HK$5.80.  Tencent lost 4 percent to HK$392.60 after Chairman Pony Ma
told Ming Pao Daily News its valuation will fall if the company
doesn’t keep up with trends in technology and Internet
businesses.  Noble Group declined 2.8 percent to S$1.05 after third-quarter profit dropped 70 percent after booking a loss related
to its stake in coal miner Yancoal Australia Ltd.  Stimulus Outlook  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The measure fell 0.2 percent yesterday as
corporate earnings and an improving economy fueled speculation
about the Fed’s timetable for reducing stimulus. Fed Bank of
Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday a reduction in
U.S. bond purchases “could very well take place” next month.  “Tapering is obviously back on the agenda as data in the
U.S. continues to be strong,” said  Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief investment officer at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees about A$1.6 billion ($1.5 billion). “Maybe
that’s enough for a small correction, but I think with rates at
very low levels and likely to remain low, it’s still a good
environment for equity markets.”  U.S. Economy  Investors will scrutinize U.S. economic reports this week
on jobless-benefit claims and manufacturing in the  New York 
area. Economists forecast the central bank will delay tapering
asset purchases until its March meeting. Policy makers will
probably pare the monthly pace of bond buying to $70 billion
from $85 billion at that time, according to the median of 32
estimates in a Bloomberg survey on Nov. 8. The Fed next meets
Dec. 17-18.  Among stocks that rose, Pioneer surged 22 percent to 202
yen after posting an operating profit of 569 million yen ($5.7
million) for the six months ended September, beating its break-even forecast. The shares advanced the most since May 14.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. gained 1.6 percent to
4,945 yen after Japan’s second-biggest lender by market value
raised its full-year profit forecast 29 percent.  Relative Value  The Asia-Pacific gauge  traded  at 13.6 times estimated
earnings as of yesterday compared with multiples of 16 for the
S&P 500 and 15 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the companies on the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index that have
reported quarterly earnings this season and for which Bloomberg
compiles estimates, more than 50 percent exceeded analysts’
profit expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  