-- S&P 500 Extends Record as Silver, Gold Climb on Yellen
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-11-14T21:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/asian-futures-heed-u-s-rally-as-yelen-boosts-treasuries.html
U.S. benchmark stock indexes
extended records, while silver and gold rallied as Federal
Reserve chairman nominee Janet Yellen said she wants to maintain
monetary stimulus until the economy improves. The yen and euro
weakened as reports showed slowing economic growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.5 percent to
1,790.62 in New York, an all-time high for a second day. The
MSCI All-Country World Index  climbed  0.8 percent and the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index jumped 1.4 percent, ending a 10-day
slump, the longest in seven years. Silver and gold futures rose
1.4 percent to lead commodities higher. Thirty-year Treasury
yields slipped three basis points to 3.79 percent. The yen slid
against all and the euro versus a majority of 16 major peers.  It’s important that policy makers not remove support for
the U.S. economy too soon given the limited range of tools
available to the Fed, which has to promote a “very strong
recovery,” Yellen said in response to questions after her
nomination hearing testimony today. Economic growth slowed in
Japan and the euro area last quarter, reports showed, while
American jobless claims topped economists’ estimates.  Yellen “sounded awfully dovish and did not give any
indication that she’s ready to pull back on the amount of bond
buying that the Fed’s doing,” Chris Gaffney, St. Louis-based
senior market strategist at EverBank Wealth Management, said in
a phone interview. “Equities are looking at more stimulus as a
positive.”  ‘Surest Path’  The Federal Open Market Committee will probably wait to
taper its bond buying to $70 billion at its March 18-19 meeting
from current pace of $85 billion a month, according to the
median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey Nov. 8.  “Supporting the recovery today is the surest path to
returning to a more normal approach to monetary policy,” Yellen
said in her testimony to the Senate Banking Committee. A
“strong recovery will ultimately enable the Fed to reduce its
monetary accommodation and reliance on unconventional policy
tools such as asset purchases.”  Among U.S. stocks moving today, Home Depot Inc.,  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and Boeing Co. rose more than 1.4 percent to lead
gains that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 0.4 percent
to a record for a second straight day.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  plunged 11 percent for its biggest drop
since February 2011. The world’s largest maker of computer-networking equipment forecast its first quarterly sales decline
in four years. Office Depot Inc. gained 4.5 percent after Bank
of America Corp. recommended investors buy the stock.  Jobless Claims  Of the 460 S&P 500 members that have reported earnings this
season, 75 percent posted profit that beat  estimates , while 54
percent topped sales projections, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  U.S. jobless claims in the week ended Nov. 9 declined 2,000
to 339,000 from a revised 341,000 the week before that was
higher than initially reported, the Labor Department said today.
The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a drop to 330,000. Applications for five states were
estimated because the Veterans Day holiday shortened the week,
the Labor Department said.  The S&P 500 has surged more than 25 percent in 2013, poised
for its best yearly gain in a decade. The benchmark index trades
for 16.9 times member companies’ reported earnings, the highest
valuation since May 2010.  ‘Increasingly Enthusiastic’  Value remains in the U.S. stock market even after this
year’s rally, according to Abby Joseph Cohen, a senior
investment strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Price-earnings ratios are lower now than the last time
stocks were near these levels, Cohen said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview with  Tom Keene  late yesterday. Yellen, currently vice
chairman of the Fed, is one of the finest policy analysts in the
U.S. and deserves to be confirmed as the next chairman, said
Cohen. She forecasts the S&P 500 will reach 1,900 by the end of
2014, a 6.6 percent gain from yesterday’s close.  “Companies right now are increasingly enthusiastic about
the dynamism in the economy,” said Cohen. “There’s value in
the market right now. The U.S. economy will likely grow faster
next year.”  The  difference  between five-year and 10-year Treasury note
yields widened to the most in more than two years. The yield
curve measuring the difference between the two reached 1.36
percentage points on speculation the Fed’s target interest rate
may be lower for longer under a Yellen-led Fed.  Bond Sale  Thirty-year bonds pared gains after a $16 billion sale of
the debt drew lower-than-average demand. The  bid-to-cover  ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount
offered, was 2.16, versus an average of 2.48 at the past 10
auctions. Inflation control is important and the central bank’s
stimulus program “will not continue indefinitely,” Yellen
testified at her confirmation hearing.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced  0.8 percent for the
largest one-day gain in a month. Ophir Energy Plc jumped 10
percent, the biggest advance in the regional benchmark, after
 Singapore ’s state-owned Pavilion Energy Pte said it would pay
$1.3 billion for a 20 percent stake in three gas blocks off the
shore of Tanzania in east  Africa .  Bouygues SA (EN)  and  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  added 6.2 percent
and 2.5 percent respectively after earnings beat estimates.  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)   climbed  2.9 percent after the lender said it plans to
buy the 25 percent it doesn’t own in its consumer-banking unit
BNP Paribas Fortis SA from  Belgium  for 3.25 billion euros. RWE
AG fell 5.1 percent after  Germany ’s second-largest utility said
profit next year will almost  halve .  Asian Stocks  More than three stocks advanced for every one that declined
in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index as information technology and
telecommunications companies led all 10  industry groups  higher.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index and  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
added at least 0.6 percent.  The yen touched 100.15 per dollar, the weakest level in two
months, as Finance Minister Taro Aso said it’s important the
nation has currency intervention as a policy option.  Japan ’s
economy grew at an annualized 1.9 percent pace in the third
quarter, versus 3.8 percent in the preceding three months, the
Cabinet Office said in  Tokyo .  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index was little changed as the
euro weakened versus its American counterpart for the first time
in four days. The euro-area economy grew 0.1 percent last
quarter versus 0.3 percent in the second quarter, data today
showed. German gross domestic product increased 0.3 percent,
down from 0.7 percent in the second quarter, and  France ’s shrank
0.1 percent.  IBM Bonds  Italian 10-year bonds rose for a second day, with yields
falling six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 4.06
percent.  International Business Machines Corp. and  Eni SpA (ENI) , the
biggest Italian oil company, are selling notes in Europe after
bond risk in the region fell. Eni is marketing eight-year bonds
in euros and is adding to its 3.75 percent September 2025 issue,
while IBM plans to sell seven-year securities in pounds. The
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125
investment-grade companies fell 1.6 basis points to 83 basis
points.  Gold and silver for December delivery gained as investors
speculated continued quantitative easing from the Fed will boost
inflation.  Gold futures for December delivery increased 1.4 percent to
settle at $1,286.30 an ounce, halting a five-day slump. Gold for
immediate delivery extended gains late yesterday after Yellen’s
testimony was released. Spot gold was up 0.5 percent after
surging 1.1 percent yesterday. December silver added 1.4 percent
to $20.722 an ounce, also snapping a five-day loss.  Bullion tumbled 23 percent in 2013 as signs of economic
recovery spurred speculation that the Fed will start to cut its
monthly bond buying, strengthening the dollar. Global gold
demand fell 21 percent in the third quarter as investors
continued to dump holdings of the metal through exchange-traded
funds and central banks slowed purchases, the World Gold Council
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  