-- Attack on Junk-Loans Risks LBO Profits as U.S. Cracks Down
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e ,   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-11-13T16:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/attack-on-junk-loan-excess-risks-lbo-profits-as-u-s-cracks-down.html
Fees for bankers and payouts for
leveraged-buyout funds are at risk of being crimped as federal
regulators crack down on underwriting standards in the market
for high-risk, high-yield loans.  The government, in an annual review of bank credit, looked
at a $429 billion sample of leveraged loans and found 42 percent
were “criticized,” or classified as having a deficiency that
might lead to a loss. Starting in September, it sent letters
demanding banks draw up plans to improve the quality of their
loans and a warning that regulators will pay close attention to
high-risk loan performance in stress tests.  “We’re looking to deter the origination of criticized or
below-standard loans,” Martin Pfinsgraff, senior deputy
comptroller for large bank supervision at the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, said in an interview last week.
Regulators are “trying to say to the industry, ‘Look, there are
certain standards that if you dive below, we will criticize.’”  The attempt to curb froth in the leveraged-loan market will
test whether regulators have the tools to stop asset-price
bubbles from emerging more than five years after the financial
crisis triggered the worst recession since the Great Depression.
Federal Reserve efforts to spur growth with near-zero  interest
rates  and asset purchases are causing investors to rush into
higher-yielding debt, undeterred by declining credit quality.  “You got a higher growth rate in high-risk assets
basically because we have a rate environment that enables
that,” Pfinsgraff said.  Fee Boom  The crackdown threatens to hamper a boom in fees for  Wall
Street . Debt-underwriting revenue at eight of the largest U.S.
and European investment banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Deutsche Bank AG, rose 19 percent in the first nine months
of this year to about $14.3 billion, the most since the credit
crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Much of the
increase this year has been driven by leveraged finance,
industry analytics firm Coalition Ltd. said in an August report.  “It would hurt the banks if you put a crimp in their
business,” said  Martin Fridson , chief executive officer of
FridsonVision LLC, a  New York  research firm specializing in
high-yield debt. “Leverage is getting up there,” which is a
“warning sign.”  Tighter credit could also curb profits for private-equity
firms, if they are forced to put up more cash for their
takeovers or are restricted from piling additional debt onto
their portfolio companies for purposes such as paying themselves
dividends. The amount of leveraged buyouts announced this year
has climbed to $118.1 billion from $91.4 billion in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Targeted Approach  U.S. banking regulators, including the Fed, OCC and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., have been taking a targeted approach to
the market, beginning with an advisory in March that outlined
specific underwriting criteria such as leverage ratios and a
timeline for debt repayment.  That was followed starting in September by individual
letters to banks, including JPMorgan and Barclays Plc, after the
agencies learned in their annual loan survey that their advisory
wasn’t being heeded. Regulators told the banks they had 30 days
to come up with a plan for tighter policies, according to four
people familiar with the notices.  The Fed warned this month that it would pay close attention
to high-risk loan performance in stress tests designed to gauge
banks’ ability to withstand economic shocks. The stress tests
would seek to build resiliency against losses by demonstrating
that high-risk loans may need bigger capital buffers, while also
showing banks they need to tighten lending standards.  Fed, Banks  Tasha Pelio, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, and Brandon Ashcraft,
a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment. Andrea Priest, a
spokeswoman for the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , also
declined to comment.  Leveraged loans, also called high-yield or junk-rated
loans, are made to companies rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service or lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s . New
loans originated this year to speculative-grade companies have
reached $259.8 billion, a 23 percent increase over the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the debt issued this year, a record $64.9 billion was
borrowed to pay dividends, according to Bloomberg and S&P
Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data as of Nov. 5. ARG IH
Corp., which operates 3,428 Arby’s Restaurants, has asked for
$370 million of loans to pay a dividend of that amount to its
private-equity owner Roark Capital Group, according to Moody’s,
which called ARG’s financial policies “aggressive” in an Oct.
31 report.  Amassing Debt  Regulators are aiming to eliminate some of the froth so
they can mitigate the damage when credit tightens, Pfinsgraff
said. Companies are using low borrowing costs as an opportunity
to amass more debt and stretch their ability to pay it down, he
said.  “There’s more of a willingness to now think about using
supervisory policy as a targeted tool to deal with macro policy
concerns,” said  Robert Eisenbeis , chief monetary economist at
Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida, and a former research
director at the Fed Bank of Atlanta. “Whether that will work or
not is an open question.”  Lending standards have slipped even after the Fed, the OCC
and the FDIC issued underwriting guidelines in March. About
$168.8 billion in so-called covenant-light loans were issued
from April 1 to yesterday, compared with $100.8 billion for all
of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Covenant-light
loans lack standard protections for lenders such as limits on
the amount of debt a company can have relative to its  cash flow .  2006 Experience  Regulators are being more prescriptive in their guidance
than they were in 2006, when warning about subprime home loans.
Supervisors then sought to ensure loan terms included a
“consideration of a borrower’s repayment capacity.” Now, their
leveraged-loan guidance says a leverage ratio of more than six
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or EBITDA, “raises concerns.”  Pfinsgraff said regulators have a “whole array” of tools
available if banks ignore their directives. These include cease-and-desist orders and lowering the supervisory scores that
regulators give to banks. A lower rating can affect a bank’s
flexibility to buy back stock, pay dividends, engage in mergers
and expand branches. Pfinsgraff said it’s “too early to tell”
if banks are changing their lending practices.  Regulators may have more success in getting banks to build
up capital against market declines than in trying to slow down
financial innovation or the demand for high-yield products, said
 Douglas Elliott , a former JPMorgan managing director.  ‘Absolutely Stopped’  “We shouldn’t expect to deter people from doing something
that they think will make them rich,” said Elliott, who now
researches regulatory policy at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington . “If you are a business person, you are going to
find a way to do that unless you are absolutely stopped.”  Still, he says regulators have to try because “we don’t
have the ability to use interest-rate increases now to
discourage excessive risk taking.”  Finding a way to combat bubbles is crucial after three
rounds of asset purchases by the Fed -- designed to boost growth
by encouraging investors to seek higher-yielding assets --
helped increase demand for junk debt. That’s a challenge  Janet
Yellen  will face if she’s confirmed to replace  Ben S. Bernanke 
as chairman. Yellen, currently vice chairman, will appear before
the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow in the first step of the
approval process.  There were $51.5 billion of inflows into U.S. bank-loan
mutual funds this year through Sept. 30, compared with $11.1
billion in all of 2012, according to data from Morningstar Inc.  Groundwork Laid  Fed policies have laid the groundwork for investors to take
“excessive advantage of the low  interest rates ,” said  Allan Meltzer , a professor of political economy at Carnegie Mellon
University’s Tepper School of Business in Pittsburgh and the
author of a history of the central bank. “They set up the
conditions to encourage that and are going to get that result.”  Fed asset purchases have expanded its  balance sheet  to
$3.85 trillion. The central bank is currently buying $85 billion
of mortgage debt and Treasuries each month and is unlikely to
slow the pace until March, according to the median response of
32 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  last week.  “We are still pushing risk for the sake of the economy as
a whole,” Elliott said. “But it raises the danger that people
will do stupid things.”  The Fed’s aggressive monetary stimulus “could lead to
financial excess,”  Sheila Bair , former FDIC Chairman, said in
an interview. “When safe assets hardly return anything, people
go farther and farther out on the risk curve.”  Companies have continued to pile on debt levels that
approach or exceed the guidelines the Fed, the FDIC and the OCC
outlined in March.  Dell Acquisition  Dell Inc.’s debt to finance its acquisition by Silver Lake
Management LLC and  Michael Dell , including a $4.7 billion  term
loan , leaves the company with six times debt-to-EBITDA, a
“high” debt level that will limit its financial flexibility as
it faces “challenges” in the personal computer industry,
Moody’s said in an Oct. 30 report. The loans are covenant-light.  Apax Partners  financed its takeover of Rue21 Inc. with a
$544 million term loan rated six levels above default that left
the Warrendale, Pennsylvania-based teen-apparel retailer with
debt-to-EBITDA of about eight times as of Aug. 3, according to
an Oct. 1 Moody’s report. Leverage is likely to increase and
remain elevated over the “near-to-intermediate term,” the
report said.  Regulators’ actions in the leveraged-loan market show they
may have learned their lessons from the subprime bubble, when
unenforceable guidance failed to slow the boom in high-risk
mortgage lending before the credit crisis.  “A static, sluggish regulatory process is one that we
can’t afford anymore,” said Bair, now a senior adviser at Pew
Charitable Trusts. “There are a lot of dollars out there
chasing returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  