-- Aussie Near Eight-Week Low Versus Dollar on Fed Tapering Bets
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-11-13T06:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/aussie-near-eight-week-low-versus-dollar-on-fed-tapering-bets.html
Australia ’s dollar traded near the
lowest level in eight weeks against the greenback as traders
weighed the timing of a reduction in Federal Reserve stimulus
that has buoyed asset prices around the world.  The Aussie fell for a fourth day yesterday after a gauge of
U.S. business activity improved. Technical indicators signal the
currency could decline to 90 U.S. cents. Australia’s benchmark
10-year bond yield touched its highest since March 2012.  New
Zealand ’s dollar rallied from an eight-week low after Reserve
Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said the kiwi could strengthen once
the central bank begins raising  interest rates  next year.  “The recent run of data out the States has been good, and
that increases the possibility of earlier tapering, putting
downward pressure on the Aussie dollar,” said  Kieran Davies ,
chief economist at Barclays Plc in Sydney. “The Aussie is
likely to trend lower over the coming months.”  The Australian currency was little changed at 93.07 U.S.
cents as of 5:25 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched
92.69, the lowest since Sept. 16. It fell 2.4 percent over the
previous four sessions, the biggest such decline since August.
The  New Zealand dollar  rose 0.1 percent to 82.32 U.S. cents
after reaching 81.69 yesterday, the least since Sept. 17.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yields retreated three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.26 percent after
rising to as high as 4.3 percent.  Taper Talk  The Chicago Fed said yesterday its  national index  of
economic activity rose to 0.14 in September from a revised 0.13
the month before, with 47 of the 85 monthly individual
indicators making positive contributions. Last week, reports
showed an unexpected acceleration in U.S. economic growth and
job creation.  U.S. policy makers will pare the monthly pace of bond
buying to $70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting from the
current pace of $85 billion, according to the median of 32
economist estimates in a Bloomberg News survey on Nov. 8.  “The AUD is welded to 93 U.S. cents today, dampened by
simmering expectations for U.S. Fed tapering in the next few
months,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities in  Singapore , wrote in a note to clients. “We target
92 U.S. cents by year end.”  The median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is
for the Aussie to end the year at 93 U.S. cents, dropping to 88
next year. New Zealand’s dollar will close 2013 at 82 U.S. cents
and 2014 at 78, they predict.  Australia’s dollar failed to sustain gains driven by signs
of improving consumer sentiment. The Westpac Banking Corp. and
Melbourne Institute index of  consumer confidence  rose 1.9
percent this month, data today showed.  Technical Indicators  The Australian currency’s 10-day moving average dropped
below its 50-day moving average today, forming a so-called death
cross for the first time since April. That was the start of a
three-month, 14 percent tumble.  The Aussie is also at so-called neckline resistance in what
could form a head-and-shoulders pattern, another potential
signal of further declines.  “This is quite a crucial level, where you have a couple of
indicators lining up to confirm the signal,” said Desmond Chua,
a Singapore-based market analyst at CMC Markets. “We could
actually go back below 90 U.S. cents. I do think, however, we’ll
face a baseline support at 90, because the round numbers are
always a tough level to beat.”  Resistance refers to an area on a chart where analysts
anticipate orders to sell are clustered, and support is where
orders to buy accumulate.  New Zealand’s currency recovered from an eight-week low of
81.69 U.S. cents touched after the central bank said a drop in
home-building approvals and a decline in attendance at open
homes are evidence that the limits on low-deposit lending are
“starting to affect the housing market.” The comment was made
in the central bank’s semi-annual Financial Stability Report.  “The concern will be that the interest differential
between New Zealand and any of the advanced economies will
widen,” RBNZ’s Wheeler told a parliamentary committee in
Wellington today. “That could increase pressure on the  exchange
rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  