-- Aussie Holds Gain Versus Dollar as Yellen Hints at Later Taper
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-11-13T23:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/aussie-holds-gain-versus-dollar-as-yellen-hints-at-later-taper.html
Australia ’s dollar held its first
gain in five days as Federal Reserve chairman nominee Janet
Yellen said the U.S. economy must improve before policy makers
can pare stimulus that has buoyed asset prices around the world.  The Aussie rallied yesterday from an eight-week low before
Yellen testifies at her nomination hearing today in  Washington .
Implied volatility in the currency fell the most in 10 weeks as
benchmark 10-year bond yields retreated from the highest since
March 2012. The New Zealand dollar maintained gains after
rebounding from an eight-week low versus the U.S. currency.  “The U.S. dollar has broadly weakened since Yellen’s
prepared remarks came out, and the Aussie move has been a by-product of that,” said Michael Turner, a debt and currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Sydney. “We suspect
Aussie is going to go higher, and part of that is the fact that
we don’t think tapering is going to happen until the first
quarter, whereas expectations have kind of drifted more towards
January.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at 93.59 U.S.
cents as of 10:38 a.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it rose
0.6 percent. The New Zealand dollar was little changed at 82.86
U.S. cents from 82.89 yesterday.  One-month implied volatility in the Aussie versus the
greenback fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
8.92 percent, extending yesterday’s 91-basis-point drop.
Australian 10-year government bond yields declined nine basis
points to 4.17 percent.  In three pages of prepared remarks, Yellen said
unemployment is “still too high, reflecting a labor market and
economy performing far short of their potential.”  The Fed will pare its bond-buying program to $70 billion at
its March 18-19 meeting from the current pace of $85 billion,
according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey on Nov. 8.  “These comments are dovish enough to suggest tapering
isn’t probably going to happen in the very near term,” RBC’s
Turner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  