-- Australian ‘Sheik’ Buys Milk, Drugmakers to Put LHC Atop Rivals
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   I a i n   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-11-13T01:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/australian-sheik-buys-milk-drugmakers-to-put-lhc-atop-rivals.html
LHC Capital Pty, a Sydney-based
hedge-fund manager, is seeking money from family offices to
double its size after returning 33 percent this year, making it
the best performer in  Australia  among funds with more than A$50
million ($47 million).  LHC’s Australian High Conviction Fund, which manages A$100
million, invests in as many as 15 Australian and New Zealand
companies with a market value of less than A$1 billion. It has
gained from bets on health-food maker  Freedom Foods Group Ltd. (FNP) 
and specialist drugs developer  Mayne Pharma Group Ltd. (MYX) , said
Chief Investment Officer Stephen Aboud.  Aboud, who said friends have nicknamed him “the Sheik”
due to his interest in racehorses, expects family offices will
be drawn by the market-beating run LHC has had since inception
in May 2011. LHC’s strategy has a capacity of as much as A$250
million, said Aboud, who previously managed the trading
portfolio of billionaire  Frank Lowy ’s family following a three-year stint as a trader at Deutsche Bank AG.  “It is hard to raise money unless you have good
performance upfront,” Aboud said in an interview in Sydney
yesterday. “We have had a very good year and it’s our
opportunity to grow it. We are out looking for family offices
that may put A$5 million to A$10 million.”  The fund has returned 33 percent in the nine months to
Sept. 30, the highest among the 17  hedge funds  in Australia with
assets of more than A$50 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund has returned 69 percent since inception,
according to its monthly report. The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  Index
has  climbed  16 percent this year and 11 percent since May 2011.  Salteri Family  About half the money managed by Aboud comes from the
Salteri family, which sold its Tenix Defence business to  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  for A$775 million in 2008. Tenix Defence included
aerospace, defense-electronics, military-vehicle and marine
units.  After starting LHC on his own, Aboud was joined by Marcus Hughes as a principal and fund manager. Hughes previously worked
at Caledonia Private Investments Pty and UBS AG. The two
together have A$5 million of their own money in the fund, Aboud
said.  LHC, which charges 1.5 percent per annum in management fees
and performance fees of 20 percent on returns that exceed the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s  cash rate , now holds 30 percent of
its assets in cash, he said.  Mayne Pharma  Its holding in Mayne Pharma, whose shares almost  tripled 
this year, represents 14 percent of the fund’s assets while its
holding in Freedom Foods, which has a stake in milk producer A2
Corp Ltd. and owns So Natural and Australia’s Own Organic brand,
accounts for 5 percent. The holding in Freedom Foods, whose
shares have almost  quadrupled  this year, was as high as 20
percent.  LHC holds short positions in taxi-fare processing firm
 Cabcharge Australia Ltd. (CAB) , whose shares are down 13 percent this
year, and food-distributor  Metcash Ltd. (MTS) , which has fallen 1.5
percent, as both face increased competition, according to Aboud.
It is also shorting mining services companies, which have
weakened as the country’s resources investment boom fades, he
said.  Shorting involves selling borrowed shares and making a
profit buying them back when prices decline.  “Most companies we look at don’t have broker coverage,
definitely not the bold broker coverage of UBS, Macquarie,
Goldmans of the world, which we love,” Aboud said. “The
cheerleaders can come later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  