-- Australian Regulator Said to Tell Yanzhou to Cut Yancoal Stake
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-11-13T06:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/australian-regulator-said-to-tell-yanzhou-to-cut-yancoal-stake.html
Australia’s foreign investment
regulator told  Yanzhou Coal  Mining Company Ltd. to abide by an
agreement to reduce its stake in local unit  Yancoal Australia
Ltd. (YAL) , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Foreign Investment Review Board met with Yanzhou Coal
officials last week and reiterated a request to make 30 percent
of Yancoal’s shares available to Australian investors by year-end, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the
talks were private.  Yanzhou Coal, which owns 78 percent of Yancoal, in July
proposed to purchase the rest of the company from shareholders
including  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , a plan that ran counter to FIRB’s
requirement. The regulator’s stance means Yanzhou Coal has less
than two months to sell at least 8 percent of Yancoal.  Yanzhou Coal’s agreement to cut its stake stems from its
purchase of Felix Resources Ltd. for A$3.3 billion ($3.1
billion) in October 2009. After buying Felix, Yanzhou Coal
renamed the company Yancoal. At the time, FIRB ruled that
Shandong-based Yanzhou Coal must list a minimum of 30 percent of
its Australian by the end of 2012.  Last year, Yanzhou Coal bought Gloucester Coal Ltd. and
merged it with Yancoal. The combined entity kept Gloucester
Coal’s listing and trades in Sydney with a market value of A$711
million. After the Gloucester Coal deal, Yanzhou Coal was given
a deadline of Dec. 31 to reduce its Yancoal stake.  FIRB Request  FIRB asked Yanzhou Coal to provide details by Friday on how
it plans to complete the sale of the 8 percent Yancoal stake,
the people said.  Gemma Daley, a spokeswoman for Australian Treasurer  Joe Hockey , who oversees the FIRB, declined to comment. Zhang
Baocai, a spokesman for Yanzhou Coal, said the company is still
communicating with the regulator and there have been no new
developments in the talks.  Noble Chief Executive Officer Yusuf Alireza yesterday on a
conference call declined to comment on his company’s stance on
Yancoal. Noble had asked for better terms for its 13 percent
stake in Yancoal, the people said.  Yanzhou Coal’s July proposal valued Yancoal at 69
Australian cents a share, or A$151 million for the 22 percent
stake the Chinese company was seeking,  RBC Capital Markets  said
at the time. Yancoal closed yesterday at 73.50 cents in Sydney
trading.  Yancoal operates seven mines in  Australia ’s New South Wales
and Queensland states, and is a shareholder in two ports,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  