-- Bank of England Prepared to Help Facilitate Yuan Clearing Bank
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-11-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/bank-of-england-prepared-to-help-facilitate-yuan-clearing-bank.html
The  Bank of England  is ready to help
create a clearing bank for  yuan  in  London  as the City seeks to
become an offshore hub for trading the Chinese currency, Chief
Cashier Chris Salmon said.  While the U.K. doesn’t “absolutely” need such an
institution for yuan transactions, there is a “will in the
market for a London clearing bank to be established,” Salmon
said in an interview in London yesterday. “We’ll be prepared to
facilitate that, in so far as we need to,” he said.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  plans to lead a trade
delegation to  China  in December, after Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  announced in Beijing last month that
China and the U.K. will introduce direct trading between the
yuan and the British pound. China also approved an 80 billion-yuan ($13 billion) quota for financial institutions in London to
invest in China’s domestic securities under the Renminbi
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program.  “If you think the RQFII provides a way for capital to flow
back to China from outside, and in the context of liberalization
of the capital account, it’s a step forward,” Salmon said.  Further agreements between Britain and China on yuan
settlement and clearing are planned. Talks will begin to enable
Chinese banks to establish wholesale branches in the U.K. for
the first time, allowing them to scale-up their business
activities, Osborne said in October.  ‘Broader Policy’  “It’s not a special arrangement” for Chinese banks,
Salmon told the Conference on the Future of  Renminbi  in the
Global Financial Markets, organized by City & Financial, in
London yesterday. “It’s part of a broader policy.”  In June, the Bank of England became the first among
European central banks to establish a currency-swap facility
with China, supporting yuan users by providing liquidity when
needed. The U.K. is committed to keeping the London market
liquid, including possibly setting up a clearing bank, Sajid Javid, financial secretary to the Treasury, said at yesterday’s
conference.  Salmon said that while there is no imperative to
establishing a London clearing bank for yuan, “It can’t hinder
the market growing.”  International use of the yuan is increasing as the world’s
second-largest economy opens up its  capital markets . In the
first nine months of this year, about 17 percent of China’s
global trade was settled in the currency, compared with less
than 1 percent in 2009, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Daily
yuan transactions surged to $120 billion in April from $34
billion in 2010, making it the ninth most-traded currency in the
world, according to a September report by the  Bank for
International Settlements  in Basel, Switzerland.  “The path to convertibility will ultimately involve
further liberalization of the capital account,” Salmon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  