-- Barclays Says Former Regulator Sants Quits After 10 Months
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-11-13T16:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/barclays-says-sants-kheradpir-quit-after-less-than-year-in-jobs.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said  Hector Sants , the compliance chief
hired by Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  less than a year
ago, has resigned.  Sants, 57, who was CEO of the Financial Services Authority
before joining the bank in December, has been on sick leave
because of “stress and exhaustion” since October and decided
he won’t be able to return, the London-based bank said in a
 statement  today. Chief Operations and Technology Officer Shaygan Kheradpir has also stepped down, it said.  Jenkins, who became CEO in August 2012, has been hiring a
new executive team after vowing to overhaul the lender’s culture
after the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($463 million) for
helping rig the  London  interbank offered rate. The lender said
last month it’s being probed by regulators investigating the
possible manipulation of foreign-exchange markets.  “It’s a setback,” said  Mike Trippitt , a London-based
analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., who rates the bank reduce.
“Kheradpir was tasked with driving through cost efficiencies,
so it’s not ideal.”  Barclays fell 2.8 percent to 249.50 pence in London. The
shares have increased 2.9 percent this year.  Temporary Leave  Sants was hired to oversee the bank’s relationships with
government and regulators, which were strained through the
financial crisis. FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  last year criticized
the bank for “a pattern of behavior” that questioned whether
the bank could be trusted, in a letter to Barclays’s former
Chairman Marcus Agius.  Sants announced his departure from the FSA in February
2010, though agreed to stay on after the government proposed
handing supervisory powers to the  Bank of England . He resigned
again in March. Before joining the FSA, he was an executive at
Credit Suisse Group AG, where he led the bank’s European, Middle
East and Asia business.  Barclays on Oct. 15 said Sants would take a temporary leave
of absence and would return in 2014.  Kheradpir, who was promoted by Jenkins in March, will
become CEO of  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , a maker of networking
equipment, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a
separate statement. At Barclays, he was responsible for helping
the bank automate more systems to cut costs and absorbed some of
the duties of Jerry Del Missier, who departed in the wake of the
Libor scandal.  ‘Great Progress’  A former head of  information technology  at  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , Kheradpir joined Barclays in January 2011
as chief operating officer for consumer banking.  “Under both Hector and Shaygan, we have made great
progress,” Jenkins, 52, said in the statement. “I am totally
confident that this momentum will continue with the strong
leadership teams we have established in both functions.”  Allen Meyer, head of compliance at Barclays’s corporate and
investment bank, will fill Sants’s position until the bank can
find a replacement, it said. Darryl West, Barclays’s chief
information officer, will take on Kheradpir’s responsibilities
on an interim basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  