-- Barrick Share Sale No Twitter as Gold Snubbed Amid Slump
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l ,   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-11-13T14:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/barrick-share-sale-no-twitter-as-gold-snubbed.html
Weak demand for  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s
$3 billion share sale signals the worst isn’t over for the gold
industry after slumping metal prices and rising costs at mining
projects scared off investors.  The sale, expected to close tomorrow, was 75 percent sold,
according to three people with direct knowledge of the offering
who asked not to be identified because the information hasn’t
been published. The financing is a so-called bought deal,
meaning the banks managing the sale will be left holding unsold
shares.  Barrick’s sale contrasts with strong demand for new shares
in other North American industries this year, evidenced by
Twitter Inc.’s $2.09 billion initial public offering and 73
percent rise on its Nov. 7 debut. Since Barrick’s sale was
announced Oct. 31, gold miners have declined as the metal fell
to four-week lows.  Weak demand for the sale is “very bad news for the
industry,” says David Baskin, president of Baskin Financial
Services Inc., which manages about C$570 million ($543 million).  “To the extent that there are still good names left in the
precious-metals industry, Barrick is one of them,” Baskin said
yesterday in a telephone interview. If Barrick’s stock sale
faltered, “why would anybody think that a mid-sized or a junior
would be able to raise money on any kind of terms?”  Debt Reduction  In a bought deal, banks buy the shares from the issuing
company and then resell them, which means Toronto-based Barrick
will get the proceeds, minus fees, regardless of the success of
the sale. Barrick, the world’s largest gold miner, plans to use
proceeds from its offering to redeem or repurchase debt.  The sale, led by Royal Bank of  Canada , Barclays Plc and GMP
Capital Inc., was 75 percent sold as of Nov. 8, according to the
three people familiar with the situation. Demand for the largest
equity offering in Canada since 2009 was unchanged as of Nov.
11, according to one of the people.  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick spokesman, declined to comment on the
share sale when reached yesterday by phone.  Mark Lane , a Barclays spokesman, RBC Capital Markets
spokeswoman Gillian McArdle and GMP Capital spokesman Rocco Colella declined to comment on the Barrick sale process.  Gold equities  have tumbled 43 percent in 2013 as the
precious metal heads for its first annual decline in 13 years.
That’s spurred the world’s  largest gold miners  to take at least
$26 billion of writedowns this year while they reduce spending
plans and fire workers.  Pascua-Lama  Barrick has come under further pressure this year as its
debt increased and delays threatened to increase costs at its
$8.5 billion Pascua-Lama gold project. Barrick announced Oct. 31
it was suspending construction at the mine on the Chile-Argentina border. The company also has considered cash-raising
options ranging from a strategic equity investment to a sale of
a stake in its copper business, people with knowledge of the
matter said Oct. 30.  Barrick shares  traded at an average of $18.20 in  New York 
from Nov. 1 through yesterday, about 0.8 percent less than the
offer price of $18.35 a share. Gold futures in New York declined
3.6 percent in the same period.  Barrick  rose  0.7 percent to $18.15 at 9:43 a.m. in New
York.  The take-up of Barrick’s shares was probably affected by
the timing of the sale and a drop in the gold price that started
Oct. 31, the day the bought deal was announced, said John Ing,
chief executive officer at Toronto-based Maison Placements
Canada Inc., which owns Barrick shares.  Halloween Surprise  “It was Halloween, a lot of the traders had left for the
day, normally you want everyone to be on board,” Ing said in a
phone interview yesterday. “And they sprung it also at a time
when the gold price had fallen apart, so there are some
technical reasons as to why the issue did not go out the door
that evening, which would be normal for a bought deal.”  Share sales by gold-mining companies are poised to decline
for the fourth consecutive year to the slowest pace since 2005,
even after Barrick announced its sale, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. There have been $4.97 billion of
financings announced in 2013 as of yesterday, compared with
$5.85 billion last year and a peak of $15.33 billion in 2009.  In the broader North American market, the volume of
announced IPOs and secondary stock sales was up 3.4 percent this
year to $271.4 billion from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Area 51’  RBC, Barclays and GMP led the 15-bank group that acquired
163.5 million shares in the bought deal. A smaller amount sold
may mean fewer investment-banking fees for the banking group,
which would have shared $90 million -- or 3 percent of the gross
proceeds -- on a $3 billion sale, according to a regulatory
filing from Barrick.  “There’s been more speculation over this than Area 51,”
GMP Capital Chief Executive Office Harris Fricker said on a Nov.
8 conference call, comparing the stock sale with the U.S.
military installation in the Nevada desert that’s been the
subject of decades of speculation and conspiracy theories. “The
actual results will demonstrate the prudence of taking on the
transaction.”  The Barrick sale is Canada’s largest since September 2009,
when the gold miner initially sought to raise $3 billion in a
bought deal led by RBC, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Bank of  Nova Scotia . That deal was increased to $3.5 billion on
what Barrick called “strong investor demand” a day after its
announcement, and after the transaction closed the banks
exercised an option to buy additional shares, lifting the total
to $4 billion.  Canadian IPOs  Companies announced $28.1 billion of IPOs and secondary
share sales in Canada this year through yesterday, down 21
percent from $35.5 billion in the same period a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than half of this
year’s amount, or $15.9 billion, has been through bought deals.  The share sale takes place against the backdrop of
potential changes to Barrick’s board and the impending
retirement of founder and Chairman  Peter Munk . Barrick said
earlier this year it’s considering adding new independent
directors and changing its executive pay policies after issues
were raised by investors.  Munk’s Succession  The company amended a regulatory filing last week to note
that the succession of Munk, who previously announced his
intention to retire, was also one of the issues being addressed
by the board. The company plans to provide an update on the
changes before the end of the year and expects governance
changes will take effect in conjunction with its next annual
meeting.  “Barrick has just had a really bad string of events,”
Kenneth Hoffman, a Bloomberg Industries’ analyst in Skillman,
 New Jersey , said by phone yesterday. “When things go badly,
every little thing that can be perceived poorly is perceived
poorly.”  The rest of the industry probably “cringed” when they saw
the reaction to Barrick’s offering, Hoffman said.  “Part of it was they realized they could not do a
financing any time soon, they couldn’t issue stock any time
soon, because the Barrick issue did not go as planned,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  