-- Bega Raises Warrnambool Bid to $454 Million in Dairy Tussle
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-11-14T06:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/bega-raises-warrnambool-offer-to-465-million-in-dairy-tussle.html
Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA) , one of three
bidders for  Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory Co. (WCB) , raised its
cash and share offer, valuing the Australian producer at A$486
million ($454 million).  Warrnambool’s largest shareholder raised its offer to 1.5
shares and A$2 for each of the target’s shares, the New South
Wales state-based company said today in a statement. The bid
values the dairy producer at A$8.68 a share, below yesterday’s
A$9 a share offer from Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co. and 9
percent more than  Saputo Inc. (SAP) ’s A$8 a share proposal.  The three-way contest for the maker of brands including
Sungold milk and Great Ocean Road cheese has more than doubled
Warrnambool’s market value in the two months since Bega’s
initial bid of 1.2 shares and A$2. The bidders are seeking to
raise production and add export infrastructure amid rising
demand in  Asia .  “This is now in the same ballpark” as Murray Goulburn’s
bid and could rise above the rival offer dependent on the
performance of Bega’s shares, which traded above A$5 on Nov. 4,
said Paul Jensz, a Melbourne-based analyst with PAC Partners.  Shares in Warrnambool were unchanged at A$9.10 in Sydney
trading. Bega’s shares declined 2.8 percent to A$4.45.  “The proposed increased offer consideration will be Bega
Cheese’s final offer and will not be further increased,”
Chairman Barry Irvin said in the statement.  Main Sites  Under Bega’s offer, Warrnambool’s name, brands and main
operating sites would be retained, Irvin said. Bega  holds  18
percent of Warrnambool and Murray Goulburn holds 17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bega and  Canada ’s Saputo have won approval from regulators,
while Murray Goulburn said Nov. 13 it be may late February
before it receives a decision on its proposal from the
Australian Competition Tribunal.  “Murray Goulburn may have another three to six months of
going through competition regulators, that has some uncertainty
around it,” said PAC Partners’ Jensz.  Japan ’s Kirin Holdings Co. bought a 9.99 percent stake in
Warrnambool last month, seeking to protect an arrangement under
which the producer supplies at least 12,000 metric tons of
cheddar each year for its Australian unit’s Coon and Cracker
Barrel cheese brands. Fonterra Cooperative Group, the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said Nov. 1 it had acquired a 6 percent
stake in Bega.  While Montreal-based Saputo, Canada’s largest dairy
processor, has the capacity to raise its offer, it may question
the value of doing so, Jensz said.  “They have the whole world to invest in, you would be
paying a premium price for a reasonable asset here,” Jensz
said. “They need to compare that against other opportunities
and at some point they may back away and look elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  