-- Biden Names Ricchetti, Former Clinton Aide, as Chief of Staff
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-13T13:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/biden-names-ricchetti-former-clinton-aide-as-chief-of-staff.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  named Steve Ricchetti, his counselor and a former aide in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, as his chief of staff.  Ricchetti will succeed Bruce Reed, who is stepping down in
mid-December to become president of the Los Angeles-based Eli
and Edythe Broad Foundation.  In a statement issued by the White House, Biden said he is
also promoting Shailagh Murray to deputy chief of staff; she
will retain her position as communications director.  Ricchetti has been Biden’s counselor since March 2012. He
was White House deputy chief of staff in the Clinton
administration and also served as the principal legislative
liaison between the Clinton White House and the Senate.  “Steve and I have been friends for years, and I was
thrilled when he joined my staff as counselor,” Biden said in a
statement. “He has a wealth of experience in policy and
government, he knows Congress, and he has strong relationships
with the West Wing staff.”  Ricchetti co-founded Ricchetti Inc., a government relations
and consulting firm in  Washington , in 2001. A native of
Cleveland, Ohio, he is a graduate of Miami University in Oxford,
Ohio, and has a law degree from  George Mason University  in
Arlington, Virginia.  Murray joined Biden’s staff in May 2011 after working as a
reporter for 20 years at the Wall Street Journal and the
Washington Post.  Reed became Biden’s chief of staff in January 2011 and led
the vice president’s team through a series of budget
negotiations. He helped Biden shape recommendations that led to
President Barack Obama’s 23 executive actions to tighten gun
laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  