-- BNP to Buy 25% Stake in Fortis Unit for EU3.25 Billion
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i ,   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2013-11-14T13:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/bnp-paribas-to-buy-25-stake-in-fortis-unit-for-eu3-25-billion.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Europe’s third-largest bank by value, plans to buy  Belgium ’s 25 percent stake
in its local consumer-banking unit for 3.25 billion euros ($4.37
billion) as the country seeks to cut public debt.  “It is a tangible sign that banks with comfortable
reserves can make acquisitions,” said Romain Burnand, who helps
manage 1.8 billion euros at Moneta Asset Management in Paris and
owns shares in BNP. “Since the 2008 crisis, there have been
lots of banking assets for sale and few buyers. Now we’re maybe
at the very start of a new trend.”  BNP’s all-cash offer to buy Belgium’s minority stake in its
Brussels-based unit is Europe’s largest banking deal, excluding
taxpayer-funded bailouts, since  ING Groep NV (INGA)  completed the sale
of its U.S. online bank to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  for $9.1
billion in February 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BNP Paribas, which took control of Belgium’s largest bank
by assets in 2009, sees the deal increasing 2013 per-share net
income by about 3 percent, the bank said yesterday in a joint
statement with the Belgian government. Belgium will get a
capital gain of about 900 million euros.  “The objectives set by the government when the Belgian
state initially invested were fully achieved,” Belgian Prime
Minister Elio di Rupo and Finance Minister Koen Geens said in
the statement. “The bank has met its commitments despite a
challenging environment.”  Cutting Debt  Belgium, which also spent billions of euros to help rescue
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , is selling the stake in  BNP Paribas Fortis SA (FBAVP)  to
reduce public debt to less than 100 percent of its economic
output by year-end, as agreed on with the European Commission.  Belgium’s gross public debt was projected to increase to
100.4 percent of gross domestic product this year from 99.8
percent last year, according to the latest forecasts from the
European Commission.  The Belgian government acquired Fortis, the country’s
largest bank, for 9.4 billion euros during a 2008 bailout and
subsequently sold a 75 percent stake to BNP Paribas in an all-stock transaction giving Belgium 11.6 percent of  France ’s
biggest bank. The Belgian stake has since been  diluted  to 10.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas rose as much as 3 percent in Paris trading, and
was up 2.2 percent to 54.05 euros by 2 p.m., giving the bank a
market value of 67.2 billion euros. The shares have risen 27
percent this year, outpacing the 15 percent gain of the
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Capital Impact  BNP Paribas said the deal will have a negative impact of
about 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, on its common
equity Tier 1 Basel III ratio. That ratio was at 10.8 percent at
the end of September, up 40 basis points from June, the Paris-based bank said last month.  Pretax profit at BNP Paribas’ Belgian retail-banking
business rose 2.2 percent to 187 million euros in the third
quarter, the bank said last month. BNP Paribas’s activities in
Belgium also include corporate- and investment-banking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Louisa Fahy in Washington at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  