-- BNP’s Varene Sees Europe Passed by Asia in M&A Rebalancing
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-11-14T13:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/bnp-s-varene-sees-europe-passed-by-asia-in-m-a-buyer-rebalancing.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s Thierry Varene, who
has overseen the French bank’s corporate-finance arm since 2000,
sees a muted recovery to dealmaking in  Europe  and added that
Asian firms are increasingly becoming acquirers rather than
targets in the global merger market.  “M&A will progress, even if at a slow pace,” said Varene,
head of BNP’s European investment-banking business. “There will
be a period of change, a rebalancing in the flow. Dealmaking,
which has been primarily from west to east and west to west,
will rebalance from east to west.”  While some companies would benefit from acquiring rivals in
a shrinking market, the harmful effects of the frail economy in
Europe will continue to hold back consolidation, said Varene,
61. The longest euro-area recession on record in the aftermath
of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis has tempered executives’
appetite to expand.  “In various sectors, there are still too many players in
Europe after a long period of low growth, and the opportunities
for companies are limited,” the executive said in an interview
in Paris. “Companies need to be able to deliver synergies,
which can be challenging in an environment of high
unemployment.”  Governments in countries such as Italy and France have
clashed with companies trying to cut jobs. The  European Central
Bank  unexpectedly cut interest rates to a record low last week
amid a 12.2 percent unemployment rate, the highest since the
euro area was created. European leaders met Nov. 12 at a youth-unemployment summit in Paris as they weigh whether to mobilize
45 billion euros ($60.6 billion) to combat joblessness.  Banking Union  The ECB is also assuming oversight of the banking industry
next year. Varene said banks need to wait until that new
regulatory regime is in place before embarking on mergers.  “Even though the banking industry is still too fragmented
in Europe, we do not anticipate consolidation, at least until
banking union is up and running,” said Varene. Until then,
banks may buy or sell smaller businesses and boost or reduce
their exposure to specific countries, he said.  BNP Paribas,  France ’s biggest bank, rose as much as 3
percent in Paris trading today, valuing the company at about 67
billion euros. The lender late yesterday said it plans to buy
Belgium’s 25 percent stake in its local consumer-banking unit
for 3.25 billion euros.  In  Poland , BNP offered to buy Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej
SA, an agricultural lender with a market value of about $1.2
billion, the bank said on Nov. 7. Varene declined to comment on
the potential purchase.  Euro Rally  Buyers from outside Europe will likely focus on the
telecommunications and power industries over the next two-to-three years, he said. New technology and higher costs of capital
are prompting technology firms to reorganize, while European
power companies seek to sell assets.  The euro’s rally in the past 16 months shielded European
targets from U.S. bidders, Varene said. The ECB’s decision to
cut its benchmark rate to 0.25 percent “could ease the
situation,” he said.  Mergers involving companies in Europe, the Middle East and
 Africa , which have reached $880 billion in 2013, are on course
for the best year since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show,
though M&A is still less than half the record $2.2 trillion seen
in 2007.  Antitrust Rules  BNP ranks 11th among this year’s advisers, the data show.
Pretax profit at BNP’s corporate and investment bank, which
includes trading and corporate finance, fell 24 percent to 552
million euros from a year ago. While sales from fixed-income
trading dropped 27 percent at constant exchange rates to 780
million euros, equities and advisory revenue rose 14 percent to
484 million euros, BNP said on Oct. 31.  The French bank is hiring about 1,300 people over three
years at its corporate and investment-banking and investment-solutions businesses in the Asia-Pacific region. BNP foresees
annual revenue growth of 12 percent through 2016 in  Asia , it
said in February.  The slow pick-up in M&A is also weighing on stock sales,
which Bloomberg data show are still lagging 2009 levels.
However, Varene said lower equity valuations in continental
Europe than elsewhere, low  interest rates  and sustained
corporate profits should help lift equities transactions over
the next two years.  Varene called on European antitrust regulators to become
more lenient on regional companies’ consolidation plans, given
the threat of stiffening competition from outside the bloc. The
28-country European Union next year will have a new commission
following parliamentary elections.  “You would expect the new European commission to look at
Europe in a more global way,” BNP’s Varene said. “The
commission’s antitrust approach has not facilitated the
emergence of European champions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  