-- Boeing Stakes Rise on Union Contract Vote Tied to 777X
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-11-13T21:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/boeing-stakes-rise-on-union-contract-vote-tied-to-777x.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  has billions of dollars
in cost savings at stake as its largest union votes on a labor
agreement today that would end pensions in exchange for keeping
work on the newest 777 jet at the company’s  Seattle  hub.  The eight-year contract extension would boost earnings by
about $2 a share annually, according to an estimate by Ken Herbert, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. State
lawmakers in  Washington  also have approved $8.7 billion in tax
breaks and other Boeing incentives.  Boeing’s demands for concessions, backed by threats to move
production out of state, have sparked backlash among Machinists
union members including “Vote No” rallies and accusations of
blackmail. Labor leaders are mindful that more than 20,000 jobs
may hang in the balance with the vote, as well as the region’s
continued role as the company’s commercial manufacturing base.  Keeping assembly of the 777X model in Washington would be
“highly positive for Boeing” from a logistical standpoint and
take advantage of the workforce building the current 777 at a
factory in Everett outside Seattle,  Douglas Harned , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst, wrote in a research note today.  Machinists leaders plan to count the ballots late today
after voting ends at 6 p.m. in Seattle. Chicago-based Boeing has
said it would consider all options for an assembly location if
the contract extension is rejected.  Boeing rose 0.6 percent to $133.17 at the close in New
York. That extended the shares’ year-to-date gain to 77 percent,
the most among stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  ‘Significant Value’  Cumulatively, the benefit changes could be worth more than
$2 billion for Boeing, with the greatest savings coming from
lower pension expenses, according to Herbert.  “The bottom line is that the new labor agreement creates
significant value for Boeing,” wrote Herbert, who  rates  Boeing
as buy. Harned’s outperform recommendation is equivalent to buy.  A new union agreement is pivotal to lower costs and keep
the company competitive in a cutthroat environment, Boeing
Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner wrote in a Nov. 8
letter to employees.  “When times are good, it’s easy to forget that continued
success is not guaranteed,” Conner said. “We want to be
proactive in designing our future.”  Retaining 777X work in the Seattle area would spur job
growth as Boeing builds more than 1.5 million square feet
(139,000 square meters) of facilities to house final assembly of
the jet and production of a carbon-fiber wing borrowed from the
787 Dreamliner, the Machinists’ union said in a Nov. 5 message
to members.  ‘Personal Decision’  “This is a very personal decision, laced with emotion and
repercussions,” Tom Wroblewski, president of Machinists
District 751, which represents about 33,000 employees, said in a
letter posted on the union website. “But at the end of the day,
this is about 30 years of jobs in Puget Sound for us, our
children and our grandchildren.”  About 20,000 Boeing employees currently work either
directly or indirectly on the 777 jet, Boeing’s largest twin-engine aircraft.  The contract extension would be tacked onto the agreement
that expires in 2016, guaranteeing labor peace for a decade. It
would end traditional pension accruals in late 2016, replacing
them with a defined contribution plan in addition to an existing
401(K) plan.  The company would boost its matching 401(K) contributions
while also promising members a $10,000 signing bonus. It would
alter pay scales so that new hires take 16 years to reach the
top wage from the current six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  