-- Bouygues Third-Quarter Earnings Beat Estimates on Cost Cuts
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-11-13T17:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/bouygues-third-quarter-earnings-beat-estimates-on-cost-cuts.html
Bouygues SA (EN) , the French building and
telecommunications company, said third-quarter profit rose 13
percent, beating analysts’ estimates, helped by cost cuts at its
mobile-phone and broadcasting divisions.  Current operating profit increased to 542 million euros
($713 million) from 478 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said in a statement today. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast 465 million euros, according to the
average of four estimates. Net income rose 26 percent to 360
million euros.  Bouygues, which controls France’s third-largest mobile-phone operator and TF1, the country’s biggest television
network, has cut jobs and prices to respond to  Iliad SA (ILD) , which
started a discount mobile service in January 2012. Bouygues
Telecom also started talks in July with SFR,  France ’s second-largest phone operator, to share part of their mobile networks.  “The construction businesses demonstrated a good
commercial performance, while TF1 and Bouygues Telecom
strengthened their offerings in a highly competitive
environment,” the company said in the statement. “The
adaptation plans delivered the expected results and the group’s
profitability continued to improve.”  Last year “should mark the low point” in profitability,
the company reiterated today, adding that margins should
continue to improve in the fourth quarter. It repeated a goal to
stabilize Bouygues Telecom’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization at about 900 million euros in
2013.  Total  sales  were unchanged in the third quarter as falling
revenue at Bouygues Telecom and Television Francaise 1 offset
rising construction and real estate billings. The company also
reiterated today that full-year sales may fall as much as 1
percent or be stable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  