-- Brazilian Swap Rates Drop on Retail Sales Report; Real Weakens
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-11-13T20:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/brazil-real-rises-from-two-month-low-as-rollovers-support-demand.html
Brazil ’s swap rates declined as a
report showed retail sales rose less than forecast in September,
adding to speculation that the central bank will limit increases
in borrowing costs.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2015 fell 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 10.86 percent at the close
in Sao Paulo, the biggest drop since Oct. 3. The real
depreciated 0.1 percent to 2.3341 per dollar, the weakest since
Sept. 4, after earlier rising 0.5 percent.  “The retail sales came in on the weak side,”  Pedro Tuesta , an economist at 4Cast Ltd., said in a telephone
interview from  Washington . “Indebtedness remains high.”  The real traded at a two-month low as concern the
government budget deficit will lead to a reduced  credit rating 
overshadowed efforts by the central bank to support the currency
and curb import price increases. The currency has fallen 4
percent since Oct. 31, when the government reported that the
 deficit  swelled to the largest in almost four years.  The central bank extended in an auction today the maturity
on $988 million of currency swaps intended to support the real
and curb import price increases. Brazil also sold $496 million
of swaps today as part of the $60 billion intervention program
announced Aug. 22.  “The central bank is managing the market,” Jose Carlos Amado, a trader at Renascenca DTVM in  Sao Paulo , said in a
telephone interview.  Swap rates dropped as the national statistics agency
reported that retail sales climbed 4.1 percent in September from
a year earlier. The median forecast of 38 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was an increase of 4.6 percent.  Retail Slowdown  Slower-than-forecast industrial production growth
contributed to the retail slowdown, said Vinicius Botelho, an
economist at the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  “You can’t keep sales up if production is slowing and the
economy is in deceleration,” Botelho said in a telephone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  Brazil has raised the  target lending rate  to 9.50 percent
from a record low 7.25 percent this year, the most among 49
nations tracked by Bloomberg, in a bid to cool consumer demand
and hold down prices.  Standard & Poor’s  may reduce Brazil’s BBB credit rating if
fiscal accounts worsen, Regina Nunes, a managing director at the
company, said in an interview last week. S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service lowered their outlooks this year on Brazil’s
rating, which both companies put at two levels above junk.  The country is headed for its first monthly net foreign-exchange inflow in six months. The central bank reported a net
inflow of $2.6 billion this month through Nov. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  