-- Brazil September Retail Sales Rise Less Than Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-11-13T12:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/brazil-september-retail-sales-rise-less-than-analysts-forecast.html
Brazil’s September  retail sales  rose
less than economists forecast, as the central bank carries out
the world’s biggest interest-rate increase to tame inflation.
Swap rates fell.  Purchases in September rose 0.5 percent from the previous
month, after jumping 0.9 percent in August, the national
statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The number was
lower than the 0.8 percent median  estimate  from 38 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Retail sales rose 4.1 percent from the
same month last year, below the median  forecast  of 4.6 percent.  The central bank will boost the benchmark interest rate for
a sixth straight meeting this month in an effort to slow
inflation that has remained above target for more than three
years, swap rates show. President Dilma Rousseff’s government at
the same time has indicated it will eliminate some tax breaks on
consumer goods in a bid to improve fiscal accounts. That will
affect sales of durable goods, even as near record-low
unemployment sustains demand, according to  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento.  “Increasing interest rates tends to lead to deceleration,
especially in big-ticket items linked more to credit,” Santos
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Some deceleration is going to
come, but it’s not going to be very significant due to favorable
labor market conditions.”  Biggest Decline  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell 14 basis points to 10.82
percent at 10:11 a.m. local time, the biggest intraday decline
since Oct. 3. The real strengthened 0.4 percent to 2.3224 per
U.S. dollar.  The broader retail index, which includes cars and
construction materials, fell 0.7 percent from the previous
month, the agency said today.  The central bank has boosted the benchmark Selic rate by
225 basis points since April, to 9.50 percent. Economists in the
latest weekly central bank survey forecast policy makers will
raise the rate to 10.25 percent in 2014. They forecast growth of
2.5 percent this year and 2.1 percent in 2014, up from 0.9
percent last year.  Sales of furniture and appliances fell by 0.2 percent, down
from a 0.5 percent increase in August and a 2.5 percent jump in
July. That reveals the temporary nature of government stimulus,
according to Neil Shearing, chief economist for  emerging markets 
at Capital Economics Ltd.  ’Big-Ticket Items’  “Consumption seems to have softened a bit after a mini-boom in July and August, and purchase of big-ticket items may be
particularly weak,” Shearing said by phone from  London .  Brazil will end some tax breaks on consumer goods to shore
up public finances, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said in an
interview at his Brasilia office on Nov. 7.  The biggest sales jump in September was for personal and
domestic items, which rose 2.4 percent. Purchases at
supermarkets and hypermarkets, including food, beverages and
tobacco, rose by 0.6 percent.  “The retail sales numbers came in a little weaker, though
without having been a negative number,” Carlos Kawall, chief
economist at Banco J. Safra, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Consumption continues at a good level, even if the data were
outside consensus.”  Brazil ’s unemployment rate in September was 5.4 percent,
matching a historic low for the month. Inflation in October
slowed to 5.84 percent from 6.7 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  