-- Brent-WTI Spread Expands to Seven-Month High on Libya
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-11-13T13:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/brent-oil-gains-as-protests-in-libya-disrupt-supply.html
Brent crude gained, extending its
premium over West Texas Intermediate to a seven-month high, amid
concern that recurring protests in Libya will disrupt the North
African nation’s oil exports for an extended period.  Futures rose as much as 1.4 percent. Protests kept the
country’s 120,000 barrel-a-day  Zawiya refinery  closed for more
than a day, Ibrahim Al Awami, the oil ministry’s head of
measurement and inspection, said by phone today. Another
official later said the plant had reopened. In  Iraq , eight
people were killed in a triple bombing during a religious
festival, the  BBC  reported.  “The Middle East continues to add a premium to oil prices,
emanating either from uncertainty and attacks in Iraq or reduced
supplies from Libya,” Abhishek Deshpande, an analyst at Natixis
in  London , said in an e-mail.  Brent for December settlement, which expires tomorrow,
gained $1.15 to $106.96 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange at 1:29 p.m. local time, having erased all of
yesterday’s 59-cent decline. The more-active January contract
traded $1.11 higher at $106.65. December Brent rose to a premium
of $13.57 to the equivalent WTI contract, compared with $12.77
yesterday. It earlier widened to as much as $14.01, the biggest
spread since April 2.  WTI for December delivery was at $93.42 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, up 38
cents. The contract slid $2.10 to $93.04 yesterday, the lowest
since May 31. The volume of all futures traded was about 44
percent above the 100-day average.  Violent Protests  “There are still concerns over Libya as protests get more
violent and the government is losing its grip,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London, said in an e-mail. “It does not look like they will resolve anything until
next year.”  Protesters ended a demonstration at Libya’s Zawiya
refinery, which is now working normally, Mohamed Elharari, a
spokesman for state-run National Oil Corp., said by phone from
Tripoli today.  Instability in Libya “lends support to Brent,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by
phone. “Libyan oil is mainly going to Europe because we have a
shortage of high-quality oil.”  Kuwaiti Oil Minister Mustafa Al-Shemali said he expects no
change in the output target for the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries when the group meets next on Dec. 4.  Formal Target  OPEC’s 12 members pumped 29.89 million barrels a day in
October, little changed from September, the group said in its
monthly Oil Market Report yesterday, citing data from secondary
sources. That’s about 300,000 a day more than the average output
it estimates markets will need next year, and 100,000 a day less
than the group’s formal target.  Global oil demand will expand by 1.04 million barrels a
day, or 1.2 percent, to 90.82 million in 2014, maintaining the
group’s previous growth estimate.  Crude and refined-product inventories in industrialized
nations equated to 58 days of consumption in the third quarter,
compared with an average of 52.1 days from 2003 to 2007,
according to the producer group.  Crude stockpiles  in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil user,
probably gained for an eighth week, a Bloomberg News survey
shows before a report the Energy Information Administration
expects to release tomorrow. Inventories probably climbed by
800,000 barrels to 386.2 million in the week ended Nov. 8,
according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in the survey.  Technical Support  The EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, is
releasing its data a day later than usual because of the
Veterans Day holiday on Nov. 11.  “The market is pre-empting another build-up of U.S. crude
inventories,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney who predicts WTI has “minor” technical
support at $91.26 a barrel. “More of it’s being produced, and
not enough of it is being consumed.”  Gasoline inventories  declined by 900,000 barrels, the
survey shows. Distillate supplies, including heating oil and
diesel, are expected to have decreased by 1 million.  The U.S. will surpass  Russia  and Saudi Arabia as the
world’s largest oil producer by 2015, approaching energy self-sufficiency in the next two decades amid booming output from
shale formations, the International Energy Agency said in its
annual World Energy Outlook yesterday.  WTI dropped to the lowest in more than five months
yesterday after investors reduced long positions, or bets that
prices would rise, following the IEA report, Fritsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  