-- British Land Earnings Rise After REIT Leases More Space
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-11-13T10:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/british-land-earnings-rise-after-reit-leases-more-space.html
British Land Co., (BLND)  the U.K.’s second-largest real estate investment trust, said first-half profit
gained 6.6 percent after the company leased more space.  Underlying pretax  profit  rose to 146 million pounds ($232
million) in the six months through September from 137 million
pounds a year earlier, the London-based REIT said in a statement
today. Underlying earnings per share fell 4.6 percent to 14.5
pence after British Land sold stock. Net asset value rose to 623
pence a share from 596 pence at the end of March.  British Land raised 493 million pounds in a share sale in
March to spend on acquisitions and development at a time when
smaller competitors were struggling to raise money. The value of
its developments rose 8.9 percent in the six months through
September, according to the statement. U.K. commercial real
estate values rose for a fifth straight month in September,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  “We’ve re-built our development pipeline,” Chief
Executive Officer Chris Grigg said in an interview. “It takes a
long time to get buildings ready to develop in  London , so we
feel there’s a continued opportunity for us and we’ll continue
to exploit that.”  Mayfair Project  The company will seek planning approval next year for a 2-acre (0.8 hectare) site in Shoreditch close to the City of
London financial district and plans to start the construction of
a luxury-home and office-building project in London’s Mayfair
district, he said.  Net rental income climbed to 148 million pounds in the
first half from 142 million pounds a year earlier, British Land
said.  Yields for the best income-producing U.K. properties are at
the lowest in five years, broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said
in a September report. Yields may fall further because of the
amount of capital that buyers have set aside for real estate
investments, Grigg said in the interview.  British Land’s dividend for the first half rose 2.3 percent
from a year earlier to 13.5 pence.  “We pay out a lot of our profits and as those profits
increase, you should expect our dividend to increase,” Grigg
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  