-- California Land Grab Threatens City Finances Statewide
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/california-land-grab-threatens-city-finances-statewide.html
Cerritos, the Los Angeles suburb
that lays claim to having the world’s biggest auto mall, is one
of 36 California cities, including  Oakland  and bankrupt  San
Bernardino , facing a state land grab that mayors say will
devastate their finances.  Controller John Chiang has  ordered  Cerritos, a city of
50,000 about 20 miles (33 kilometers) southeast of Los Angeles,
to liquidate $171 million in assets including land leased to
dealers at the auto mall and a  performing-arts  center. The
city’s redevelopment agency held the property before the state
dissolved blight-fighting districts in 2011.  Chiang, a Democrat, said three dozen cities improperly took
over similar assets when Governor  Jerry Brown , a 75-year-old
Democrat facing a budget gap, scrapped their development
agencies to free about $1 billion. Cities were to sell the
holdings to repay bonds for the projects and use the rest to
help cover state obligations to schools, health care and public
safety, according to Chiang’s  website .  “This is very, very serious,” said Mayor Bruce Barrows, a
66-year-old Republican whose community depends on leases of
city-owned redevelopment land for almost 10 percent of its $79
million general-fund revenue. “As soon as you take away our
business model by fiat in  Sacramento , our  cash flow  goes away.”  San Bernardino officials cited the loss of redevelopment
funds as part of the reason they sought Chapter 9 protection
from creditors in August 2012. Barrows said bankruptcy in
Cerritos would be a “worst-case scenario” that would take a
decade or more to play out.  Auto Mall  The Cerritos Auto Square, described as the world’s largest
auto center in the city’s continuing disclosure filings, has
side-by-side dealerships for 23 marques from  General Motors
Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Lincoln to  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  Chiang ordered the city to sell the land under dealers for
Jaguar/ Land Rover  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , as well as the  Cerritos
Center for the Performing Arts , a 2,000-seat venue that has
hosted singers such as Smokey Robinson and Chris Isaak.  Redevelopment helped to transform Cerritos, incorporated in
1956, from dairy pastures to a modern suburb with a 100,000-square-foot (9,300-square-meter) library, 40,000-square-foot
senior center, 9-hole municipal golf course and other amenities,
City Manager Art Gallucci said.  Redevelopment agencies were set up to reduce blight by
helping finance road, sewer, lighting and affordable-housing
projects in designated areas. The agencies received property-tax
revenue increases resulting from new development, known as the
tax increment. About 40 percent of Cerritos’s 8.9 square miles
(23 square kilometers) was encompassed by redevelopment zones.  Farms Transformed  Gallucci, who has worked for the city since 1971, said
redevelopment funds bought 100 acres to begin developing the
auto mall in the late 1970s, building roads and electrical
wiring to accommodate dealers.  “We were after  sales tax  because there was no property
tax,” Gallucci said in an interview at  City Hall , referring to
limits on property assessments from California’s Proposition 13
in 1978. “From the auto mall, it kept mushrooming from all the
increment.”  Cerritos has grown to a community with a median household
income of $87,853 in 2011, more than 40 percent above the state
level, U.S. Census data show. Yet because taxes on improvements
helped cover the costs of those projects and others, Cerritos
maintains the third-lowest property-tax rate of the 88 cities in
 Los Angeles  County, according to the county auditor.  Cash, Too  In addition to selling land under the auto mall and the
arts center, Chiang ordered Cerritos to turn over $21.3 million
in cash that he said the redevelopment agency improperly
transferred to the city.  The law dissolving the redevelopment agencies required
cities to hand over assets to “successor agencies” to be sold
to pay bondholders and cover costs of local public services. The
agencies typically are run by city managers with city council
oversight.  In June 2012, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded $11.6
billion in California redevelopment debt to junk, saying legal
and political disputes over the agencies may disrupt bond
repayments. California’s former redevelopment agencies had $29.8
billion in debt as of June 30, 2010, Chiang’s office said last
year. Three of the agencies -- in Mendota, Riverbank and the
Southern  California  Logistics Airport Authority, based in
Victorville -- are in default, said Matt Fabian, managing
partner of Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,  Massachusetts .  Cities Scrutinized  Chiang’s office has scrutinized 88 cities for compliance so
far, spokesman Jacob Roper said by e-mail. In 30, no
unauthorized transfers were found, and in 22 more, violations
that were found have been rectified, he said. The remaining 36
received orders to divest properties that were wrongly
transferred, Roper said. Another 121 cities are under review, he
said.  Cerritos may have an opportunity to retain control of some
of its former redevelopment land, if the city can demonstrate
that doing so would serve a public purpose, Roper said, but
first, the city needs to comply with the law.  “Moving away from a long-time dependence on redevelopment
and now sharing those funds has been a difficult transition for
many cities,” Roper said in a statement. “While we appreciate
their frustration, the legislature and the courts have made it
clear that redevelopment assets must be used to pay off the RDA
debts and support other community services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Cerritos, California at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  