-- California’s Desert Hot Springs Holds Short of Bankruptcy
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-11-13T08:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/california-s-desert-hot-springs-holds-short-of-bankruptcy.html
The City Council in the resort town
of Desert Hot Springs, California, urged by aides to begin steps
toward bankruptcy, stopped short yesterday, saying it may avoid
running out of cash by finding savings to stay solvent.  The city of 26,000 people and 16 boutique mineral  spas  near
 Palm Springs  will be out of cash by March 31,  according  to Amy
Aguer, the interim finance director. She said the council should
declare a fiscal emergency, a prerequisite under state law
before seeking court protection.  “It’s too drastic to consider,” Mayor-elect Adam Sanchez,
a 55-year-old Democrat, said in an interview. “There’s room in
this city budget to make the cuts that are necessary without
going bankrupt.”  Desert Hot Springs would be the first community to seek
court protection since  Detroit  did so in July. Two other
California cities are in bankruptcy: San Bernardino, with a
population of 210,000, and Stockton, whose 292,000 residents
made it the biggest municipal case until Detroit.  If it seeks Chapter 9 protection, Desert Hot Springs, about
110 miles (177 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , would be making
its second pitch to a bankruptcy judge since 2001, when it
couldn’t afford to pay a legal judgment. The city exited
bankruptcy in 2004.  Bankruptcy, Again  “Bankruptcies and defaults by general governments are so
rare that when they happen, it has an outsized effect, with or
without press attention,” said Matt Fabian, managing director
of Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,  Massachusetts , in an
interview before yesterday’s council meeting.  “Cities that file for bankruptcy seem to file for
bankruptcy again, more than other cities,” he said. “That’s a
cautionary tale for Detroit as they go through this.”  Desert Hot Springs has $18 million in debt: $8 million in
certificates of participation and $10 million in bonds to repay
the legal judgment that drove the city to seek protection from
creditors 12 years ago.  San Bernardino, whose council voted for bankruptcy in
August 2012, and Stockton, which filed in June 2012, both cited
falling property-tax revenue from the housing-market collapse,
as well as rising labor and pension costs.  Aguer, Desert Hot Springs’s top fiscal officer since July,
said in an interview that the city’s problems stem less from
external factors than from “optimistic” projections by
previous city officials.  Desert Hot Springs last filed for bankruptcy in 2001,
saying it couldn’t pay a legal judgment of almost $6 million
awarded to a mobile-home-park developer that had been denied
permits for a project in the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Desert Hot Springs,  California  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  