-- Cameron Arrives in India Set for Lecture on Business Regulation
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-13T17:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/cameron-arrives-in-india-set-for-lecture-on-business-regulation.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
arrived in New Delhi today for a 23-hour visit with a message
for his Indian counterpart,  Manmohan Singh , on the need for
consistent business regulation.  Cameron, who’s stopping over on the way to the Commonwealth
summit in  Colombo ,  Sri Lanka , said India needs to deal fairly
with companies if it is to attract investors.  “India is a very attractive country for inward
investment,” Cameron told reporters on board his plane to the
Indian capital. “It’s attracted a lot, it’s got huge future
potential. But I’ll be making the argument that one of the best
ways to get that is stability, security, predictability and
fairness in front of the law.”  Cameron said he’ll raise cases like Newbury, England-based
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s $2.2 billion tax battle with the Indian
government over its 2007 acquisition of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s
Indian unit when he meets Singh tomorrow. Vodafone, the world’s
second-largest mobile-phone service provider, is also
challenging a decision by India’s Department of
Telecommunications to reject its application to renew licenses
for second-generation wireless services in key Indian cities.  “I’ve raised this case before and I’m sure I will raise
cases like that and perhaps that case again,” Cameron said.
“Access to the law and equality in front of the law is very
important to security and inward investment.”  The premier said that “it’s always good to ask before you
invest in a country, does the government get defeated in
court?”  Deal ‘Progress’  It’s Cameron’s third visit to  India  since becoming prime
minister in 2010, reflecting his keenness for British companies
to tap into the growth of emerging economies. The premier said
he hopes to “progress” business deals on the trip, without
giving further details.  He will meet with business and political leaders along with
academics and students during the visit to explore ways of
boosting trade and building on the personal, family and business
ties between the two countries.  Singh and Cameron will also discuss India’s decision to
boycott the summit in protest at the host nation’s human-rights
record. Cameron said he’ll highlight the treatment of Sri
Lanka’s Tamil minority since the country’s civil war, which
ended in 2009, and press for an investigation into the
government’s final assault, in which the  United Nations 
estimates 40,000 civilians were killed.  ‘Independent Inquiry’  “I don’t think you get anywhere by boycotting multilateral
events like this,” Cameron said. “I will be making some very
frank and direct points to the Sri Lankan government about human
rights, the treatment of Tamils and the need for a proper
independent inquiry.”  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and Navinchandra Ramgoolam of Mauritius will join Singh in not traveling to Sri
Lanka for the meeting of the 53-nation body, a decision Cameron
said he respects.  “You can’t lead if you’re not there and you can’t talk if
you’re not there,” Cameron said. “And on the issue of Sri
Lanka, we are shining a spotlight on the issue by going.”  Cameron will also travel to the north of the island, the
first world leader to do so since Sri Lanka became independent
from Britain in 1948, to meet people affected by the war and
talk with Tamil leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  New Delhi  at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  