-- Canadian Dollar Rallies From Two-Month Low on Central-Bank Bets
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-11-13T22:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/canada-dollar-rises-from-2-month-low-on-budget-surplus-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar rebounded from
almost the weakest level in two months on speculation the
Canadian economic recovery is gathering steam and Federal
Reserve policy makers will prolong its bond purchases.  Government bonds  rose for the first time since Nov. 7 after
the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday it will record a budget
surplus of C$3.7 billion ($3.53 billion) in the year starting
April 2015, up from C$800 million projected earlier. Oil,
Canada’s biggest export, climbed.  Janet Yellen , nominee for Fed
chairman, said the economy is “far short” of its potential and
must improve before the U.S. central bank can slow stimulus.  “It’s hard to find one smoking gun that’s caused the
move,” Don Mikolich, executive director of foreign exchange
sales at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone from
Toronto of the Canadian currency’s gain. “People may be hedging
their bets on tapering not starting in December, and the fiscal
news from Canada is supporting loonie strength.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is nicknamed for the
image of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent
to C$1.0457 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0509 yesterday, the weakest level since Sept. 5. One
Canadian dollar purchases 95.63 U.S. cents.  ‘Key Resistance’  “We’re bumping up against a key resistance level near
C$1.05, waiting for the next trigger through the key resistance
or backing away from it,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in a phone interview. Resistance
is a level on charts where sell orders, in the case for the  U.S.
dollar , may be clustered.  Canada’s top  credit rating  and stable outlook were affirmed
by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the nation’s predictable
policies and a “highly resilient” economy. The AAA grade and a
parallel rating from Moody’s Investors Service make Canada the
only Group of Seven country with a stable top credit rating from
both companies.  The currency of the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
rose against 15 of its 16 most-traded peers over the past month
on bets a strengthening American economy will prompt the Fed to
taper its $85 billion in monthly bond-buying under the
quantitative-easing stimulus strategy. The program has bolstered
global risk appetite while tending to depress the greenback.
Reports last week showed U.S. payrolls and gross domestic
product grew more than forecast.  At their September meeting, Fed policy makers voted
unexpectedly to keep the QE program unchanged, a decision they
repeated at an Oct. 29-30 session. Economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  last week predict the first tapering of bond
purchases won’t occur until March.  Yellen Testimony  Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman, will testify tomorrow at a
Senate Banking Committee hearing on her nomination to succeed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . She said in prepared testimony
unemployment is still too high and inflation is “expected’ to
remain below the Fed’s goal of 2 percent. She has supported the
asset purchases, which some lawmakers are using to justify
voting against her.  Crude oil for December delivery rallied as much as 1.6
percent to $94.54 a barrel in  New York  after closing yesterday
at $93.04, the lowest level since May. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials gained 0.7 percent.  The Canadian  10-year bond ’s advance pushed its yield down
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.58 percent.
It rose yesterday to 2.66 percent, the highest since Oct. 16.
The price of the 1.5 percent debt due in June 2023 increased 54
cents to C$90.94.  Thirty-year bond  yields decreased five basis
points to 3.14 percent.  Bond Auction  The  Bank of Canada  auctioned C$1.4 billion of 3.5 percent
securities today due in December 2045 at an average yield of
3.179 percent. The sale drew C$3.5 billion in bids, for a
coverage ratio, a gauge of demand that compares the amount bid
with the amount offered, of 2.53. The last sale of the
securities, a C$1.4 billion offering on May 22, yielded 2.55
percent and had a coverage ratio of 2.47.  The Bank of Canada won’t increase its overnight  lending
rate  until the first quarter of 2015, according to the median
estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey conducted
after the central bank’s last monetary-policy report on Oct. 23.
Economists as recently as Oct. 9 forecast a rate boost in the
fourth quarter of 2014.  Central-bank Governor Stephen Poloz’s decision to drop
predecessor  Mark Carney ’s leaning toward higher  interest rate 
has prompted currency strategists to cut their end-of-2014
forecast for the loonie by 3.8 percent in the past month to
C$1.06 per U.S. dollar, the biggest reduction among 50 currency
pairs, Bloomberg surveys show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  