-- Canada Heavy Oil Gains as Citgo Restarts Part of Unit
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-11-13T19:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/canada-heavy-oil-gains-as-citgo-restarts-part-of-unit.html
Canadian heavy crude gained strength
for a second day on the  spot market  as a Chicago-area refinery
restarted part of a crude unit damaged by fire.  Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s Lemont, Illinois,  refinery 
restarted a section of the crude unit on Nov. 11, the company
said in a statement late yesterday. Another damaged section of
the unit needs to be repaired and no timetable for its restart
has been set, the Houston-based company said.  Western Canadian Select, a blend of heavy oil-sands
bitumen, gained $1 a barrel to a $34.75 discount to U.S.
benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude, according to Calgary
oil broker Net Energy Inc. It was the strongest price for the
grade in two weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  WCS prices dropped to a $42 discount Nov. 5 from a $30
discount on Oct. 22, the day before the fire at the 170,500-barrel-a-day Lemont plant. The refinery takes as much as 10
percent of  Canada ’s heavy sour crude exports, according to an
estimate by  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc.
energy research firm in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Also contributing to WCS’s slide was a Nov. 1 fire in a
heavy crude unit at the Federated Co-operative Ltd.  refinery  in
Regina, Saskatchewan. The refinery normally processes as much as
60,000 barrels a day of Canadian heavy  crude oil . Repairs will
be completed “within a few weeks,” Daryl Oshanek, a spokesman
based in Saskatoon, said in an e-mail last week.  Canada will produce 1.48 million barrels a day of heavy
crude this year, according to a  forecast  by the country’s
 National Energy Board .  Syncrude, a light oil produced by oil-sands upgraders,
strengthened by 15 cents to a $13.35 discount to WTI, Net Energy
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  