-- Canada Affirmed at AAA by S&P on Dwindling Deficit, Recovery
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-11-13T19:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/canada-affirmed-at-aaa-by-s-p-on-economic-resilience-stability.html
Canada’s top  credit rating  and
stable outlook were affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited
the nation’s predictable policies and a “resilient” economy.  The AAA rating and a parallel grade from Moody’s Investors
Service make Canada the only Group of Seven country with a
stable top credit rating from both companies. Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  said yesterday the federal government will record a
budget surplus of C$3.7 billion ($3.53 billion) in the year
starting April 2015, up from C$800 million projected earlier.  “The stable outlook reflects our expectation that
recovering growth and declining fiscal deficits at all levels of
government will contribute to the net general government debt
burden stabilizing against a backdrop of modest current account
deficits and considerable monetary flexibility,” S&P said in a
statement.  The rating company forecast real per-capita gross domestic
product will expand by 0.6 percent in 2013 and by more than 1
percent in 2014, and that the  unemployment rate  will remain 7
percent in 2013 and into 2014. Over the next three years,  Canada 
will need to rely more on business investment to sustain growth,
offsetting curtailed spending by the government and consumers.  The world’s 11th-largest economy has been hobbled by what
Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem called an “elusive” shift
to growth led by exports and business investment rather than
indebted consumers.  Correction Risk  Record household debt, at more than 163 percent of
disposable income, “raises the risk of an abrupt correction in
the real estate market in the event of an unexpected rise in
unemployment,” S&P said. While such a scenario could weaken the
nation’s banks, it’s unlikely to destabilize the financial
system, S&P said, because it is safeguarded by “strong capital
levels” and tightly regulated.  In its last policy statement Oct. 23, the  Bank of Canada 
lowered its forecast for economic growth this year to 1.6
percent and to 2.3 percent for 2014. In July, the projections
were for growth of 1.8 percent and 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  