-- Canadian Solar Returns to Profit as Project Sales Surge
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-11-13T22:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/canadian-solar-returns-to-profit-as-project-sales-surge.html
Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , the best-performing solar manufacturer this year, reported its first
quarterly profit in more than two years as sales of  power plants 
surged.  Net income for the third quarter was $27.7 million, or 56
cents a share, compared with a loss of $43.7 million, or $1.01 a
share, a year earlier, the Guelph, Ontario-based company said in
a statement today. Revenue increased 29 percent to $490.9
million, with 41 percent coming from sales of solar farms.  The company is focusing its efforts on selling power
plants, which are more profitable than photovoltaic panels.
That’s the same strategy used by  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the only
profitable company in the past year in the Bloomberg Industries
Global Large Solar Energy Index of 15 suppliers.  “Our success has been mainly driven” by the company’s
large-scale project development business, Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman Shawn Qu said today on a conference call
with analysts. “We are making major progress in our business
transformation from a module manufacturer into a one-stop shop
and provider of solar-power solutions.”  Revenue from selling solar farms accounted for 26 percent
of the company’s total in the second quarter and 22 percent in
the third quarter of 2012.  Better Visibility  Canadian Solar has more than 1 gigawatt of future solar
farms in its pipeline. In addition, the company’s “soft
pipeline, of early-stage projects, exceeds 3 gigawatts,” Qu
said on the call. “This extends the visibility into our
business beyond the next four to five years.”  Canadian Solar gained 13 percent to $32 at the close in  New
York . It has increased more than ninefold this year, the most on
the Global Large Solar Index. It hasn’t reported a  profit  since
the second quarter of 2011.  Large solar manufacturers are returning to profit, helped
by a surge in demand from  China  and  Japan . Increased orders have
also pushed up photovoltaic panel prices, widening profit
margins.  Canadian, which manufactures panels in China, shipped 478
megawatts in the third quarter and expects to ship 480 megawatts
to 500 megawatts in the current quarter. It expects total 2013
shipments of 1.75 gigawatts to 1.77 gigawatts, compared with a
previous forecast of 1.6 gigawatts to 1.8 gigawatts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  