-- Carlsberg Rises on Maintained 2013 Forecast Amid Russia Woes
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-11-13T08:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/carlsberg-lowers-russian-beer-forecast-as-earnings-decline.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLB)  shares rose the most
in four months after the world’s fourth-largest brewer
maintained its forecast for full-year profit while lowering its
expectations for the Russian market.  Operating profit this year will be about 10 billion Danish
kroner ($1.8 billion), the maker of Tuborg beer said,
reiterating an earlier forecast. Net income will probably rise
by a mid-single-digit percentage, it also said. Earnings and
company forecasts exclude one-time items. The stock rose as much
as 3.8 percent in Copenhagen, the most on an intraday basis
since July 4, and traded 2.8 percent higher at 564 kroner at
9:40 a.m. local time.  Investors should be “impressed” that the brewer
maintained its full-year forecast despite adverse foreign-exchange movements and “exceptionally tough conditions” in
Eastern  Europe , Jonathan Fyfe, an analyst at Mirabaud Securities
said in a note to clients. “Carlsberg’s share price has
shrugged off increasingly gloomy news from its peer group over
the last few weeks, so we believe the market was braced for a
particularly poor quarter and a guidance cut.”  Russia this year changed the classification of beer to that
of an alcoholic drink from its previous categorization as a
food. Since the change, some urban kiosks that used to sell
Carlsberg beer have closed and the brewer has said it has taken
longer than anticipated for consumers to adapt to the change.
Russia, once a hot spot for brewers looking for growth, has also
hiked taxes and curbed advertising in its efforts to reduce
drinking.  Russia Cut  The Copenhagen-based brewer in August lowered its forecast
for the Russian market and today cut it further. It now
anticipates a high-single-digit percentage decline for the year,
having previously forecast a mid-single-digit drop. Its bigger
rivals have also reported difficult business conditions in the
country. Carlsberg said it increased prices in  Russia  in March,
May, June and September. Eastern Europe, including Russia,
represented about 26 percent of third-quarter sales.  “The closures of non-permanent outlets and the slower
growth of the Russian economy, which has deteriorated consumer
sentiment further, continue to impact the beer market
negatively,” the Danish company said in a statement today.  Falling Volume  Earnings before interest and taxes for the three months
ended Sept. 30 fell to 3.43 billion kroner from 3.6 billion
kroner a year earlier, Carlsberg said. The average of 15 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 3.45 billion kroner.  “The western European countries were surprisingly good
both on revenue and earnings, but Asia and eastern Europe were
really bad,” Michael Friis Jorgensen, an analyst at Alm. Brand
A/S, said by telephone, adding Carlsberg’s maintained full-year
earnings forecast is a positive surprise.  The maintained 2013 guidance is a positive signal on cost
management at the brewer, Nordea Bank AB said in a note to
clients.  So-called organic beer volume, which excludes acquisitions
and disposals, fell 5 percent in the quarter, as 1 percent
growth in  Asia  and 2 percent growth in western Europe failed to
counteract a 15 percent decline in eastern Europe. Revenue
declined to 18 billion kroner from 18.6 billion kroner a year
earlier, missing analysts’ estimates of 18.4 billion.  Carlsberg may be turning attention to Asia. The company is
eying about a half-dozen potential candidates, especially in
Asia, including Chinese companies Tsingtao Brewery Co. and
Beijing Yanjing Brewery Co. for a purchase, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Carlsberg said it took several steps to strengthen its
growth profile during the first nine months of this year. The
efforts were focused on Asia where the company started to
construct the world’s first international brewery in Myanmar and
a new brewery in the Yunnan province in  China . It also
increasing shareholdings in Asian assets.  Carlsberg Foundation, which holds 75 percent of votes and
30 percent of share capital in the brewer, announced last month
that it will drop the requirement to hold at least 25 percent of
Carlsberg’s share capital. The move gives the brewer increased
financial flexibility to pursue acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  