-- Carney’s Introductory Remarks at Inflation News Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2013-11-13T11:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/carney-s-introductory-remarks-at-inflation-news-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney ’s opening
remarks at a press conference on the BOE’s quarterly Inflation
Report.  Inflation is now as low as it has been since 2009. Jobs are
being created at a rate of 60,000  per month. The economy is
growing at its fastest pace in 6 years.  For the first time in a long time, you don’t have to be an
optimist to see the glass as half full. The recovery has finally
taken hold.  It is welcome that the economy is growing again, but a return to
growth is not yet a return to normality. Nearly one million more
people are out of work than in the years before the financial
crisis. Many others in part time work would prefer to be working
full time. Real wages are not yet increasing. And the economy
remains 2.5% smaller than it was in 2008.  A strong and sustained recovery is needed to put people back in
work and use up the slack in the economy.  A sustained recovery requires a revival of business investment.  So far the upswing in growth has been driven by a modest
recovery in  consumer spending  and a revival in housing
investment. That is not surprising – we cannot expect to see
strong export demand from the UK’s major trading partners, and
business investment typically takes time to pick up during
recoveries.  The eventual recovery in business investment will be supported
by the continuing improvement in credit conditions as our
banking system gains in strength, and by reduced uncertainty
about future prospects. While recent surveys of investment
intentions have been encouraging, the handover from household to
business spending may not be smooth. Quarterly growth rates of
GDP are likely to ease back a little next year and, over the
forecast horizon, growth is likely to remain modest compared to
past recoveries.  A sustained recovery requires  price stability . CPI inflation has
fallen back unexpectedly sharply, to 2.2% in October. It may
tick up slightly in coming months as recently announced utility
price increases take effect. But the lower starting point, an
appreciation of sterling in recent months, and persistently weak
domestic price pressures mean that inflation is projected to be
significantly lower than in August. Under the assumption that
Bank Rate follows a path implied by market yields, the 2% target
is reached a full year earlier and inflation is expected to
remain persistently a little below the target in the later part
of the forecast period. The MPC assesses the chance of inflation
being at or above 2.5% towards the end of next year to be only
around one in three – much lower than in August. The MPC also
judges that inflation expectations remain sufficiently well
anchored.  A sustained recovery requires confidence that exceptionally
stimulative monetary policy will be maintained in the face of
weak foreign demand and on-going repair of household, bank and
government balance sheets. Our forward guidance means the MPC
will not even consider raising  Bank Rate  at least until the
 unemployment rate  reaches 7%. Through that guidance we are
giving businesses and households the confidence that interest
rates won’t go up until jobs, incomes and spending are
recovering at a sustainable pace.  In line with the unexpected strength of demand, the unemployment
rate has fallen a little more rapidly than expected in August.
That is to be welcomed: 100,000 more people are in work as a
result.  The MPC continues to make the conservative assumption that
productivity recovers only gradually so that none of the gap
relative to its pre-crisis path is closed over the forecast
period. As a result, stronger near-term growth causes
unemployment to fall faster than expected in August. Based on
the assumption that Bank Rate follows market  interest rates ,
we judge there to be a two in five chance that unemployment will
reach the 7% threshold by the end of next year, and a three in
five chance that it will have done so by the end of 2015.  Although the MPC now expects the 7% threshold to be reached
earlier than we did in August, what really matters is what we
will learn about the economy along the journey to that
threshold. Already, the Bank has revised up its view of the
average hours people want to work, which implies somewhat more
slack in the labour market than previously assumed. Our views on
productivity will also evolve as the recovery progresses.  It is important to remember that the unemployment threshold is a
staging post for assessing policy, not a trigger for an
automatic increase in Bank Rate. When the threshold is reached,
the MPC will set policy to balance the outlook for inflation
against the need to provide continued support to the recovery in
output and employment.  As one illustration of the potential trade-offs, compare the
MPC’s projections conditioned on the alternative assumption that
Bank Rate is held constant until the end of the forecast
horizon. These projections show materially stronger growth –
nearly 1 per cent of GDP – and more rapidly falling
unemployment, even though inflation is close to the target by
the end of the forecast period. Such policy trade-offs will
inform future MPC decisions on the timing of any Bank Rate
increase after the threshold is reached.  With the recovery taking hold, our task now is to secure it. The
Bank will remain vigilant to risks to financial stability from
the housing sector, in particular from rapid increases in  house
prices  and household leverage. We have a direct line of sight on
the housing market across all of our responsibilities, and any
potential risks will in the first instance be addressed by the
Financial Policy Committee. We will continue the process of
repairing the financial sector. And we will continue to provide
exceptional monetary stimulus so that British households and
businesses have, for the first time in a long time, the
confidence not just that the glass is
half full, but that it will be filled.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at +41-44-2244146 or
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  