-- Cellcom Jumps to 18-Month High on Pact Report: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-11-13T14:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/cellcom-jumps-to-18-month-high-on-pact-report-tel-aviv-mover.html
Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  jumped to an 18-month high after a newspaper report that the nation’s biggest
mobile phone provider is considering a network sharing pact.  The  stock  climbed 4 percent to 45.76 shekels, the highest
level since May 2012, at 3:57 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The volume of
shares traded was 2.3 times the three-month daily average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Cellcom was the biggest gainer on
Israel’s benchmark TA-25  Index (TA-25) , which fell 0.3 percent.  Cellcom is in initial talks with Pelephone Communications
Ltd. to set up a joint fourth-generation network, Calcalist
reported today, without saying how it got the information.
Competitor Partner Communications Co. last week said it entered
a pact with the wireless unit of Hot Telecommunication System
Ltd., prompting the stock’s biggest rally since 2003 on Nov. 10.  “There is a positive sentiment around the share on
expectations the company will sign a network sharing agreement
with another cellular operator that will enable it to cut
capital and operating expenditure,” Ori Licht, head of research
at Tel Aviv-based IBI- Israel  Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said
by phone. “The dividend payment is small candy.”  Cellcom and Pelephone spokeswomen, who asked not to be
identified citing company policy, declined to comment when
contacted by  Bloomberg News  today.  Netanya, Israel-based Cellcom said yesterday it will pay a
dividend for the first time in six quarters as efficiency
measures and savings in capital expenditure spurred an increase
in free cash flow. Monthly  average  revenue per user in the third
quarter was 79.60 shekels ($22.55) versus 79.7 shekels in the
previous three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Competition in the cellular market triggered a 51 percent
decline in Cellcom shares last year, making it the worst-performer on the  stock index  in the  period .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  