-- CEZ Selling $50 Million Phone Network to Counter Net Drop
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-11-13T11:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/cez-selling-50-million-phone-network-to-counter-net-drop.html
CEZ AS, the biggest power utility in
the  Czech Republic , is selling its telecommunications network to
save costs after its quarterly profit shrank to a two-year low.  The utility is offering assets including optical cables
running along the country’s high-voltage power lines for a fixed
price of 1 billion koruna ($50 million), company spokesman
Ladislav Kriz said today. CEZ will purchase telecommunications
services from the buyer, he said in an e-mailed response to
 Bloomberg News .  Prague-based CEZ lowered its full-year profit forecast by
6.7 percent yesterday after reporting a third-quarter profit
that missed all analyst estimates because of asset impairments.
The company is battling a slump in electricity prices and weak
demand as the country struggles to recover from a recession.  The divestment seeks “to achieve savings and streamline
telecommunications services to individual companies within the
CEZ group,” Kriz said.  Telefonica Czech Republic AS and the Czech unit of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  have shown interest in CEZ’s tender that will pick
the buyer of assets and service provider, the spokesman said.  Shares Drop  Net income  attributable to common shareholders for July to
September shrank to 3.8 billion koruna from 6.5 billion koruna a
year earlier, CEZ said yesterday. That was the lowest profit
since the third quarter of 2011 and less than the 6.3 billion-koruna median estimate of 10 analysts polled by Bloomberg.  The shares fell 1.7 percent to 558.6 koruna by 11:15 a.m.
in Prague, sliding from a six-month high. They are down 18
percent this year, compared with an 8.5 percent gain for western
 Europe ’s Stoxx 600 Utilities Index, which CEZ joined Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  