-- China’s Stocks Drop Most in Seven Weeks After Plenum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-13T08:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-after-end-of-plenum.html
China’s stocks  slumped the most in
almost seven weeks after a top-level Communist Party meeting
disappointed investors looking for details on policy shifts to
combat a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  and coal producer  China 
Shenhua Energy Co. led  declines  for energy producers. Ping An
Bank Co. and China Minsheng Banking Corp. slid more than 4
percent.  Aerosun Corp. (600501)  and Beijing Aerospace Changfeng Co. both
jumped 10 percent after the government said it will create a
committee to better coordinate national security issues.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.8 percent to
2,087.94 at the close, the biggest decline since Sept. 26. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-traded Chinese
shares slid 2.7 percent. China elevated the role of markets in
the nation’s economic strategy while stopping short of unveiling
detailed policy shifts, after President Xi Jinping oversaw a
gathering of Communist Party leaders in Beijing.  “There’s nothing that has exceeded expectations,” said Wu
Kan, a Shanghai-based  money manager  at Dragon Life Insurance
Co., which oversees $3.3 billion. “The market will probably
continue to correct going forward.”  The CSI 300 Index lost 2.2 percent to 2,288.12. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index fell 0.6 percent yesterday. The
 Shanghai  Composite has dropped 14 percent from this year’s high
set on Feb. 6 amid concern economic growth will slow in the
fourth quarter. The measure trades at 8.3 times projected profit
for the next 12 months, compared with the seven-year average of
15.3, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  SOE Reform  The communique, published by the official Xinhua News
Agency yesterday, reiterated the role of state ownership while
saying development of the non-public sector will be
“encouraged.” Reform of state-owned enterprises is the
“biggest disappointment,”  Wang Tao , an economist at UBS AG,
wrote in a report dated yesterday. “SOE reform seems to have
not been considered a priority by the plenum. The communique
used the same wording as ten years earlier.”  The document didn’t discuss specific issues such as
regional borrowing,  interest rates  or the one-child policy,
while referring generally to giving farmers more property
rights. More details on decisions from the plenum will probably
be released within a week after the meeting, Macquarie Capital
Securities Ltd. said in a report Nov. 11.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the plenum’s results were
“insufficient” to drive Chinese stocks higher, while Bocom
International Holdings Co.’s strategist Hao Hong advised
investors in a report to “brace themselves for global sell-offs
in the coming days.”  ‘Biggest Disappointment’  Energy and financial shares were the biggest drags in the
Shanghai Composite, with these stocks accounting for the 10
biggest losses by points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Energy producers, financial companies and industrial
companies account for 76 percent of the index, data showed.  China Petroleum & Chemical, known as Sinopec, lost 1.7
percent to 4.68  yuan .  PetroChina (601857)  Co. decreased 1.5 percent to
7.65 yuan. China uses its biggest  oil companies , of which
PetroChina is the largest, to control domestic fuel prices and
secure energy supplies from overseas to meet the burgeoning
needs of the economy. China Shenhua Energy, the largest coal
producer, retreated 1.1 percent to 15.97 yuan.  Ping An Bank retreated 5.1 percent to 13.33 yuan. Minsheng
Banking dropped 4.4 percent to 8.55 yuan.  China Merchants Bank
Co. (600036)  fell 3.3 percent to 10.33 yuan.  Defense, Media  “The market may be disappointed at the lack of words on
financial reforms, as the only area it appeared was ’improving
financial markets’,” said UBS’ Wang. The language could mean
the development of  capital markets  including the  bond market  as
well as interest-rate liberalization and capital-account
opening, she wrote.  China’s 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield to the
highest level since 2008. The yield on the 4.08 percent
government bonds due August 2023 increased four basis points to
4.49 percent as of 3:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data from
the Interbank Funding Center.  Aerosun surged by the daily limit to 8.47 yuan and Beijing
Aerospace Changfeng jumped 10 percent to 11.89 yuan. Defense
stocks will get a “positive response” due to their
“unexpected inclusion” in the communique, Goldman Sachs
analysts including Helen Zhu said in a report today. The
Communist Party said the country would set up a state committee
to better coordinate security issues as it expands its military
reach and faces growing dissent at home.  Shanghai Xinhua Media Co. (600825)  gained 5 percent to 8.59 yuan.
Jiangsu Phoenix Publishing & Media Corp. increased 3 percent to
10.58 yuan. Media-related companies should benefit after the
communique mentioned promoting a “modern culture market,”  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  analysts including David Cui said in a report.  “We believe land reform, free trade zones, national
security, and state-owned enterprises may become long-lasting
investment themes,”  UBS AG (UBSN)  strategist Chen Li, wrote in a
report dated today. “Household registration reform, population
policy, and financial reform remain to be seen, and may have a
short-term negative impact on related thematic investment in
terms of sentiment.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  