-- China Buys Second North Sea Crude Cargo This Year, Fixtures Show
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-11-13T16:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/china-buys-second-north-sea-crude-cargo-this-year-fixtures-show.html
China  will receive a tanker of North
Sea crude for the second time this year, according to fixture
reports from two shipbrokers.  The rare arbitrage opened after the  spread  between
benchmarks Dated Brent and Dubai narrowed to the smallest in
seven months. China International United Petroleum & Chemical
Corp., known as Unipec, booked the suezmax SKS Satilla to load
at Ekofisk Teesside terminal in  England  for Ningbo from Nov. 20
to Nov. 25, according to fixture lists from PF Bassoe AS and
Optima Shipbrokers.  This unusual purchase comes after  Chile  bought two cargoes
of November Ekofisk, one of four grades that make up Dated
Brent. Refiners in South Korea, who get a 3 percent import
waiver, will load three very large crude carriers of Forties
blend this month. Oseberg and Brent are the other two components
of Dated Brent, which is used to price more than half the
world’s oil. China typically buys crude from nearby countries as
well as the Middle East,  Russia  and West Africa.  “An improvement in North Sea output as maintenance drew to
a close at the end of the third quarter and early this quarter
has certainly played its part in Brent’s weakness,” Virendra
Chauhan, an analyst at Energy Aspects in London, said today.  Dated Brent’s premium to Dubai fell to $2.61 a barrel on
Nov. 7, the smallest gap since April 24, according to data from
PVM Oil Associates Ltd. The spread between the two benchmarks
has since rebounded to $3.62 today. The narrower the spread, the
more attractive Brent-priced crudes are for Asian buyers.  Atlantic Basin  “With the Brent-Dubai EFS near $2, Asian refiners should
start to look at Atlantic basin crudes,” he said in an e-mail.  The suezmax, able to haul as much as 1 million barrels of
oil, will be the first to leave the region for China since the
VLCC Marbat set sail from Forties Hound Point terminal in
 Scotland  to Yangpu. The supertanker, which reached the Chinese
port yesterday, according to shiptracking data, is the first to
delivery North Sea crude to the Asian nation since August 2012,
 import  data from the Beijing-based Customs General
Administration show.  Lv Dapeng, a Beijing-based spokesman for China
Petrochemical Corp., Unipec’s parent company, didn’t answer
three calls seeking comment.  Leo Glory  Two suezmaxes loaded with Ekofisk left Teesside earlier
this month for the Chilean port of Quintero for the first time
since May 29, 2012, shiptracking data show.  Brokers can report tanker charters when the accords are
provisional and the bookings are subject to cancellations.
Unipec booked the VLCC Leo Glory to load from Forties Hound
Point on May 30 for China. The vessel never made the journey,
ship tracking data from Bloomberg shows.  South Korea is by far the  largest buyer  of North Sea crude
because of a Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. The
accord, signed July 2011, triggered an unprecedented flow of
North Sea crude to the Asian nation.  Imports from the North Sea will jump to the most in 18
months in November with the purchase of about 6 million barrels,
shipping data show. The nation has purchased an average 2.3
million barrels a month of crude from the U.K., according to
data from Korea National Oil Corp.  Glencore Xstrata Plc, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc have
each chartered a VLCC to take Forties to South Korea in
November, according to five shipbrokers including JGO
Shipbrokers AS.  Daily exports of North Sea BFOE crudes will jump in
November to the most in 21 months, loading programs obtained by
Bloomberg News show. Shipments will average 1 million barrels a
day, up 15 percent from a revised 870,968 barrels in October,
according to the plans. This is the highest since February 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in  London  at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  