-- China Bond Yield Rises to Five-Year High on Rate Freedom Signals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-13T04:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/china-bond-yield-rises-to-five-year-high-on-rate-freedom-signals.html
China’s 10-year bonds fell, pushing
the yield to the highest level since 2008, after the nation’s
leaders reinforced a commitment to free up  interest rates .  Market forces will be “decisive” in allocating resources,
according to a communique released last night after a four-day
economic planning meeting. The outline, which lacked specific
details, elevated the role of markets, which was described as
“basic” until as recently as last month, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 increased two basis points to 4.47 percent as of 11:20 a.m.
in  Shanghai , according to data from the Interbank Funding
Center. That was the highest level for a  benchmark  10-year rate
since August 2008, ChinaBond data show. The Ministry of Finance
sold at least 28 billion  yuan  ($4.6 billion) of seven-year bonds
today at a 4.515 percent yield, according to a trader at a
 finance company  that participates in the sales. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for a 4.36 percent yield.  “The expectation that interest-rate liberalization will be
pushed forward is now deep-rooted in investors’ minds,” said
Zhang Guoyu, an analyst at Orient Futures Co. in Shanghai.
“This is why bond yields have been climbing steadily
recently.”  The People’s Bank of China added 9 billion yuan to the
financial system via seven-day reverse-repurchase contracts
yesterday. The central bank asked lenders today to submit orders
for 91-day bills, 28-day  repurchase agreements , and 14-day
reverse repos as usual before an auction tomorrow, according to
a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the sales.  Fiscal Reform  The communique also talked about building a modern fiscal
system that supports the initiative of both central and local
governments, stating that  China  needs to improve its budget
management and taxation systems in a bid to make
responsibilities of government agencies match properly with what
they spend.  The cost of one-year  swaps , the fixed payment needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was little changed at
4.40 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Third Plenum’s communique is not exciting,” Bank of
America Corp.’s economists led by Hong Kong-based Lu Ting wrote
in a report yesterday. As expectations on reforms were greatly
raised in the past month, markets could be slightly
disappointed, according to the report. The benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of shares fell 1 percent today.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of financing
availability in the banking system, increased nine basis points
to 3.69 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 3.52 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Oct. 21.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  