-- Cisco First-Quarter Sales Fall Short of Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-11-13T23:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/cisco-first-quarter-sales-fall-short-of-estimates.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of computer-networking equipment, gave quarterly
profit and sales forecasts that missed analysts’ estimates on
sluggish emerging-market demand and weak corporate spending.  Profit excluding some items will be 45 cents to 47 cents a
share in the period ending in January, the  San Jose , California-based company said on a conference call today. Sales will
decline 8 percent to 10 percent from a year earlier, indicating
revenue of $10.9 billion to $11.1 billion. That compares with
analysts’ average projection for profit of 52 cents on sales of
$12.6 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  has cut prices to
bolster sales of switches and routers, seeking to fend off
competition from Huawei Technologies Co.,  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) 
and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Sales in developing regions were less
than anticipated, and there was a “lack of confidence among
business leaders” because of the outlook for the economy, as
well as the shutdown of the U.S. government in October, Chambers
said on the call.  “That’s a wide miss,” said  Mark McKechnie , an analyst at
Evercore Partners LLC in  New York  who has the equivalent of a
hold rating on the stock. “That’s going to bring up questions
about the health of end-markets.”  Cisco dropped as much as 11 percent in extended trading.
The shares advanced 1.1 percent to $24 at the close in New York,
leaving them up 22 percent this year.  Difficult Quarter  Cisco’s board also authorized $15 billion in additional
stock buybacks.  First-quarter revenue was $12.1 billion, Cisco said in a
statement. That compares with analysts’ average projection for
sales of $12.3 billion, according to  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit excluding some items was 53 cents a share,
compared with analysts’ average projection for 51 cents.  “This is not the quarter that’s going to light a fire
under the stock,” said  Keith Goddard , president of Capital
Advisors Inc. in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , which owns 405,000 Cisco
shares. “We’ll hold the stock, but it’s a low-quality
quarter.”  Net income for the first quarter, which ended Oct. 26, fell
to $2 billion, or 37 cents a share, from $2.09 billion, or 39
cents, a year earlier. Gross margin was 63 percent for the
period, compared with analysts’ prediction for 61.9 percent. The
company had  forecast  61 percent to 62 percent.  Cisco’s biggest challenge is from Asian hardware
manufacturers building basic routers and switches for companies
such as Facebook Inc. and Google Inc., which use software to
boost the speed, security and efficiency of their networks. At
the same time, Cisco is seeking to generate sales of its own
equipment featuring advanced tools, competing with  Palo Alto
Networks Inc. (PANW) , Arista Networks Inc. and other rivals.  Job Cuts  Chambers says that most customers will continue to need
well-tested systems that combine its hardware and software to
keep up with skyrocketing traffic as billions of tablets,
smartphones and other devices come onto the network.  Chambers, facing a sputtering turnaround effort, in August
said Cisco would eliminate 4,000 positions, or 5 percent of the
workforce. Including those cuts, Cisco will have eliminated
12,300 in the past two years as it has exited consumer
businesses while focusing on corporate software and technology
services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  