-- Citigroup-Backed HBL to Make Auto, Inverter Batteries
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2013-11-14T04:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/citigroup-backed-hbl-to-make-auto-inverter-batteries.html
HBL Power Systems Ltd. (HBPS) , an Indian
maker of batteries for phone towers, plans to offer the electric
cells for two-wheelers and home backup power systems to help
more than double sales in four years.  Sales at the  company , in which  Citigroup Inc. (C)  holds a 6.6
percent stake, may climb to 30 billion rupees ($473 million) by
March 2017, boosted by the additional products, Executive
Director T. Venugopal said in an interview. It will  spend  1
billion rupees over the next 12 months to set up facilities to
make automobile and home power backup batteries, he said.  A slowdown in the expansion of  India ’s phone networks after
graft allegations and regulatory hurdles is prompting the
Hyderabad-based manufacturer to look at markets least hurt by a
decade-low growth in Asia’s third-biggest economy. The firm will
compete with  Exide Industries Ltd. (EXID)  and a unit of  Schneider
Electric SA (SU)  for a share of the two-wheeler market and households
dealing with frequent power outages.  “Conventional segments are not showing growth for us, so
much so that our share in telecom has fallen to 50 percent from
70 percent,” said Venugopal. “We see inverter and two-wheeler
autos as the new engines of growth.”  Silent, Convenient  Demand for inverters is rising in the world’s second-most
populous country as inadequate availability of fuel, losses at
state-owned utilities and mining curbs weigh on power
generation. Peak electricity supply fell 4.2 percent short of
demand in the seven months through October, according to the
 Central Electricity Authority.   The market for inverters in India would’ve more than
tripled to $1.4 billion by March 2017 from 2010, Frost &
Sullivan  estimates .  Amara Raja Batteries Ltd. (AMRJ) , 26 percent owned by  Johnson
Controls Inc. (JCI) , said last month it will start making batteries
for inverters by March 2016 to reduce reliance on the automotive
industry. Inverters, an electrical power converter that changes
direct current from a battery to alternating current, have
gained popularity for use in homes because they are silent and
convenient to use.  HBL’s  revenue , excluding units, rose 10 percent to 12
billion rupees in the year ended March 31, with
telecommunications and industrial applications accounting for 65
percent.  Net income  more than doubled in the year to 204 million
rupees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of the company fell 0.5 percent to 10.05 rupees as
of 10:05 a.m. in Mumbai trading. They have declined 41 percent
this year, compared with the 5.5 percent gain in the benchmark
 S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)   Dealer Network  HBL needs a strong dealer network to win share of a market
already dominated by Amara Raja and Exide in the automotive
segment and Su-Kam Power Systems Ltd. and Schneider’s unit
Luminous Power Technologies Pvt., which are leaders in
inverters, said Rajasekhar R., an analyst at Cholamandalam
Securities Ltd. in Chennai.  The company plans to double its distributors to 1,000 in a
year, according to Venugopal, compared with about 21,000 for
Amara Raja and 50,000 for Exide.  “It would be difficult to match the kind of brand recall
its rivals have,” Rajasekhar said. “It would need huge
investment. The best way is to look at gaining at the expense of
the unbranded sector, especially in the rural areas.”  A rebound in two-wheeler sales driven by rural demand after
the best monsoon rains since 2007 is brightening the prospects
for battery makers even as car sales headed for the second
annual decline amid slowing economic growth.  Plugging Gap  Sales of scooters and motorcycles jumped 18 percent to a
record 1.5 million units in October, according to data provided
by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers. Deliveries
rose in the three months ended September after falling in the
previous two quarters.  HBL plans to target the replacement market initially to
build a track record before approaching vehicle manufacturers to
sell its batteries, Venugopal said.  The company started in 1977 with batteries for aircraft and
later for industrial, defense and railway electronics, according
to its  website . It also makes the power systems for submarines,
torpedoes, missiles, armored vehicles and tanks.  “It is too early to say when we may garner a sizeable
market share,” Venugopal said. “But we firmly believe the
Indian battery market has space for a third major player, and we
want to plug that gap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  