-- Clegg Distances Himself From Cameron Call for Smaller U.K. State
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/clegg-distances-himself-from-cameron-call-for-smaller-u-k-state.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  will distance himself from  David Cameron ’s call for
permanently lower state spending, saying his Liberal Democrats
aren’t ideologically wedded to budget cuts.  Cameron used a speech two days ago to argue for a “leaner,
more efficient state,” as his Tories and the other main parties
seek to set out distinct strategies before the 2015 election. He
criticized the Labour opposition’s demands for higher
expenditure “as if somehow you measure the compassion of the
government by the amount of other people’s money it can spend.”  Clegg, who’s backed the Tory-led coalition’s austerity
program since 2010, will tell supermarket workers in a speech in
 London  today his “party didn’t come into government just to
make cuts,” according to extracts released by his office. He’ll
also attack Labour leader  Ed Miliband ’s campaign focus on
inflation outstripping wages, saying it’s a result of Labour
having “lost the bigger economic argument.”  The cost of living has become the focal point of British
politics as the economic debate has shifted away from the
effects of the government’s austerity program. Cameron is
pinning his political hopes on the gap between wages and
household costs easing before 2015 and voters taking heart from
a strengthening economy.  Growth accelerated  to its fastest pace
in more than three years in the third quarter, while  inflation
slowed  to the lowest level in a year last month.  Voters’ Views  So far, that argument hasn’t been won, polls indicate. A
ComRes Ltd. poll Oct. 18-20 of 2,018 voters found 71 percent of
respondents saying they haven’t personally benefited from any
economic growth in the past six months. Labour is leading in
polls of voting intentions.  Clegg’s electoral pitch aims to convince voters that
another coalition is desirable and viable, as his party is
unlikely to ever command power on its own. A majority Tory
government, he argues, wouldn’t deliver socially just policies,
while a Labour-only administration would undermine austerity.
Labour lost power in 2010 after 13 years.  “Don’t be fooled again: you cannot afford Labour,” Clegg
will say. “Let loose in government on their own they would
wreck the recovery -- costing jobs, driving up  interest rates 
and undermining the growth needed to cut tax bills and fund
public services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  