-- Bill Clinton Calls for Obama to Honor Pledge on Insurance
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-11-13T21:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/clinton-s-word-put-pressure-on-obama-to-fix-health-law.html
The Obama administration today
indicated it was willing to consider Democratic legislation to
halt some of the hundreds of thousands of health insurance
policy cancellations that have raised alarm among voters and
lawmakers.  A proposal by Louisiana Senator  Mary Landrieu  and other
Democrats to let individuals keep their current health-care
policies as long as they’re current on payments “shares the
goal” of President  Barack Obama  for fixing the health-care law,
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  While he and other White House officials previously
stressed they were searching for solutions without congressional
action, Carney said today “that does not preclude other
avenues.”  “We’re going to work with her and we’re going to work with
others,” Carney said. “We’re open to, as I said, both
legislative and administrative solutions.”  The administration is working to address the latest hurdle
for the health-care law following meetings between Obama and his
advisers with congressional Democrats over the past week and
remarks yesterday by former President  Bill Clinton , who said
Obama should keep his repeated pledge that Americans wouldn’t
lose coverage they liked when the law took effect.  Honoring Commitment  “Even if it takes a change to the law, the president
should honor the commitment the federal government made to those
people and let them keep what they’ve got,” Clinton  said  in an
interview with the online magazine  Ozy .  Obama last week offered a public  apology  over the
cancellations and had a White House meeting with Senate
Democrats who face voters in 2014 to ask for patience as the
administration works to remedy the troubled rollout of the law.  House Democrats today confronted David Simas, the deputy
senior adviser to the president, and Mike Hash, the director of
the Office of Health Reform at the  Department of Health  and
Human Services, during a closed-door meeting.  The administration is seeking to quell dissent among
Democrats before a vote in the House later this week on a
proposal from Michigan Republican Representative  Fred Upton  to
let individuals keep existing policies through next year.  Republican Plan  The White House says Upton’s measure would undermine the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act by letting insurers
“sell new policies that were substandard,” Carney said.  Obama plans to announce a course of action “sooner rather
than later,” Carney said without being specific.  At issue are health insurance policies purchased by
individuals. The law says that health insurance policies that
fail to offer added benefits, such as prescription drug coverage
and free preventive care, can’t be sold after this year even if
they’re cheaper.  While it includes a clause that exempts policies in effect
when the law was enacted in March 2010 as long as no major
changes were made, hundreds of thousands of Americans received
notices from their insurers that their policies were being
canceled next year.  The rollout of the law, known as Obamacare, has been beset
by computer flaws hampering consumers’ ability to sign up on the
federal healthcare.gov website, questions about the security of
private information, and complaints by individuals who are
losing their insurance plans and face premium increases for new
policies.  The administration said today that about 106,000 people in
the U.S. signed up for private health insurance through
Obamacare last month, far less than its enrollment goals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  