-- Cold Weather Will Return to Midwest, Eastern U.S. Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-11-13T16:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/cold-weather-will-return-to-midwest-eastern-u-s-next-week.html
While the cold air currently
gripping the eastern U.S. may relax in the next few days,
temperatures may plunge again by the middle of next week, said
 Matt Rogers , president of the Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Temperatures along the East Coast are currently about 3
degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 Celsius) below normal, said Rogers from
in his office in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Yesterday’s low temperature in  New York ’s Central Park was
31 degrees, or 12 degrees below normal, according to the
 National Weather Service . In  Chicago , the low was 22, also 12
degrees below normal.  “With the current cold push fading over the next day or
so, the focus begins to turn to the event on tap for next
week,” Rogers wrote in his forecast. “Temperatures for the
middle of next weeks are nearly on par with this week’s cold
push.”  Below-normal temperatures, especially in Eastern and
Midwestern cities, tend to increase energy consumption as more
people heat homes and businesses. November marks the start of
the U.S. heating season, when natural gas demand peaks.  Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas use,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm. About 49 percent of all homes use
the fuel for heating.  In the northern U.S., temperatures will probably be near
seasonal levels from Nov. 20 to 27, Rogers said. The projection
for the U.S. South from Texas to the Atlantic Coast is currently
for readings 3 to 5 degrees below normal.  The normal average temperature in New York on Nov. 21 is
about 47 degrees, according to  MDA Weather Services  in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  Boston , it’s 44; in  St. Louis , 45;
Dallas, 55; Houston, 61; Chicago, 38; Burbank, California, 57;
and in Calgary, it’s 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  