-- Company Accords With Unions Questioned at U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-11-13T18:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/company-accords-with-unions-questioned-at-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court weighed a
challenge to a decades-old labor organizing practice, hearing
contentions that companies can’t legally promise to stay neutral
or to provide organizers with a list of employees.  In an hour-long session today, the justices showed little
inclination to outlaw such agreements, even as they struggled to
square the accords with a federal labor law. The dispute turns
on a provision that makes it a crime for an employer “to pay,
lend or deliver” a “thing of value” to a union.  Justice Elena Kagan was among those who questioned whether
that provision precluded neutrality deals.  “I would have thought that the premise and the policies of
the labor laws are to encourage a wide variety of employer-employee agreements,” Kagan said.  The case before the justices involves an accord between a
hospitality-services labor union and a Florida dog-track
company. The accord called for the company, Hollywood Greyhound
Track Inc., not to oppose the unionization campaign and for the
union, Unite Here Local 355, to support a ballot initiative
legalizing  slot machines  at tracks.  The union eventually spent $100,000 in support of the 2006
initiative. Hollywood Greyhound, which does business under the
name Mardi Gras Gaming, installed slot machines after the
initiative passed.  The accord is being challenged by Martin Mulhall, a Mardi
Gras employee opposed to unionization. A federal appeals court
said Mulhall’s lawsuit could go forward.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said she was troubled by the
campaign spending. “It does feel like a bribe to the
employer,” she said.  Other justices voiced greater concern that a ruling in
Mulhall’s favor would undermine legitimate agreements between
unions and companies. Justice  Stephen Breyer  said Mulhall’s
arguments had the potential to “create a mess.”  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  asked Mulhall’s lawyer to
acknowledge that his argument “is contrary to years of settled
practices and understandings.”  The case is United Here v. Mulhall, 12-99.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  