-- Congress Shouldn’t Repeat Obama’s Mistake
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-13T22:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/congress-shouldn-t-repeat-obama-s-mistake.html
The idea is deceptively simple:
Because President  Barack Obama  promised Americans they could
keep their existing insurance under his new health-care-reform
law, Congress should pass a law guaranteeing that they can.  In reality, though, Obama  was wrong  to have made that
promise -- and Congress would be compounding his foolishness by
forcing insurance companies to keep it. The primary goal of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is to make the
health-care system more efficient and comprehensive. It has
never been to preserve individual insurance plans.  Recall that the reason the president’s  promise was so dumb 
is that it was not his to make. That is, the federal government
cannot force insurers to offer policies they do not want to
sell. What it can do, however, is set a minimum level of
benefits (preventive care without copayments, for example) and
require that they be offered at the same price to everyone, even
people in poor health. And it can create a marketplace to allow
people to compare plans and coverage.  This is, in fact, what the Affordable Care Act does (or
tries to; its glitchy federal marketplace has allowed only about
27,000 people to get private insurance so far). Some insurance
companies thus decided to stop selling policies that did not
meet these criteria -- or, alternatively, to improve their
policies but raise prices.  As a result, hundreds of thousands of people who buy health
insurance on their own -- not through an employer -- are seeing
their policies canceled. For the most part,  these are  either
people who are healthy enough to have been offered affordable
premiums for decent insurance or people who bought low-cost
insurance that doesn’t cover basic or unforeseen health-care
bills.  Allowing them to keep these policies -- as two
congressional proposals would do -- causes practical and policy
problems. On the small side are the headaches it creates for
insurance companies, which have already canceled their plans and
laid the groundwork for complying with the new law. A much
bigger problem is that healthy people would be kept from joining
the risk pools for policies sold on the exchanges, boosting
costs for insurers and leading them, in turn, to raise prices.  The two proposals before Congress are deficient in almost
opposite ways. The  bill introduced  by Representative  Fred Upton ,
a Republican from  Michigan , would allow an insurer to keep
selling policies through 2014 that it offered on Jan. 1, 2013 --
even to people who don’t already have those policies.  This bill would not force insurers to keep selling those
policies, however, and many might remain canceled. The result
would be that, for some people, Upton’s Keep Your Health Plan
Act would be guilty of making the same false promise that Obama
did.  The  bill  from Senator  Mary Landrieu , the Louisiana
Democrat, would require insurers to keep selling any policy sold
on Dec. 31 of this year for as long as the customer wants to
keep it -- unless the insurer gets out of the health-care
business altogether. It’s hard to imagine such a coercive
measure passing. Not only would insurers -- which change their
policies all the time -- resist, but such an imposition on the
private market would also surely enrage Obamacare’s opponents.  One of the virtues (or defects; choose one) of Obamacare is
that it would disrupt the health-insurance market. Some people
would not be able to keep their insurance under the law, and
Obama was wrong to say otherwise. Instead of doubling down on
his promise, Congress should keep the pressure on the
administration to fix the law’s website, whose pathetic
performance was  officially detailed  today. At least that way,
those who have lost their insurance will have a better idea of
what their options are.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 