-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Yellen Says Economy Below Potential
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-13T22:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-bank-of-new-york-mellon-may-sell-debt.html
A benchmark of U.S. company credit
risk declined as  Janet Yellen , nominated to be the next chairman
of the  Federal Reserve , said the economy must improve before the
central bank can begin reducing monetary stimulus.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps measure that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.1 basis
points to 72.3 basis points as of 5:32 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier, the index
rose as much as 1.2 basis points to 74.5.  Yellen, the Fed’s current vice chairman, said the economy
and labor market are performing “far short of their potential”
in testimony prepared for her nomination hearing tomorrow before
the Senate Banking Committee. Investors are attuned to signals
when the central bank may start to pare its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases that have bolstered credit markets.  “Her comments would kind of suggest that the prospects of
an early taper may be off the table. The swaps have been tied to
the positive vibe in the equity market today, but this after-market tightening is a Yellen phenomenon,”  Adrian Miller ,
director of fixed-income strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  BNY Mellon  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  sold $1.2 billion in bonds.
The world’s largest custody bank issued $800 million of 2.1
percent, five-year notes to yield 73 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and $400 million of 3.95 percent,
12-year securities with a spread of 125, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The lender originally planned to sell $1
billion of debt.  The bonds are expected to be rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, Bloomberg data show.  Moody’s Covenant Quality Index for U.S. high-yield bond
offerings rose to a three-month rolling average of 4.19 in
October, exceeding the previous monthly record of 4.05 set in
September, according to a report yesterday from analysts led by
Alexander Dill.  The index gauges covenant quality on a five-point scale
with 5 signifying the weakest bondholder protection and 1 the
strongest.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 7.4 basis points to 349 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries increased 0.8 basis point to 130.4
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 11 basis points to 552.2.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  