-- Czech Fugitive Krejcir’s Johannesburg Pawn Shop Hit by Explosion
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-11-13T10:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/czech-fugitive-krejcir-s-johannesburg-pawn-shop-hit-by-explosion.html
South African police said two men
were killed and three injured in an explosion at a Johannesburg
shop owned by Radovan Krejcir, a Czech fugitive wanted in his
home country on fraud and conspiracy to commit murder charges.  The blast hit the Money Point jewelry pawn shop in the
eastern suburb of Bedfordview at about 5:30 p.m. yesterday, the
police said in a  statement  on their website. A Czech national
died and a Serb and a Bulgarian were injured,  Eyewitness News , a
Johannesburg-based Internet and radio news service, said without
saying where it got the information.  Police have taken a statement from Krejcir, who wasn’t at
the shop at the time, the South African Press Association said,
citing Neville Malila, a police spokesman. Malila didn’t answer
calls made to his mobile phone.  Krejcir is fighting a legal battle to prevent extradition
to the  Czech Republic , where he fled police while they were
searching his house in  Prague  in 2005.  In  South Africa  police questioned him in the murder
investigation of crime boss Cyril Beeka, who was killed in a
drive-by shooting in  Cape Town  in 2011. He was also charged with
fraud over allegations he received 4.5 million rand ($435,000)
from an insurance company by falsely claiming that he had
cancer.  Krejcir fled to the Seychelles from the Czech Republic and
arrived in South Africa in 2007. In 2005 a number of Czech
police officials were fired or resigned after his escape,
according to iDnes, an Internet news service.  He survived an attempt on his life at the Bedfordview shop
earlier this year when a remotely controlled device fired at him
from an empty car, SAPA reported.  The premises were searched by dog units yesterday in case
another bomb was present and police helicopters landed at the
site today, SAPA reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  