-- DAX May Fall 7% in a Month as Profits Miss, Saxinger Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-13T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/dax-may-fall-7-in-a-month-as-profits-miss-saxinger-says.html
Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  may
decline as much as 7 percent by mid-December as disappointing
earnings overshadow unprecedented stimulus from central banks,
according to a Frankfurt-based  fund manager .  The DAX has rallied 19 percent this year as the  Federal
Reserve  maintained its monthly bond-buying program and the
 European Central Bank  cut its key  interest rate  to an all-time
low of 0.25 percent. The equity index slipped 0.3 percent to
9,076.48 yesterday, declining from a record.  “Those parts of the market that look at liquidity are very
bullish because they believe in liquidity driving markets
further upward,” Raimund Saxinger, a fund manager at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “Those who look at earnings might be
positive in the medium-term horizon, but in the short term they
are more skeptical because they don’t see any positive earnings
reports in the next few weeks.”  The gauge may fall by 5 percent to 7 percent by the middle
of December after heavily-weighted stocks such as Deutsche Bank
AG and Deutsche Lufthansa AG posted quarterly results that
missed analysts’ estimates, according to Saxinger.  Deutsche Bank,  Europe ’s largest investment bank by revenue,
said last month that third-quarter profit slid 94 percent after
it set aside 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) to cover potential
legal costs and income from debt trading fell. Lufthansa, the
region’s second-biggest airline, said sales at its main
passenger arm won’t grow this year because of the impact of a
stronger euro.  Valuation Grows  The DAX is trading at 13.4 times estimated earnings, near
the highest valuation since the end of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit at companies in the index will
climb 14 percent this year and 11 percent in 2014, according to
analysts’ projections compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have to see an improvement in earnings for the market
to gain renewed momentum,” Saxinger said. “We will ultimately
see that, but it will take some time. In the meantime we will
see some kind of correction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  