-- Detroit Union Seeks Automatic Appeal of Bankruptcy Ruling
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-13T20:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/detroit-union-seeks-automatic-appeal-of-bankruptcy-ruling.html
A Detroit municipal workers’ union
asked a judge to send any ruling he makes on the city’s
eligibility for  bankruptcy court  protection to an appeals court
for automatic review.  The American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees today asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to
submit his decision to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Sixth
Circuit because it will hinge on whether the city bargained in
good faith before filing its record bankruptcy on July 18. That
question hasn’t been sufficiently addressed in prior cases, the
union said.  Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  requires that a
municipality either try to reach a deal with creditors before it
files its case or show that talks were impractical. AFSCME,
which represents the majority of city workers other than police
and firefighters, said in its filing that the city engaged only
in “surface bargaining.”  Detroit’s $18 billion bankruptcy is the biggest filed by a
U.S. municipality. Throwing the case out of court would leave
the city vulnerable to lawsuits and other actions that could
disrupt its turnaround effort.  Rhodes last week ended a trial over Detroit’s eligibility
to stay in bankruptcy. The trial featured unprecedented
testimony from a sitting governor, Republican  Rick Snyder , who
has made revitalizing  Michigan ’s biggest city a central goal of
his administration.  Pension Cuts  Municipal unions and retired employee groups have argued
that Snyder and other state officials pushed the city into
bankruptcy court because that was the only way to skirt
Michigan’s constitutional ban on cutting public worker pensions.  Rhodes asked both the city and the unions and retiree
groups to submit analyses of whether the definition of good-faith bargaining should be affected by  labor laws .  In its filing today, the union asked Rhodes to send his
ruling to the Cincinnati-based Sixth Circuit because there are
not enough cases that define such bargaining. Typically,
bankruptcy court decisions are first reviewed by a district
judge before going to the circuit court.  Rhodes has said he would issue his decision on eligibility
after all sides have submitted their analyses of good-faith
bargaining. Those filings are due today.  The case is In re City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  