-- Dollar Rises From Lowest in Week on Bets Fed Will Taper
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-11-14T22:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/dollar-hits-one-week-low-versus-euro-as-yellen-backs-fed-easing.html
The dollar rose from the lowest
level in a week as investors wagered the  Federal Reserve  is
still moving toward reducing its bond buying after chairman-nominee  Janet Yellen  said it “will not continue indefinitely.”  The yen weakened beyond 100 per dollar for the first time
since September after a government report showed economic growth
slowed, adding to the case for the  Bank of Japan  to boost
stimulus. Emerging-market currencies rose on bets the Fed will
continue its asset purchasing. Yellen said in  Washington 
testimony she is committed to promoting a strong recovery and
will ensure monetary stimulus isn’t removed too soon.  Currency investors “are not completely convinced that the
Fed will be able to follow through on its dovish inclinations,”
Steven Englander, global head of Group of 10 currency strategy
at Citigroup Inc., wrote in an e-mail. “There is a small case
for the dollar within G3 even if tapering is in the slow lane,
and a big case if it turns out that data and asset-market
conditions force the Fed to slow the pace of buying.” The G3
refers to the dollar, yen and euro.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which monitors the
greenback against 10 major counterparts, was little changed at
1,018.82 at 5 p.m. in  New York  after dropping to 1,015.83, the
lowest since Nov. 7. It fell 0.4 percent yesterday.  The yen fell 0.8 percent to 100.01 per dollar after
touching 100.15, the weakest level since Sept. 11.  Japan ’s
currency declined 0.6 percent to 134.61 per euro. The euro slid
0.2 percent to $1.3461 after declining as much as 0.5 percent.  Won, Ringgit  South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit rose the most in
three weeks after Yellen’s comments damped speculation funds
will flow out of  emerging markets .  “Demand for riskier assets may come back,” Son Eun Jeong,
a currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in  Seoul , wrote in a
research note.  South Korea’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to close at
1,067.91 per dollar in Seoul, the biggest gain since Oct. 23.  The ringgit strengthened 0.2 percent to 3.2045 per dollar,
the steepest increase since Oct. 28, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It earlier touched 3.1861, the highest level since
Nov. 11.  Australia ’s dollar reversed earlier gains on speculation
the central bank will cut  interest rates  even after a potential
delay in the Fed’s plan to slow asset purchases.  The Aussie fell 0.5 percent to 93.16 U.S. cents from 93.60
yesterday, when it added 0.6 percent.  ‘Strong Recovery’  Yellen said the central bank’s key  interest rate , now at a
record zero to 0.25 percent, would remain low even after it
starts to pare back on bond purchases.  “I consider it imperative that we do what we can to
promote a very strong recovery,” Yellen said in response to a
question during testimony today to the Senate Banking Committee
in Washington. “It’s important not to remove support,
especially when the recovery is fragile and the tools available
to monetary policy, should the economy falter, are limited given
that short-term interest rates are at zero.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  she is poised to lead is
considering whether to begin slowing its  $85 billion  monthly
bond-purchase program, which is pushing the Fed’s assets toward
a record $4 trillion. The Fed has kept its target interest rate
near zero since December 2008.  ‘Comforting Signal’  Yellen “has expressed a clear conviction in the merit of
stimulative monetary policy,”  Jens Nordvig , managing director
of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest
brokerage, wrote in an e-mail. “Hence, it is a comforting
signal for the market, that tapering is not about to happen very
soon, and risk assets are supported, that is the main move.”  The greenback weakened earlier as the  U.S. trade deficit 
widened, with the gap in  goods and services  trade increasing 8
percent to $41.8 billion from a revised $38.7 billion in August,
the Commerce Department reported today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 72 economists called for a $39
billion deficit.  Jobless claims  in the week ended Nov. 9 declined 2,000 to
339,000 from a revised 341,000 the week before that was higher
than initially reported, the Labor Department said. The median
forecast of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 330,000.  Japan Policy  The yen fell versus all of its major peers as Finance
Minister Taro Aso said the nation must retain intervention as a
policy option.  Japan’s gross domestic product growth slowed to an
annualized 1.9 percent in the July-September period from 3.8
percent in the second quarter, the Cabinet Office said in  Tokyo .
The median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was
for a 1.7 percent increase.  “Weaker Japanese data suggests we’re likely to get more
policy action, and that will put the yen under pressure,” said
 Ian Stannard , head of European foreign-exchange strategy at
Morgan Stanley in  London .  The European Union’s statistics office said the  economy
expanded  0.1 percent after growing 0.3 percent in the previous
three months.  The euro has gained 6.3 percent this year, the best
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar advanced 4 percent and
the yen slumped 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  