-- Draghi Goes Face-to-Face With Bank Chiefs on Asset Health
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-11-13T16:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/draghi-goes-face-to-face-with-bank-chiefs-on-asset-health.html
Bank executives traveled to
 Frankfurt  for a first meeting with European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi on the ECB’s review of lenders’ assets.  Chief executive officers from banks from five countries --
Germany, Belgium, Cyprus, Malta and Luxembourg -- met today with
Draghi and other board members at ECB headquarters, a
spokeswoman for the central bank said by telephone. The list
included Europe’s largest investment bank by revenue, Deutsche
Bank AG, and lenders such as Malta’s  Bank of Valletta Plc .  The ECB began a three-stage probe this month into the
balance sheets of lenders across the 17-nation euro area, as a
precursor to its assumption of financial supervision duties in
November next year.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  CEO Federico Ghizzoni, who may
join a group convening in Frankfurt on Nov. 25, said yesterday
his institution is cutting expenses and setting aside more
provisions as it prepares for the review.  “The banks don’t really know more than we do,” said  Ronny Rehn , a banking analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods in  London . “I
guess they want to get a feeling about the process. Maybe want
to get the informal version of what needs to happen to make this
credible, how much pain will need to be taken.”  Three Stages  Executives also met Vice-President Vitor Constancio and
Executive Board member Yves Mersch, both of whom are responsible
for setting up the ECB’s bank supervisor, the spokeswoman said.
Mersch was scheduled to brief officials on preparations for the
oversight duties, while Constancio was due to give a
presentation on the asset review.  “Draghi probably will tell the banks, ‘Look, don’t fuff
around, be honest and maybe a bit more,’” Rehn said. “He’ll
probably also tell them, ‘If there is an issue, go out and fix
it, otherwise I will.’ That’s what I’d do if I was Draghi.”  The ECB’s three-stage process is called the Comprehensive
Assessment, beginning with an operation to identify portfolios
requiring deeper scrutiny, followed by an examination known as
the Asset Quality Review. Following those are stress tests
simulating the effect of a range of adverse scenarios.  Ignazio Angeloni, the ECB’s director general for financial
stability, will also meet bankers; representatives from each
country’s national regulation authority will be present.  Further group meetings are planned for Nov. 18 and Nov. 25.
The Nov. 18 round will include bankers from  Estonia , Spain,
 Finland ,  France ,  Greece  and Ireland. Executives from banks in
 Italy ,  Latvia , the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Slovakia and
 Austria  will travel to the ECB on Nov. 25.  Most Leveraged  Some of the executives visiting the ECB today represent the
banks among the most leveraged in Europe. The ECB singled out
German, Belgian and Cypriot lenders in a report on Nov. 4 and
said they need to make progress in increasing their equity as a
share of assets. ECB officials have also said they’ll focus on
asset areas known to contain higher levels of non-performing
loans when selecting portfolios such as shipping loans and
commercial real estate.  The results of the ECB’s review and stress tests -- as well
as the possibility that information will leak before the end of
the process -- could affect financial stability, the head of
Germany’s main banking association said in Frankfurt on Oct. 30.  “This is a very complex project that comes with
significant risks,”  Michael Kemmer , general manager of the
Association of German Banks said. The information that the ECB
has provided until now is “relatively vague and undetailed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  