-- Draghi Sows Doubt Among Traders on Interest Rates: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-11-14T10:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/draghi-sows-doubt-among-traders-on-interest-rates-poland-credit.html
A Polish pledge to keep  interest
rates  unchanged until at least mid-2014 is in question after
last week’s surprise cut by the  European Central Bank .  While monetary policy makers in Warsaw said Nov. 6 that
they would keep borrowing costs at a record-low 2.5 percent
through June, trading in overnight index swaps shows a 42
percent chance of a quarter-point reduction by the end of March,
up from 36 percent a month ago.  Central banks to the south and west of  Poland  are loosening
monetary conditions as sluggish economies raise concern about
falling rates of inflation and the effect on debt. Czech policy
makers in  Prague  began unlimited koruna sales on Nov. 7, while
ECB President  Mario Draghi  in  Frankfurt  oversaw the reduction in
the benchmark euro-region borrowing cost to 0.25 percent.
Forecasts released a day earlier showed Polish  inflation  will
continue to  undershoot  policy makers’ target through 2015.  “There’s a chance of a further cut,” Dmitri Barinov, a
 fund manager  who oversees $2.5 billion of debt at Union
Investment Privatfonds in Frankfurt, said yesterday by e-mail.
“Europe is still fighting with deflationary tendencies and it
can reach Poland at some point as well.”  ‘Gain Steam’  Policy makers led by Governor  Marek Belka  reduced rates by
a total of 2.25 percentage points between November and July to
reinvigorate an economy that’s poised to expand at its slowest
pace in more than a decade in 2013. While growth will
“gradually gain steam” in the next two years, the rate is
going to remain below its “long-term averages,” the European
Commission said this month in its latest forecast.  A report today will probably show that inflation held
steady at 1 percent in October, remaining below the Narodowy
Bank Polski’s 2.5 percent target for an 11th month, according to
the median forecast of 37 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “There is scope for further rate cuts” as real  interest
rates  in Poland “are still among the highest” in the world,
Deputy Finance Minister Janusz Cichon told TVN CNBC on Nov. 8.
The ECB’s interest-rate cut is “another argument” indicating
the Polish central bank “should react,” he said.  Belka argued last week that the central bank’s rate pledge
should stabilize the economy and financial markets as the pace
of recovery remains “moderate.” That view was shared by all 10
members of the Monetary Policy Council, he said.  Doves, Hawks  “The doves and hawks appear to have reached an agreement
about the level of interest rates and they stick to it,” Jakub Taborowicz, who helps oversee the equivalent of $7.1 billion at
Poland’s largest mutual fund, PZU TFI SA, said Nov. 12 by e-mail. “The recent data suggest we’re seeing a slow recovery.”  Gross domestic product rose 1.9 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest rate since April-June
2012, beating a 1.6 percent median  estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of 36 economists, the statistics office GUS said today.  Economists aren’t predicting rate cuts. Borrowing costs
will rise by a total of 50 basis points next year, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 24 analysts.  Yields on 10-year Polish  government bonds  fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.33 percent, declining for
a second day. The extra yield on its dollar debt over Treasuries
rose two basis points to 150, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes
showed. The zloty gained 0.2 percent to 4.1895 per euro at 11:18
a.m. in Warsaw. It’s up 0.8 percent this quarter, the best
performance among Europe’s emerging market currencies.  Deflation Talk  Countries in the region are also struggling to maintain
inflation. Hungary’s  rate  dropped to 0.9 percent in October, the
lowest since at least 1992, even after policy makers cut the
benchmark rate for 15 straight months. Slovak  consumer prices 
rose 0.6 percent in October, the least since February 2010.  “There’s a lot of talk recently about the risk of
deflation in central and eastern  Europe ,” Jacek Wieclawski, a
cross-asset derivatives trader at Rabobank International in
 London , said by e-mail. “The contracts may be starting to price
in a cut, which appears to be a reaction to the recent events,
particularly the rate cut decision by the ECB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  