-- Dubai Investment Bank Shuaa Reports Second Quarter of Profit
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-11-13T06:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/dubai-investment-bank-shuaa-reports-second-quarter-of-profit.html
Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , the investment
bank controlled by Dubai’s ruler, posted its second straight
quarterly profit for the first time since the financial crisis
on increased lending and gains at its asset management unit.  Net income was 3.62 million dirhams ($1 million) compared
with a loss of 13.9 million dirhams a year earlier, the company
said in a statement to the Dubai bourse today. Interest income
rose to 29.3 million dirhams compared with 21.7 million dirhams
a year ago while asset management profit almost doubled.  Shuaa has reported annual losses  since 2008  as the
financial crisis led to a drop in volumes on stock markets in
the United Arab Emirates. Earlier this year the company
completed a restructuring program to reduce non-core assets, cut
jobs and generate recurring revenue. Dubai and Abu Dhabi’s
benchmark stock indexes are among the best performing globally
this year as an economic recovery builds on booming tourism,
trade, retail and real estate industries.  “The improved market environment in the U.A.E. drove
client activity and our core businesses generated solid
results,” Sheikh Maktoum Hasher Al Maktoum, Shuaa’s executive
chairman said in the statement. “We are encouraged to see
higher quality fee and interest income generation during the
quarter, which now accounts for 75 percent of quarterly
revenue.”  Profit at the asset management division almost doubled to
4.7 million dirhams, from 2.4 million a year earlier, the
company said, while profit at the capital markets business
gained to 1.3 million from 400,000 dirhams.  Shares in the company have jumped 67 percent this year,
trailing the Dubai benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) ’s 70 percent
surge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  