-- Le Pen Sees Once-Outcast Party Ruling France in 10 Years
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-11-14T07:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/le-pen-sees-once-outcast-party-ruling-france-in-10-years.html
Marine Le Pen, on the threshold of
leading her anti-immigrant, anti-European Union  National Front 
party to its biggest triumph ever, says she may be just one
electoral cycle from becoming president of  France .  Seven months before European Parliament elections, polls
show the National Front as the country’s most popular party.
With Socialist President Francois Hollande failing to reverse
the  economic slump  that began under Nicolas Sarkozy, Le Pen says
disillusionment is driving public opinion her way. Her message:
too many foreigners, excessive forbearance of Muslims, EU
austerity, an overvalued euro, free trade and a lenient penal
system are ruining France.  “We will be in power in the next 10 years,” the 45-year-old Le Pen said in a Nov. 8 interview at the party headquarters
in Nanterre, outside Paris. “Votes now flow from the left to
the Front as much as they flow from the right to the Front. A
year after rejecting  Nicolas Sarkozy , the French are asking,
‘what’s the difference.’”  Sitting at a black glass desk in front of three French
flags, with an e-cigarette at her side, the divorced mother of
three outlined her mission to end the six-decade march toward
European unity and return to a “Europe of Nations” due to the
“obvious failure of the EU.”  “The EU is an anomaly; 80 percent of the world has its own
freedom and its own money,” she said. “We are the only ones
left alone, naked, against the cold winds of globalization.”  Le Pen says she’s working with  Austria ’s  Freedom Party , the
Swedish Democrats, Vlaams Belang in  Belgium , and Geert Wilders’
Party for Freedom in the Netherlands to create an anti-EU bloc
in the new parliament.  Record Unemployment  With the French government today announcing that the
economy unexpectedly shrank 0.1 percent in the third quarter and
with unemployment at a euro-era record of about 11 percent, her
message is resonating. In an Ifop survey published Oct. 9, 24
percent planned to back her candidates in the European elections
in May, where low turnout may give her motivated supporters an
edge; 22 percent backed Sarkozy’s Union for  Popular Movement ; 19
percent, Hollande’s Socialists. The poll of 1,893 had a margin
of error of 2 percentage points.  Le Pen has become a frequent guest on radio and television
shows, where she distances herself from the legacy of her
father, Jean-Marie, who was ostracized -- and prosecuted -- for
his statements minimizing the Holocaust.  “Marine Le Pen has managed to put herself at the center of
the political game in France: Everyone else is positioning
themselves relative to her,” said  Emmanuel Riviere , an analyst
at the pollster TNS Sofres in Paris. “Having tried the right,
people are seeing that the left isn’t doing any better. Now they
want to teach a lesson to all those people. This is a great
asset for Le Pen.”  ‘Demagogy’ Dismissed  Before the National Front won an Oct. 13 municipal election
in the southern town of Brignoles, Jean-Francois Cope, head of
the UMP, dismissed it for “extraordinary demagogy.” After the
Front’s candidate won with 54 percent, Cope advocated abolishing
automatic citizenship for everyone born in France, one of Le
Pen’s main demands.  On the other side of the political spectrum, Interior
Minister  Manuel Valls  has become the  most popular  member of
Hollande’s Cabinet with crackdowns on crime and Roma camps.  Still, a Le Pen presidency remains remote, even if she has
taken the party beyond the limits her father imposed, said Cas
Mudde, professor at  University of Georgia  in  Athens ,  Georgia ,
who studies European extremists.  “The National Front has certainly increased its support
and reduced the number of people who see it as a threat to
democracy,” said Mudde. “But she remains a polarizing figure.
Many people still won’t vote for her.”  Two-Round Barrier  France’s two-round election system means she’d need to win
close to 40 percent in the first round to have a chance in a
run-off, where the rest of the parties would gang up on her,
Mudde said. No one has managed that result since  Francois Mitterrand  in 1974. Still, he lost in the second round.  Joel Combin, professor at University of Picardy in northern
France, said the Ifop poll showing Le Pen’s as the largest party
needs to be viewed with caution. “The campaign hasn’t even
started, so we don’t know what the electoral offer is going to
be from the other parties,” he said. “But there’s no question
the party is gaining.”  2002 Peak  Jean-Marie Le Pen founded the National Front in 1972,
unifying a collection nationalist parties. He peaked in 2002,
shocking the nation by ousting Socialist Lionel Jospin in the
first round of the presidential vote with 17 percent. He was
crushed in the run-off by  Jacques Chirac , who tallied 82
percent, benefiting from a so-called “Republican Pact” among
the mainstream parties.  He faded against Sarkozy in 2007, failing to get out of the
first round as the former interior minister attracted Le Pen
voters with appeals to nationalism and anti-crime rhetoric.  In January 2011, Marine won a succession battle to take
over the party and bring it in from the political fringe.  “The Front used to hobble along on one leg, immigration
and security,” she said. “We needed a second leg, a social and
economic leg. Most of my work has been developing a real
program, a real offer, on these issues.”  She also recruited or promoted younger party leaders, such
as vice-presidents Louis Alliot, 44, and Florian Philippot, 32,
and secretary general Steeve Briois, 40, all of them too young
to have experienced the colonial setbacks in Indochina and
 Algeria  that so wounded her father’s generation.  Evolving Message  “She’s adapted to changes in French society,” Combin
said. “Anti-semitism and racism have vanished from the
discourse. Her emphasis is on French culture, and how it’s
threatened by radical Islam, and not on ethnicity.”  Jean-Bernard Formé, 48, a science teacher in Lorgues in the
south of France voted Sarkozy in last election. He has now
joined the National Front. “Her father was not a uniter,” he
said. “She has a real national project.”  The party’s platform for the 2012 elections included its
traditional calls to tighten immigration and citizenship rules.
It also promised to pull out of the euro, renegotiate all trade
pacts to include “intelligent protectionism,” create a “ Buy
France Act ,” limit welfare benefits to citizens and order the
Bank of France to fund the French government.  “We get attacked from both sides: we get told we are far
right and far left,” Le Pen said. “General De Gaulle was also
seen by some as a Bolshevik and by others as a fascist, so we
have a good precedent.”  Le Pen isn’t immune from making statements that echo her
father. In 2010, she equated Muslims praying in the street to
the Nazi occupation. In the 2012 campaign, she criticized halal
meat being served in school cafeterias.  Electorate’s Shift  Hollande, whose term runs until 2017, is the least popular
president in modern French history, facing potential setbacks in
municipal elections in March and the European Parliament
elections in May.  Sarkozy’s emphasis on immigration and national identity has
only helped Le Pen’s rise, said Andrea Mammone, history
professor at Royal Holloway, University of  London .  “Sarkozy played a role in legitimizing the National Front
by borrowing many themes in an attempt to borrow their votes,”
Mammone said. “More than the National Front shifting to the
center, it’s the whole spectrum of the French mainstream-right
that shifted to the right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  