-- Tea Party Joins Liberals in Push Against Fast-Track Trade
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-11-13T18:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/tea-party-joins-liberals-in-push-against-fast-track-trade.html
U.S. lawmakers on opposite ends of
the political spectrum are objecting to putting trade deals on a
fast track for congressional approval, threatening one of the
business community’s top priorities.  Democratic Representatives Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut and
 George Miller  of California said today that 151 members of their
party in the House have signed a letter to President Barack Obama opposing him getting fast-track trade negotiating
authority. Yesterday, 22 House Republicans, including some
aligned with the small-government  Tea Party  movement, sent their
own letter saying they won’t give ground on being able to change
trade pacts.  The bipartisan objections complicate the efforts of Obama
who, with the backing of business groups such as the  Business
Roundtable  and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, is attempting to
negotiate two of the largest trade deals in history with Europe
and the Pacific region.  “We used to have a bipartisan coalition for free trade,
but both parties now have robust elements that for different
reasons challenge trade promotion authority, and it makes things
complicated for those who want these trade deals,” said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the Washington-based nonpartisan
Rothenberg Political Report.  With trade promotion authority, a president can demand an
up-or-down vote in Congress on deals, giving trading partners
assurances their agreed-to terms won’t unravel through
amendments. Congress last voted to renew fast-track authority in
2002, and it expired in 2007.  ‘Strong Supporters’  “We are strong supporters of American trade expansion,”
wrote the Republicans led by Representatives Walter Jones of
North Carolina and  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, a leader of
the Tea Party Caucus, in their letter to Obama yesterday.  “We are also strong supporters of the U.S. Constitution,”
which they said gives Congress “exclusive authority to set the
terms of trade.”  DeLauro told reporters at a press conference in Washington
today that it is “past time for members of Congress to reassert
our authority over these trade deals.”  They’ve also sent a letter to Obama outlining their
concerns about a lack of congressional consultation on a
forthcoming pact with Pacific-rim nations.  “Over time Congress has lost its leverage to reshape these
trade deals,” she said. “The old fast-track authority must be
history.”  Labor Objections  Organized labor, a traditional ally of Democrats, would
just as soon see the debate delayed until closer to next year’s
congressional elections, when members can fan out and pressure
lawmakers to add protections against job losses, said Gary Hubbard, a spokesman for the United Steelworkers of America.
Better yet, he said, would be waiting until after the 2014
elections, when Democrats may hold more seats in the Republican-led House.  “The more time we buy with delays, the better,” Hubbard
said.  Negotiations on the terms of a measure renewing the fast-track authority began months ago, led by the top Democrats and
Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways
and Means Committee.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat and backer of fast-track authority, said last week that
while he hopes to get a deal before his panel by year’s end, he
isn’t sure the full Senate would act before 2014 begins.  Adjustment Aid  While Baucus wants to marry any fast-track measure with
trade adjustment assistance for workers who lose their jobs due
to the elimination of trade barriers, the Senate Republican
negotiator --  Orrin Hatch  of Utah -- said he opposes the
financial aid.  “They want to put union language into every trade bill,
and that shouldn’t be the case,” Hatch said in an interview.  Meanwhile, the Democratic House negotiator,  Sander Levin  of
Michigan, is seeking a host of labor-backed provisions,
according to a congressional aide familiar with the talks. Those
include a process for Congress to negate fast-track authority on
a deal lawmakers later object to, with trade committees able to
vote to renege on the speedy approval process, said the aide,
who requested anonymity when discussing the specifics.  Levin also wants to update negotiating objectives for labor
and the environment in trade deals, the aide said. And he is
pushing to include a currency measure both chambers have passed
that would allow U.S. companies to petition for duties on
imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak  yuan .  Key Authority  Approval of fast-track authority is key to completing trade
deals, said  Michael Moore , a professor of economics and
international affairs at George Washington University in
Washington, D.C. “You need the legislative apparatus in place
to pass these agreements without amendments,” Moore said.  U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  has been meeting
with lawmakers about the need to renew the authority. U.S.
officials have said they intend this year to reach an agreement
with Japan and 10 other Pacific-region nations. Treasury
Secretary Jack Lew is visiting Japan, China, Singapore, and
other nations this week, in part to help propel the talks.  The U.S. and the 27-nation EU, which already have the
world’s largest bilateral economic relationship, have begun
talks on a separate trade pact.  Blaming Obama  Business groups say they blame Obama for delays in getting
a fast-track measure through Congress.  “I think you need something to jump-start the
congressional process beyond where it is right now,” said Bill Reinsch, president of the  National Foreign Trade Council , a
group that supports expanded trade that includes  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) , ExxonMobil Corp., and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  as members. The
bipartisan talks to craft a bill “are in good faith, but
there’s no pressing need to finish.”  Christopher Wenk , a trade lobbyist at the U.S. Chamber,
said his group has held 300 meetings on  Capitol Hill  this year
with lawmakers and their aides to try to prod the debate
forward, and would rather see legislation proceed before
election-year considerations take hold.  “We want to see a bill introduced as soon as possible,”
Wenk said.  Lobby Pressure  Republicans -- whose broad support helped pass a similar
measure through the House on a 215-214 vote in 2002 during
 George W. Bush ’s presidency -- face pressures from the Tea Party
movement that didn’t exist then.  The Club for Growth, for instance, opposes any further
funding for the trade adjustment assistance that Baucus seeks,
said Barney Keller, the group’s spokesman. “We view it as a
give-away to labor unions and we think the whole program should
be eliminated,” Keller said.  Heritage Action for America, an issue-advocacy group
affiliated with the  Heritage Foundation  think tank, is likely to
treat the trade adjustment assistance as a key vote next year,
said Dan Holler, the group’s spokesman.  “The Trade Adjustment Assistance program is costly,
unnecessary and duplicative,” he said.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, and
Levin told reporters today that they would not support the
Trans-Pacific Partnership unless it includes a provision to
address currency manipulation.  The Washington-based American Automotive Policy Council --
whose members include  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC -- and the AFL-CIO labor organization have
also called for the accord to deal with the issue.  Graham said the union of the business and labor group form
the basis for a “powerful coalition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  