-- EasyJet to Fit Some Aircraft With Volcanic-Ash Detectors
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-11-13T13:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/easyjet-to-fit-some-aircraft-with-volcanic-ash-detectors.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
discount carrier, aims to fit sensors capable of detecting
volcanic ash on some of its planes by the end of next year.  EasyJet, Airbus SAS and Nicarnica Aviation tested the gear
last month in an artificial ash cloud at between 9,000 and
11,000 feet, the Luton, England-based carrier said today. The
trial saw one aircraft release dust gathered from Icelandic
volcanoes and a second use the new Airborne Volcanic Object
Identifier and Detector to identify and avoid the particles.  The system sensed ash from as far as 60 kilometers (37
miles), a distance at which pilots could adjust flight paths
around dangerous clouds, EasyJet said. European airline traffic
fell 12 percent in April 2010, exceeding the worst declines of
the recession, as ash from Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano
grounded 100,000 flights. Carriers lost at least $1.7 billion in
the first six days of the event, industry figures show.  “We have to prepare for this, because it’s not a matter of
if, it’s a matter of when,” Ian Davies, EasyJet’s engineering
director, said at a press conference in Toulouse,  France  today.
The airline was this year made aware of seven eruptions, all in
 Africa , that could have affected operations, Davies added.  Bay of Biscay  Abrasive, silica-based material from volcanoes can clog
engines and scar windshields. Similar to weather radars already
in use, the infra-red AVOID system dates from 1993 and was
developed by the U.S. military. It can also sense sulfur
dioxide, meteorological clouds and Saharan dust, Nicarnica
director Fred Prata said.  The  ash cloud  produced over the Bay of Biscay on Oct. 30
was between 600 feet and 800 feet deep and measured 2.8
kilometers in diameter. It was made up of one ton of dust and
visible to the naked eye before dissipating, EasyJet said. In
addition to the Airbus A340-300 fitted with the AVOID sensor and
the Airbus A400M that released the dust, a Diamond DA42
propeller plane was used to take measurements inside the cloud.  Whereas the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration imposes a
120 mile-buffer zone around areas of visible ash, Eurocontrol,
which governs Europe’s flight paths, based no-fly areas on
models from the U.K. Met Office’s Volcanic Ash Advisory Center
that assesses dust density according to  weather forecasts .  Avoid Ash  When Eyjafjallajökull erupted, authorities ordered pilots
to avoid all ash. The threshold was later changed so that they
could fly through plumes where 0.002 grams of ash was present
per cubic meter of air, and that limit was later doubled,
subject to an airline getting approval from the engine maker.
During testing, AVOID detected ash and measured concentrations
between 0.0001 to 0.001 grams per cubic meter, Davies said.  EasyJet is looking to get advisory approval from the U.K.’s
 Civil Aviation Authority  to use a prototype of the sensor aboard
its jets, with a goal of installing the system on one or two
aircraft by the end of next year, spokesman  Paul Moore  said. The
device, which uses infrared technology, would be fitted into the
nose of the plane, rather than mounted on the fuselage as it was
during the trials, he said.  “Trying to model or monitor any of these natural hazards
or phenomena is very difficult, but at the moment pilots are
basically flying blind with respect to ash and now they’re not,
so that has to be very positive,” said Stephen Edwards of the
Aon Benfield UCL Hazard Centre at  University College London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  