-- ECB’s Weidmann Says Low Interest Rates Come With Risks
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-13T13:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/ecb-s-weidmann-says-low-interest-rates-come-with-risks.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said low interest rates come with
risks that can’t be ignored, even though the current policy
stance is appropriate.  “The expansive monetary policy is justified considering
the outlook for  price stability ,” Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s
Bundesbank, said in a speech in Frankfurt today. At the same
time, “one must not lose sight of the many challenges that come
within an environment of low interest rates,” he said.  The ECB reduced its  benchmark rate  to a record low of 0.25
percent last week after inflation in the 17-nation euro region
slowed to 0.7 percent in October, the lowest in four years.
About one quarter of the 23-member Governing Council opposed the
move, among them Weidmann and Germany’s representative on the
ECB’s Executive Board, Joerg Asmussen, two central-bank
officials said on Nov. 7  “It is important to make sure that negative real  interest
rates  won’t become a permanent state and that monetary policy
isn’t captive to politics or financial markets,” Weidmann said.
“Ultra-loose interest-rate policy is no substitute for
structural adjustment programs, which are necessary in some
euro-area  member states .”  While Weidmann said he sympathizes with German savers,
whose return on deposits may fall further after last week’s rate
cut, he argued that investors across the euro area are affected
by lower interest rates.  “There’s no specific discrimination aimed at German
savers,” Weidmann said. “Every saver, who wants to invest his
money with low risk, has to live with low and negative real
interest rates, for example also in Italy and  Spain .”  Higher-yielding investments carry higher risks, he said,
adding that “one should be aware that interest rates won’t stay
at this level permanently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  