-- Mechel Falls to Record Low on Speculation Amid Talks
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-11-13T19:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/mechel-plunges-to-record-low-on-speculation-amid-covenant-talks.html
OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  fell to the lowest level
on record amid speculation that an investor facing a margin call
may have sold shares as Russia’s largest coking coal producer
holds talks with banks about restructuring debt.  The shares slumped 41 percent to 57 rubles by the close in
Moscow today, their biggest decline since at least 2008.
American depositary receipts sank 21 percent to $2.27 by 1:57
p.m. in  New York , after falling as much as 43 percent earlier to
the lowest price on record.  “There might be a margin call on some minority investor’s
stake or some foreign fund is willing to sell off,” said Boris Krasnojenov, a Renaissance Capital analyst in Moscow.  The decline may be fueled by speculation about difficulties
with debt talks, which the company denies, Krasnojenov said by
phone. Mechel is one of  Russia ’s most-indebted mining companies,
with net debt of $9.55 billion as of June 1. It has delayed
publication of its first-half financial report, avoiding a
possible technical default.  “We don’t see any fundamental reasons for such declines,”
OAO Gazprombank First Vice President Ekaterina Trofimova said by
phone. The Russian lender, one of Mechel’s largest creditors, is
part of the group involved in covenant talks. “Discussions are
on schedule and on a positive course,” and the group plans to
complete them by the end of the month, Trofimova said.  Financial Markets Service, Russia’s market regulator, is
looking into Mechel’s stock trading after 5 p.m. on the Moscow
Exchange, Svetlana Shvetsova, spokeswoman for the service, said
by e-mail today.  ‘Purely Speculative’  The decline in the Russian shares accelerated after 5 p.m.
The Moscow Exchange halts trading of stocks that rise or fall
more than 20 percent only before 5 p.m., Nikita Bekasov, a
spokesman for the bourse, said by phone.  The debt talks are going well, Arseniy Palagin, a Mechel
spokesman, said by phone, reiterating comments made by Chief
Financial Officer Stanislav Ploschenko on Nov. 11. The slump
looks “purely speculative,” Palagin said.  Billionaire Igor Zyuzin, who controls the coal and steel
producer, has pledged a 44.6 percent stake for loans, the
company said in March. “It may be suggested that there’s a
margin call on the main owner’s stake,”  George Buzhenitsa , a
Deutsche Bank analyst in Moscow, said by phone.  Palagin declined to comment on Zyuzin’s stake, saying it’s
not a question for the company. A margin call is a demand by a
broker or a clearinghouse that an investor deposit additional
cash or securities to cover a loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  