-- Telecom Italia Offices Searched in Review by Market Regulator
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-11-13T15:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/telecom-italia-offices-searched-in-review-by-market-regulator.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  said its offices
were inspected by stock market regulator Consob and Italian
financial police seeking information about the company’s recent
sale of mandatory convertible bonds and planned disposal of
assets in  Argentina .  “Telecom Italia underlines that it has always operated in
compliance with the laws and regulations that regulate the
financial market and guarantees the maximum collaboration with
the authorities,” the Milan-based company said in a statement.  The phone carrier said the officials also sought
information “regarding the confidential nature of privileged
information and the keeping of the register of the individuals
having access to such information.”  A Consob spokesman declined to comment before the company’s
statement.  Asati, a group of Telecom Italia small investors, said in a
Nov. 11 statement that minority shareholders were discriminated
against in the sale of the convertible bonds.  In addition to the bonds sale, regulators are reviewing
Telecom Italia’s plan to sell its 22.7 percent indirect stake in
Telecom Argentina SA.  Asati also asked Consob for clarification of the disposal
of the asset in Argentina, saying the phone company hasn’t
provided enough details about the deal.  Telecom Italia’s board on Nov. 7 asked management to
conclude the Telecom Argentina stake sale. Telecom Italia
unveiled plans that day to sell its Argentine business, assets
including wireless towers in Italy and  Brazil , and the bonds  to
raise a total of about 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) to help
pare debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  