-- Telecom Egypt May Buy Vodafone Local Division When 4G Is Offered
-- B y   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-11-13T13:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/telecom-egypt-may-buy-vodafone-local-division-when-4g-is-offered.html
Telecom Egypt , the country’s
landline monopoly, said it may buy a controlling stake in
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) ’s local mobile-phone unit when 4G spectrum
is offered, to avoid a possible conflict of interests.  The Egyptian telecommunications company owns 45 percent of
the unit. It has no legal obligation to sell the stake and
hasn’t received an official offer before receiving an integrated
license, which will allow Telecom  Egypt  to provide mobile
services, Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Elnawawy said in an
interview. The company expects 4G spectrum for faster mobile
data services to be offered within 10 months to a year.  At that point, Cairo-based Telecom Egypt may have a
conflict if it develops its own 4G services, which would put it
in competition with the Vodafone asset, said Elnawawy.
“Management may propose that we evolve with this asset and by
evolve we mean being buyers or sellers,” he said by phone.  The London-based company has expressed interest in buying
Telecom Egypt’s holding, a Vodafone official said last month.  Licenses that would allow Telecom Egypt to offer mobile
services, while breaking its monopoly on landlines, have been
delayed several times, and Elnawawy said he expects they will
be issued this year. That would allow landlines to be offered by
 Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services , which operates the Mobinil
brand; the Vodafone local unit; and Emirates Telecommunications
Corp.’s Etisalat Misr division.  “We have a unique opportunity to cater to customer demand
because of the integration of fixed and mobile assets,” said
Elnawawy.  Telecom Egypt’s third-quarter net income after tax rose to
650 million Egyptian pounds ($94.4 million) from 636 million
pounds a year earlier. Vodafone Egypt contributed 218 million
pounds, according to a statement today.  Telecom Egypt’s shares  fell 1 percent to 13.70 pounds as of
2:30 p.m. in Cairo. The stock has declined 3.2 percent this year
compared with a 14 percent rise for the benchmark EGX 30 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  