-- Emerging Stocks Decline for 10th Day as Mechel Tumbles
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-13T21:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/emerging-stocks-extend-longest-slump-since-2006-as-china-slides.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
10th day as commodity producers slumped on concern demand from
 China  will slow. OAO Mechel sank as  Russia ’s largest coking coal
producer holds talks with banks about restructuring debt.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.2 percent to
979.88, capping the longest slide since 2006. Benchmark equity
gauges from Russia to China and  South Africa  decreased at least
1.8 percent. Mechel plunged 41 percent in Moscow, while  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  and coal producer China Shenhua
Energy Co. paced losses in energy producers.  India ’s rupee
advanced the most in almost a month after the nation’s central
bank said the current-account deficit will narrow 36 percent.  Stocks fell as a Chinese top-level Communist Party meeting
yesterday disappointed investors looking for details on policy
shifts to combat a slowdown. In a testimony released after the
market closed,  Janet Yellen , nominated to be the next chairman
of the  Federal Reserve , said the  U.S. economy  and labor market
are performing “far short of their potential” and must improve
before the central bank can begin reducing stimulus.  “It’s political uncertainty in China, but the big question
is how they are going to pull off this magic trick of spurring
domestic demand,” Wayne Lin, a portfolio manager at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., which oversees $656 billion, said by
phone. “The global economy is being flooded with liquidity
because the U.S. is being propped up by this unconventional
monetary policy. If that gets withdrawn, what happens to China
and what happens to  emerging markets ?”  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped
today, as commodity shares fell at least 0.9 percent. The broad
measure trades at 10.3 times projected earnings, compared with
the  valuation  of 14.4 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.2 percent to $40.80. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
decreased 1.7 percent to 23.05.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa rose from the lowest in 10 weeks as
homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  gained amid speculation that policy makers
will limit interest-rate increases to support the economy.
State-controlled oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA advanced
after agreeing to sell assets in Peru to PetroChina Co.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slumped 2.2 percent, led by metal
producers. Mechel sank to the lowest level on record amid
speculation that an investor facing a margin call may have sold
shares. OAO Severstal, Russia’s second-largest steel producer,
retreated 6.1 percent. Benchmark gauges in Poland and Hungary
fell at least 1.3 percent, while Turkish stocks advanced.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index tumbled the most since
July 5, led by BHP Billiton Plc and Anglo American Plc.  China, India  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.8 percent, the
biggest decline since Sept. 26. China Petroleum & Chemical,
known as Sinopec, lost 1.7 percent. China uses its biggest  oil
companies , of which PetroChina is the largest, to control
domestic fuel prices and secure energy supplies from overseas to
meet the burgeoning needs of the economy. China Shenhua Energy,
the largest coal producer, retreated 1.1 percent.  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks declined, sending the benchmark index to a
five-week low, after consumer prices rose more than forecast and
factory output growth missed estimates.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  slid to a
five-week low, pacing losses in a gauge of lenders, which fell
for an eighth day. The rupee added 0.6 percent to 63.32 per
dollar in Mumbai, the biggest gain since Oct. 17, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s won declined to a one-month low, while
 government bonds  gained. The nation will allow investors to
short sell financial stocks from tomorrow, signaling that
regulators believe banks and insurers are strong enough to
withstand the lifting of a ban imposed during the 2008 crisis.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 339 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  