-- Tencent, Sohu Accuse Baidu of Infringing Video Copyrights
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-11-13T08:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/tencent-sohu-accuse-baidu-of-infringing-video-copyrights-online.html
Chinese online-video providers
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  said the owner of
China’s largest search engine,  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , infringed copyrights
by providing access to pirated content.  Some material on Baidu’s video search, Baidu Yingyin, Baidu
Video App and Baidu TV Stick is available without authorization,
companies including Tencent, Sohu and  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  said
today in a joint statement.  Chinese online video companies spend billions of  yuan 
annually on content as they compete in a market that consultant
IResearch estimates may generate 16.2 billion yuan ($2.7
billion) in advertising revenue next year. Pressure to comply
with intellectual property rules has increased for the publicly
traded companies.  “The video industry now has walked to the crossroads,”
Charles Zhang, chairman and chief executive officer of Sohu,
said in an e-mailed statement. “If we let such industry
malpractices continue, it would be a devastating blow.”  Baidu values copyright protection and has blocked links to
more than 5.8 million videos since June, Kaiser Kuo, a Beijing-based spokesman for Baidu, said in an e-mailed statement.  Universal, Sony  Youku Tudou sued Baidu in Beijing and Shanghai, Jean Shao,
a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. Sohu also sued
Baidu, Jiang Xin, a spokeswoman for Sohu, said by text message
without elaborating.  Baidu agreed in July 2011 with  Universal Music Group ,
Warner Music Group Corp. and  Sony Corp. (6758)  to pay owners of
copyrighted material available on a social-music platform. Later
that year, it was removed from the U.S. list of “notorious
markets” known for sustaining piracy and counterfeiting of
intellectual property.  Competition has intensified among China’s online video
websites, with  Suning Commerce Group Co. (002024)  saying last month it
would pay $250 million for a 44 percent stake in video website
PPTV.com.  Baidu bought PPStream Inc. in June for $370 million and has
been combining it with IQiyi.com to create China’s largest
online-video platform. Baidu said it spent 222 million yuan
during the second quarter for content.  Youku Tudou spent 289 million yuan in the same period.  Tencent, Asia’s largest Internet company by market value,
also operates a video site at  v.qq.com .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  