-- Tencent Rises After Boosting Online Game Sales
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-11-14T03:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/tencent-misses-quarterly-estimates-on-mobile-development-costs.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  Asia ’s
largest Internet company, climbed the most in about six months
in Hong Kong trading after posting a 35 percent gain in revenue
from games played on desktops and its WeChat messaging app.  Tencent shares  rose  as much as 5.15 percent to HK$412.80
before trading at HK$411.40 at 11:29 a.m., headed for its
biggest advance since May 20. The stock has  gained  65 percent
this year.  Billionaire Ma Huateng’s company is boosting spending on
development and marketing to popularize games and services
including the QQ messaging app and WeChat, known as Weixin in
China. The Shenzhen, China-based company hired soccer superstar
 Lionel Messi  to promote the apps as it pursues new revenue
streams, including charging for emoticons, to compete with
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Sina Corp. for China’s 464
million mobile Internet users.  “What people are excited about is the open mobile platform
on Weixin,” said Billy Leung, an analyst at RHB Research
Institute Sdn. in Hong Kong. “Essentially, Weixin opened up
people to games.”  Tencent’s five games released through QQ and Weixin had 570
million registered users within three months, President Martin Lau said yesterday during an earnings conference call.  Targets Raised  Third-party developers will be invited to write games for
QQ and WeChat’s mobile apps, and it expects third-party games to
eventually constitute the majority of offerings, Lau said.  Tencent’s price  target  was raised after the earnings report
by Jefferies Group LLC, Standard Chartered Plc, HSBC Holdings
Plc, Brean Capital LLC and Deutsche Bank AG.  “We expect WeChat mobile games to take off in 2014,”
Cynthia Meng, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Jefferies, said in a
note increasing her price target to HK$492.  Revenue rose 34 percent to 15.5 billion yuan ($2.5 billion)
as sales from Internet games rose to 8.4 billion yuan in the
same period, the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s
stock exchange yesterday.  The company posted third-quarter  profit  that missed analyst
estimates due to higher costs to compete against Alibaba, Sina
and Baidu Inc., owner of China’s largest search engine. Net
income rose 20 percent to 3.87 billion  yuan , the company said.
That compared with the 4 billion-yuan average profit of seven
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Adding Emoticons  More games and emoticons will be added for WeChat’s users
outside of China, Lau said. WeChat will become an important
channel for merchants and e-commerce, he said.  “We are very focused on building user experience,” Lau
said during the call when asked about competition with Alibaba.
“When you have the best experience users will stay, and when
users stay they keep each other, and that’s the biggest value of
a social network.”  Selling and marketing expenses climbed 79 percent in the
September quarter from the year earlier, with general and
administrative spending rising 29 percent amid a boost to
research and development.  “Tencent has spent a lot of money on marketing and sales,
including hiring famous people,” Ricky Lai, an analyst at
Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said by
phone. “Competition in the industry has tensed up and a lot of
other companies are also pushing for online games.”  Alibaba, Sina  Sina’s Weibo, a microblogging service, had more than 60.2
million daily active users from June to September. Alibaba,
China’s largest e-commerce company, plans to boost users of its
Laiwang instant-messaging app to 100 million.  Tencent also expanded into e-commerce with platforms
including business-to-customer website  Yixun.com  and  Paipai.com ,
which links individual buyers and sellers. Tencent paid $448
million in September for a stake in Sogou, China’s third-largest
search engine, to expand its Web offerings in the world’s
largest market.  More than 84 percent of China’s Internet users regularly
access instant messaging, making it the most popular online
application in the country, followed by  search engines  with
about 80 percent usage, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Monthly active users for QQ fell 0.4 percent to 815.6
million people by the end of September from the end of June.
WeChat saw monthly active users rise 15 percent to 272 million
during the same period. That compares with about 1 million
instant-messaging accounts in 1999, according to Tencent’s
website.  Tencent is counting on WeChat, which targets more upscale
users than QQ, for its global expansion.  WeChat revenue may reach 4.9 billion yuan next calendar
year as the company moves faster than expected in monetizing the
application, John Choi, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. in Hong Kong, wrote in a Nov. 8 note.  Ma is  China ’s fourth-richest man, with an estimated net
worth of $10.5 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  