-- LendingClub Said to Reach $2.3B Valuation in DST Funding
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/lendingclub-said-to-reach-2-3b-valuation-in-dst-funding.html
LendingClub Corp., the largest U.S.
peer-to-peer lender, received a $57 million investment from Yuri Milner’s DST Global and Coatue Management LLC as the company
nears an initial public offering.  The transaction values LendingClub at $2.3 billion, said
two people with knowledge of the deal, who asked not to be
identified because the valuation is private. LendingClub Chief
Executive Officer Renaud Laplanche said the share sale closed
yesterday and consisted entirely of stock purchased from early
backers.  The San Francisco-based company is spearheading a surge in
online  consumer lending , by letting individuals and institutions
provide credit to other people in return for yields that are
more than three times higher than 10-year Treasuries.
LendingClub’s valuation has jumped 48 percent since Google Inc.
led a $125 million secondary purchase in May, which valued the
company at $1.55 billion.  LendingClub “uniquely combines the scalability and
efficiency of online marketplaces with a large addressable
market,” Milner wrote in an e-mail. He didn’t comment on the
company’s valuation and Katherine Madariaga, a spokeswoman for
LendingClub, also declined to comment on valuation.  Loans facilitated by LendingClub for everything from debt
consolidation to home remodeling more than doubled to $567
million in the third quarter from a year earlier, Laplanche
said.  At its new valuation, LendingClub is among the highest-priced private technology companies now that  Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  is
publicly traded. Startups worth more than $2 billion include
file storage provider Dropbox Inc., room-sharing service Airbnb
Inc. and online billboard Pinterest Inc.  Internet Deals  DST, founded by Russian billionaire Milner, has also
invested in  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Twitter, Zynga Inc., Groupon Inc. and
Airbnb.  Laplanche, who started LendingClub in 2006, is weighing
2014 for an IPO. While some early investors are cashing in some
of their stake, employees are holding, he said. He didn’t say
which investors sold in the round. Early backers include  Canaan
Partners ,  Norwest Venture Partners  and Morgenthaler Ventures.  “There’s an expectation we’ll go public next year, and we
feel we have a lot of visibility into the business,” Laplanche
said in an interview.  LendingClub competes in peer-to-peer lending with Prosper
Marketplace Inc., which raised $25 million in September from
 Sequoia Capital  and BlackRock Inc. Prosper, also based in  San
Francisco , said last month that originations in October climbed
to $50 million, an increase of 500 percent from January.  Revenue Triples  Both companies make money primarily from fees associated
with issuing loans. LendingClub’s third-quarter revenue almost
tripled to $28 million from a year earlier, Laplanche said.
Prosper generated revenue of $3.41 million in the second
quarter, the most recent period that it’s reported.  The loans of as much as $35,000 are often used as an
alternative to high-priced credit cards. Instead of turning to
banks, consumers are receiving online funds from other people
and institutions, who are acting as investors.  LendingClub said that from June 2007 to mid-2013, lenders
earned an average annualized return of 9.5 percent. The yield on
10-year Treasuries is currently 2.77 percent.  Separately, LendingClub said Jeff Huber, a Google
executive, and  Michael Barr , a law professor at the  University
of Michigan  and former Treasury Department official, joined the
company’s advisory board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  