-- Equity Traders’ Bonuses Seen Rising as Rates Salesmen Face Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-11-13T01:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/equity-traders-bonuses-seen-rising-as-rates-salesmen-face-drop.html
Compensation for Wall Street’s
equities salesmen and traders is expected to rise in 2013, while
total pay for employees in fixed-income units may drop 10
percent, according to recruitment firm Options Group Inc.  Equity-derivatives traders and salesmen globally may get a
19 percent increase in compensation, the most among categories
detailed in a report this week by New York-based Options Group.
Workers in both interest-rates trading and securitized products
may see a 19 percent drop in pay, according to the report.  The largest investment banks cut the amount set aside for
compensation so far this year amid investor pressure to improve
profitability. Average compensation probably will climb 4
percent, driven by increases at smaller banks and boutique
advisory and investment firms, according to the Nov. 11 report.  “It has been a very challenging operating environment for
the past four consecutive years, and each bank has chosen to
invest more in some areas and scale back in others,” Options
Group Chief Executive Officer  Michael Karp  said in a statement.
“Bulge-bracket banks used to consistently pay higher than other
sell-side firms, but this is no longer the case.”  Total pay within equity-trading units probably will rise 12
percent, as investment-banking and wealth-management groups
globally each get 6 percent increases, according to the report.  Workers in foreign-exchange trading will see the only
average increase in compensation among fixed-income units, with
a 2 percent climb. Commodities employees face a 13 percent drop,
with declines of 11 percent in  emerging markets  and 7 percent in
credit.  Options Group’s report reflects compensation for the top 25
percent of workers in each area, excluding the top 1 percent.
It’s based on research conducted year-round and interviews with
senior industry executives, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  