-- Herbalife Investor Stiritz Says He’d Help an LBO
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-11-13T22:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/herbalife-investor-stiritz-says-he-d-help-an-lbo.html
Bill Stiritz, the fourth-largest
shareholder in  Herbalife (HLF)  Ltd., said he’s willing to take part in
a leveraged buyout of the company that would reward shareholders
and help it fend off pyramid-scheme allegations.  Taking the nutrition company private was an option
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said he would discuss with
Herbalife’s management when he took a stake in the company
earlier this year. Stiritz, who holds 5.3 percent of Herbalife,
declined to say in an interview whether he’s in talks with
Icahn, whose 17 percent stake makes him its largest investor.  “The situation is pregnant for a recap or leveraged buyout
of Herbalife, and I would be willing to participate,” Stiritz,
who’s also chief executive officer of cereal maker  Post Holdings
Inc. (POST) , said in the telephone interview.  The shares increased 3.1 percent to $64.64 at the close in
New York.  A leveraged buyout would reduce public scrutiny for Cayman
Islands-based Herbalife while the company defends itself against
billionaire hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman , who for a year has
accused it of operating an illegal pyramid scheme. Ackman has
reduced his equity short position in the company while
maintaining his bet through options. He continues to try to
convince regulators to shut Herbalife down.  “The company under normal conditions would be worth double
what it’s selling for today,” Stiritz said.  ‘Right Circumstance’  Barb Henderson, a spokeswoman for Herbalife, declined to
comment on Stiritz’s remarks. A representative of Icahn declined
to comment. Michael Vachon, a spokesman for New York-based Soros
Fund Management LLC, which owns 5 percent of Herbalife, declined
to comment.  Herbalife President Des Walsh said on Feb. 27 that the
company would “certainly” consider going private in a buyout
“in the right circumstance.” In leveraged buyouts, purchasers
typically use a company’s  cash flow  and assets, as well as their
own, as collateral for loans to take a controlling interest.  The company also said last month it would re-evaluate its
share buyback plans when PricewaterhouseCoopers LP finishes new
audits of the company’s statements for 2010 through 2012.  Herbalife, which makes vitamins, skin creams and meal-replacement shakes and operates in more than 80 countries, hired
PricewaterhouseCoopers in May after KPMG LLP resigned as its
accounting firm because of alleged insider trading by an
auditor. In August, Ackman sent a 52-page letter urging
PricewaterhouseCoopers to pay attention to “serious accounting
and disclosure issues.”  Ackman Accusations  Stiritz, 79, researched Herbalife and began buying its
shares with about $250 million of his own money after seeing
Icahn defend the company.  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP
initially sold short at least 20 million Herbalife shares, has
accused it of swindling unsophisticated consumers with false
get-rich promises using overpriced products that hide a pyramid
scheme. He has urged U.S. regulators, elected officials and
community activists to help shut it down.  Operators of pyramid schemes typically seek to make money
by recruiting new members who pay fees to existing members
rather than relying on just the sale of goods and services. The
Federal Trade Commission has said modern pyramid schemes can use
products to hide their true intent.  Herbalife has repeatedly denied Ackman’s claims. The shares
have risen 96 percent this year and increased 52 percent since
Dec. 18, the day before Ackman disclosed his short.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  