-- Mercuria Seeks Ekofisk Crude; Libya’s Zawiya Refinery Reopens
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-11-13T17:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/mercuria-seeks-ekofisk-crude-libya-s-zawiya-refinery-reopens.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA failed to
sell  North Sea  Ekofisk crude at a lower level than yesterday.
Three November cargoes of the grade will be shipped overseas.
OAO Lukoil didn’t manage to buy Russian Urals crude.  Libya ’s Zawiya refinery has reopened and is working
normally after protesters ended a demonstration, Mohamed
Elharari, a spokesman for state-run National Oil Corp., said
today by phone from Tripoli.  North Sea  Mercuria Energy Trading SA didn’t manage to sell a Nov. 29
to Dec. 1 cargo of Ekofisk for a third day, a Bloomberg survey
of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window
showed. The company offered the grade at a premium of 90 cents
to Dated Brent, 25 cents a barrel less than yesterday.  Brent for December settlement traded at $107.10 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $106.50 in the previous session. The January
contract was at $106.81, a discount of 29 cents to December.  China will receive a cargo of North Sea crude for the
second time this year, according to fixture reports from two
shipbrokers. Two suezmax tankers were earlier booked to ship
Ekofisk to  Chile .  China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,
known as Unipec, booked the suezmax SKS Satilla to load at
Ekofisk Teesside terminal in  England  for Ningbo from Nov. 20 to
Nov. 25, according to fixture lists from PF Bassoe AS and Optima
Shipbrokers.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc has booked a very large crude carrier
Front Commodore to load on Dec. 15 at Forties Hound Point
terminal in  Scotland  for  South Korea , according to reports from
five shipbrokers including Clarkson Plc.  Urals/Mediterranean  Lukoil didn’t manage to buy 80,000 metric tons of Urals for
Nov. 23 to Nov. 27 loading at a premium of 15 cents a barrel to
Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Rotterdam, the survey
showed. The company was bidding at plus 10 cents yesterday.  Gunvor didn’t manage to buy 85,000 tons of CPC blend for
Dec. 4 to Dec. 8 loading at a premium of 95 cents to Dated Brent
delivered to Augusta,  Italy . That compares with the company’s
last bid at plus 15 cents on Nov. 1.  About 300 protesters at Libya’s Hariga port have prevented
a tanker from docking, Elharari said by phone. Bloomberg
shiptracking data show the British Falcon crude tanker under way
to the port. The vessel was previously moored at Zawiya from
Oct. 27 to Nov. 9, according to the data.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest crude exporter,
will supply full contractual volume in December to customers in
Europe, unchanged from this month, according to two refinery
officials who received the notice.  Saudi Aramco , as the company is known, will provide 100
percent of crude cargoes sold under long-term contracts, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
agreements are confidential. While Aramco has the option to
reduce monthly sales volumes to term buyers, the producer has
not done so since Nov. 2009.  West Africa  Angola is said to have six to eight December-loading crude
cargoes still unsold, including Nemba, Plutonio, Saturno and
Saxi grades, according to four traders who participate in the
market asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential. The country plans to export 57 lots next month.  Thailand ’s PTT Pcl’s tender to buy 600,000 to 1 million
barrels of sweet or sour crude for Jan. 1 to Jan. 5 delivery to
Rayong closed today at 12 p.m. Singapore time, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . Offers are valid until 6
p.m. tomorrow.  Traders are booking the fewest spot tankers to ship West
African crude to the U.S. in at least three years as the North
American nation produces the most crude since 1989.  Spot charters for loading in the four weeks ended Nov. 10
fell to 1.41 million tons, or 48 percent less than a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg today from
provisional hiring lists from shipbrokers. That’s the smallest
amount for any four-week period since the start of 2010. A
voyage to Houston from Qua Iboe in  Nigeria  takes about 20 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  