-- Merkel Economists Say Coalition Talks Risk Reform Rollback
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-11-13T10:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/merkel-s-advisers-say-coalition-talks-risk-rolling-back-reforms.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
willingness to compromise with the Social Democrats to form a
coalition risks rolling back steps taken by her predecessor that
made Europe’s biggest economy stronger, her Council of Economic
Experts said.  “The present economic situation and  Germany ’s healthy
position compared to the euro area’s crisis countries seem to
have obstructed many politicians’ view of the major future
challenges,” the independent council said in its annual report
published today in Berlin.  Demands by coalition negotiators to introduce pensions for
mothers, raise some pensions, allow exemptions to the retirement
age of 67 and set minimum wages will make it harder in the
future to master challenges faced by Germany, the council said
in the report titled “Against a Backward-Looking Economic
Policy.” The report comes as the European Commission considers
whether to open a probe into Germany over its trade surplus. A
decision is due at 1 p.m. today in Brussels.  Merkel, speaking to journalists after receiving the report,
said that while the government will take the panel’s advice
“seriously” it “often doesn’t implement all that you
recommend.”  The German economy, which helped to pull the 17-nation euro
area out of recession in three months through June, probably
expanded at a slower pace in the third quarter, the Bundesbank
said on Oct. 21. Unemployment rose for a third month in October,
adding to signs of a slowdown.  ‘Unpopular Measures’  “Forward-looking economic policy is necessary to
strengthen Germany’s economic growth and to ensure the viability
of public finances and the social security systems,” the
council said. “The German government shouldn’t give the
impression that it expects -– or even demands -– painful
adjustment processes from other countries, but shies away from
unpopular measures for Germany.”  Proposals to introduce a blanket minimum wage and restrict
temporary employment and limited employment contracts “serve to
weaken the labor market,” the council said. The currently
favorable fiscal situation should be used to consolidate public
finances, it said.  Economic growth will accelerate to 1.6 percent next year
from 0.4 percent in 2013, cutting the unemployment rate to 6.8
percent from 6.9 percent. Germany’s overall public-sector
finances will be balanced next year after a surplus of 0.1
percent in 2013, the council said.  The council was set up by law in 1963 to assess the
macroeconomic  development  of Germany and enjoys complete
independence with respect to its advisory activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  