-- Terry Is Priority Target for Galatasaray, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-13T08:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/terry-is-priority-target-for-galatasaray-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Terry Targeted  Chelsea’s John Terry is a priority January transfer target
for Galatasaray coach Roberto Mancini, the  Daily Mail reported .  The 32-year-old defender is out of contract at the end of
this season and Chelsea only offers one-year extensions to
players over the age of 30, the Mail said. The appeal of
Galatasaray for Terry would be a longer deal offering greater
financial security and the chance to link up again with former
teammate Didier Drogba, the Mail added.  Carrick Contract  Manchester United midfielder Michael Carrick is close to
signing an extension to his contract that expires at the end of
the season,  the Guardian reported .  Although United typically offers only one-year deals to
players in their 30s, manager David Moyes is said to be ready to
sanction a two-year agreement for Carrick given the 32-year-old’s fitness record and consistent form, the Guardian said.  Carrick may be ruled out for as many as six weeks because
of an Achilles tendon injury that force him to withdraw from the
England squad yesterday, the  newspaper added .  Alonso Interest  United compete with rival Chelsea in bidding for Real
 Madrid  midfielder Xabi Alonso, who’s out of contract after the
season, the  Daily Star reported .  United has started discussions with Alonso, who is said to
be keeping his options open even though he’d prefer to remain in
Madrid, the newspaper added. Chelsea has been monitoring the 31-year-old’s situation, the Star said.  Petrescu for Palace?  Crystal Palace chairman Steve Parish held talks with former
Chelsea defender Dan Petrescu about becoming coach of the last-place Premier League team, the Daily Mirror reported.  Petrescu, 45, has managed six different clubs in his native
Romania, Poland and  Russia  since retiring as a player 10 years
ago, the newspaper added. He currently coaches Dinamo Moscow.  Palace also is in negotiations with former Manchester
United first-team coach Rene Meulensteen, the  Independent
reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  