-- Tesla Says Three Employees Hurt in Industrial Accident
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-14T15:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/tesla-says-3-employees-hurt-in-industrial-accident.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  said three workers
were injured at its only assembly plant in Fremont,  California ,
adding to a string of mishaps including fires in its Model S
sedans and results that disappointed some investors.  The employees were injured by hot metal resulting from “a
failure in a low pressure aluminum casting press,” at the
factory, the  Palo Alto , California-based electric-car maker said
in a statement yesterday.  They suffered moderate to serious burns, Fremont Fire
Department Captain Daniel Cardenas said in an e-mail. There was
no fire or explosion at the factory, he said.  Tesla, with the biggest share price gain among automakers
this year, has endured setbacks since closing at a record
$193.37 on Sept. 30, with three Model S fires and third-quarter
results that reported deliveries that missed some estimates.
Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk said this week at the DealBook
conference in  New York  that “there’s definitely not going to be
a recall” of the Model S.  U.S. regulators haven’t ordered a recall or announced
whether there will be an official review of the vehicle fires.  Inspectors from California’s  Division of Occupational
Safety and Health  visited the Fremont plant to review the
accident, said Peter Melton, a spokesman for the agency, in a
phone interview yesterday. The workers had second-degree burns
and were sent to  Santa Clara Valley Medical Center  in San Jose
for treatment, he said.  Model S Production  Tesla said it’s ensuring the workers “receive the best
possible care.”  Alexis Georgeson, a spokeswoman for the company, didn’t
have further details on how the accident will affect production
of the Model S.  Musk visited the injured Tesla employees yesterday,
according to a report on KNTV in  San Jose , California.  “There does seem to be, I think honestly, a bit too much
attention paid to Tesla, good and bad,” Musk said in the
report.  The carmaker’s stock fell 0.9 percent to $137.45 at 10:25
a.m. New York time. The shares have advanced more than fourfold
this year.  Tesla is investigating a Nov. 6 fire involving a Model S
near Murfreesboro,  Tennessee , the third accident to result in a
blaze in about five weeks. The fire occurred after the car hit a
metal tow hitch that had fallen onto Interstate 24, the
Tennessee Highway Patrol said.  Delivery Target  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  hasn’t
discussed the Tennessee fire beyond a Nov. 8 statement in which
it said it’s in close communication with the company and local
authorities, gathering information about the incident to
determine if additional action is necessary.  The factory where the industrial accident occurred is
located across  San Francisco Bay  from Tesla’s headquarters in
Palo Alto and is the sole production site for the Model S.  Any production delay could make it tougher for the carmaker
to meet its 21,500-unit delivery target this year. Tesla said
last week when it reported quarterly earnings that it was
producing 550 cars per week and planned to deliver almost 6,000
in the current quarter.  The company bought the 50-year-old plant in 2010, after it
had been a joint venture between  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and the
predecessor of  General Motors Co. (GM)  for a quarter century.  The deal that kept the only large auto plant on the U.S.
West Coast in operation was arranged by Toyota President  Akio Toyoda , who worked at it. Toyota also bought a  stake  in Tesla
following the factory sale.  The plant opened in the early 1960s in its first
incarnation as GM’s Fremont Assembly facility. It closed in 1982
before reopening in 1984, rechristened New United Motor
Manufacturing Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  