-- Mexico Bond Correlation to Treasuries Surges on Fed Speculation
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-11-13T17:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/mexico-bond-correlation-to-treasuries-surges-on-fed-speculation.html
The correlation between Mexico  bonds 
and U.S. Treasuries is rising to an eight-week high on
speculation the Federal Reserve will pare stimulus this year,
damping demand for both countries’ securities.  The 30-day  correlation coefficient  between 10-year Mexican
government bonds and similar-maturity Treasuries rose to 0.64
today, the highest closing level since Sept. 18. A reading of 1
means the two securities move in lockstep while -1 indicates
they move in opposite directions. The peso increased 0.8 percent
to 13.0783 per dollar at 10:41 a.m. in Mexico City.  Speculation that the Federal Reserve may reduce its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases next month has mounted since a
U.S. Labor Department report showed last week that companies
hired more workers than forecast in October. Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said yesterday a
paring of U.S. bond purchases “could very well take place”
next month.  “We’re data dependent again,” Kevin Daly, who helps
oversee about $10 billion in emerging-market debt including
Mexican government bonds at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, said
in a telephone interview from  London . “We’re looking at a
situation where we’re starting to think tapering, that’s not
good for risky assets, that’s not good for  emerging markets . So
in the meantime that’s why you get these positive correlations
to Treasuries.”  Yields on fixed-rate government peso bonds maturing in 2024
have increased 39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, in the
past month to 6.28 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries have risen
five basis points over the period to 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  