-- Ford Ka Reflects Budget-Minded Buyers’ Desire for Chrome
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-11-13T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/ford-ka-reflects-budget-minded-buyers-desire-for-chrome.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , pushing for 8
million annual sales by the middle of this decade, rolls out its
cheapest global small car next year, aiming to provide the first
set of wheels to buyers in  emerging markets .  The Ka Concept foreshadows a model that Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford will sell next year for less than its Fiesta
subcompact. Ford is betting chrome accents and a more sturdy
stance than models from  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Volkswagen AG
will win over first-time buyers in markets such as  Brazil , where
Executive Chairman  Bill Ford  introduces the car today.  “I kept telling the designers: ‘Guys, no tin can,’” Ehab
Kaoud, Ford South America’s design chief, told reporters last
week in Dearborn. “This is the smallest car we do. But when you
look at it, it really exudes premiumness.”  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has revamped Ford by
focusing the second-largest U.S. automaker’s development efforts
toward global vehicles rather than unique models for disparate
markets. The revamped Ka, which will replace the version Ford
sells now in Brazil starting at 24,200 reais ($10,400), may be
the stiffest test yet of that strategy. Ford has to balance
offering features that draw buyers without adding too much cost.  “We’re not in the business of growing unprofitably,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of the Americas, told reporters last
week. “The smaller the vehicle, the more challenging the margin
equation is. We go into these programs with the expectation to
make money.”  Ka’s Competition  Ford plans to invest almost $2.1 billion in Brazil during
the first half of this decade to add production capacity in a
market where government measures have discouraged imports,
Hinrichs said. The Ka is the second global vehicle that Ford
 South America , based in Brazil, took the lead on developing,
after the EcoSport small utility vehicle introduced last year.  The Ka competes in a segment that’s projected to expand to
6.2 million worldwide sales by 2017, one of the fastest-growing
for the industry, Hinrichs said. By then, about 44 percent of
deliveries in the segment will be to buyers in  South Asia  and
South America.  Ford is rushing to capitalize on the enthusiasm of buyers
in these markets who often have saved up to make their first
vehicle purchase. The EcoSport drew lines 100 meters (328 feet)
long when it debuted at the New Delhi Auto Expo last year,
Hinrichs said.  “We had to shut the stand down every 30 minutes, turn the
lights off, cover the EcoSport and get everybody out so we could
bring the next group in,” he said. “That’s how big a deal it
was in  India .”  Ford’s Target  Ford set its 8 million vehicle goal more than two years
ago. Crucial to reaching that target will be small-vehicle
deliveries in South Asia and South America. Ford has projected
such models will grow to 55 percent of its sales by the end of
the decade, from 29 percent in 2000. The company sold 5.67
million vehicles worldwide at wholesale last year.  While the Ka has been around since the late 1990s, the
version currently in production in Brazil differs from the model
built in  Poland  through a joint venture with  Fiat SpA. (F)  Ford also
markets a low-priced Figo small car in India.  “We’ve never had a One Ford, global DNA, modern
technology, modern platform vehicle” sold as the Ka, Hinrichs
said. “It’s a very important part of that growth equation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  