-- Ford’s Lincoln-Unique MKC Welcomes BMW Buyers With LEDs
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-11-13T21:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/ford-s-lincoln-unique-mkc-welcomes-bmw-buyers-with-leds.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , trying to revive its
Lincoln line, said its newest utility vehicle will share little
in common with the similarly sized Ford Escape in a bid to lure
BMW and Audi buyers.  The MKC utility debuts in mid-2014 with the brand’s first
Lincoln-exclusive engine, said Lisa Drake, the model’s chief
engineer. An approach-detection feature will light up the MKC’s
headlamps, taillamps and door handles when owners approach with
their key fob. LEDs beneath the side mirrors project Lincoln
“welcome mats” on the ground alongside the doors.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally is betting unique
designs and features can rebuild Lincoln’s cachet. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker is responding to critics who have
blamed Lincoln’s sliding sales and lackluster pricing on
offerings that they say are little more than dressed-up versions
of Ford cars and utility vehicles.  “This vehicle shares almost nothing” with the Escape, Max Wolff, Lincoln’s director of design, said last week in an
interview. “You’ll continue to see that as we move through some
of the product that comes after this as well.”  Lincoln’s U.S. sales have slipped 3 percent this year
through October to 66,983. The brand’s peak was 231,660
deliveries in 1990.  With a starting price of  $33,995 , the MKC will be aimed at
a growing set of small luxury utility vehicle buyers that has
boosted sales for  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s Acura, in addition to BMW and Audi.  Smaller Lincoln  “This is really the heart and soul of the new American
luxury industry, as well as in  China ,” Jim Farley, Ford’s
marketing chief and head of Lincoln, said today on Bloomberg
Television. “This is our chance to break the idea that people
have of Lincoln making very big cars, sedans and utilities.”  Ford rose 2.3 percent to $17.10 at the close in New York.
The shares have climbed 32 percent this year compared with the
25 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  MKC is the second of four new vehicles that Ford plans to
roll out in as many years to reverse Lincoln’s fortunes. The
first, the MKZ sedan, overcame production snafus early this year
to post record sales in six of the last seven months. The new
MKZ is selling at an average premium of $6,000 compared with the
previous-generation model, said Matt VanDyke, global director of
Lincoln.  MKZ Criticism  While the MKZ boasts exclusive features such as push-button
shifting and an available panoramic glass roof, the car hasn’t
escaped criticism for the similarities its shares with the Ford
Fusion sedan.  When Ford made optional rear seat-belt air bags available
on the Fusion after initially offering them on the MKZ, Car and
Driver magazine said the MKZ was being  “marginalized.”  The
magazine also said in the Aug. 16 post that Lincoln’s market
share had shrunk to less than what the Mercury brand claimed
when Ford discontinued it in 2010.  Lincoln captured 0.5 percent of the U.S. light-vehicle
market during this year’s first 10 months, trailing the 0.8
percent for Mercury in 2010, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  “I’ll sum up what you’ve heard about the MKZ in four
words: ‘It’s a Ford Fusion,’” the auto enthusiast blog Jalopnik
said last month in an  MKZ review . “That is pretty much 100
percent accurate.”  ‘Fancier Fords’  An  earlier post  in June ranked Lincoln among the 10 most
boring car companies: “MKZ? That’s a Fusion. MKS? That’s a
Taurus. MKT? That’s a Flex. Slightly fancier Fords with a
strange nose do not an exciting car make.”  Lincoln engineers and designers are working to end such
critiques. Making a 2.3-liter EcoBoost available only to MKC was
the first decision made when Drake, its engineer, joined the
program to develop the vehicle in October 2010.  “It took all of one meeting to get the engine funded for
Lincoln,” she said. “We had the full commitment from the
management team that we had to have it. There was really never a
debate, and we are extremely excited about it. It was one of the
most clear-cut decisions we made on the car.”  Ford widened the platform that underpins the Escape and
added unique suspension and braking systems to mimic the driving
characteristics of Volkswagen AG’s Audi Q5 and  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW X3, she said.  Horsepower, Torque  The 2.3-liter engine boasts 275 horsepower and 300 foot-pounds of torque, matching the BMW X3 for the best in the
segment. The power that it puts out required that Ford invest in
a specially designed torque converter.  “There’s nothing in here that really is common other than
the floor pan,” Drake said. “It’s very different than from how
we’ve operated in the past. When we needed something, we asked
for it, and we got it.” Ford didn’t specify how much it’s
spending on the model.  Results from clinics with prospective customers indicate
the moves Lincoln is making are beginning to pay off, VanDyke
said. The company often surveys these potential buyers with
brand logos concealed, and Lincoln typically does well until its
badge is revealed, he said.  “Until we’ve gotten to MKZ and MKC, we have not been a
leading choice by any stretch of the imagination,” VanDyke
said. “Where we are now is seeing really great performance
after the brand was revealed, after the specs were described,
after price is known.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  