-- Gambon, Atkins Unforgettable in ‘All That Fall’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-11-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/gambon-atkins-unforgettable-in-all-that-fall-review.html
Trevor Nunn’s ravishing production
of “All That Fall” may completely change your opinion of
 Samuel Beckett .  In the intimate main space at 59E59 Theaters off-Broadway,
Nunn and the incomparable  Michael Gambon  and Eileen Atkins are
giving a master class not only in acting but in taking a work
never meant for the stage and suffusing it with dramatic life.  We are in the Irish countryside. The company of eight is
arranged at the perimeter of the stage.  Elderly, rheumatic Maddy (Atkins) has decided to meet her
blind husband Dan (Gambon) at the train station. She’s bent with
pain and accosted by various characters along the way -- a dung
seller, a bicycling neighbor and a horse-racing fan in a broken-down “limousine” that he, with huffing comic difficulty, gets
her into, easing her journey.  On the walk back with Dan the weather and the mood darken.
Woven through the soundscape is Schubert’s “Death and the
Maiden” quartet.  What you will remember is the magnificent interplay between
Atkins, with her wheezy yet delicate gruffness, and Gambon,
whose booming baritone is capable of heartbreak.  “All That Fall” was written as a radio play for the  BBC 
and performed in 1957. Here we see a sound studio, with a web-work of microphones suspended from the ceiling over a nearly
bare stage -- the perfect frame for the actors and their voices.  In just 75 minutes, they encompass comedy and tragedy with
astonishing economy and acuity. It’s unforgettable.  Through Dec. 8 at 59E59 Theaters. Information:
+1-212-279-4200;  http://www.59e59.org .
Rating: *****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
Jeffrey Burke on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  