-- Gay Indians Wed in Unfriendly States as Battle Hits Tribe
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/gay-indians-wed-in-unfriendly-states-as-battle-hits-tribe.html
At least four American Indian tribes
have legalized same-sex marriage this year -- in some cases
creating islands of marriage equality in states that otherwise
ban the unions.  As a growing number of states have moved to allow gay
couples to wed, with Illinois and  Hawaii  poised to bring the
number to 16 soon, so have tribes, which are sovereign
governments not subject to state laws. At least seven perform
same-sex marriages, including Oklahoma, Oregon and  Michigan ,
where voters constitutionally banned gay marriage in 2004.  “The federal government recognizes it, but the state I
reside in doesn’t,” said Tim LaCroix, 53, a member of the
 Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians  in Michigan. LaCroix
wed his non-Indian partner of 30 years on tribal land in March.
“We should be accepted in the state of Michigan. We pay taxes
like everyone else.”  The U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in June striking down a
ban on federal benefits for same-sex couples has emboldened
marriage rights activists throughout the country, including
those on reservations.  The ruling that invalidated the core of the U.S. Defense of
Marriage Act didn’t force states to recognize marriages
performed elsewhere, including by tribes within their borders,
said Ron Whitener, executive director of the  Native American Law
Center  at the  University of Washington  School of Law. Still, the
high court’s action has a direct impact on American Indians who
may deal directly with the federal government about reservation
land and other issues, he said.  ‘Bigger Deal’  “It’s going to speed up the uptake of same-sex marriage in
tribes because it clears up that issue that for Indians is a
bigger deal than even for non-Indians,” he said.  There are 566 federally recognized tribes in the U.S. The
two largest, the  Cherokee Nation  and  Navajo Nation , banned same-sex marriage in 2004 and 2005, respectively, as similar laws
swept through states. Other tribes, like Whitener’s own, the
 Squaxin Island Tribe  in  Washington  state, don’t have laws
governing domestic relations and defer to the state, he said.  Over the past 20 years, there has been a push by tribes to
rewrite their laws to better reflect their customs and culture,
Whitener said. As that process continues, he said, more tribes
will allow same-sex couples to wed. Some tribes traditionally
regard homosexuals as highly spiritual people, sometimes
referred to as “two-spirited,” he said.  ‘Traditional Values’  “Gay marriage has a place in the traditional values of
many tribes in the  United States ,” Whitener said.  It’s not known how many tribes explicitly allow gay
marriage in their statutes or have been performing ceremonies.
Generally, at least one of the spouses would have to be a member
of the tribe to qualify for marriage, Whitener said.  The Coquille Indian Tribe  in  Oregon  legalized same-sex
marriage in 2008, followed by the  Suquamish Tribe  of Washington
in 2011. The Little Traverse Bay Odawas’s tribal council voted
to recognize gay marriage in March -- and LaCroix and Gene
Barfield, 61, who met in the U.S. Navy, were married immediately
after the measure was signed.  The Pokagon Band of Potawatomi  in
Michigan, the Santa Ysabel tribe of  California  and the
 Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation  of Washington
state also took legislative action to allow same-sex marriages
this year.  “It’s something we have accepted since time immemorial,”
said Michael Finley, 35, chairman of the Colville tribes’
council, which voted unanimously to allow gay marriages in
September. “If they choose to marry someone of the same sex,
they should be allowed to do so, and they shouldn’t be
discriminated against.”  First Marriage  The Oklahoma-based  Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes , whose law
is silent on gender, performed its first same-sex marriage in
December, said Lisa Liebl, a spokeswoman. Its third ceremony
Oct. 31 attracted national attention because of the state ban.
Darren Black Bear, 45, a member of the tribe who wed his
partner, who’s not a member, said he didn’t care if  Oklahoma 
recognized the union or not.  “My tribe recognizes it and what matters is that the
federal government recognizes it,” said Black Bear, of  Oklahoma
City , as he and husband Jason Pickel, 36, drove to Concho to
file their marriage license at the tribal court the day after
the ceremony.  The couple had planned to wed in  Iowa  until they learned
they could do so on the reservation. Same-sex marriage became
legal in Iowa in 2009. In Hawaii, the state Senate passed a bill
yesterday legalizing gay marriage. It awaits Governor Neil Abercrombie’s signature.  Greater Scrutiny  Public attention around the marriage has sparked a backlash
and greater scrutiny of tribal code. The tribe’s  Supreme Court 
is reviewing the code, which is vague and refers only to
“Indians,” to determine whether one or both spouses need to be
Cheyenne or Arapaho or whether non-Indians or members of other
tribes may be married, Liebl said.  While some tribal leaders have expressed support for
marriage rights, the tribe’s chief of staff has called for a
vote of the tribal council or the people on the issue. Ida
Hoffman, 60, who described herself as a Baptist, said she thinks
media accounts made it seem like all tribal members support
same-sex marriage. She wants it banned, she said.  “I’m opposed to same-sex marriage as I’m sure a lot of our
tribal members are,” Hoffman said. “I feel like, with an issue
like this, it needs to go out to the people.”  Popular Opinion  The Navajo Nation Council banned same-sex marriages on its
27,000-square-mile reservation that spans  Arizona ,  New Mexico 
and  Utah  in 2005 after overriding a veto by the tribal
president. But as popular opinion has changed around the country
-- 55 percent of Americans now support same-sex marriage,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll in September -- it’s
changing on reservations, too, said Alray Nelson, a gay Navajo.  Nelson, 27, helped organize the advocacy group  Navajo
Equality  in the wake of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision. He
and other members are approaching their family, friends and
clans to talk about how tribal law discriminates. The group is
hoping to challenge the ban in tribal court next year.  “It gave us new energy,” Nelson, a political science
student at the University of New Mexico in  Albuquerque , said of
the Supreme Court decision. “We are sitting down with elders,
with parents, in our homes, in our hogans and on front porches.
The focus is on family because that is what this law
discriminates against; it discriminates against families.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  