-- GDF Suez Nine-Month Profit Falls on Lower European Power Prices
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-11-13T06:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/gdf-suez-nine-month-profit-falls-on-lower-european-power-prices.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , France’s former
natural-gas monopoly, reported nine-month profit fell 6.5
percent because of lower power prices in Europe and maintenance
halts at power stations in Belgium.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to 10.3 billion euros ($13.8 billion) on a pro
forma basis, the Paris-based company said today in a statement.
That was in line with the average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The Paris-based company maintained its financial targets
and said full-year net recurring profit would be at the top end
of the forecast range of 3.1 billion euros to 3.5 billion euros
for 2013. That’s based on Ebitda of 13 billion euros to 14
billion euros.  GDF Suez, hurt by lower demand for gas-fired power in
Europe, is closing plants to contain costs while seeking to
expand in  Asia ,  Latin America  and the  Middle East . Chief
Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet has said the region’s
“disastrous” energy policies prompted the utility to shut more
than 10,000 megawatts of capacity,  The company today said worsening economic conditions in
Europe meant it may be forced to write-down the value of power-station assets.  Net debt  fell to 29.8 billion euros compared with 32.2
billion euros as of June 30, the company said.  Longer-than-expected shutdowns of Belgian nuclear reactors
for safety checks will cost 318 million euros in Ebitda this
year, the utility has said.  At the end of last year GDF Suez reduced earnings targets,
citing a “demand crisis” in Europe’s energy markets. In
February the utility wrote down the value of its  power plants  in
Europe by 2 billion euros, saying weaker demand, falling
emission-permit prices and the cost of gas relative to coal
combined to make generation unprofitable.  GDF Suez recorded a further 200 million euros of
impairments in the first half after mothballing gas-fired
plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  