-- Germany’s Real Estate Companies Raised Most Capital Since 2006
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-13T14:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/germany-s-real-estate-companies-raised-most-capital-since-2006.html
German real estate companies raised
the most from stock and bond sales since 2006 this year as
investors including  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  took advantage of the country’s housing boom to
sell stakes and refinance debt.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN) ,  Gagfah SA (GFJ)  and  LEG
Immobilien AG (LEG)  led deals that have raised 10.7 billion euros
($14.4 billion) this year through October, more than triple the
total for 2012, according to data compiled by Akselrod
Consulting and Barkow Consulting GmbH. In 2006, German property
companies raised 19.8 billion euros on capital markets, the
firms said in a report today.  “German real estate, especially residential, is attractive
to all investor groups this year,” Peter Barkow, co-author of
the study and chief executive officer of the Dusseldorf-based
firm, said by phone. “It’s the hunt for yield with reasonable
risk.”  Investors who bought German buildings during the credit-fueled boom that preceded the 2008 financial crisis are cashing
out as Europe’s largest economy recovers. Germany’s benchmark
DAX Index has rallied 19 percent this year as the Federal
Reserve maintained its bond-buying program and the  European
Central Bank  cut its key interest rate to an all-time low.
Demand for German residential assets jumped this year as
investors sought safe investments and rents rose.  Gagfah, the residential landlord 48 percent owned by
Fortress, issued the largest European commercial mortgage-backed
security this year, raising 2.1 billion euros to pay off a
previous asset-backed security. Deutsche Annington, a Bochum-based landlord majority-owned by  Guy Hands ’ Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd., issued 2.5 billion euros of bonds, according to
the report.  While the report said most of the capital was raised in
fixed-income markets, Goldman Sachs and Terra Firma raised a
combined 1.7 billion euros through the initial public offerings
of LEG Immobilien and Deutsche Annington, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  