-- German SPD Chief Set to Sell Party on Merkel Coalition
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-11-14T14:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/german-spd-chief-set-to-sell-party-on-merkel-coalition.html
German Social Democratic leader
Sigmar Gabriel warned his party not to throw away the chance of
implementing its policies, saying that a coalition with
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  is better than a return to opposition.  Gabriel, a veteran of the SPD’s so-called grand coalition
with Merkel that ended in 2009, used a speech to 600 party
delegates in Leipzig today to temper expectations of talks with
her bloc on another alliance. While the party will insist on SPD
values as the price of forming a coalition, including a national
 minimum wage  and tighter  labor-market  rules, policies such as
tax increases won’t happen under Merkel, he said.  “Whoever expects us to implement 100 percent of our
election program is expecting too much,” Gabriel said. “The
SPD can achieve a lot for the people of  Germany  in these
coalition talks. But it mustn’t play for all or nothing.”  Gabriel, a possible vice chancellor in Merkel’s third-term
government, aims to persuade his party to take the risk of
joining their traditional rivals in coalition after its defeat
in Sept. 22 elections. He has committed to put any coalition
deal to a ballot of the SPD membership next month, handing the
rank and file the chance to derail Merkel’s plan to have a
government by Christmas.  Warning Shot  Maneuvering began before the three-day meeting, with
coalition talks broken off in two policy areas and SPD officials
speaking publicly in favor of considering a future alliance with
the anti-capitalist Left Party, sending a warning shot to Merkel
that she can’t take the SPD for granted. A motion will be voted
on in Leipzig that proposes overturning the party’s refusal to
ally with the Left, which includes former East German
communists.  “Gabriel has very good instincts about what moves the
party, and that’s clearly seen in how he’s cleverly opening up
toward the Left,” Andrea Roemmele, a professor of political
science and communication at the Hertie School of Governance in
Berlin, said in a telephone interview. That leaves options for
the next election in 2017 and “adds leverage in addressing his
great challenge, which is to bring around a skeptical grass
roots to support a grand coalition now,” she said.  SPD delegates are in Leipzig, where the Social Democratic
movement was inaugurated 150 years ago this year, to pick over
the September election in which the party took 25.7 percent to
41.5 percent for Merkel’s bloc, the SPD’s second-worst result
since World War II. The worst was in 2009, after four years of
coalition with Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc.  ‘Belly Ache’  The SPD mayor of Leipzig, Burkhard Jung, told the
conference that he understood the “belly ache” caused by the
prospect of allying with Merkel again. Entering into a coalition
is necessary to defend against four more years of unrestrained
Merkel, he said.  Some advocate “go into opposition and remain true to our
values,” said Hannelore Kraft, the SPD prime minister of North
Rhine-Westphalia and one of her party’s lead negotiators in the
coalition talks. “Sometimes it’s easier not to govern. But it’s
better for the people if we do,” she said.  Kraft’s state, which is home to more of the SPD’s 470,000
members than any other, is key to the outcome of the mail-in
vote scheduled to take about two weeks to mid-December. Gabriel
asked delegates to “measure in 14 days what progress we can
make in government for the coming years.”  Gabriel, 54, peppered his speech with references to former
SPD Chancellor Willy Brandt and said the party mustn’t divert
from the course outlined during the campaign. That means a push
for “fairer” pensions, dual citizenship rules, efforts to
fight old-age poverty, better care and equality for men and
women, he said.  Diplomatic Observers  Numerous stalls outside the main plenum suggested a party
on the verge of government, with far more company exhibits than
the SPD’s previous convention in Augsburg in April. Inside the
hall, international delegates and diplomatic observers made up
some of the 2,500 non-voting participants to what could be the
SPD’s last gathering in opposition.  Delegates such as Juergen Conrad, an attorney from
Landstuhl in Rhineland-Palatinate who is a member of the
regional SPD board, have yet to be convinced of the case for
joining Merkel: He said he’ll probably vote against the
coalition contract.  “There’s a very deep-seated angst in the party’s root and
branch that Merkel will yet again reap the rewards for the
achievements of this potential coalition and we’ll get the blame
for its failures,” Conrad said in an interview. “Gabriel
recognizes this. He also knows there’s distrust of the SPD
leadership. A speech isn’t enough to brush away these fears.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  