-- Ghana Says Majority Partner for Airline to Be Chosen Next Year
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-11-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/ghana-says-majority-partner-for-airline-to-be-chosen-next-year.html
Ghana  will choose a partner to take
a majority stake in a new national airline by the end of next
year and will retain the rights to routes assigned to the
operator of the new carrier, the  Ministry of Transport  said.  The ministry has short-listed six transaction advisers and
forwarded their proposals to the Ministry of Finance and  World
Bank  for approval, Ellis Hugh-Tamakloe, head of monitoring and
evaluation for the government agency, said in an interview in
 Accra  yesterday. Ghana would own no more than 10 percent of the
company, he said. He declined to name the advisers.  “The government wants a public-private partnership with
the private investor playing a leading role,” he said. “The
government doesn’t want the failures of the past national
airlines to be repeated.”  The discovery of oil offshore and an economic growth rate
of about 7 percent is fueling demand for flights to Ghana, West
Africa’s second-largest economy after Nigeria.  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) ,  Turkish Airlines , Kenya Airways Ltd. and Deutsche
Lufthansa AG operate international flights from Accra. Ghana
Airports Co. plans to spend about $400 million to expand the
Kotoka International Airport in Accra.  The airline would be Ghana’s third attempt at running a
profitable carrier. Ghana International Airlines, which was 70
percent-owned by the government, ceased operations in 2010. It
replaced Ghana Airways Ltd., which was set up in 1958, a year
after independence from Britain. It was liquidated in 2005 after
it was unable to find international investors amid rising debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  