-- Global Data Network Probed by EU Regulators Over NSA Reports
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-11-13T16:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/global-data-network-probed-by-eu-regulators-over-nsa-reports.html
European privacy watchdogs started a
probe into whether consumers’ personal data on the global Swift
money-transfer network can be accessed by the U.S. National
Security Agency or other intelligence services.  The Dutch and Belgian data protection authorities are
leading the investigation into whether the payment network is
safe, Jacob Kohnstamm, the European Union’s top privacy watchdog
said today. Swift relays money-transfer orders among more than
10,000 banks and other financial institutions in over 200
countries and territories.  The probe by Kohnstamm and his Belgian counterpart Willem
Debeuckelaere follows media reports that foreign intelligence
services allegedly had unlawful access to Swift data concerning
international bank transfers. Global spy agencies have come
under scrutiny in recent months after former U.S. intelligence
contractor Edward Snowden revealed the scale of NSA surveillance
activities, including allegations it had tapped German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s mobile phone.  “Swift is the center of nearly all of the financial
transactions of nearly all of  Europe ,” Kohnstamm, who also
heads the Dutch data protection regulator, said in an interview
in Brussels today. “We generally see clients who say there’s
nothing wrong with them, but from time to time we need to go and
look for ourselves.”  Swift last month said it conducted an audit which showed
that nothing wrong had happened, said Kohnstamm. The European
Parliament last month demanded a halt to bank-data transfers to
U.S. counter-terrorism investigators because of possible
violations of privacy.  Unlawful Access  “We will investigate if the security of the networks and
databases of Swift containing huge quantities of personal data
related to  bank transactions , of among others, European
citizens, allow for or have allowed for unlawful access,”
Kohnstamm told reporters at a press conference today.  Swift said in a  statement  that there is no evidence that
suggests there have been any confidentiality breaches on its
network and would cooperate with the probe.  European data protection regulators from the 28-nation EU
decided that because Swift is based in  Belgium  and has an
important data processing center in the Netherlands, the
respective national privacy regulators should lead the probe,
Kohnstamm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  