-- GM to Open Singapore Headquarters to Back Emerging-Market Thrust
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-13T06:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/gm-to-open-singapore-headquarters-to-back-emerging-market-thrust.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the Detroit-based carmaker that counts  China  as its biggest market, will
open a new headquarters in  Singapore  to oversee markets
including Southeast Asia and  India .  The offices will open in the second quarter of 2014 with
Stefan Jacoby, an executive vice president, overseeing about 120
employees, the Detroit-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. The operation, currently based in Shanghai, will also
direct businesses in South Korea, the Middle East, Africa,
Australia and  New Zealand , according to the statement.  GM reorganized its overseas businesses in August to
separate China, naming Tim Lee chairman of operations in the
world’s largest car market and puttingJacoby in control of the
more than 100 countries and territories. GM will keep its China 
headquarters in Shanghai where Lee oversees 12 joint ventures 
and more than 55,000 employees.  “What GM wants to do is strengthen its sales in high-growth markets in Asia and Africa, especially markets such as
Indonesia,” said Namrita Chow, an analyst at IHS Automotive in
Shanghai. “A hub in Singapore will help GM expand its focus on
these markets without those markets being sidelined by the huge
China operations.”  GM entered India in 1994 and has two factories in the
country. In Thailand, the automaker operates one plant that
builds  pickup trucks  and passenger vehicles.  GM sold 2.84 million autos in China last year, making the
country its biggest single market, and expects to deliver 3
million vehicles this year. The U.S. automaker is spending $11
billion by 2016 on new plants and products in China and is
building four assembly plants there to boost its production
capacity to five million vehicles a year by 2015.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  