-- Goldman Sachs Pulls Loan From Commercial Mortgage Bond Deal
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-11-13T17:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/goldman-sachs-pulls-loan-from-commercial-mortgage-bond-deal-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. pulled a
loan from a commercial-mortgage bond deal sold last week after
investors balked at the debt amid concern that underwriting
standards are slipping in the $550 billion market.  The $47.5 million loan, linked to 10 shopping malls in
 Nebraska  and South Dakota, was removed because of a “potential
dispute” between the borrower and a lender, according to a
filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The debt, called the Perkins Retail Portfolio, was
originated by Jefferies Group Inc., according to deal documents
obtained by  Bloomberg News . C-III  Capital Partners , the servicer
overseeing the mortgage, was seeking additional information from
the borrower about the properties while the $1.1 billion
commercial-mortgage backed securities offering was being
marketed, according to a Nov. 5 statement on C-III’s website.  “This is one of the first instances that we are aware of
that a loan was pulled out of CMBS deal after pricing,” said
 Richard Hill , a debt analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York.
“That deal priced at a significant concession to another deal
priced that same day, so investors were already concerned about
the  credit quality .”  A top-ranked portion of the transaction maturing in 10
years was sold to yield 108 basis points more than the benchmark
swap rate, compared with 96 basis points on similar debt sold by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Incorrect Statements’  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, and Richard
Khaleel of Jefferies declined to comment.  The Perkins loan wasn’t the only mortgage that raised red
flags. In a supplement distributed to bond buyers prior to the
pricing, the underwriters disclosed additional information about
a $3.8 million loan linked to manufactured housing in Virginia,
noting that the loan documents were being modified because the
borrower failed to disclose a guilty plea in 1989 arising from
“incorrect statements” submitted to lenders.  Sales of bonds linked to everything from strip malls to
skyscrapers are poised to double to $70 billion this year as
investors chase riskier assets with the  Federal Reserve 
suppressing  interest rates  for almost five years, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Moody’s Investors Service is increasing the amount of
credit protection required to obtain investment-grade rankings
on the debt as loans get risker, the New York-based rating
company said in an Oct. 28 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  