-- Great Rotation Seen Muted by Pension-Fund Demand: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-11-13T15:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/great-rotation-seen-muted-by-pension-fund-demand-credit-markets.html
A shift by household investors from
bonds into equities that Bank of America Corp. dubbed the great
rotation is being muted as pension funds and insurers boost
fixed-income assets to match future obligations.  U.S. companies with the largest defined-benefit pensions
increased allocations into fixed-income to 41.3 percent from 36
percent since 2010, putting a greater share into the market than
into equities, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts and
data from actuarial and consulting firm Milliman. Life insurers
are replacing maturing structured securities with corporate
bonds, and sovereign-wealth funds with $4.3 trillion of assets
are investing 90 percent of it into debt, the analysts said.  “If there were this rotation from individuals from bonds
into stocks and it created higher yields and stronger stock
performance, it would quickly find a match on the other side of
the trade from the institutional pension community,”  money
manager   Jeffrey Gundlach , whose $33.9 billion DoubleLine Total
Return Bond Fund had its biggest net withdrawal in September,
said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think it’s some sort of
runaway condition.”  The demand from institutional buyers is mitigating $166
billion of withdrawals from bond funds earlier this year amid
mounting concern the  Federal Reserve  was poised to start scaling
back stimulus measures that have pumped more than $3 trillion
into the financial system. Bank of America strategists in
January called a retreat from corporate bonds by mutual-fund
investors the “biggest risk” to investment-grade debt.  Aging Boomers  Yields on dollar-denominated, investment-grade debt, which
fell to a record low of 2.65 percent on May 2, have since risen
to 3.33 percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill U.S.
Corporate Index. The higher rates have attracted institutional
investors to add to their positions, JPMorgan analysts led by
Joyce Chang, the New York-based global head of fixed-income
research, wrote in a report last week.  Pension funds and insurance companies are matching their
liabilities to prepare for the retirements of about 78 million
U.S. baby boomers, or those born from 1946 to 1964, boosting
demand for fixed-income assets.  “I find it difficult to believe that an aging investor
population is going to be ratcheting up their holdings in
riskier assets,” said Gundlach, chief executive officer of Los
Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP.  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 0.1 basis point to a mid-price of
73.2 basis points as of 10:34 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  A gauge of the health of U.S. financial conditions fell
from a record high. The  Bloomberg U.S. Financial Conditions
Index (BFCIUS) , which combines everything from money-market rates to
yields on government and corporate bonds to volatility in
equities, decreased 0.03 to 1.78. The gauge ended yesterday at
1.81, the highest level in data dating back to January 1994.  ‘Biggest Risk’  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4.8 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The New
York-based telephone carrier raised $49 billion on Sept. 11 in
the largest corporate  bond issue  ever.  Bank of America credit strategists led by Hans Mikkelsen in
 New York  warned last year that by the end of 2013, mutual fund
investors may be retreating from corporate bonds. A disorderly
rotation from bonds causing borrowing costs to soar “is the
biggest risk to investment grade this year and the one we are
getting increasingly concerned about,” the analysts said in a
Jan. 28 report.  After the Fed signaled in May that it may curb $85 billion
in monthly bond buying that has bolstered debt prices, investors
tempered their demand for fixed-income assets. The pace of cash
deposited into debt funds has declined to $171 billion this
year, compared with a record $855 billion in 2012, according to
the JPMorgan analysts. After investors pulled $17 billion
starting in June from funds that invest in investment-grade
corporate debt, they returned $12 billion in the two months
ended in October, they said.  ‘Continual Need’  Corporate borrowers are still finding a receptive  debt
market  with global sales about 4 percent below last year’s
record pace of $3.9 trillion, Bloomberg data show.  “There’s a very large portion of the  bond market  who can’t
rotate” out of bonds and into stocks because of their
investment guidelines, said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. Some
individual investors “have moved out of fixed income and into
equities. It has an impact but not enough to move the market by
percentage points.”  Fewer Choices  Institutional investors, rather than individuals, own the
vast majority of corporate bonds, controlling about 90 percent
of investment-grade securities and 75 percent of high-yield
bonds, according to the JPMorgan analysts, citing figures from
data providers EPFR Global and Lipper.  The decline in issuance of structured debt such as
mortgage-backed securities has left fewer choices for investment
managers. Net sales of all credit-related securities are
estimated to reach $521 billion in 2014, down from more than $1
trillion in 2007. Sovereign wealth funds are increasing assets
by about $500 billion annually, boosting demand for fixed-income
investments.  “There’s a continual need from the traditional fixed-income players,” Matthew Duch, who helps oversee $12 billion as
a money manager at Bethesda, Maryland-based Calvert Investments
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The demand for fixed-income will always be there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  