-- ICAP Sees Rising Full-Year Profit Following Cost Cuts
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-11-13T16:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/icap-sees-rising-full-year-profit-following-cost-cuts.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, said it expects full-year profit
to rise after eliminating jobs and cutting compensation.  Pretax profit before exceptional items for the 12 months
through March 2014 will be “marginally ahead of the prior
year” after increasing 1.5 percent to 139 million pounds ($221
million) in the first half, the London-based company said in a
statement today. Revenue fell 1.3 percent to 736 million pounds
in the first half, while costs declined 40 million pounds.  “Notwithstanding the decline in revenue and the continued
investment in the business, our operating margin has improved,”
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  said. “We have made
good progress despite the subdued market conditions over the
summer and uncertainty created by the implementation of new
financial markets regulations in the U.S.”  ICAP shares rose 4.1 percent to 391.80 pence in London.
They have gained about 28 percent this year.  Statutory pretax profit dropped to 40 million pounds in the
first half from 68 million pounds, following settlement payments
and legal fees associated with the  Libor probe .  ‘Surveillance Tools’  The firm said it continues to cooperate with regulators
investigating the manipulation of ISDAFix, a benchmark used in
the credit derivatives market, and with the European Commission
and the  Department of Justice  on their probes into Libor.  Three former ICAP brokers charged in the U.S. over their
involvement in Libor-rigging will be interviewed by U.K.
prosecutors within weeks, two people with knowledge of the probe
said earlier this month. Global regulators have fined banks
including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and ICAP about $3.7 billion for
distorting Libor and similar benchmarks.  ICAP has “no current reason to believe” that its brokers
were involved in attempts to manipulate foreign exchange
markets, or participated in the electronic conversations between
traders being examined by regulators, said Duncan Wales, who
oversees legal, risk and government affairs functions at the
company, on a conference call today.  “We have our risk and compliance people look at market
flows, we have surveillance tools, we have automated and human
systems around that sort of thing,” Wales said. “But we can’t
tell what’s going on outside the firm. We see trade flow, we see
execution going through the platform and we can monitor that but
we don’t know what we don’t know from the outside.”  An instant-messaging group involving traders at firms
including Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Barclays is being scrutinized by regulators investigating
potential manipulation of the foreign-exchange market, four
people with knowledge of the probe said last month. Over at
least three years, the dealers exchanged messages via Bloomberg
terminals outlining details of positions and client orders, and
made trades before benchmarks were set, two of the people said.  ICAP said it will pay an unchanged interim  dividend  of 6.60
pence per share for the fiscal first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  