-- Tighter Compounding Pharmacy Oversight Advances in Senate
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/tighter-compounding-pharmacy-oversight-advances-in-senate.html
Legislation to broaden federal
regulation of compounding pharmacies like the one linked to last
year’s meningitis deaths may reach President  Barack Obama ’s desk
in days after clearing a procedural hurdle in the  U.S. Senate .  The Senate may vote on passage as early as today, following
yesterday’s 97-1 vote to advance the measure that would subject
large compounding pharmacies to Food and Drug Administration
oversight. The House has already passed the bill, H.R. 3204.  “This legislation is truly a matter of life and death,”
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said on the
Senate floor.  The bill would bar large compounding pharmacies from
copying drugs approved by the FDA and marketed by other
pharmaceutical companies.  That provision may help boost sales of medicines made by
 Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , whose
macular degeneration drugs face competition from products made
by compounders, according to an Oct. 2 report by Bloomberg
Government analyst Brian Rye.  In addition, the bill would establish an electronic “track
and trace” system to protect the safety of the nation’s
pharmaceutical supply chain.  Meningitis Outbreak  The compounding-pharmacy language was drafted in response
to a fatal outbreak of  fungal meningitis  that was traced to
contaminated vials of an injectable painkilling steroid. The
outbreak, which killed 64 people and infected more than 750 in
20 states, forced the manufacturer, New England Compounding
Pharmacy Inc. in Framingham,  Massachusetts , to close.  The FDA was criticized for not acting quickly enough to
shut the company; once the outbreak subsided, the agency asked
Congress to clarify its authority over compounding pharmacies.  The legislation will put larger companies, known as
“outsourcing facilities,” under FDA oversight if they agree to
be inspected. Supporters said they were counting on market
forces to prod these suppliers to submit to FDA regulation.  Small compounders that mix ingredients for individual
prescriptions will continue to be regulated by states.  At a Nov. 5 Bloomberg Government conference, FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  called the bill “a step in the
right direction,” adding, “I don’t think it’s going to be as
comprehensive as we had hoped.”  Vitter Amendment  Yesterday’s Senate vote removed a roadblock posed by an
objection from Senator  David Vitter , who tried to force
consideration of an amendment tied to the 2010 U.S. Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare.  The Louisiana Republican, who was the only senator to
oppose advancing the bill, is seeking to force lawmakers to
disclose who on their staffs are listed as working in their
“official office.” Under the law, as of Jan. 1, the only
health insurance those employees can get through the government
must be obtained on the newly created state insurance exchanges.  Congressional staff not listed as working in a member’s
“official office” can keep getting insurance through the
federal employees’ benefits program. The law failed to define
“official office,” and an Obama administration ruling left
that determination up to individual lawmakers.  Vitter had rejected an offer by Reid for a vote on his
amendment if he promised not to try to attach the proposal to
other legislation. Vitter has said he would offer it as an
amendment when the Senate debates the $625 billion defense
authorization bill, S. 1197, later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  