-- Impala Platinum’s Biggest Union Cuts Wage-Raise Demand 31%
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-11-13T10:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/impala-platinum-s-biggest-union-cuts-wage-raise-demand-31-1-.html
The largest labor union at  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  cut its wage-increase demand by 31
percent as the parties worked toward avoiding a possible strike,
the world’s second-largest producer of the metal said.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union 
lowered its pay-raise request for underground employees to 8,668 
rand ($837) a month excluding benefits from 12,500 rand,  Johan Theron , a company spokesman, said today. Impala has increased 
the offer to the lowest-paid below-surface miners by 0.5 
percentage point to 8.5 percent for the first year of the three-year deal, Theron said. They currently earn 5,500 rand.  “We are closer, but still far from one another,” Theron
said in an-emailed response to questions.  The AMCU usurped the National Union of Mineworkers in the
past year as the biggest representative of employees at the
world’s three largest platinum producers, which mine most of
their metal in  South Africa . The companies’ profit margins
declined after prices fell and costs, including wages, increased
at a faster rate than the pace of  inflation , which was 6 percent
in September.  “The parties undertook to consult with their principals
and meet again,” Theron said.  Impala fell for a second day, losing 1.4 percent to 132.58
rand by 11:44 a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a market
value of 83.7 billion rand and paring an earlier decline of as
much as 2.8 percent.  Amplats, Northam  AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa confirmed that Impala
increased its offer when contacted by phone today. He didn’t
comment on the union’s reduced demands.  The AMCU’s members on Oct. 28 voted to strike if the wage
impasse wasn’t resolved, without setting a date.  The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration
will today facilitate talks between the AMCU and  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer of the metal. The
union earlier rejected an offer by Amplats, as the Johannesburg-based company is known, to raise pay by 7 percent.  Security staff at Amplats’s Mogalakwena mine in the
northern Limpopo province today broke up a group of protesters
who were demanding jobs and destroying mine property, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our security personnel had to fire warning shots using
non-lethal ammunition to disperse the crowd,” it said. “The
company has engaged the South African Police Service to try and
bring calm to the area.”  Operations at Mogalakwena weren’t interrupted, Amplats
spokeswoman Mpumi Sithole said by phone.  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM) , operator of the world’s deepest
platinum mine, and the  National Union of Mineworkers  will attend
a meeting called by the CCMA on Nov. 15, Ecliff Tantsi, the
NUM’s chief negotiator at Northam, said by phone.  The union called a wage strike on Nov. 3 and rejected a
revised offer to increase pay by as much as 9 percent on Nov. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  