-- Indian Top Cop’s ‘Enjoy Rape’ Comments Spark Fury Amid Assaults
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-11-13T07:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/indian-top-cop-s-enjoy-rape-comments-spark-fury-amid-assaults.html
A senior Indian policeman reignited
an angry debate about attitudes toward women in the world’s
largest democracy by comparing the legislation of betting on
sports to enjoying sexual assault.  Ranjit Sinha, the head of  India ’s  leading crime  fighting
agency, said yesterday that sports betting should be legalized
because “if you can’t prevent rape, enjoy it.” Speaking at a
conference on corruption, he made the comments to illustrate
that it was difficult to prevent a ban on gambling and it is
better to earn some revenue from it.  His remarks came amid a bout of national soul-searching
caused by the gang rape and murder of a student in  New Delhi  in
December that triggered weeks of protests. In the aftermath of
the attack, India’s police were criticized for failing to
register cases of rape, being insensitive to victims and being
sexist with a shortage of female officers.  “He has made an insensitive comment,”  Mamata Sharma ,
chairman of the National Commission for Women, said in an
interview with CNN-IBN news channel. “If the head is talking
like this, then he should resign.”  Nirmala Sitharaman, a spokeswoman for the opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party , said Sinha’s comments were “shocking”
and questioned what his colleagues and family would make of
them.  Kiran Bedi , India’s first ranking female police officer,
sought a public apology for the “irresponsible remarks.”  “This is not expected from such positions,” Bedi said on
her Twitter page.  Regrets Remarks  Sinha later clarified his remarks and issued an apology.
“I regret any hurt caused,” he said in an e-mailed statement.
“I reiterate my deep sense of regard and respect for women and
my commitment to gender issues.”  Sinha heads the  Central Bureau of Investigation , India’s
federal crime fighting body that probes terrorism, organized
crime and corruption. The agency has been responsible for
investigating political graft including the alleged illegal sale
of mobile phone licenses and coal mine allocations that dented
the reputation of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government.  After the brutal December gang rape in New Delhi, women’s
safety issues were brought back in focus after a young
photographer working as an intern in Mumbai was sexually
assaulted by five men while on an assignment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  