-- India’s Nifty Futures Drop as Inflation Accelerates, Rupee Falls
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-11-13T01:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/india-s-nifty-futures-drop-as-inflation-accelerates-rupee-falls.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures dropped
after consumer-price inflation accelerated more than forecast
and industrial output growth missed estimates.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for November delivery fell 0.6
percent to 6,028 at 9:35 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index lost 1 percent to 6,018.05 yesterday, the lowest
level since Oct. 9. The S&P BSE Sensex declined 1 percent. The
Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares
lost 1.5 percent. The rupee weakened to an eight-week low,
raising the prospect of further interest-rate increases by the
central bank, and bonds fell.  Consumer (INFUTOTY)  inflation accelerated to 10.09 percent last month,
data released after markets closed yesterday showed. India has
the fastest price growth among a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg, even as economic growth slows to
a decade low, hurting the roughly 800 million Indians living on
less than $2 per day. Industrial output rose 2 percent in
September from a year earlier, less than the median estimate of
3.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 37 economists.  “Inflation data doesn’t look good when the rupee is
weakening and bond yields are rising,” Vaibhav Sanghavi, a
director at Ambit Investment Advisors Pvt in Mumbai, said in an
interview yesterday. “Expect to see a negative reaction in
stock markets.”  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan has made the
fight against inflation a priority since taking charge in
September. Rajan boosted the benchmark repurchase rate to 7.75
percent from 7.5 percent last month.  Earnings Reports  Shares of  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , India’s third-largest mobile phone company by market value, may move. The
company reported second-quarter profit jumped more than sixfold
to 6.75 billion rupees ($106 million), beating estimates.  Coal India Ltd., Cipla Ltd., Oil and Natural Gas Corp.,
 State Bank  of India, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Tata Steel Ltd. announce
earnings today.  Net incomes at 17 of the 22 companies in the Sensex that
have posted results exceeded analyst estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. About 47 percent of the 30 companies
in the index missed forecasts in the previous quarter.  The Sensex has fallen every day since climbing to a record
in a special Diwali trading session on Nov. 3. The rupee has
dropped 4.1 percent in the past month.  The Sensex has gained 4.4 percent this year and trades at
13.4-times projected 12-month earnings, the cheapest in more
than two months. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is valued at
10.6 times forecast profits.  Global funds bought a net $49.1 million of local shares on
Nov. 11, a 26th day of purchases, the longest consecutive inflow
since the 35 days though Feb. 15. That took this year’s inflows
to $16.6 billion, the most after Japan among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  