-- Inflation Below Japan’s Hints at More Draghi Action: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-11-13T13:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/inflation-below-japan-s-hints-at-more-draghi-action-euro-credit.html
For the first time since the euro
was introduced almost 15 years ago, the region’s inflation rate
is dropping below  Japan ’s, and derivatives traders are betting
the most since 2008 it’s going to stay that way.  Expectations for euro-area consumer-price increases in the
next two years, as implied by inflation swaps, fell to a 16-month low of 1.09 percent on Nov. 4. That followed a drop in the
inflation rate to 0.7 percent in October, less than half the
central bank’s target level of just under 2 percent. In Japan,
where officials have tried to prevent deflation for the past 15
years, the equivalent  gauge  of price growth was 1.1 percent in
September, and the two-year swap rate is at 1.72 percent.  It’s taken a pledge by the  Bank of Japan  to buy more than 7
trillion yen ($70 billion) of  government bonds  each month to
revive inflation expectations in that nation. While the  European
Central Bank , led by President  Mario Draghi , unexpectedly cut
its benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter-point to a  record low 
0.25 percent on Nov. 7, it too may require asset purchases to
avoid the region slipping into deflation, according to Societe
Generale SA global strategist Kit Juckes.  “The risk of the current low inflation turning into
something worse should not be ruled out,” London-based Juckes
said in a phone interview on Nov. 11. “The ECB should do much
more. Quantitative easing would be high on my wish list.”  Inflation Gap  The gap between two-year inflation swap rates for the 17-nation euro area and Japan was 61 basis points, or 0.61
percentage point, at 1:06 p.m. London time, after reaching 63
basis points on Nov. 4, the most since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 2008. The  consumer price index  was at 1.1
percent in the euro area in September, matching Japan’s for the
first time since the single currency’s introduction in 1999.  The euro region faces the prospect of a “prolonged”
period of low inflation, Draghi said last week after the ECB cut
its main refinancing rate to 0.25 percent from 0.5 percent.  Prices of two-year derivatives protecting against deflation
in the euro area rose yesterday to the highest since June.  “We should be prepared for more of the same as there is
still an easing bias in the guidance,” said Richard Barwell, a
senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
Slower inflation in the region’s most indebted nations “leaves
little room for the necessary improvement in competitiveness
through falling unit labor costs,” he said.  Losing Momentum  While inflation is slowing, unemployment has risen to the
highest level since the currency bloc was formed. Data this week
may add to evidence the region’s nascent recovery is losing
momentum.  Euro-area gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the
third quarter, according to the median forecast of 41 economists
in a  Bloomberg News survey . The report will be published
tomorrow. Analysts also predict data releases to show growth
slowing in  Germany  and stalling in  France , with Italy remaining
mired in an unprecedented slump.  Such an outcome would confirm that the recovery is slowing
to a crawl after a second-quarter growth spurt of 0.3 percent
that ended the region’s record-long recession. The European
Commission last week cut its forecast for euro-zone growth in
2014, anticipating a 1.1 percent expansion instead of the 1.2
percent forecast in May. Officials see unemployment averaging
12.2 percent next year, higher than the 12.1 percent they
predicted six months ago.  Turning Japanese  A report today showed consumer prices in  Spain  dropped 0.1
percent in October from a year ago, according to the National
Statistics Institute in  Madrid . A separate gauge, using a
harmonized European Union method, showed prices stagnated.  German index-linked bonds lost 3.4 percent this year
through yesterday, putting them on course for their worst annual
performance since the country issued inflation-protected
securities in 2006 for the first time, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Japan, which resumed issuing the
securities in October after a hiatus of five years, has provided
a 3.6 percent return on its inflation bonds.  Since last month’s inflation data, “some people were
looking to see how they could best express their view that the
same thing that happened in Japan will happen here in  Europe ,”
said Kari Hallgrimsson, head of European inflation trading at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . “But those are short-term
investors. Real money or long-term investors are still hedging
against long-term inflation.”  Disinflationary Pressure  While two-year inflation expectations in Europe have
declined, the longer-term outlook remains steady, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A gauge of bets on price increases
in the five years starting from 2018 was at 2.24 percent today,
compared with the average of 2.32 percent in the past 12 months.  Consumer-price growth in the euro area will be steady at
1.5 percent next year while Japan’s will accelerate to 2.4
percent, from 0.3 percent this year, according to economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Adding to disinflationary pressure is the strength of the
euro, which has gained 6.3 percent this year, making it the best
performer against its developed-market peers, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes showed. The yen tumbled 10 percent.  The ECB now has just one more quarter-point cut left before
reaching zero, increasing the likelihood of unconventional tools
such as additional longer-term refinancing operations and a
negative deposit rate if prices slow further or the economic
recovery stalls, said  Societe Generale ’s Juckes.  “There is a lot of opposition to running any risk of
inflation in Europe, as there always has been,” he said. “But
when I look at the economy with falling bank lending, falling
inflation and a strong currency, I can’t get away from a view
that policy makers should do everything they can with the
monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  