-- Intesa Quarterly Net Drops as Italy Slump Hits Loans
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-11-13T14:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/intesa-quarterly-profit-falls-on-bad-loans-lower-lending-income.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank, said third-quarter profit fell 47 percent after an
economic slump hit lending and it set aside more provisions for
soured loans.  Net income slid to 218 million euros ($293 million) from
414 million euros in the same period last year, the Milan-based
bank said in a statement today. The earnings compared with the
208 million-euro  average estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Carlo Messina, who replaced Enrico Cucchiani in September, faces the challenge of bolstering profit
while Italy’s longest recession in two decades and low  interest
rates  squeeze margins. Intesa is reducing costs and tackling
non-performing loans as a European Central Bank review of banks’
assets begins.  “The asset-quality trend is still the key focus ahead of
the ECB assessment,” Wolfram Mrowetz, the chairman of Alisei
Sim, a Milan brokerage, said by telephone. “These are the first
earnings for Messina as CEO. Investors are waiting to see his
imprint on recovering profitability and cleaning up the balance-sheet.”  Intesa’s shares fell as much as 4.1 percent in Milan
trading, the biggest decline since September. They dropped 3.8
percent to 1.70 euros at 2:38 p.m., valuing the bank at 27.7
billion euros.   The Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services
Index , which lost 1.6 percent, has risen 15 percent this year,
compared with Intesa’s 32 percent increase.  Bad Debt  Provisions for non-performing loans increased to 1.47
billion euros in the third quarter from 1.2 billion euros a year
ago, Intesa said.  Third-quarter revenue declined 7 percent to 4.15 billion
euros even as the bank posted 193 million euros of gains from a
buyback and exchange of its securities. Net interest income, the
difference between revenue from loans and the cost of paying
interest on deposits, dropped to 2.03 billion euros in the
quarter from 2.32 billion euros a year earlier. The bank paid
taxes of 264 million euros in the quarter, 42 percent less than
a year earlier.  “The bottom line looks better on the lower  tax rate ,”
Fabrizio Bernardi, an analyst at Fidentiis Equities in Milan,
said in an e-mailed report to clients. “Loan-loss provisions
are higher than expected.”  Italy’s economy is due to begin recovering from its longest
recession since World War II this quarter after a “moderate”
contraction in the previous three months, the European
Commission said last week.  ECB Review  The ECB began a three-stage probe this month into the
balance sheets of lenders across the 17-nation euro area, as a
precursor to its assumption of financial supervision duties in
November next year.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  CEO Federico Ghizzoni, who may join a group
of bankers meeting ECB officials in  Frankfurt  on Nov. 25, said
yesterday his institution is cutting expenses and setting aside
more provisions as it prepares for the review.  Italy’s central bank is conducting a review of the balance
sheets of the country’s top lenders before the ECB’s completes
its assessment. Higher  capital requirements  are forcing Italian
banks to reduce risk, pare lending and set aside more capital to
cover risky loans.  Intesa will complete a new business plan by the spring,
Messina said in a separate statement. Paying dividends to
shareholders remains a priority, he said.  The bank will “focus on profitability targets as well as
on continued actions aimed at strengthening the capital base and
further improving the profile of risk and liquidity,” it said.
“The cost of credit will remain at a high level.”  ‘Best Capitalized’  Intesa said it increased its bad-loan coverage ratio by 30
basis points to 44.5 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months. Loans to customers shrunk 7.2 percent
from beginning of the year through September.  “We remain one of the most solid and best capitalized
banks in the world,” Messina said. “Ahead of the ECB
comprehensive assessment we have strengthened provisions to a
best in class coverage ratio. We continue to de-risk the bank.”  The core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, rose to 11.5 percent at the end of September from 11.1
percent on June 30, it said. The bank already meets fully
applied Basel III capital rules, with an estimated common equity
Tier 1 ratio of 11.2 percent, it said.  Intesa, which has borrowed 36 billion euros in the ECB’s
long-term refinancing operations, paid back 3 billion euros in
the third quarter. Total reimbursements amount to 15 billion
euros, it said.  The bank, which invests part of its capital in  government
bonds , decreased holdings of Italian sovereign debt to 97
billion euros on Sept. 30 from 100 billion euros three months
earlier. The average maturity of the portfolio is 2 years,
according to a slide presentation on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  