-- Lira Debt in Firing Line as ‘Flimsy Five’ Exposed: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-11-13T07:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/lira-debt-in-firing-line-as-flimsy-five-exposed-turkey-credit.html
The Turkish central bank’s pledge to
keep interest rates unchanged through year-end is leaving lira
debt vulnerable to renewed selling as nations from  Indonesia  to
 India  raise borrowing costs to shore up their markets.  The yield on 10-year lira bonds jumped 16 basis points
yesterday to a seven-week high of 9.33 percent, the most in
Europe, the Middle East and Africa emerging markets. The rate
has climbed 48 basis points since a report Nov. 8 showed U.S.
non-farm payrolls increased more than forecast.  While Indonesia unexpectedly raised its main rate yesterday
following two increases by India since Sept. 20, Turkey has kept
its benchmark rate on hold. The nations’ current-account
deficits expose them to shifts in investor sentiment as the U.S.
moves closer to cutting stimulus, according to Esther Law at
Pioneer Investment Management Ltd.  “The increase in policy rates in India and Indonesia could
put further tightening pressure on  Turkey ,” Law, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $5.6 billion as a money manager at
Pioneer in  London , said by e-mail yesterday. “This in turn
could push local yields higher, resulting in more selling in
local bonds especially by foreigners.”  The lira advanced 0.1 percent to 2.0538 per dollar at 9:46
a.m. in Istanbul today. The currency slid 12 percent in six
months as the Federal Reserve signaled in May that it could
start to tapering stimulus should the economy show sustained
improvement.  ‘Flimsy Five’  Economists predict the Fed will maintain bond purchases
until March. Policy makers unexpectedly kept their full bond-buying program at their meeting in September.  “I guess the decision to delay a move to taper by the Fed
in September bought more time for  emerging markets  to adjust to
the inevitable eventual move to taper -- particularly the Flimsy
Five” of India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa and  Brazil ,
Timothy Ash, chief emerging-market economist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in London, said by e-mail yesterday. “These
countries have revealed structural vulnerabilities. In Turkey
for example, I am not that convinced that we are seeing that
much in the form of tightening.”  While central bank Governor Erdem Basci has kept interest
rates unchanged, he has raised the average cost of  funds  for
lenders in a bid to rein in  inflation. (TUCPIY)  The funds’ cost was 6.76
percent on Nov. 11, compared with an average of 5.75 percent in
the past six months.  Inflation in Turkey slowed less than economists estimated
last month, to 7.71 percent, and has remained above the central
bank’s target since April 2011, according to data released on
Nov. 4. That compares with a central bank target of 5 percent.  ‘Rigid Stance’  “The rigid stance of the central bank in Turkey leaves the
lira more vulnerable,”  Emre Balkeser , the head of sales and
trading at Garanti Yatirim Menkul Kiymetler in Istanbul, wrote
in e-mailed comments. “The latest inflation data showed that
inflation will come out higher than expected at the end of the
year. All these factors weaken the case for Turkey under the
current global circumstances.”  Turkey’s current-account gap will probably widen to 6.9
percent of gross domestic product this year from 6 percent in
2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. That
compares with 3.5 percent for Brazil and 3 percent for
Indonesia, separate surveys showed.  Credit-default swaps, contracts insuring Turkey’s debt
against default, rose three basis points to 213, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The yield on two-year notes increased eight
basis points to 8.89 percent.  “Turkey is facing this risk that it could be perceived as
being behind the curve,” Zsolt Papp, who helps oversee $2.6
billion of emerging-market debt at Union Bancaire Privee in
Zurich, wrote in e-mailed comments. The country is seen as
“vulnerable to external shocks due to its relatively large
current-account deficit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  