-- Israel Chemicals Says Planning to List Shares in New York
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-11-13T10:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/israel-chemicals-says-planning-to-list-shares-in-new-york.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  will dual list
its shares in the U.S. to help the Dead Sea minerals harvester
reach global investors and make acquisitions, the company said.  Trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange will improve
“access to the international financial markets and provide
flexibility in financing M&A activities,” the company said
today in an e-mailed statement. The shares declined 1.8
percent to 29.57 shekels at 12:27 p.m. in Tel Aviv as the
company reported an 80 percent drop in profit amid falling
potash prices.  Israel  Chemicals, with the fifth-largest weighting on the
benchmark TA-25 Index, said in August it was considering listing
shares overseas. The stock has dropped 34 percent this year amid
a government review on natural resources which could lead to
higher royalty payments and as  Uralkali OJSC (URKA)  in July decided to
halt a cooperation with Belarus that controlled supplies from
the former  Soviet Union , sending down shares of potash
producers worldwide.  “This will make it easier for them to make acquisitions,”
Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Tel Aviv-based Excellence
Nessuah Brokerage Ltd., said today by phone. “It could also be
the beginning of a long process of moving everything they can
outside of Israel, as a result of the state victimizing the
company and creating a hostile business environment.”  Finance Minister Yair Lapid said in April that natural
resources are a public asset as he set up a panel to review
royalties paid by ICL. The government last year doubled the
producer’s taxes to 10 percent. He also voiced opposition to
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan’s bid to acquire a controlling
stake in ICL, leading to the scrapping of the plans on April 25.  Israel Chemicals reported a decrease in sales and profits
during in the third quarter due to “weakness and instability”
in the potash market, which led to a reduction in amounts sold
and to lower selling prices of fertilizers. Third quarter net
totaled $78 million compared to $395 million for the same period
in 2012.  Israel Corp., which  holds a 52.29 percent stake  in ICL,
declined 0.6 percent to 1,860 shekels. Idan Ofer, who controls
the company, resigned as a director this year as he moved
to  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  