-- Italy Seeks to Ease REIT Rules to Attract $1.3 Billion a Year
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-11-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/italy-seeks-to-ease-reit-rules-to-attract-1-3-billion-a-year.html
Italy  is considering steps to make
 real estate investment trusts  more profitable as it seeks to
attract 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) a year to a market that
has failed to gain popularity since its 2006 creation.  The Economic Development Ministry proposed cutting the size
of dividends REITs must distribute and easing rules for stock
market listings, according to a draft bill. The ministry aims to
increase the number of REITs to seven from two and raise their
combined assets to 11.1 billion euros from 6.1 billion euros.
The proposal hasn’t been scheduled for discussion in Prime
Minister Enrico Letta’s cabinet.  The proposed changes are part of a wider package of
measures designed to improve productivity and increase foreign
investment in Italy. A bigger REIT market may boost Letta’s plan
to sell 1.5 billion euros of state real estate assets over three
years.  “REITs are seen as an indispensable vehicle for the state
privatizations coming up,” said Francesco Galietti, founder of
research company Policy Sonar in  Rome . The creation of new REITs
may help the government get better prices when it sells its
buildings, he said.  REITs, which trade on  stock exchanges , provide tax breaks
for their owners in return for guarantees that a set amount of
their profit is distributed to shareholders. The specifics vary
from country to country and the Italian ministry seeks align its
rules more closely with  France , which has 37 REITs with a
combined market value of $68 billion, according to a study by
the European Public Real Estate Association. The U.K. has 23
REITs with a total market value of $49 billion.  Rulebook Needed  “Professional investors must be assured profitability and
a rulebook” that’s in line with European peers, the ministry
said in the draft. “The  property market ’s efficiency, and
especially in the non-residential segment, depends in large part
on the presence of institutional investors.”  The proposal includes cutting the minimum company stake
that must be publicly traded to 25 percent from 35 percent and
raising the maximum holding by a single investor to 60 percent
from 51 percent. The changes would make Italy’s rules similar to
those in France and  Germany , the ministry said. The plan would
also lower the dividend requirement to 70 percent of earnings
from 85 percent, allowing REITs to reinvest more of their
profit.  Struggling Market  Regulatory changes alone may not be enough to invigorate an
industry that has struggled compared with other European
countries.  Beni Stabili SpA (BNS) , the bigger of the two Italian
REITs, had a market value of 970 million euros at the end of
June, about 43 percent of its net asset value of 2.28 billion
euros.  Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) , France’s largest REIT, traded at
about 125 percent of its NAV on June 30, while French No. 2
 Klepierre SA (LI)  was at about 107 percent.  Italian REITs have borrowed too much and failed to attract
significant investment from Italian insurers and pension funds,
said John Lutzius, managing director with Green Street Advisors
in  London .  “A significant portion of the failure of Italian REITs to
grow is due to self-inflicted wounds,” Lutzius said in an
interview. “For the right management team and the right
incentives, it’s a very strong platform and an interesting way
to play the Italian market.”  The Italian property market has contracted since the
financial crisis as two recessions curbed investment and bank
lending. Non-residential transactions in 2012 were 49 percent
lower than the peak in 2006 and inflation-adjusted prices fell
8.9 percent in that period,  Bloomberg News  calculated based on
data from national statistics institute Istat, the  Economy
Ministry  and the  Bank of Italy . Transactions are expected to
slide 6.8 percent in 2013 and prices are forecast to slip 5.6
percent, Nomisma Institute said in a September report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  