-- Mizuho Chief Sato Says Crime-Loan Punishments Viewed as ‘Light’
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-11-13T03:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/mizuho-chief-sato-says-crime-loan-punishments-viewed-as-light-.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
President  Yasuhiro Sato , grilled by lawmakers over the Japanese
bank’s loans to crime groups, acknowledged that its punishments
of officials were viewed as “light.”  “I know there are harsh opinions regarding punishments for
executives including myself,” Sato told the lower house
financial affairs committee in Tokyo today. “Taking them on
board and making efforts to end transactions with antisocial
groups is my current responsibility.”  Mizuho said last month that it will cut pay for officials
including Sato and Chairman  Takashi Tsukamoto  for failing to
stop 200 million yen ($2 million) in loans made to gangsters.
The Financial Services Agency, which ordered Mizuho to bolster
compliance in September, is examining the bank’s business
improvement plan filed last month before taking any more action.  The regulator also began conducting fresh inspections of
Mizuho, Japan’s third-largest bank by market value, this month
along with its bigger rivals  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)   Sato, in his first Diet testimony on the issue, said Mizuho
has other loans to crime groups than the type that regulators
have been examining, which were made through the Tokyo-based
bank’s  Orient Corp. (8585)  consumer-credit affiliate.  Loan Screening  Mizuho uses a database on criminal organizations to screen
potential customers and ensure that people associated with the
groups don’t make contracts, Sato said. “However, there are
cases where borrowers become identified with such groups once
the database is updated,” he said. “Once we find out such
loans, we try to cancel them.”  Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit chief, Takeshi Kunibe, made
similar remarks at the same session, saying there are borrowers
at his bank that aren’t initially known to be members of
antisocial groups. Once they are identified later, the Tokyo-based lender makes efforts to cancels the debts, he said.  Sato and Kunibe declined to give the number of loan cases
or amounts.  Kunibe, who is chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said the lobby group will develop additional
measures to combat crime syndicates this month, including a
revision of its code of conduct and ways to prevent gangsters
from making loan contracts with banks.  The association is working with the police to share
databases on gangs and considering exchanging more information
with consumer-credit firms, he said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  