-- J&J-Pharmacyclics Breakthrough Drug Wins U.S. Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-13T21:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/j-j-pharmacyclics-breakthrough-drug-wins-u-s-approval.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pharmacyclics
Inc. (PCYC)  won U.S. approval for their breakthrough therapy to treat a
rare blood cancer, becoming the second drug to gain marketing
clearance under the process created to speed new medicines to
seriously ill patients.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said today it cleared
ibrutinib, to be known as Imbruvica, for previously treated
patients who have mantle cell lymphoma. The FDA had granted the
medicine breakthrough status, which means preliminary evidence
indicated it may offer substantial improvement over current
treatment, the agency said in a statement.  Imbruvica is more tolerable than traditional combination
medications for cancers that can cause serious side effects such
as low red cell counts requiring blood transfusions. Peak
worldwide sales for the pill may reach $6.5 billion in 2026 if
it’s approved for more cancers, with $3 billion from the U.S.,
 Michael Yee  an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said in a note
to clients.  “Often people are as much in fear of the treatment as they
are the disease itself,” Chief Executive Officer Robert Duggan
of Sunnyvale, California-based Pharmacyclics said in an
interview before the FDA’s announcement. “We feel in this new
era the treatment will be much friendlier.”  Pharmacyclics rose 3.5 percent to $123.82 at the close in
 New York . The shares have more than  doubled  this year. J&J
declined less than 1 percent to $93.34.  Aggressive Cancer  Mantle cell lymphoma is an aggressive blood cancer that
starts in the white blood cells and accounts for about 6 percent
of all non-Hodgkin lymphoma cases in the U.S., the FDA said. The
disease affects fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S. with about
2,900 new cases diagnosed each year,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J said in a statement. By the time it is diagnosed, the
cancer usually has spread to the lymph nodes, bone marrow and
other organs.  “Imbruvica’s approval demonstrates the FDA’s commitment to
making treatments available to patients with rare diseases,”
said  Richard Pazdur , director of the Office of Hematology and
Oncology Products in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research. “The agency worked cooperatively with the companies
to expedite the drug’s development, review and approval,
reflecting the promise of the breakthrough therapy designation
program.”  Competing Drugs  Imbruvica is the third drug approved for patients with
mantle cell lymphoma after Velcade, from J&J and Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co., and  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ’s best-selling Revlimid,
the agency said. The medicine is the first in a class of drugs
called Burton’s tyrosine kinase inhibitors that block the BTK
enzyme from promoting proliferation and survival of malignant
cells.  The companies also sought approval for the medicine in
chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma.  “Breakthrough therapy designation has been quite powerful
for us,” Duggan said. “It has given us almost instant access
to key players in the FDA.”  The drug was approved based on mid-stage trials, while
final trials will produce results as early as the first half of
2014 in CLL and later in the same year or in 2015 on mantle cell
lymphoma, Maria Fardis, chief of oncology operations for
Pharmacyclics, said in an interview.  Pharmacyclics shares marketing responsibilities in the U.S.
with J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products.
The companies shared the cost of development and worldwide will
equally split profits.  Pharmacyclics said in July it would be eligible for a $350
million payment from J&J upon approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  