-- Jana Says ‘Numerous Partners’ Interested in QEP Breakup
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-11-13T18:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/jana-says-numerous-partners-interested-in-qep-breakup-1-.html
Jana Partners LLC, the activist
shareholder that has agitated for changes in four energy
companies since 2011, said “numerous partners” are interested
in a “strategic transaction” that would result in the breakup
of oil and natural gas producer  QEP Resources Inc. (QEP)   The company’s board should form an independent committee to
evaluate a complete separation of its gas gathering and
processing business,  Barry Rosenstein , a managing partner at New
York-based Jana, said in a letter to the company today. A stand-alone company would attract better management and have more
opportunities to pursue acquisitions, he said.  Should the board fail to establish the committee, “it will
be held personally responsible by shareholders for its failure
to put a check on a clearly conflicted CEO and management team
who appear intent on depriving shareholders of QEP’s full value
potential,” Rosenstein said in the letter.  Activist shareholders from Rosenstein to  Carl Icahn  have
pushed for changes at energy companies they believe have failed
to realize the value of reserves. Icahn announced Oct. 7 that he
had taken a 6 percent stake in Canadian oil and gas producer
Talisman Energy Inc. Jana owns 7.6 percent of QEP, according to
the letter.  QEP Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Charles Stanley  is
blocking a separation of QEP’s midstream assets, which are used
to process and ship gas from the wellhead to the market,
Rosenstein said. Potential investors in such a stand-alone
company are hesitant to deal with Stanley “given his apparent
reluctance to pursue a full separation,” Rosenstein said.  Investor Premium  The fight between Jana and QEP is largely focused on
control over the midstream business, which investors value at a
premium to QEP’s drilling activity,  Andrew Coleman , an analyst
at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said in a
telephone interview today.  “At this point in time, folks want to see more distinct
entities,” said Coleman, who rates QEP the equivalent of a buy
and doesn’t own shares. Investors in recent years have rewarded
companies that pursued breakup strategies allowing different
units to stand alone, he said.  QEP is the third-worst performer among peer energy
producers on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas Exploration and
Production Index  this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares rose 1.7 percent to $32.60 at 1:03 p.m. in
 New York .  Greg Benson, a spokesman for Denver-based QEP, didn’t
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net  