-- Japan Regulator to Begin Checks at Tepco’s Niigata Reactors
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-11-13T07:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/japan-regulator-to-begin-checks-at-tepco-s-reactors-in-niigata.html
Japan ’s nuclear regulator will begin
checking the safety of  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s reactors in
Niigata, northwest of Tokyo, a step toward restarting the
world’s biggest nuclear facility.  The  decision  by the Nuclear Regulation Authority at a
meeting today came more than six weeks after the utility,
operator of the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,
applied for the checks. Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, has said
restarting the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa reactors in Niigata is key to
a return to profit.  The regulator’s safety checks are playing out against the
backdrop of mounting opposition to nuclear power in a nation
that once derived more than a quarter of its electricity from
the industry. Tepco’s handling of the cleanup at Fukushima and a
string of mishaps ranging from water leaks to electrical cords
chewed by rats have complicated the process.  Improvements at Fukushima Dai-Ichi “remain the highest
priority,” NRA Chairman Shunichi Tanaka said at today’s
meeting. “We will need to monitor how things go and be strict
in our instructions,” he said.  Tepco can’t restart the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa facility, the
world’s biggest nuclear station by generating capacity, until
the regulator inspects the plant and grants approval. The
inspection could stop if serious trouble occurs at the Fukushima
plant, Tanaka said.  Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, 220 kilometers (137 miles) northwest of
Tokyo, consists of seven reactor units ranging in age from 16
years to 28 years, according to the NRA.  The company applied with the regulator to check the No. 6
and No. 7 units of the reactors on Sept. 27. The timing of the
first meeting to discuss safety “won’t be too distant” though
the date hasn’t been set, Tanaka said.  Tepco will also need to deal with Niigata Prefecture
Governor Hirohiko Izumida, who’s been critical of its handling
of nuclear operations. Izumida  said  last week that an
investigation of the Fukushima nuclear accident in 2011 must
come before the restart.  The regulator’s secretary general, Katsuhiko Ikeda, had
said on Oct. 28 that the NRA would decide on starting safety
checks based on whether Tepco could demonstrate that it had made
improvements on the water issues in Fukushima.  Tepco said last week that it will double the number of
crews handling the water storage tanks at the Fukushima plant.
The utility also intends to raise workers’ daily allowance by
10,000 yen ($100) and will build shower rooms and a meal-service
center for workers at the facility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  