-- Japan Passes First of Reforms to Reshape Power Industry
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-11-13T06:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/japan-passes-first-of-reforms-aimed-to-reshape-power-industry.html
Japan’s  lawmakers  approved a first
step to weakening the monopolies of regional power utilities by
setting up an independent body to coordinate supply and demand
across the nation’s electricity grids.  Legislation passed today by the upper house calls for the
creation of the body by 2015, according to the Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry. The step is a first move to
reforming the power industry of the world’s third-largest
economy after the March 2011 nuclear disaster.  Along with later reforms scheduled to take effect after
additional parliamentary votes, the new body aims to increase
competition by loosening the control the 10 regional utilities
have in their respective areas on generation, transmission and
distribution.  “The legislation passed today is a significant milestone
in the transformation of  Japan ’s energy sector,” Takehiro Kawahara, a Japan analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said
in an e-mail. “The electricity retail market is about $150
billion and only about half of that has been open to
competition.”  Today’s approval followed the Nov. 1 passage of the bill
through parliament’s lower house. Trade ministry officials will
now work on the law’s implementation. An earlier version of the
legislation was scrapped after lawmakers failed to vote on it
before the conclusion of the parliamentary session that ended in
June.  Controlling Costs  Lawmakers are expected in coming sessions to consider bills
liberalizing the retail  electricity market  by 2016 and requiring
utilities, including the biggest,  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  and
 Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) , to break their generation,
transmission and retail operations into separate legal entities
from 2018 to 2020.  The reforms will probably show few clear benefits until the
utilities’ operations are “unbundled” into the separate units,
since that step will encourage companies to seek customers in
other regions by severing ties to their existing distribution
arms, Hiroshi Takahashi, a research fellow at the Fujitsu
Research Institute, said today in an interview.  “Without structural unbundling there will not be real
competition,” Takahashi said.  Stable Supply  Tokyo Electric, the nation’s biggest utility by generating
capacity, took a step toward achieving those reforms this year,
when it divided itself into separate production, distribution
and retail divisions. The company denied a Nov. 8 report in the
Nikkei newspaper that it had decided to formalize that split by
forming separate companies under a holding company before the
end of March 2017, according to a statement on its  website .  The utilities’ control of electricity supply has been cited
as one reason power tariffs in the country of 127 million people
are twice those in the U.S. The need to reduce power prices
became more acute after the Fukushima nuclear disaster of March
2011, which has shut down all of Japan’s atomic plants for
safety checks, increasing its dependence on more expensive
fossil fuels.  “There are more than a few challenges to overcome in order
for us to remain capable of providing a secure power supply as
these reforms continue,” Makoto Yagi, the chairman of the
Federation of Electric Power Cos., said in a statement after the
vote.  Grid Management  “Especially when it comes to the separation of power
distribution, the rules and mechanisms to achieve that step must
be carefully developed so as not to disturb the stable supply we
have enjoyed under the integrated system,” said Yagi, who also
serves as president of  Kansai Electric , the nation’s second-largest utility.  The body to be established under today’s legislation will
be staffed by officials from the nation’s utilities and could
lack independence, Fujitsu Research’s Takahashi said.  “Utilities own not just the grid but also the generation
capacity,” said Takahashi, who served on a government advisory
board that had recommended the grid-management body be given a
stronger role. “They have a strong incentive to utilize their
own capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  