-- KCG Restates Results With $128 Million Gain for Getco Investment
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-11-13T17:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/kcg-restates-results-with-128-million-gain-for-getco-investment.html
KCG Holdings Inc. (KCG) , the company
formed when Getco LLC bought Knight Capital Group Inc., restated
third-quarter earnings to correct its accounting related to the
acquisition.  KCG reported a one-time gain of $128 million after
reclassifying how it recognized changes in Getco’s investment in
Knight, according to a statement from the  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based firm yesterday. The adjustment increased third-quarter net income to $226.8 million, or $1.98 a share, more
than double its previously announced profit. The company also
separately revised Getco’s financial statements for the past
three years. It said there were “material weaknesses” in how
Getco prepared its financial statements.  Getco and five other financial companies received Knight
preferred shares in August 2012 as part of a deal to rescue the
market maker after it spewed erroneous orders that caused more
than $460 million in losses. Chicago-based Getco agreed to the
merger as dwindling equity volume pressured its own market-making business, prompting a 90 percent drop in 2012 net income.  “Clearly, there were problems with accounting processes
and controls with legacy Getco,”  Richard Repetto , a New York-based analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, wrote in a note
today. “With KCG CFO Steve Bisgay and his team taking over the
finance functions of the new combined company, we expect the
accounting standards to be brought up to the public company
reporting bar.”  Shares Decline  The  shares  fell 1.1 percent to $9.93 at 12:16 p.m. New York
time. They’ve dropped 5.4 percent since June 28, the day before
the merger was completed, compared with a 10 percent rise in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  KCG said Getco previously held its investment in Knight at
fair value and classified the gains as other comprehensive
income within the equity statement. The company has now
recognized the gains on the income statement, according to the
press release.  Getco had errors in the presentation of members’ equity,
earnings per unit,  cash flow  and an accounting charge related to
non-cash, merger-related compensation, the company said.  “There were material weaknesses in Getco’s financial
statement preparation processes and the related disclosure
controls for each of the affected periods,” according to the
statement.  KCG had reported on Oct. 30 that net income for the third
quarter was $98.9 million, or 86 cents a share, including a one-time tax benefit of $103.5 million.  Securities regulators last month fined Knight Capital
Americas LLC $12 million for the trading malfunction that roiled
the U.S. stock market in August 2012, saying the firm ignored
dozens of error messages before its computers bombarded
exchanges with millions of unintended orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  