-- Kering Sees Very Significant Profit Drop on La Redoute, Puma
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-11-14T10:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/kering-sees-very-significant-drop-in-2013-net-on-puma-redoute.html
Kering SA (KER) , the owner of Gucci, said
it expects net income to drop “very significantly” this year
because of costs related to its planned sale of mail-order unit
La Redoute and one-time charges for the Puma brand.  Any “solution” for La Redoute “will have a significant
impact on the net result from discontinued operations,” Paris-based Kering also said in a statement yesterday after the close
of trading. Puma, the sporting-goods brand in which Kering is
controlling shareholder, last week said it would book one-time
charges of about 130 million euros ($175 million) this quarter.  The announcement “merely pulled together various already
known and/or indicated elements relating to the disposal” of La
Redoute and its impact on earnings, Allegra Perry, an analyst at
 Cantor Fitzgerald  in  London , said in a note.  The  shares  fell 0.6 percent to 162.25 euros at 10:32 a.m.
in Paris trading, trimming this year’s gain to 17 percent.  Kering, formerly known as PPR, said its board met yesterday
to discuss offers for La Redoute, which it has been seeking to
sell since 2010 as it focuses on luxury and sports brands. The
conclusion will be announced “soon,” it said. The sale and any
possible job cuts have raised the ire of the French government,
which is trying to reduce unemployment that has touched a 14-year high of 10.9 percent.  The divestment “has clearly been challenging and taken
longer than expected,” said Perry, who maintained a buy
recommendation on Kering stock.  Breaking Up  La Redoute is the largest business of Redcats, the home-shopping unit that Kering is breaking up and selling. A fund
owned by Swedish buyout firm  Nordic Capital  agreed in February
to buy two Redcats brands, bringing proceeds from selling the
division’s parts to more than $1 billion.  Puma SE Chief Executive Officer Bjoern Gulden last week
pledged to make the company,  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, more agile as it seeks to reconnect with consumers.
The Puma charges related to the closing of a product development
center in Vietnam and the transfer of personnel to Germany from
the U.K.  Kering said all the charges and costs referred to are non-recurring and reiterated “its confidence in the solidity of its
operating performance for the year 2013 as a whole, as well as
its level of recurring net income.” The company reported net
income of 1.05 billion euros in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  