-- Kerry Urging an Iran Sanctions Pause Amid Negotations
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-11-13T20:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/kerry-urging-an-iran-sanctions-pause-amid-negotations.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  is
pressing U.S. lawmakers to give diplomacy a chance, parrying
attacks from Congress over talks that broke up last week without
a deal to curb  Iran’s nuclear program .  Kerry met behind closed doors today with members of the
Senate Banking Committee at the U.S. Capitol, telling reporters
beforehand that he would ask them to delay efforts to impose new
sanctions on Iran for at least “a few weeks.”  “The risk is that if Congress were to unilaterally move to
raise sanctions, it could break faith with those negotiations
and actually stop them and break them apart,” Kerry said.
“What we’re asking everybody to do is calm down, look hard at
what can be achieved or what the realities are.”  Lawmakers from both parties in Congress and Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  have criticized negotiations in
Geneva last week toward a first-step agreement on limiting
Iran’s nuclear program that would ease some existing sanctions
without first ensuring an end to Iran’s uranium enrichment.  Vice President  Joe Biden  and Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman also planned to brief Senate Democratic leaders later
today, according to a U.S. official who asked not to be
identified discussing private meetings.  The talks in Geneva broke up last weekend without an
initial agreement and are scheduled to resume Nov. 20. Iran is
negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up of the five
permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the U.S., U.K.,
 France ,  Russia  and  China  -- plus  Germany .  House Hearing  “The Iranian regime hasn’t paused its nuclear program --
why should we pause our sanctions efforts, as the administration
is pressuring Congress to do?” Representative Ed Royce of
 California , the Republican chairman of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee, said at a hearing on Iran today.  Representative Eliot Engel of  New York , the top Democrat on
the House panel, said that “we must make crystal clear to
Tehran that even tougher sanctions are coming down the pike if
the regime is unwilling to take concrete and verifiable steps to
freeze and then dismantle its nuclear program.”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  Robert Menendez , a leading advocate for heightened sanctions and a
member of the banking panel, said he will await the briefing by
Kerry before deciding on a course of action.  Even if Congress acts, legislation would take “anywhere
between six months and a year” to implement, Menendez, a New
Jersey Democrat, said. “They always take time to kick into
effect.”  Banking Committee  New sanctions legislation should come from the banking
panel, Menendez told reporters. The senator had said previously
that he might attempt to attach sanctions language to the fiscal
2014 defense authorization bill the chamber is preparing to
debate.  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Armed Services Committee, said today that sanctions don’t belong
on the defense bill crafted by his panel and that he backs the
administration’s request to hold off.  “I support maintaining tight sanctions against  Iran ,”
Levin told reporters. “I don’t support increasing them at this
time, because I think it could interfere with the
negotiations,”  Levin told reporters at the Capitol. “If
negotiations don’t succeed, or don’t succeed in a way that is
acceptable, we can always add additional sanctions at that
time.”  Defense Bill  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said the White House
was promoting a “bad deal” for the U.S.  “We ought to be actually ratcheting up the sanctions
against Iran,” McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said during a
news conference at the Capitol. “I’d be surprised if we do not
have a debate on enhanced Iran sanctions on the defense
authorization bill.”  Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee and a member of the banking panel,
said he wants to hear what Kerry has to say about the Geneva
negotiations before deciding how to proceed.  “We’re just worried that they’re dealing away our
leverage,” Corker said in an interview. “What we’re far more
concerned about in our office is the administration dealing away
the sanctions that we now have in place.”  Kerry said today that the U.S. has support for its proposal
to curb Iran’s nuclear program from the other countries
negotiating with Iran.  If new sanctions were imposed by Congress now, allies
“would think we’re dealing in bad faith and they would bolt,”
Kerry said. “Then the sanctions do fall apart.”  Petrochemicals, Gold  The agreement that was considered during talks in Geneva
would have offered Iran a temporary easing of existing sanctions
on petrochemicals, gold and auto trade and some access to frozen
assets, according to diplomats who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to comment.  Netanyahu, who has urged American Jews to work to block the
deal under consideration in Geneva, said yesterday that Iran
stands to gain billions of dollars if sanctions are eased in the
proposal being discussed in Geneva.  “It gives Iran a tremendous break, a hole -- not a tiny
hole, but a big hole -- in sanctions,” Netanyahu said at the
Bloomberg Fuel Choices Summit in  Tel Aviv .  The U.S. and  Israel  say  uranium enrichment  in Iran and
construction of a reactor capable of producing plutonium would
help the Islamic Republic develop the capability to produce
nuclear weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful
medical and energy uses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  