-- Keystone Defended by Alberta Premier as Carbon Questioned
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/keystone-defended-by-alberta-premier-as-carbon-questioned.html
Alberta ’s premier defended her
province’s environmental record while lobbying in Washington
yesterday for the Keystone XL pipeline amid new questions over
 Canada ’s ability to meet greenhouse-gas reduction targets.  Alison Redford, making her fifth trip to promote the $5.3
billion project that would connect the  oil sands  in her Canadian
province to refineries on the  Gulf Coast , met with officials at
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the White House’s
Council on Environmental Quality and the State Department.  The State Department is overseeing an environmental review
to estimate the extent Keystone would contribute to global
warming, which has become the central issue in the more than
five-year effort by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  to get approval to build
the pipeline.  “It’s been a really robust discussion,” Redford told
reporters after meeting with Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana
Democrat who supports the project. “We just want to make sure
that as this evolves, which has to happen, that the right
information is on the table and the perspective of Alberta is on
the table.”  The tie-in between oil sands development and global warming
surfaced again last month amid reports that Canada will have
difficulty in meeting its obligation made at a 2009 United
Nations summit to cut greenhouse gases by 17 percent by 2020
from 2005 levels.  Greenhouse Emissions  Environment Canada, the country’s environmental regulator,
said in its annual report last month that greenhouse gas
emissions would reach 734 million metric tons in 2020, an
increase over the 720 million metric ton estimate it gave in a
2012 emissions report. Emissions would have to be cut to 612
million metric tons by 2020 to meet the UN commitment.  By comparison, the U.S. EPA has said the heavy crude that
Keystone could carry over its 50 years projected life span may
lead the release of 935 million metric tons of carbon dioxide,
according to a letter the agency sent to the State Department.  President  Barack Obama  said in a June speech at  Georgetown
University  that the pipeline shouldn’t be approved if it would
“significantly exacerbate” carbon pollution.  The EPA, in commenting on a draft environmental impact
statement released in March, said the State Department should
conduct a fuller analysis of Keystone’s climate impact in its
final report.  “It is a challenge for us,” Redford said. “In order to
deal with that issue, there is not a silver bullet solution. A
silver bullet solution is not to stop production in the oil
sands.”  Climate Change  Redford later told reporters in Canada on a conference call
that she wasn’t asked about Canada’s rising greenhouse gas
emissions in her meetings with the State Department or EPA. Oil-sands projects are Canada’s fastest-growing source of emissions,
according to the Environment Canada report.  Keystone has galvanized environmental groups that argue it
will worsen climate change risks by promoting development of the
oil sands. The process of producing and refining the type of
heavy crude produced there releases more  greenhouse gases  than
the “life cycle” emissions of more conventional oil.  Supporters argue that the oil sands will be developed with
or without Keystone and that the fuel shipped to refiners in the
U.S. will displace another type of heavy crude produced in
 Venezuela  with a similar carbon footprint to the bitumen mined
in Alberta’s oil sands.  Environmental Analysis  Both sides are awaiting the release of the State
Department’s environmental review. The department then will
conduct a 90-day study to judge whether the pipeline is in the
national interest. Federal agencies have another 15 days to
appeal the finding to Obama.  Redford said State Department officials didn’t indicate
when the environmental analysis would be completed.  She told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. earlier this month
that the province wouldn’t raise its levy on emissions unless
the U.S. acts on the issue.  Alberta charges C$15 ($14.30) per metric ton on emitters
that don’t meet the current target of reducing greenhouse gas
emissions per unit of economic growth by 12 percent.  “We want to make sure that all of our industry is
competitive,” Redford said. She said there needs to be a
“continental conversation” about further greenhouse gas cuts.  Environmental groups say Keystone should be rejected on its
own merits, regardless of any joint agreement on  carbon
emissions .  “It’s like extracting a promise to stop smoking in
exchange for a pack of cigarettes,” said Anthony Swift, an
attorney with the  Natural Resources Defense Council .  Regular Meetings  The State Department meets regularly with parties
interested in the Keystone project, including landowners in its
path, environmental groups and officials from TransCanada.  Redford met yesterday with EPA Deputy Administrator Bob Perciasepe, Council on Environmental Quality Chair Nancy Sutley,
and Assistant Secretary of State Kerri-Ann Jones. It was the
third time Redford met with Jones since 2011, according to the
State Department.  Redford was also scheduled to meet with Democratic Senator
Heidi Heitkamp of  North Dakota , a supporter of the project.  TransCanada, based in Calgary, first applied to build
Keystone more than five years ago. The proposal unleashed a
lobbying war over energy development and environmental
protection that’s drawn in the oil industry, environmental
groups and the Canadian government, which looks to Keystone as
an economic development tool.  Obama rejected the initial application in January 2012,
citing environmental concerns of officials in  Nebraska .  TransCanada then altered the route. The environmental
analysis now being written is evaluating that new pathway.  A draft analysis released in March found that Keystone
wouldn’t have a big impact on greenhouse gas emissions because
companies would find other means of transporting the diluted
bitumen to market, through other pipelines and by train.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  