-- Korean Shipping Lines Face Cash Crunch After Expansion
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-11-14T09:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/korean-shipping-lines-face-cash-crunch-after-expansion.html
South Korea ’s three biggest shipping
companies face a cash crunch as 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion) of
bonds are due for repayment in the next two years amid mounting
losses from a global slump in rates to carry cargo.  Hanjin Shipping Co. (117930) ,  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. (011200)  and  STX
Pan Ocean Co. (028670)  are all forecast to post losses in 2013 for a
third consecutive year, further denting the combined 1.3
trillion won of cash and near cash items they had as of the end
of September. The companies need to repay 1.4 trillion won of
bonds next year and 1.6 trillion won the year after.  A debt-fueled expansion after the 2008 Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. bankruptcy filing pushed the carriers into losses
so deep they may need financial assistance to repay loans taken
to buy new vessels, said Kim Ik Sang, a credit analyst at HI
Investment & Securities Co. As China’s economy cools and weak
 consumer spending  persists in the U.S. and  Europe , the companies
are unlikely to turn around to improve their ability to repay
loans, said Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co.  “It’s pretty much out of their control,” said Seoul-based
Um. “Cash is depleting quite fast while the shipping industry
isn’t showing any signs of a recovery. I don’t think we can
completely forgo the possibility of things turning worse next
year.”  Hanjin, South Korea’s largest shipping company, and Hyundai
Merchant are expected to post losses next year as well,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. STX, the
largest commodity-mover and under court receivership since June,
may post its first profit in four years in 2014.  Wider Losses  The three shipping lines widened their  losses  in the third
quarter from a year earlier because of an increase in interest
payments while demand to move cargo remained weak, according to
separate statements filed by the companies today.  Shares of Hanjin Shipping dropped 1.3 percent to close at
6,990 won in  Seoul . STX Pan Ocean fell 3.9 percent to 1,115 won.
Hyundai Merchant advanced 2.3 percent after it teamed up with
Posco and Korea Railroad Corp. to develop a rail project linking
Khasan on Russian border and North Korean port of Rajin.  Hanjin Shipping’s Chief Executive Officer Kim Young Min
resigned Nov. 11 to take responsibility for the company’s losses
and a delay in receiving financing from creditors. The company
has 1.1 trillion won of bonds due in the next two years,
compared with cash and near-cash items of 382 billion won at the
end of September.  Perpetual Bonds  Hanjin has been selling assets and has sufficient cash for
payments, said Kim Young Tae, a spokesman at the shipping
company. The carrier will continue to look at financing options,
including a perpetual bond sale, he said.  Hyundai Merchant has 1 trillion won to pay in the same two
years, compared with 678 billion won in cash. STX owes 900
billion won with a cash pile of 237 billion won in that period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. STX is in talks with
its main creditors on maturing debt, according to an e-mailed
response to  Bloomberg News .  Hyundai Merchant has secured funds to meet payments until
the first half of next year, said Lee Jun Ki, a spokesman.
Hyundai will look at “various options,” if the shipping
industry doesn’t improve, he said.  “The amount coming due may not seem big, but it’s a
problem if you have a similar size of loan maturing for three
straight years and you are not making enough money,” said HI
Investment’s Kim. “Of all the industries, shipping is having
the biggest problems because of the liquidity issues they
face.”  Temporary Plan  The government holds one of the keys to easing the debt
crisis for companies through its  Korea Development Bank .  To help troubled shippers and other companies pay down the
bonds, the government in July put forward a temporary plan in
which KDB will help raise 80 percent of funds needed for
repayment. The companies need to bring the rest. That enabled
Hyundai Merchant refinance 280 billion won of  maturing bonds 
last month.  “We prepared corporate bond market stabilization steps in
July preemptively,” Shin Je Yoon, chairman of South Korea’s
regulator Financial Services Commission, said Oct. 24. “I don’t
have immediate concerns about the  debt market , but we can review
easing the July measure to provide help to a broader range of
companies if needed.”  KDB’s Role  KDB declined to comment, it said in an e-mail response.  The state-owned bank has played a key role in helping
distressed companies restructure in the past. It’s taking the
lead role in rescheduling debt for  STX Offshore (067250)  & Shipbuilding
Co. and one of its funds became the biggest shareholder of
 Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. (047040)  by swapping debt for
equity.  “KDB is very important,” HI Investment’s Kim said. “If
not for them, the circumstances in the shipping industry could
be far worse than what they are now.”  Hanjin, which has reported a loss in each of the past 10
quarters, got a loan from affiliate  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  in
October while Hyundai Merchant sold shares this month.  Hanjin is considering selling stakes in port terminals, it
said in a regulatory filing Nov. 12.  A glut of vessels has contributed to the slump in the
 Baltic Dry Index. (BDIY)  The most popular global measure of commodity-shipping rates plunged 90 percent from its peak to a record low
of 647 in February last year. The gauge has since more than
doubled.  Spot rates to haul container cargo from  Asia  to Europe, the
world’s busiest trading lane, have dropped 12 percent from this
year’s high, according to the Shanghai Shipping Exchange.  Two Victims  The global downturn has already claimed two victims in
 Japan . Last year, Sanko Steamship Co., a Japanese operator of
185 ships, went into  bankruptcy protection  after failing to
reach agreement with creditors on an out-of-court turnaround.  Daiichi Chuo Kisen Kaisha, based in  Tokyo , received a
bailout from its  lead shareholder  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.
earlier this year.  Unlike  Denmark ’s A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, operator of the
world’s largest sea box carrier, and Hong Kong-based  Orient
Overseas (316)  (International) Ltd., South Korean shipping lines have
been burdened by higher financing costs since the 1997-1998
Asian financial crisis, according to Shinyoung’s Um.  “The Korean shipping lines had the worst timing for
investment,” Um said. “While their competitors were able to
order ships when prices were low, Korean companies ended up
buying at a high.”  While the global container cargo market and commodity
shipping rates have improved, South Korean shipping companies
will still be at a disadvantage, said Kang Seong Jin, an analyst
at Tongyang Securities Inc. in Seoul.  “Koreans are losing competitiveness,” he said. “While
the bigger players have been investing to grow their economy of
scale, Koreans have been busy trying to repay debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  