-- N.J. Traders Plead Guilty to Health-Care Insider TradING
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-11-13T20:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/n-j-traders-plead-guilty-to-health-care-insider-trading.html
Two New Jersey men pleaded guilty to
their role in an insider-trading ring that prosecutors said
generated $1.48 million in illicit profit using information from
employees at pharmaceutical and medical-technology firms.  Lawrence Grum and Michael Castelli, both 49, admitted to
fraud and conspiracy today in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement. Four
other men pleaded guilty earlier to participating in the ring.
It profited from tips passed by executives at Celgene Corp.,
 Sanofi (SAN)  and  Stryker (SYK)  Corp.  Grum and Castelli traded based on inside information from a
friend, Mark Cupo, 52, an executive at Sanofi, Fishman said.
Cupo got tips from John Lazorchak, 43, former director of
financial reporting at Celgene, and Lazorchak also got tips from
Mark Foldy, 43, a former Stryker executive, prosecutors said.
Cupo, Foldy and Lazorchak pleaded guilty Oct. 7.  The inside information given to Grum and Castelli “enabled
them to reap substantial profits by engaging in lucrative
securities trading ahead of the public announcement of several
corporate acquisitions, numerous quarterly earnings results, and
regulatory news,” according to Fishman. They also shared some
of their profit with Lazorchak and Cupo.  Grum, Castelli and others made illicit payments for inside
information “as hand-to-hand cash transfers, frequently paid in
installments, to avoid leaving a financial trail,” according to
Grum’s charges in a document known as a criminal information.  ‘Research’ Binder  The men ensured that Lazorchak, Cupo and Foldy “did not
engage in stock transactions in the instances where they were
the source of the inside information,” according to the
information. Grum also compiled a binder of “market ‘research’
to provide a false justification for his trades.”  The ring operated from 2007 to 2012 and involved two sets
of high school friends and at least one witness who secretly
recorded Grum for the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
authorities said.  Grum, of Livingston, New Jersey, pleaded guilty to two
counts of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and four counts
of securities fraud. He co-owned a company that distributed spa
uniforms, slippers and robes.  Castelli, of Morris Plains, New Jersey, pleaded guilty to
two counts of conspiracy to commit securities fraud and five
counts of securities fraud. He owned a construction company
called Mutual Builders.  They face as many as 20 years in prison on the fraud
counts. U.S. District Judge Katharine Hayden set sentencing for
Feb. 20.  Wine-Making  Castelli was a longtime friend and neighbor of Cupo,
according to the information. Castelli and Grum were “trading
partners and close friends, having known each other for most of
their lives.” Castelli introduced Grum to Cupo, and they
socialized through their membership in a wine-making club.  Lazorchak, Cupo, Foldy and a fourth man who pleaded guilty
on Oct. 7, Michael Penolino, 44, are set to be sentenced by
Hayden on Jan. 20.  Grum reassured Cupo that government investigators were
unlikely to discover their scheme, according to a lawsuit filed
against the men by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “At the end of the day, the SEC’s got to pick their battle
because they have a limited number and huge numbers to go
after,” Grum told an FBI cooperating witness, according to the
arrest complaint.  The tips involved  Celgene (CELG) ’s announcement in November 2007
that it was buying Pharmion Corp. for $2.9 billion; Sanofi’s
announcement in March 2010 that it was buying Chattem Inc. for
$1.9 billion; Celgene’s news in June 2010 that it was buying
Abraxis BioScience Inc. for $2.9 billion; and Stryker’s
announcement in May 2011 of plans to buy Orthovita Inc. for
$316 million, according to the SEC.  They also involved six quarterly earnings announcements by
Celgene and the company’s announcement in June that it was
withdrawing an application in Europe for expanded use of its
blood cancer drug Revlimid, according to the government.  The cases are U.S. v. Grum, U.S. v. Castelli, U.S. v.
Lazorchak, 13-cr-00656, and U.S. v. Pendolino, 13-cr-00657, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  