-- Netflix Gives Home Page a Facelift to Entice Living-Room Viewers
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/netflix-gives-home-page-a-facelift-to-entice-living-room-viewers.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
subscription streaming service, unveiled a new home-page design
aimed at delivering a richer experience to viewers who watch on
television sets.  The new look highlights a rotating list of movies and
series, and offers recommendations based on past viewing, the
Los Gatos, California-based company said today in a statement.
The design will be rolled out on TV sets and devices that
connect to them, such as set-top boxes and game consoles.  Netflix is making its service more television-like with the
redesign, at a time when the company is seeking deals to
integrate its Web-based service on cable TV. The majority of
viewers watch on devices connected to TVs, according to Neil Hunt, chief product officer.  “This is the biggest change to the Netflix experience on
televisions in our history, making it even easier to find
something great to watch,” Hunt said in the statement. “This
new software platform will allow us to innovate even faster and
continuously improve the Internet television experience.”  With each title, users will see a short description and
more personalized detail on why Netflix suggests it. The company
is constantly tinkering with its service in a bid to improve the
user experience, which helps it sign and keep members, Chief
Executive Officer Reed Hastings has said.  This year, the company added social features to let U.S.
users share what they’re watching with friends. It introduced
individual profiles for households with more than one person
using the streaming service.  Netflix fell 1.2 percent yesterday to $333.73 in  New York 
trading. The shares have more than  tripled  this year, compared
with a 24 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  