-- Newag Starts $132 Million IPO Amid Polish Railway Boom
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-11-13T14:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/newag-starts-132-million-ipo-amid-polish-railway-boom.html
Newag SA, a Polish train producer,
started a 414 million-zloty ($132 million) initial public
offering, betting on investors’ demand for rail industry stocks
as the government plans to quicken infrastructure investments.  Newag owners, including Zbigniew Jakubas, offered as many
as 21.8 million shares, or a 48 percent stake, at a maximum
price of 19 zloty a share, the Nowy Sacz, Poland-based company
said in an IPO prospectus on its website today. Bookbuilding for
institutional investors will end on Nov. 25 and the company
plans to start trading on the Warsaw bourse by Dec. 4.  The company is the second in the domestic rail industry to
sell shares to the public this year. State railway Polskie
Koleje Panstwowe SA last month sold a 1.42 billion-zloty stake
in PKP Cargo SA, the European Union’s second-largest rail
freight company. PKP’s stock surged as much as 23 percent on its
first day of trading after demand in its IPO was almost six
times higher than offer.  “We hope Newag will benefit from an expected jump in
passenger traffic in  Poland  and abroad as the EU plans to spend
more and more on this form of transport,” Jakubas said at a
news conference in Warsaw today. “To strengthen our position
even more, we plan to introduce high-speed trains in 2018.”  Spending Spree  The government last week backed a plan to spend 24.9
billion zloty on modernizing rail infrastructure through 2015.
Financing will mainly come from EU funds as well as from bond
sales, loans and the state budget, the government said in a
statement on Nov. 5.  Jakubas, whose assets also include stakes in coin producer
Mennica Polska SA, industrial equipment manufacturer Polna SA
and holding company Multico, earlier held talks to sell Newag to
an industry investor.  “It’s not a secret that for more than a year we had held
talks with a strategic investor to sell the whole company but we
decided to sell a stake on the bourse,” Jakubas said. “It
might happen Newag will be of interest to some big companies.”  Newag expects net income to increase to 79.3 million zloty
next year from 37.9 million zloty in 2013. Last year, almost
half of its sales came from orders from Polish railways. The
company, which seeks to return 70 percent of profit to
shareholders, plans to invest 100 million zloty in the next five
years.  Jakubas will remain Newag’s biggest shareholder after the
IPO, with a 39 percent stake, according to the prospectus.  Trigon Dom Maklerski SA is managing the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  