-- LNG Seen at Record as Demand Expands Five Times Pace of Supply
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-11-13T15:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/lng-seen-at-record-as-demand-expands-five-times-pace-of-supply.html
The price of liquefied natural gas
in Asia is poised to reach a record in the next several months
as the region’s buying surge helps demand capacity grow as much
as five times faster than supply,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said.  The power and heating fuel may rise to $20 per million
British thermal units during the northern hemisphere winter,
exceeding  February’s high , analysts including Shin Kim in New
York said in an e-mailed report today.  Spot prices in Asia 
climbed to $18.10 in the week to Nov. 11, according to an
assessment by New York-based World Gas Intelligence.  Natural gas is superchilled into a liquid for transport by
sea and then turned into gas again once delivered. Demand
measured by growth in re-gasification terminals fuel will rise
five times faster than new liquefaction capacity in 2014, having
expanded three times quicker this year, the bank said.  “Global LNG markets are heading towards another tight
year,” the report said. “The underlying problem in global LNG
markets remains with LNG re-gasification capacity additions far
outpacing liquefaction capacity growth.”  Costs rose to a record $19.40 on Feb. 4 and have advanced
for the past 10 weeks, WGI data show.  Japan , the world’s biggest LNG importer, will raise its
imports as much as 1 million metric tons to 87 million tons next
year as nuclear generators remain offline, the bank said. China
will boost its annual capacity to receive the fuel to 38 million
tons, three times higher than in 2010, the bank said. Latin
American imports, up 16 percent this year, will be supported by
falling Argentinian gas output and delayed projects in  Brazil ,
they said.  Supply Concern  “On the supply side, there is plenty to be concerned
about,” the bank said. “Most new projects come on delayed,
suffer from massive cost overruns and struggle with a shortage
in skilled labor or feedgas issues.”  Angola ’s new LNG plant is running below capacity after
starting in the summer, 18 months behind schedule, the bank
said. Algerian exports are down 6 percent after the new Skikda
plant started in March, it said. Nigeria’s LNG exports are being
curtailed and  Egypt ’s rising demand leaves less for export,
according to Bank of America.  “We do not see any material improvements to supply until
2015 when major projects in  Australia , and eventually the U.S.,
start to hit the market,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  