-- Noble Drops After Fall in Third-Quarter Profit: Singapore Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-11-13T10:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/noble-drops-after-fall-in-third-quarter-profit-singapore-mover.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , Asia’s biggest
commodity trader by sales, fell the most in almost two weeks in
 Singapore  after third-quarter profit dropped 70 percent due to a
loss related to its stake in coal miner  Yancoal Australia Ltd. (YAL)   Shares fell 2.8 percent, the most since Nov. 1, to S$1.05
at the close after declining as much as 6 percent earlier in the
day. The benchmark  Straits Times  index fell 0.4 percent. The
stock’s drop was the biggest on the index.  Noble said yesterday its net income for the three months
ended Sept. 30 was $22.9 million, its lowest quarterly result in
two years, after it booked a non-cash loss related to Yancoal.
Shares of the Hong Kong-based company had rallied 36 percent
from a yearly low recorded in August.  “The shares had done very well and normally what you have
is people selling on news,”  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC
Investment Research Pte., said by phone from Singapore. Many
investors weren’t expecting the extent of Yancoal’s loss, he
said.  Noble’s profit, excluding the loss, was $113 million, the
highest since the third quarter of 2010, the company said
yesterday. Sales in the quarter advanced 13 percent to $25.6
billion.  “Investors may be surprised by the size of the loss in
associate earnings,” Morgan Stanley analysts Charles Spencer
and Mean Phil Chong said in a note dated yesterday, advising
investors to buy the shares on near-term weakness. “The
turnaround in agriculture should bode well for the earnings
outlook.”  Noble said yesterday operating income at its agricultural
unit, which includes sugar mills and oilseeds crushing plants,
fell 80 percent from last year to $14 million. That compares
with losses in the past two quarters.  Noble’s earnings accounted for its share of Yancoal’s
A$749.4 million ($697 million) loss recorded for the first six
months. Noble is the miner’s second-biggest shareholder with a
13.2 percent stake, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  