-- NQ Pledges Aggressive Expansion as Block Maintains Fraud Claims
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-13T04:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/nq-pledges-aggressive-expansion-as-block-maintains-fraud-claims.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , the Chinese mobile-services provider accused of inflating revenue, said it plans to
expand its customer base as it rejected fraud allegations from
short-seller  Carson Block ’s  Muddy Waters  LLC.  “We will continue to grow our user base aggressively, but
it is the growth of the number of those users that can generate
revenues that we are even more focused upon,” Co-Chief
Executive Officer Omar Khan said on a 90-minute earnings
conference call. The company didn’t take questions from Muddy
Waters, which posted more than 20 messages on its Twitter
account during the call.  NQ Mobile has  plunged  about 40 percent since Oct. 24 when
Muddy Waters initiated coverage of the company with a strong
sell rating, saying it  inflated sales and misrepresented cash 
balances. NQ Mobile, which has headquarters in Beijing and
 Dallas , has denied the allegations and transferred $103 million
in cash to an account at Standard Chartered Bank to demonstrate
its reserves.  “The call was largely non-substantive and seemed to
involve delay tactics, such as story telling and almost verbatim
reading of the press release, in order to shorten the Q&A
period,” Block said in an e-mail after the call. “We entered
the question queue immediately, but NQ refused to call on us.”  More Users  NQ is improving its ability to gain revenue from its users,
most of whom traditionally opted for free services, through
increased advertising and the expansion of mobile games, Khan
said on the call. As a result, the number of user accounts that
actually paid for services rose to 14.8 million in the third
quarter, from 11.3 million in the second quarter, he said. The
second quarter was the first time the company had disclosed that
figure.  Management, including Khan and co-CEO  Henry Lin , will
purchase shares with personal funds in the next six months. The
company spent $20.1 million on share-based compensation in the
three months ended Sept. 30, it said.  NQ yesterday posted earnings that beat analyst estimates,
with  net income  more than doubling to $17.4 million in the third
quarter from $8.13 million a year earlier. That beat the $16.2
million average of five  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company expects strong international growth in the
fourth quarter of this year and the first of 2014, product chief
Gavin Kim said on the call.  Sales Increase  Sales in the third quarter rose 110 percent to $54.2
million, NQ Mobile said. That compares with an average $50.98
million estimate of five analysts in the Bloomberg survey. NQ
Mobile  forecast revenue  for the fourth quarter of as much as $63
million, more than the mean $61.2 million estimate of five
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That would bring sales for 2013
to as much as $192 million, the company said, the most on
record.  “Strong earnings, strong revenue, strong outlook,
management buying stock,”  Tim Ghriskey , chief investment
officer at Solaris Group LLC, which manages over $1.5 billion in
 Bedford Hills ,  New York , said by phone. “You could see quite a
short squeeze in the shares in a situation like this, but
clearly it is volatile.”  Shares of NQ Mobile fell 6 percent to $13.45 in New York as
of 5:52 pm after closing at $14.31.  NQ Mobile’s management completed the last purchase plan for
$2 million of American depositary shares on Dec. 6, 2012, the
company said in a statement. The stock fell 14 percent during
the purchase period, while rallying 130 percent since then.  Higher Volatility  “The reality is that NQ is showing tremendous momentum in
all of its strategically important areas,” Adam Bhaijee, a
portfolio manager at Toro Investment Partners LP in  San
Francisco , said in an e-mail. His firm owns 5 percent of NQ
shares, according to a Nov. 8 regulatory filing. “We think
management purchasing $3 million of shares for a second time
since the company’s IPO is an even stronger signal.”  NQ Mobile’s  30-day volatility  jumped to a record 256.17
yesterday from 60.29 on Sept. 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares rallied 30 percent in the last three days
to trade 43 percent below a record of $24.92 reached on Oct. 18.  Piper Jaffray Cos., the investment bank that was the lead
manager of NQ Mobile’s initial public offering in May 2011,
suspended the equivalent of a buy rating on the stock on Nov. 5.
The bank said it needed to more deeply investigate “various
allegations against the company made by third parties.”  ‘Massive Fraud’  The first sentence of the 81-page report by Muddy Waters
declared: “NQ Mobile is a massive fraud.” At least 72 percent
of NQ’s purported 2012 China security revenue is fictitious, the
report said. The report also alleged that Tianjin Yidatong
Technology Development Co., NQ Mobile’s largest trade debtor, is
controlled by NQ Mobile and not an independent company.  Yidatong’s owner Xu Rong said in an interview the Muddy
Waters report is not accurate, and that her company has no
relationship with NQ Mobile besides a contract to process online
payments from mobile subscribers.  The Muddy Waters  report  also criticized NQ’s delays in
collecting payments from customers, evidenced in a measure
called days sales outstanding, or DSO. According to Muddy
Waters, the company’s DSO measure was 198 days at the second
quarter’s end, based on NQ’s revenue for the 12 months to June
30.  The days sales outstanding fell to 115 in the third
quarter, from 145 in the second quarter, marking the lowest
figure since NQ Mobile was listed, Khan said on the call.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  