-- NYSE’s Leibowitz Said to Plan Departure Given ICE Takeover
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-11-13T21:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/nyse-s-leibowitz-said-to-plan-departure-given-ice-takeover-2-.html
Larry Leibowitz , who was the chief
operating officer at the New York Stock Exchange’s parent, plans
to leave IntercontinentalExchange Group Inc. by the end of 2013
now that the takeover of the company is complete, according to
two people with knowledge of his plans.  NYSE Euronext’s purchase by ICE was completed yesterday.
Leibowitz, 53, will join other executives in leaving the
Atlanta-based company, said the people, who asked to not be
named because the decision is private. NYSE Euronext Chief
Financial Officer Michael Geltzeiler previously announced plans
to join ADT Corp.  Brookly McLaughlin, an ICE spokeswoman, declined to comment
on management changes.  ICE Chief Executive Officer Jeff Sprecher, whose own firm
is now one of the world’s biggest exchange operators just 13
years after it was founded, is seeking to instill an
entrepreneurial spirit at the company he just acquired, shaking
up a culture with roots in the 18th century. Job cuts at NYSE
Euronext are possible, he told Bloomberg Television during an
interview today. NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer plans to
stay through at least next year, Sprecher added.  “There are overlaps that we’re going to have to deal
with,” Sprecher told  Betty Liu  during the Bloomberg Television
interview. Niederauer “agreed with me that he’ll stay at least
a year, which is important to me because I’m not a particularly
good television face.” Sprecher added. “He’s a great brand
representative.”  Second Biggest  ICE’s stock price climbed 1 percent to $199.84 today. After
issuing shares to fund the NYSE Euronext purchase, ICE now has a
market capitalization of $23 billion, making it the world’s
second-biggest exchange operator by market value, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Only CME Group Inc. is bigger, at
$26 billion.  Thomas Farley, who was senior vice president of financial
markets at ICE, is now the chief operating officer of NYSE, ICE
said in a statement today. Niederauer is CEO of NYSE and an ICE
president. Charles Vice remains an ICE president, as well as the
COO. Among those staying in their roles at NYSE are Joe Mecane,
head of U.S. equities, and Scott Cutler, head of global
listings.  Sprecher during an interview with Bloomberg News yesterday
that he wants NYSE to act more like a startup.  Convincing NYSE  “I hope I can convince the NYSE employees to embrace that
style of business and accept a certain amount of failure,” he
said yesterday. “Any more-mature company has a hard time with
that, but I really think that in today’s era companies need to
move quickly.”  Leibowitz became COO of NYSE Euronext in 2010. He joined
the company in 2007 from UBS AG, where he was COO of Americas
Equities. Before that, he was co-head of Schwab Capital Markets.  As well as co-founding hedge fund Bunker Capital, Leibowitz
was head of program and quantitative trading at Credit Suisse
First Boston. He also served as CEO of Redibook LLC. That
electronic-trading venue  merged  with Archipelago LLC, which NYSE
ultimately purchased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  