-- Obama Nominee for Swaps Agency Draws Skepticism Over Experience
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/obama-nominee-for-swaps-agency-draws-skepticism-over-experience.html
Timothy Massad, a little-known
Treasury official who oversaw the U.S. rescue of Wall Street,
faces skepticism about his qualifications from lawmakers who
will vote on his nomination to lead the country’s top
derivatives regulator.  Massad, 57, was picked by President  Barack Obama  yesterday
to succeed Gary Gensler as chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, which won authority in the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act to regulate swaps trading by Wall Street firms including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   If confirmed, Massad will take the helm of an agency in
transition. The CFTC is pivoting from writing Dodd-Frank rules
to enforcing them even as Gensler and the administration have so
far failed to convince Congress to fund the additional staff and
technology needed to do the job.  Senators  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat, and
 Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, along with consumer
groups expressed questions about Massad, saying they need more
information about his qualifications and views on financial
regulation.  “The CFTC does critical work, and  Gary Gensler  set a very
high standard for the chairman position,” Warren said in a
statement.  Sanders said he would question Massad about his commitment
to supporting limits on speculation in oil and gas, a CFTC rule
that Wall Street banks successfully sued to overturn in federal
court.  “Will Mr. Massad make sure that the price of heating oil
and gasoline is based on the fundamentals of supply and demand
and not Wall Street greed?” Sanders said in a statement.  Seeking Commitment  Americans for Financial Reform and Better Markets, groups
that advocate tighter regulation of Wall Street, issued
statements calling on Massad to demonstrate a commitment to be
tough on banks.  The agency Massad would inherit has put in place more than
60 rules required by Dodd-Frank that are designed to reduce risk
and increase transparency in the global swaps market. After
largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis and
the rescue of American International Group Inc., Congress gave
the CFTC authority in 2010 to oversee about 95 percent of the
market.  Gensler, a former Goldman Sachs partner whose own
confirmation was held up for months because lawmakers questioned
his views on regulation, surprised  Wall Street  during the last
four years with his desire to increase restrictions. Obama said
Massad has a “deep commitment to a reform agenda” and would
continue Gensler’s work.  Swaps Pioneer  Early in his career at Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP in 1987,
Massad was involved with the swap industry’s original efforts to
standardize documents. Swaps had developed in the 1980s as a way
to shift risk directly between buyers and sellers, and the
industry was looking for a way to ease the logistics of trading.  Massad was the senior associate on the effort and served
essentially as the chief operating officer of the project,
according to Dan Cunningham, a New York-based partner at Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP and formerly of Cravath. The
agreements and user guides were part of the early documents from
the International Swaps & Derivatives Association Inc.  “He did an excellent job of taking a variety of viewpoints
on many issues and helping people reach a consensus,”
Cunningham said in a telephone interview.  TARP Oversight  Massad worked at Cravath for 25 years, and his work
included advising the Singapore exchange that handled stocks and
derivatives, a senior administration official said. After the
credit crisis, Massad worked for a brief time on the
congressional oversight panel for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program to rescue Wall Street.  The program, which he then was confirmed to manage at
Treasury, spurred a political backlash that drove congressional
supporters from office in the 2010 election and fed criticism of
the banking industry.  “Nobody ever wants to see TARP repeated. But the fact is,
TARP is a program that did its job,” Massad said Sept. 30 at
the  Brookings Institution . “It has worked faster, better, and
cheaper than most people ever thought possible.” He didn’t
comment about his nomination yesterday.  As of Nov. 8, $421.54 billion had been disbursed under the
TARP program, while $406.48 billion had been repaid, according
to the latest numbers from the Treasury Department.  The commission, which is designed to have five members, may
instead have only one Democrat and one Republican early next
year if Obama and the Senate cannot overcome political hurdles
to confirm three new commissioners.  In August, Obama nominated J. Christopher Giancarlo to
succeed Jill E. Sommers, a Republican. Meanwhile, the president
is considering nominating Sharon Y. Bowen, a securities lawyer
at Latham & Watkins LLP in  New York , to fill the spot being
vacated this year by  Bart Chilton , a Democrat, according to four
people in the financial industry.  The Senate Agriculture Committee, which has jurisdiction
over the CFTC, has yet to schedule confirmation hearings for any
of the nominees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  