-- Obama Tells Tribal Leaders Their Voices Are Heard in D.C.
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-11-13T22:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/obama-tells-tribal-leaders-their-voices-are-heard-in-d-c-.html
President  Barack Obama  told tribal
leaders that he will make his first trip as president to a
Native American reservation of the country next year.  “After I became president, I said that given the painful
chapters and broken promises of our shared history, I’d make
sure this country kept its promises to you,” Obama said at the
annual White House Tribal Nations Conference. “I promised that
tribal nations would have a stronger voice in  Washington .”  Obama has made outreach to American Indians a priority
since taking office. This is the fifth year that he has
personally spoken to the tribal leaders group. In June, he
issued an  executive order  establishing the White House Council
on Native American Affairs.  The president has been “so committed to Indian country at
every turn,” Interior Secretary Sally Jewell said today at the
conference. Her agency oversees the Bureau of Indian Affairs.  Under Obama, the Interior Department has added 230,000
acres to Indian reservations, Jewell said, compared with 50,000
acres in the last two years of  George W. Bush ’s presidency.
Obama’s goal is to expand reservations by at least another
230,000 acres before leaving office in early 2017, she said.  Far more than Bush, Obama has embraced the $27 billion
Indian gaming industry, a Bloomberg News report shows. His
Interior Department has loosened the limits on gaming beyond a
tribe’s traditional borders, redefined what counts as highly
regulated, taxed  slot machines  and worked around court rulings
that questioned the sovereignty of at least 50 tribes, including
several seeking to open casinos.  Policy Goals  The administration’s goal is to provide Native Americans,
whose nationwide unemployment rate of about 12 percent last year
compares with 6.6 percent for non-Hispanic whites, with greater
opportunities. It is trying to help tribes improve services,
including schools and hospitals, for their people.  Yet the changes have angered some state and local
officials, as well as members of Congress who would like to halt
the expansion of Indian gaming.  The  House of Representatives  in September passed a bill to
block an administration-sanctioned 225,000-square-foot (21,000-square-meter) casino outside Phoenix. The land is owned by the
Tohono O’odham Nation, a tribe that has traditionally been
concentrated in the less-lucrative  Arizona  gaming market of
Tucson. The Senate has yet to vote on the measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 