-- Obama's Surveillance Review Panel Delivers Interim Report
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-11-13T16:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/obama-s-surveillance-review-panel-delivers-interim-report.html
A panel reviewing U.S. surveillance
practices amid an uproar among allies over American spying has
delivered an interim report to the White House, a spokeswoman
for President  Barack Obama ’s National Security Council said.  The review group “has orally provided their interim report
to the White House, with their final report due by Dec. 15,”
the spokeswoman, Caitlin Hayden said in an e-mail. The results
will be made public “in some way” once the finished review is
submitted, she said.  The panel includes Richard Clarke, a former U.S.
cybersecurity adviser; Michael Morell, a former deputy CIA
director; Geoffrey Stone, a  University of Chicago  law professor;
Cass Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor; and Peter Swire,
who served earlier on Obama’s National Economic Council.  Establishment of the Review Group on Intelligence and
Communications Technology was among the steps Obama announced at
an Aug. 9 White House news conference to quell growing public
and congressional criticism of programs that scour data on
communications by U.S. citizens to look for links to terrorist
activity.  Revelations from former government contractor Edward Snowden about the extent of data and communications swept up by
the National Security Agency since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks have complicated U.S. relations with allies,
particularly in Europe. Snowden remains in Russia on temporary
asylum.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  has said the
administration already has made some decisions on intelligence
gathering limits, while refusing to give specifics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  