-- Obamacare Security Tests Increase as Failings Scrutinized
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-11-13T19:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/obamacare-security-tests-increase-as-failings-scrutinized.html
Republican lawmakers criticized
potential security flaws in the U.S. health exchanges as Obama
administration officials said they have made protecting customer
privacy a top priority in their efforts to fix the website.  Identity theft, misrouted data and unencrypted information
were among the concerns about the health-insurance marketplace
leading up to its Oct. 1. debut. At a House hearing today,
Republicans sparred with Democrats over whether the questioning
of the main technology officials for the exchanges was designed
to solve problems or embarrass the Obama administration.  Henry Chao, the deputy chief information officer for the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, told the committee
there were “unanticipated technical problems.” Still, he
recommended to his boss that she should let the exchange open
without a full security test, a Sept. 27 memo shows. The
decision to do so by CMS Administrator  Marilyn Tavenner ,
combined with other flaws in the website, was fateful.  “This wasn’t a small mistake, this wasn’t a scaling
mistake, this was a monumental mistake to go live and
effectively explode on the launchpad,” said Representative
Darrell Issa, the California Republican who is chairman of the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “Efforts were
taken to cut corners to meet political deadlines at the end.”  Testing Waiver  Tavenner’s decision to temporarily waive completion of the
full security tests allowed the Obama administration to open the
website to the public as promised on Oct. 1, a core part of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. While
errors, outages and flaws continue to prevent some people from
using the exchange, Tavenner told senators at a Nov. 5 hearing
that the website is secure and “testing never ends.”  The Obama administration plans to release today a
comprehensive report on first-month enrollment, which it has
said would probably be lower than anticipated because of the
software problems that prevented many potential customers from
accessing the website.  U.S. Chief Technology Officer Todd Park unexpectedly
appeared at the today’s House hearing and said progress is being
made on fixing the exchanges.  “Since the beginning of October, I have shifted into
working full-time on the team that is working around the clock
to fix healthcare.gov and bring it to the place it should be,”
Park said at the hearing.  The White House had said Park wouldn’t attend the hearing
because it would take him away from the repair effort.  Security Standards  While Democrats said contractors failed to fully deliver on
the website, they criticized Issa’s hearing, saying his effort
at oversight is a veiled tactic to scare Americans from using
the health exchanges.  “For the past three years, the No. 1 priority for
congressional Republicans has been to bring down this law,”
said Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the committee.  The parts of the federal website, healthcare.gov, that are
operational comply with information-security laws and parameters
from the National Institutes of Standards and Technology, said
Patti Unruh, a spokeswoman for the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services.  “When consumers fill out their online marketplace
applications, they can trust that the information that they are
providing is protected by stringent security standards,” she
said in an e-mail. “Security testing happens on an ongoing
basis using industry best practices to appropriately safeguard
consumers’ personal information.”  Identity Thieves  Insurance markets for 36 states where people can shop for
private health plans with the help of government subsidies, are
being run by the federal government, while 14 states have
created their own sites. The government’s computer networks
collect personal information such as family size and Social
Security numbers, as well as financial records and other data
from seven federal agencies to determine what health plans
people can buy and whether they’ll receive tax credits.  For identity thieves, “this is the opportunity you’ve been
waiting a lifetime for: a brand-new reason for people to put in
personal information who otherwise wouldn’t have done it
before,” Stephen Parente, a University of  Minnesota  health
economist who consulted on Republican Senator John McCain’s
presidential campaign, said in a phone interview prior to the
hearing.  Kathleen Sebelius, the U.S. health secretary, told senators
last week in a hearing that little of the information is stored
by the government’s website, and insurers receive only enough to
know who their customers are and how much they owe.  275,000 E-Mails  Tavenner’s agency has been making hundreds of fixes to
healthcare.gov and conducting weekly and monthly security tests.  Initial reports show that fewer than 100,000 people have
signed up for health plans using the exchanges, largely because
of the software errors. The Obama administration has since
shaken up management of the U.S. website and promised to get the
exchange fully functioning by the end of this month.  About 275,000 people who tried and failed to sign up for
health plans when the website debuted are being asked by the
U.S. government to return and try again as the flaws are
corrected.  People are being contacted this week in a “series of e-mails in waves” to avoid too many getting on the website at the
same time, Julie Bataille, a CMS spokeswoman told reporters
yesterday on a conference call. Additional people who weren’t
able to complete applications will be solicited later.  Four Teams  The repair effort for the website is divided into four
teams of workers including one focused on security issues and
“continuing to ensure rigorous protection of the system and its
data,” Jeffrey Zients said on a Nov. 1 conference call,
President  Barack Obama  asked Zients, a management consultant
slated to become his director of the National Economic Council
beginning in January, to help fix the website.  The entire website project is budgeted to cost $630
million, Bataille said on a Nov. 1 conference call.  Representative John Duncan, a Republican from  Tennessee ,
asked the administration officials at the hearing today if any
of them could say what repairs to healthcare.gov would cost. All
of the men remained silent.  David Powner, a director of information technology
management at the Government Accountability Office, said that by
the end of September there had been “north of $600 million
spent” on the project. He told Duncan the cost of repairs is
“a key question.”  Managing Risks  A transcript of a Nov. 1 meeting between Issa’s Oversight
Committee and Chao, the information officer, reveals the
website’s builders were primarily concerned about “unauthorized
access” to customer data because security testing hadn’t been
fully conducted. Chao said the government was willing to accept
a “level of an increased risk” in order to make sure the site
was running by Oct. 1.  Chao and another CMS official, James Kerr, the acting
deputy director of operations at the Center for Consumer
Information and Insurance Oversight, recommended Tavenner sign
off on opening the website even though a major security test
required for all federal computer systems “was only partly
completed,” according to the Sept. 27 memo. A full testing
would be completed by January, according to the memo.  “They had risks they knew they couldn’t manage, and they
chose to go down the path of accepting those risks,” said Mark Forman, a consultant who was the U.S. chief information officer
under former President George W. Bush. “That’s a no-no.”  Green Light  Tavenner’s signing of the “Authority to Operate” memo
effectively became the green light for the website to go live
as-is on Oct. 1. Sebelius told senators last week that she “did
not know that the memo existed in September.” And a spokesman
for the president’s Office of Management and Budget, Steven Posner, said agencies aren’t required to seek the White House’s
approval for such information-technology matters.  Agencies are responsible for implementing their security
programs by assessing risk and then putting in place measures to
mitigate that risk, based on their unique circumstances, he said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  