-- OGX Ouster Bolsters Ibovespa Benchmark Status: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-11-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/ogx-ouster-bolsters-ibovespa-benchmark-status-corporate-brazil.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA’s removal from the Ibovespa stock gauge is damping volatility
and bolstering the index’s status as Brazil’s equity benchmark.  The Ibovespa’s 30-day historical  volatility , which peaked
in July at 30.4, has dropped to a five-month low of 17.8 since
the gauge’s operators expelled  Eike Batista ’s oil producer
following its Oct. 30 bankruptcy filing, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The exclusion capped a 16-month, 98
percent drop that pushed the shares to as low as 13 centavos (6
cents) and erased 19.7 billion reais in market value.  While the plunge made OGX the Ibovespa’s smallest member by
market capitalization, it affected the gauge’s direction
disproportionately because of the index’s reliance on trading
volume to determine the relative importance of individual
stocks. As OGX posted the most extreme price swings among  Latin
America ’s 321 biggest companies, index operator BM&FBovespa SA
announced planned changes to how it determines stock weightings
that put more emphasis on the value of publicly traded shares,
similar to the method used by MSCI Inc.’s  Brazil  equity gauge.  “OGX became quite a big component of the benchmark, and
this year it has hurt the credibility of the Ibovespa,” said
Nicholas Cowley, who helps oversee about $100 billion as an
investment manager at Henderson Global Investors Ltd. in  London .
“They recognized that this methodology is not necessarily the
right one. I think that will restore people’s faith.”  The new rules also would bar stocks that trade for less
than 1 real. OGX was the only Ibovespa  member  below that level
when the exchange operator disclosed the changes in September.  Influence  OGX had the biggest impact on the Ibovespa’s direction in
16 of October’s 23 trading sessions. The 97 percent drop in the
shares in 2013 before they were removed accounted for about
four-fifths of the index’s 10 percent decline during the period.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company’s press office declined to
comment on the price or volatility of its shares. OGX is looking
for ways to overcome its “momentary difficulties,” Sergio
Bermudes, a lawyer for Batista, said by phone on Oct. 30.  The Ibovespa’s OGX-fueled volatility discouraged investors
from benchmarking their portfolios against the index because it
didn’t accurately reflect the performance of Brazilian stocks,
according to  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
Instead, investors were looking to the MSCI Brazil 25-50 index
and other gauges of the country’s equity market, he said.  “A lot of people were avoiding the Ibovespa because of
OGX,” Pierry said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The stock leaving
the index will have a positive impact on trading volumes.”  Disappearing Fortune  “The image of the exchange wasn’t damaged by OGX,”
BM&FBovespa’s Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto told
reporters on Nov. 11.  BM&FBovespa declined to comment further.  Batista, who began listing six commodity-related startups
in 2006, amassed a $34.5 billion fortune by March 2012. The 57-year-old tycoon lost his title as Brazil’s richest person in
November 2012 and dropped off the list of the world’s
billionaires in July as he sold assets and shrank operations.  The Ibovespa has dropped 15 percent this year, the third-worst performance among the 94 biggest benchmark indexes
globally.  Government Deficit  While OGX squelched Ibovespa returns this year, the stock
can’t be entirely blamed for the overall poor performance of
Brazilian equities, according to Rogerio Freitas, a partner at
hedge fund Teorica Investimentos in  Rio de Janeiro  who also
cited government fiscal policies as a drag on shares.  Brazil’s budget deficit swelled in September to 3.3 percent
of gross domestic product, the largest since 2009.  Standard &
Poor’s  began a 24-month review of Brazil’s BBB credit grade on
June 6.  OGX’s exit from the Ibovespa will help Brazil’s stock
market even if faltering growth and concern that the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce stimulus damp returns, according to Marc Sauerman, a portfolio manager at J. Malucelli Investimentos.  “With OGX leaving, you no longer have a 4 percent, 5
percent share of the index that’s purely speculative,” Sauerman
said in a telephone interview from Curitiba, Brazil. “You’re
showing that Brazil isn’t just for speculation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  