-- Oi Gains After Cost Drop Shows Bradesco That Turnaround Working
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-13T17:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/oi-gains-after-cost-drop-shows-bradesco-that-turnaround-working.html
Oi SA (OIBR4) , the second-worst performing
telecommunications service provider in Latin America this year,
rose after analysts at  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  said a drop in costs
shows that the company’s turnaround plan is starting to work.  The preferred shares  gained  2 percent to 3.60 reais at 3:28
p.m. in Sao Paulo, the best performance on the MSCI/Brazil
Telecom index, which fell 0.3 percent.  Oi, which replaced its chief executive officer in June and
last month announced a merger with Portugal Telecom SGPS SA,
said in a regulatory filing that costs fell 6 percent from the
second quarter to 4.96 billion reais ($2.13 billion) in the
three months through September. Expenses were 5.8 percent below
the estimates of Banco Bradesco’s brokerage unit, according to a
research note.  “Third-quarter results were slightly better than our
expectations and the previous quarter, indicating that the
company’s turnaround plan may already be producing results,”
Luis Azevedo and Tales Freire, analysts at the bank, wrote in
the note.  Oi cut expenses by trimming advertising costs and reducing
the amount it pays when clients call other carriers’ customers,
according to the filing.  Adjusted net income fell 49 percent in 2011 and 17 percent
in 2012, with analysts forecasting a 27 percent decrease this
year, according to the average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  After taking the CEO job in June, Oi’s Zeinal Bava said he
would reduce annual investments and focus on efficiency. Oi
invested 1.5 billion reais in the three months through
September, compared with 2 billion reais in the same period of
last year.  The company’s adjusted net income fell 45 percent from a
year earlier to 172.3 million reais in the third quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg after today’s earnings
report. That compares with an average estimate of 227.8 million
reais among four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Oi has fallen 57 percent in 2013, while the telecom index
dropped 24 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  