-- Olam Agrees to Sell Australian Almond Orchards for A$200 Million
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-11-13T10:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/olam-agrees-to-sell-australian-almond-orchards-for-a-200-million.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity supplier backed by  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte,
said it agreed to sell and lease-back its almond orchards in
 Australia  for A$200 million ($186 million) in cash.  Nearly 12,000 hectares (30,000 acres) of orchards will be
sold to Adveq Almond Trust, owned by a group of investors led by
Adveq Real Assets Harvested Resources LP, Singapore-based Olam
said today in a statement. Under the agreement, Olam will lease-back the orchard land, trees, and infrastructure for 18 years, a
deal which could be extended or renewed, it said.  Olam, which sells commodities from rice to cocoa, is
executing on its plan to cut spending and sell assets, as part
of a business review in April that followed allegations by
short-seller Muddy Waters LLC questioning its finances.
Executive Director Anantharaman Shekhar said in August that Olam
is focusing on generating cash flow and reducing the pace of its
investments.  “Though we will no longer own the land, trees or the
farming infrastructure, we continue to retain the production
economics of the entire almond harvest from these orchards,”
Shekhar said in the statement.  Olam said it expects to book a gain after tax of about A$45
million when the transaction is completed in the first quarter
of 2014. The company will continue to own water rights to the
land, and its almond processing plant, it said. The company is
due to report quarterly earnings tomorrow.  The company said in a Nov. 1 statement it sold its
Dirranbandi cotton gin in Queensland to Cubbie Ginnery Pty for
A$20 million, in line with a strategy to redeploy capital to
higher growth areas.  Earlier this year, the company sold its basmati rice mill
in  India  for $14.5 million. It also said in February it sold,
and leased back, almond orchards in  California , which boosted
second-quarter profit by S$18.1 million ($14.5 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  