-- Hon Hai Net Beats Estimates as New IPhones Boost Sales
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-11-14T15:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/hon-hai-profit-beats-estimates-as-new-iphones-boost-sales.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) ,
flagship of electronics maker Foxconn Technology Group, posted
profit that beat analyst estimates as it assembled new products
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and Sony Corp. game consoles.  Third-quarter  net income  climbed 1.6 percent to NT$30.8
billion ($1 billion), according to a filing by the Taipei-based
company to the  Taiwan Stock Exchange  yesterday. The  average  of
13 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of
NT$25.5 billion. Shares rose today in Taipei trading.  New devices including the latest iPhones and preparation
for the latest iPads helped revenue climb from the previous
quarter. That may not be enough to overcome sliding demand for
computers, and the company may miss its target for 15 percent
annual sales growth, according to  Kirk Yang  at Barclays Plc.  “Operating margins were helped by the introduction of new
products including the iPhone and Sony’s upcoming games
console,” said Gokul Hariharan, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  Hong Kong . Margins are usually higher at the start of a
product release and drop as clients push prices lower, he said.  Third-quarter sales were NT$919 billion, the company
reported Oct. 9, missing the NT$959.5 billion average of analyst
estimates at the time. Operating profit rose to NT$31.8 billion
during the period, it said yesterday, compared with estimates
for NT$29.4 billion.  Hon Hai shares rose 1.3 percent to close at NT$75.40 in
Taipei trading. The stock has declined 6.7 percent this year,
compared with a 5.7 percent gain in the benchmark Taiex index.  Engineering Revenue  Hon Hai’s third-quarter profit was probably boosted by so-called non-recurring engineering revenue, which is paid by
clients after the supplier completes research and development on
a new product, Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Financial
Holding Co. in Taipei, said by telephone.  Pretax income of NT$35.8 billion beat the NT$31.8 billion
average of analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, indicating that non-operating items exceeded
expectations. Non-operating profit wasn’t published in
yesterday’s earnings report, and the company didn’t provide an
explanation.  While net income beat estimates, growth was the  slowest  in
five quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
for January to October fell 3.2 percent to NT$3 trillion, Hon
Hai said in an e-mailed statement on Nov. 8.  “We continue to suggest investors switch out of Hon Hai on
any strength, as this might be the last good news of the year,”
Barclays analyst Yang wrote in a note today. “Our concern
remains Hon Hai’s long-term growth prospects.”  Largest Client  Foxconn’s billionaire chairman Terry Gou has a long-term
goal of 15 percent annual sales growth and on Oct. 31 said
earnings-per-share this year will be at least as good as 2012.
Gou has a net worth of $5.1 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index.  Apple, Hon Hai’s  largest client , on Oct. 28 forecast gross
margin for the quarter ending Dec. 31 that missed analyst
estimates because of higher costs for introducing the new iPhone
and iPad. Hon Hai’s margins usually move in an inverse direction
to those of Apple, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In addition to contract manufacturing, Gou is leading his
group to invest in software, games and telecommunications as
part of plans to broaden Foxconn’s revenue base. Last month,
Foxconn secured mobile-phone spectrum in  Taiwan .  Ambit Microsystems Corp., a wholly owned unit of Hon Hai,
agreed to pay NT$9.18 billion for 20-megahertz of wireless
bandwidth at an auction, marking Gou’s first foray into the
telecommunications business since he founded the company 39
years ago. Foxconn plans to bid for licenses elsewhere in  Asia ,
including  Indonesia , spokesman Simon Hsing said last month.  Hon Hai yesterday said it will invest a further NT$6
billion into Ambit, will set up an online education company in
 China  for $14.9 million (NT$441 million) and spend $41 million
to establish a touch-panel module business there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  