-- Honeywell Pushes Asbestos Bill Opposed by Trial Lawyers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-11-13T22:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/honeywell-pushes-asbestos-bill-opposed-by-trial-lawyers.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , whose
political action committee donates more money than any other
corporate PAC, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which spends
more to lobby Congress than anyone else, saw long-sought
legislation on asbestos claims advance in Congress today.  The legislation, H.R. 982, would impose new disclosure
requirements on trusts set up to pay victims of asbestos-related
illnesses. The House passed the bill 221-199.  Proponents say the new reports will cut down on fraud by
allowing companies such as Honeywell to easily discover if a
person suing them also collected damages from a trust for the
same illness; opponents argue that the goal is to let companies
delay payments to those dying of mesothelioma and other cancers.  Among the voices in the debate are two titans in the
political-giving world: the  trial lawyers , a major source of
funding for Democratic candidates, and  Koch Industries  Inc., the
privately held company owned by billionaire brothers who support
Tea Party-related political causes.  Wichita, Kansas-based Koch Industries Inc. has a
subsidiary, Georgia-Pacific LLC, that has paid out millions of
dollars in asbestos claims and faces other lawsuits, according
to Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  A spokesman for Koch Industries, Rob Tappan, declined to
comment on the legislation.  When Honeywell and AlliedSignal merged in 1999, the
combined company inherited Allied’s liability to lawsuits since
it had made products with asbestos, especially brakes by the
Bendix Corp.  Promoting Transparency  The company has paid out $503 million in asbestos-related
claims from 2010 to 2012, according to its Securities and
Exchange Commission  filings .  Honeywell’s view of the House legislation is that it
“promotes fairness and transparency in the tort system, while
continuing to protect the privacy of plaintiffs,” Rob Ferris, a
spokesman for  Morris Township , New Jersey-based company, said in
a statement.  “It gives Congress the opportunity to ensure that asbestos
bankruptcy trust assets are preserved for the benefit of actual
asbestos victims,” Ferris said. “Our political action
committee supports those who support the policies that are most
important to our business and that are good for the economic
growth of the country.”  Honeywell’s PAC gave out more campaign money than any other
corporate committee in both 2010 and 2012, and was No. 1 again
this year, contributing $1.5 million from Jan. 1 to June 30,
according to Federal Election Commission data.  Double Dipping  The bill, introduced by Texas Republican Blake Farenthold,
would require the 60 trusts set up to handle asbestos lawsuits
against bankrupt companies to file quarterly reports detailing
who they’ve paid claims to and why.  The reports would be public information and provide fodder
to the lawyers handling cases against companies that haven’t
filed for bankruptcy.  Bill supporters said that some lawyers collect payments
from trusts, and then sue another corporation on behalf of the
same victims without disclosing the earlier settlement.  “Those people who have valid claims are going to receive
compensation the same way they do now,” said Lisa Rickard,
president of the Chamber of Commerce’s Institute for Legal
Reform. “What the plaintiffs’ lawyers are doing is running
claims on behalf of claimants through trusts and then in court
against solvent employers.”  The  National Association of Manufacturers  told lawmakers it
will count the bill as one of the “key votes” on which the
group will judge lawmakers this year.  Advocacy Spending  The Chamber of Commerce was running ads on the asbestos
bill today in print publications that target Congress, and its
chief lobbyist,  Bruce Josten , sent a letter yesterday to
lawmakers saying that the Chamber would consider counting their
vote on the bill on its congressional scorecard.  The chamber is a giant in the lobbying world. Including its
legal reform institute and other affiliates, the Chamber spent
$52 million on lobbying during the first nine months of 2013,
more than anyone else, according to the according to the Center
for Responsive Politics.  “The bill’s mandatory reporting and disclosure
requirements would threaten asbestos victims’ privacy when they
seek payment for injuries from an asbestos bankruptcy trust,”
the White House said in a  statement of administration policy 
opposing the bill.  “We don’t think asbestos victims should have to go through
those steps,” said Julia Duncan, director of federal programs
for the  American Association  for Justice, the Washington-based
trade group for trial lawyers. “This is part of a decades-long
campaign to do whatever it can to deny accountability to the
victims that they poisoned.”  Other opponents of the bill include a coalition of consumer
groups and relatives of those injured by exposure to asbestos,
including Susan Vento, widow of former Minnesota Democratic
Representative Bruce Vento, who died in 2000 from cancer caused
by exposure to asbestos.  When the bill went through the House Judiciary Committee,
it advanced with no votes from Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  