-- Hong Kong Stocks Decline on China Plenum, Tapering Bets
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-11-13T01:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/hong-kong-stocks-decline-on-china-plenum-tapering-bets.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, with the
city’s benchmark index falling to near a 10-week low, after
 China ’s leaders failed to give details about a policy shift
after a summit to discuss reform and amid bets the Federal
Reserve will cut stimulus sooner than expected.  The Hang Seng Index dropped 1.1 percent to 22,645.14 as of
9:33 a.m. in Hong Kong, headed for the lowest since Sept. 5. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index lost 1.6 percent to 10,395.00.
Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said in Melbourne yesterday
that monetary accommodation “becomes riskier by the day.”  “Everyone is suffering from scant detail on China, which
makes it difficult to draw any conclusion,” said Donald Williams, Sydney-based chief investment officer at Platypus
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $1.5 billion.
“Tapering is obviously back on the agenda as data in the U.S.
continues to be strong.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has advanced 16 percent from this
year’s low on June 24 through yesterday amid signs China’s
economy is stabilizing. Hong Kong’s benchmark index  traded  at
10.94 times estimated earnings yesterday, compared with about 16
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yesterday.  China Plenum  China elevated the role of markets in the nation’s economic
strategy after President Xi Jinping oversaw a gathering of
Communist Party leaders while stopping short of providing
details and making scant mention of financial reforms. The
document from the meeting of the party’s 18th Central Committee
didn’t discuss specific issues such as regional borrowing,
interest rates or the one-child policy, while referring
generally to giving farmers more property rights.  Futures on the S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent today. The gauge
yesterday slid 0.2 percent as earnings and an improving economy
fueled speculation stimulus will be reduced next month. The Fed
may start tapering in March, with analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
on Nov. 8 expecting monthly bond purchases to fall to $70
billion from $85 billion.  Investors will scrutinize reports this week on U.S.
jobless claims and manufacturing in the  New York  area. Data last
week showed the economy grew faster than forecast in the third
quarter and hiring rose more than estimated in October.
The HSI Volatility Index, which measures the cost of options on
the Hong Kong equity gauge, rose 0.4 percent to 16.21, gaining a
eighth day, the longest such streak since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  