-- Toronto Mayor Allegedly Had Prostitutes in His Office
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-11-14T15:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/toronto-mayor-ford-admits-buying-drugs-while-in-office.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford, who admits
smoking  crack cocaine , faced new allegations in police documents
released yesterday that he brought prostitutes to his office,
guzzled vodka in his car and made a racial slur to a taxi
driver.  The allegations, part of documents released by an Ontario
court, were made in interviews by police with former Ford staff
members. None of the allegations have been proven in court and
police have said there isn’t enough evidence to warrant charges
against the mayor.  Ford responded today saying he would take legal action
against three of his former staffers and a waiter who told
police he thought Ford was using cocaine at his Bier Markt
restaurant. Ford said one of the women named in the report who
came back to his office after a St. Patrick’s Day party last
year wasn’t a prostitute.  “She’s a friend, and it makes me sick how people are
saying this,” Ford told reporters outside his  city hall  office.
“I’ve never had a prostitute here.”  He also denied making sexual comments to a former staffer
on the night of St. Patrick’s Day. “I would never do that, I’m
happily married,” he said. “I’ve had enough.”  The documents were released the same day that Ford said for
the first time he had bought illegal drugs within the past two
years. Ford made the statement amid questioning at a city hall
meeting in which a majority of city councilors passed a non-binding motion asking him to take a leave of absence to address
his “personal issues.” Ford has refused to resign.  Office Visitors  According to the police documents released yesterday, women
who may have been prostitutes were in Ford’s office on St.
Patrick’s Day, according to two former staff members.  On the same night, Ford called a  taxi driver  a “Paki,”
and made “mocking fake language sounds,” one of the staff
members said, according to the documents. Later, Ford made
sexual comments to a woman, who now works for Toronto Hydro and
used to be an adviser, and claimed to have slept with her.  In another incident last year, a former staff member told
police that Ford pulled over his car, drank an 11- or 12-ounce
bottle of vodka in two minutes and then drove away. Another
staffer told police she bought Ford a bottle of vodka that size
twice a week. Iceberg was his preferred brand, according to the
documents.  “Drinking and driving is completely unacceptable,”
Councilor Denzil Minnan-Wong said today. “This mayor needs to
resign.”  Drinking Problems  In an interview with police, Mark Towhey, Ford’s former
chief of staff, said he believed the mayor was an alcoholic and
that he had consumed alcohol while at city hall, though he’d
never seen him drink himself, according to the police documents.  Towhey was fired after recommending the mayor seek
treatment, according to the documents.  Federal prosecutor Tom Andreopoulos sent the 500-page
document to media yesterday in an e-mail.  Before the latest allegations were released, 30 members of
the  44-person council  in  Canada ’s largest city presented a
letter asking the mayor to step aside as Toronto’s reputation
has been “damaged” and it has become difficult to focus on
city business.  Council has become “increasingly concerned by the
seemingly endless cycle of allegations, denials and belated
admissions about your behavior,” the letter said.  The non-binding motion, backed by Councilor Minnan-Wong,
comes as Ford, 44, vowed to remain in office after saying last
week he smoked crack likely in one of his “drunken stupors.”
Ford, who has been mayor since 2010, admitted to using the drug
after Toronto police said on Oct. 29 they had found a video
showing him inhaling from a glass crack pipe.  Not Addicted  The Toronto Star and U.S. website Gawker first reported
they had seen the video six months ago. Ford had subsequently
questioned its existence and denied he was a crack addict.  The mayor’s statement that he bought drugs in the past two
years has been passed onto police investigators, Constable
Victor Kwong, a spokesman for Toronto Police Service, said
yesterday by phone. He declined to say whether police have made
any decisions in light of the new information.  While Ford said he was “humiliated” by his recent
actions, he again refused yesterday to step aside and said he
would run in municipal elections next year.  “There is no need for me to take a leave of absence,”
Ford said in city council. He said he used drugs “out of sheer
stupidity” and had been “inebriated” a number of times.  “Apologizing and saying sorry, you can only say that so
many times,” Ford said later. “There’s nothing else to say
guys, I really effed up.”  Lily White  Councilor Doug Ford jumped to his brother’s defense during
deliberations in the morning.  “Councilor Minnan-Wong, everyone in this chamber is coming
across as holier-than-thou, lily-white,” Doug Ford said. “None
of you have ever done anything wrong, have you? Never, never.
The question is, have you ever smoked marijuana?”  Doug Ford continued loudly demanding an answer from Minnan-Wong about his drug use until his microphone was switched off
and Nunziata called a recess.  Symbolic Motion  The motion is symbolic because there’s nothing city council
can do to force a sitting mayor from office, according to
municipal rules.  A mayor can only be thrown out of office under the
municipal act if he’s tried, convicted and sentenced for a
crime, Clayton Ruby, a partner at Toronto-based law firm Ruby
Shiller Chan Hasan Barristers, said last week.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, said
yesterday it will protect its Ford script and oval logo from use
by the mayor’s supporters.  At an event on Nov. 12, Ford signed shirts emblazoned with
“Ford Nation” incorporating the automaker’s logo at a United
Way charity event, the National Post newspaper reported.  “Ford did not grant permission for use of its logo,” Jay Cooney, a company spokesman, said yesterday by telephone. “We
view it as an unauthorized use of our trademark and have asked
it to be stopped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  