-- Toronto Councilors Petition Mayor Ford to Step Aside
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   T h o r p e
-- 2013-11-13T18:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/toronto-councilors-petition-mayor-to-step-aside-after-crack-use.html
A majority of Toronto city
councilors asked Mayor Rob Ford to take a leave of absence and
address his “challenges” after he admitted to smoking crack
cocaine, being drunk in public and buying illegal drugs.  “Toronto is distracted and for good reason,” the
councilors said in a letter presented today at a city hall
meeting, which was broadcast on television networks including
 CNN . “Our city’s reputation has been damaged and continues to
suffer and it has become difficult to focus on the pressing and
substantive issues facing city council.”  Thirty members of the  44-person council  in  Canada ’s largest
city have become “increasingly concerned by the seemingly
endless cycle of allegations, denials and belated admissions
about your behavior,” the letter said.  The non-binding motion comes as Ford, 44, vowed to remain
in office after saying last week he used crack cocaine likely in
one of his “drunken stupors.” During questioning amid shouts,
catcalls and laughter at city hall today, Ford said he has
purchased illegal drugs in the past two years and may have
broken the city’s code of conduct.  Ford admitted to using crack last week after Toronto police
said on Oct. 29 they had found a video showing the mayor
inhaling from a glass crack pipe. The Toronto Star and U.S.
website Gawker first reported they had seen the video five
months ago. Ford had subsequently questioned its existence and
denied he was a crack addict.  ‘Sheer Stupidity’  While Ford said he felt “humiliated” by his actions, he
again refused today to step aside and said he would run in the
city election next year.  “There is no need for me to take a leave of absence,”
Ford said in city council. He said he used drugs “out of sheer
stupidity” and had been “inebriated” a number of times.  The councilors’ motion appears to have the support of many
Torontonians. An Ipsos Reid poll for CTV, CP24, CFRB and
Newstalk 1010 found that 76 percent of  respondents  think that
the mayor should resign or take a break for treatment.  The motion is symbolic because there’s nothing city council
can do force a sitting mayor from office, according to municipal
rules.  A mayor can only be thrown out of office under the
municipal act if he’s tried, convicted and sentenced for a
crime, Clayton Ruby, a partner at Toronto-based law firm Ruby
Shiller Chan Hasan Barristers, said last week.  Organizers of the Santa Claus parade in Toronto said today
they don’t want the mayor to participate in the annual event
scheduled for Nov. 17.  “Upstaging Santa is not a good thing,” Rob Barbaro, co-chairman of Toronto Santa Claus Parade, said in an interview on
CP24 television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  