-- Motorola Unveils Lower-Priced Moto G Amid Sluggish Sales
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-11-13T14:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/motorola-unveils-lower-priced-moto-g-amid-sluggish-sales.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
unveiled a lower-cost smartphone, seeking to jump-start sales by
targeting consumers who can’t afford higher-end devices from
bigger rivals.  The  Moto G  will cost $179 in the U.S. without a wireless
contract, compared with more than $600 for some other premium
devices, the company said. The phone will be sold in more than
30 countries and aims to pack enough power, screen resolution
and features to make it a real alternative at an affordable
price, said Motorola Chief Executive Officer Dennis Woodside.  “When we looked at the smartphone market, we actually
think the industry has really failed 5 billion people,”
Woodside said in an interview. “With Moto G, you’re going to
have consumers who have not had a smartphone before.”  Motorola is seeking to win back market share lost as buyers
opted for sleek, heavily marketed handsets from Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co. Motorola’s third-quarter revenue fell 34
percent, even as the company began selling Moto X, the first
smartphone introduced since its  acquisition  by Google last year.
It accounted for just 1.7 percent of global smartphone shipments
in that period, according to  Strategy Analytics .  The mobile-phone industry is projected to expand 5.2
percent in 2014 after 3.7 percent growth in 2013, according to
researcher Gartner Inc. The increase is being driven by middle-market and lower-priced smartphones based on Google’s Android
operating system, Gartner said.  “The opportunity for high-average-selling-price”
smartphones is ending, Gartner  said  in a report last month.
“Growth is expected to come from mid-tier smartphones in mature
markets and low-end Android smartphones in emerging markets.”  More Countries  Motorola has broadened the geographic rollout for Moto G
after selling the Moto X in less than 10 markets at its
introduction in August. The new device goes on sale in  Brazil 
and parts of  Europe  today, and will become available over the
coming weeks and months in other countries, including the U.S.
in early January.  The new device sports a 4.5-inch high-resolution screen,
slightly smaller than some of its higher-end rivals. It runs on
a  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  chip that is less powerful, yet can still run
multiple applications at the same time, Woodside said. The Moto
G comes with 8 gigabytes of memory included, or 16 gigabytes at
a higher cost. Pricier smartphones typically start at 16
gigabytes.  The company’s Moto X is now offered broadly for about $100
with a two-year contract, about half earlier prices, and starts
at around $450 without a contract. Unlike the X, The Moto G
doesn’t feature long-term evolution wireless technology, which
provides the fastest network speeds.  Jelly Bean  Moto G also is more limited in its choices for colors and
cases than Moto X, saving on manufacturing costs, said Woodside,
who is in Brazil today to unveil the phone.  The new device initially will run on Jelly Bean, an older
version of Android. It will be upgraded soon to KitKat, the
newest iteration of Google’s software, designed for low-power
smartphones that are popular in  emerging markets .  On top of boosting sales in developing regions, the Moto G
may help stoke demand in established markets among more budget-conscious consumers, such as college students, Woodside said.  There’s “a huge opportunity for creating that high-quality, high-value product,” Woodside said. “This is a global
phone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ; 