-- Pakistan Raises Key Rate a Second Meeting to Fight Inflation
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-11-13T13:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/pakistan-raises-key-rate-a-second-meeting-to-fight-inflation.html
Pakistan ’s central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  for the second straight meeting, seeking
to fight inflation and keep a struggling economy on track for
help under an International Monetary Fund loan program.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan boosted the  discount rate  to 10
percent from 9.5 percent, spokesman Umar Siddique said in
Karachi today. Twelve of 16 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the decision, with the rest expecting an increase to
10.5 percent.  Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s government has changed energy
policies to tackle power shortages and plans to raise as much as
$1 billion in a  bond issue  abroad to bolster depleted foreign-exchange reserves. The IMF approved a $6.6 billion loan for the
South Asian nation in September to help stabilize the economy,
which has also been set back by a Taliban insurgency.  “Officials needed to raise rates to bring down price
pressures and support the currency as they try to rebuild
reserves,” Yawar Uz Zaman, senior analyst at Alternate Research
Pvt. Ltd. in Karachi, said before the decision.  Pakistan’s rupee has depreciated about 10 percent against
the dollar this year, hurt by the nation’s economic woes, and
traded at 107.445 per dollar as of 5:56 p.m. local time.  A weaker currency has stoked inflation, with  consumer
prices  climbing more than 9 percent in October from a year
earlier, the second-fastest pace in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The IMF released about $544 million of its loan on Sept. 6
and signaled last week that Pakistan is making progress in
overhauling the economy under the program. The lender predicted
2.75 percent economic growth for the fiscal year ending June 30.  The IMF  said  after sending a mission to Pakistan that it’s
“crucial that firm action be taken to begin to rebuild foreign-exchange reserves,” adding officials “reaffirmed their
commitment to align monetary and exchange rate policies to this
objective, while maintaining  price stability .”  Pakistan’s total liquid foreign reserves stood at $9.5
billion on Nov. 1, compared with about $13.8 billion a year
earlier, according to central bank data. The nation increased
rates in September for the first time in almost three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  