-- Palestinian Negotiators Quit Over Settlement Plans: Abbas
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-11-13T20:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/palestinian-negotiators-quit-over-settlement-plans-abbas.html
Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
said the team he appointed barely three months ago to negotiate
a peace agreement has quit to protest Israeli plans to build new
homes in Jewish settlements.  Abbas pledged to appoint a new team if the two aides refuse
to reverse their decision, Abbas said in an interview with
 Egypt ’s CBC television broadcast today. It’s the second time
that negotiators Saeb Erekat and Mohammed Shtayyeh have resigned
-- they previously said on Oct. 31 that they would leave their
posts, though they later returned at the president’s request.  “Either we can convince them to come back, and we’re
trying with them, or we form a new delegation,” Abbas said on
television. Speaking to Voice of Palestine Radio today, he said
the talks, initiated by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  at
the end of July, have not achieved any progress so far.  Israel’s Housing Ministry published plans yesterday to
build about 24,000 apartment units in settlements across the
 West Bank  and east  Jerusalem , territories captured from Jordan
in the 1967 Six Day War. The plans were immediately condemned by
the U.S. and by Palestinian negotiators, prompting Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to issue a statement saying the
building program was only conceptual and effectively
“meaningless.”  Intelligence Minister Yuval Steinitz also disputed Kerry’s
suggestion that Netanyahu wasn’t serious about the negotiations
because he continues to antagonize the Palestinians with new
settlement construction.  ‘Extremely Serious’  “We are extremely serious, more serious than anyone
else,” Steinitz said at a press conference in Jerusalem. “We
are eager to make peace, but we have very serious security
concerns.”  He cited the fatal stabbing of an Israeli soldier by a
Palestinian today on a bus in the Israeli city of Afula as
evidence that Netanyahu has reason to insist on security
guarantees.  Nabil Shaath , an aide to Abbas and chief of previous
negotiating teams, said the Palestinian leadership is paying a
price domestically for agreeing to resume negotiations even
though Netanyahu refused to freeze construction.  “People are sick and tired,” Shaath said in a telephone
interview. “They are facing questions from their audience every
day, ‘Why the hell are you negotiating with people who are using
every minute of the negotiating time to destroy everything on
the ground?’”  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said
it’s up to Abbas to decide the makeup of the Palestinian
negotiating team, and that it’s a “good sign” that the
Palestinian leader “went out and reaffirmed his commitment” to
the talks.  “Our focus remains on the end goal, which is that the
negotiations continue,” she told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  