-- Paradise Demolished Drains Vital Tourist Dollars: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-11-14T02:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/paradise-demolished-drains-vital-tourist-dollars-southeast-asia.html
The  Philippines , ravaged by the
deadly Super Typhoon Haiyan and a 7.2-magnitude earthquake in
the past month, needs to race to rebuild beach resorts and
infrastructure to bring back much-needed tourism spending.  At least 2,357 people were killed and hundreds of thousands
displaced after the Southeast Asian nation was hit by one of the
most powerful storms on record Nov. 8. An earthquake on Oct. 15
killed at least 222 in Bohol and Cebu. Both hit in an area
dotted with resorts that depends on revenue from divers and
beachgoers.  The devastation caused as Haiyan swept across the center of
the country adds another test for a nation that has increased
efforts to catch up with neighbors in attracting visitors.
Tourism is the country’s fourth-biggest dollar earner, after
exports, overseas remittances and outsourcing. President Benigno Aquino is counting on a record 5 million overseas tourists this
year to provide jobs and boost rural economies.  “Tourism growth will continue but probably at a slower
pace because Bohol and Cebu provinces are two major tourism
spots that were affected,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at
Bank of the Philippine Islands in  Manila . “Tourism’s
contribution to the economy is slowly rising, and visitors are
growing much faster because of the promotional efforts.”  The typhoon destroyed resorts in Cebu’s northern islands,
while the temblor a month ago damaged centuries-old churches and
led to cancellations by Korean and Chinese tourists.  Economic Contribution  The industry’s share of gross domestic product is expected
to rise to 7.8 percent by 2015 from 6.7 percent now as
integration in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations pushes
tourism growth, according to Tourism Secretary Ramon Jimenez.
The government expects revenue from international visitors to
rise to $4.8 billion this year from $3.8 billion in 2012,
Tourism Undersecretary Daniel Corpuz said on Oct. 17.  Foreign arrivals in the seven months to July rose 11
percent from a year earlier to 2.8 million, and the government
is on track to achieve the 5 million mark for the year, it said
on Sept. 17.  The government doesn’t have an estimate yet of Haiyan’s
tourism impact, Jimenez said in a mobile-phone message
yesterday.  “The disruptions are temporary and soon enough they will
realize that the great number of tourism sites, dive spots
included, in the over 7,107 islands of the Philippines remain
available and ready for visitors,” Jimenez said.  No Electricity  The island resort of Boracay in the Visayas, while escaping
the widespread destruction Haiyan brought to some other areas,
lost more than 4,000 visitors after about 40 incoming flights
were canceled on Nov. 8 and 9, field officer-in charge Artemio
Ticar said by telephone. Boracay has attracted 1.1 million
foreign and local visitors in the 10 months to October, and the
target is 1.5 million people for the year, he said.  Coron town in Palawan province will probably miss its goal
of as many as 80,000 foreign and local visitors this year after
being hit by the super typhoon, Palawan Governor Jose Alvarez
said by phone. There’s still no electricity in the town, where
at least eight people died, he said. The province declared a
state of calamity covering 14 towns, according to a government
report yesterday.  More than 50 beach and dive resorts in Cebu province’s
northern islands of Bantayan, Camotes and Malapascua were
destroyed by Haiyan, Rowena Montecillo, the tourism regional
director, said by phone. “The storm destruction has affected so
many families and tourism businesses,” Montecillo said.  Discover World Corp.’s Club Paradise in Coron and Discovery
Shores Boracay were damaged, according to an exchange filing.  Double-Whammy  “Tourism is a double-whammy for Cebu province because it’s
connected to nearby Bohol province,” Lito Maderazo, president
of the Cebu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said by phone.  Central Visayas is seeking to attract 3 million foreign and
local visitors this year, with a quarter of them bound for Cebu,
Montecillo said. Arrivals in the province reached 1.4 million in
the seven months to July, with tourists spending 5.3 billion
pesos ($121 million), she said.  The Philippines ranked 82nd in  tourism competitiveness  out
of 140 countries, according to the  World Economic Forum ’s Travel
and Tourism Competitiveness Report for 2013, which looks at
gauges including infrastructure and business environment.
 Vietnam  ranked 80th,  Indonesia  was 70th,  Thailand  reached 43rd
and  Singapore  was 10th.  ‘Major Impact’  About 1,300 Koreans and 100 Chinese tourists scrapped their
Visayas tours after the earthquake, Tourism Undersecretary
Corpuz said last month. About 2.3 billion pesos of roads and
buildings including churches were damaged, according to a
 government report .  “The earthquake and super typhoon will definitely have a
major impact on our tourism industry,” Cebu Chamber’s Maderazo
said. “A number of tourists who go to Bohol use Cebu as their
gateway.”  The Philippines is the most at risk globally from natural
hazards, according to Maplecroft, a risk research company based
in Bath,  England . The Asian Development Bank estimates losses
from typhoons to earthquakes average $1.6 billion yearly, the
most in Southeast Asia.  The budget department proposed a 180.1 billion-peso budget
for its transport infrastructure program for next year, 64
percent higher than this year’s allocation, according to a
government presentation.  To help meet its target of attracting 6.8 million
international and 47.7 million domestic tourists by 2014, the
public works department will receive 14.5 billion pesos so it
can build and maintain 679 kilometers of access roads to tourist
destinations, the budget department said in July.  “The biggest irony is that while the Philippines is made
up of more than 7,100 islands, we have fewer seaports than
Cambodia,” Neri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  