-- Partnership Tumbles as Sales Forecast Disappoints
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-13T17:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/partnership-tumbles-as-sales-forecast-disappoints.html
Partnership Assurance Group Plc (PA/)  sank
21 percent, erasing 348 million pounds ($558 million) of market
value, after the U.K. insurer’s sales forecast fell short of
analysts’ expectations.  The  stock  lost 87.10 pence to 325 pence in London, it’s
biggest selloff since its initial public offering in June when
the shares were sold at 385 pence apiece. The annuity provider,
majority owned by private-equity firm Cinven Partners LLP, said
in August that its main market probably won’t meet its 2013
growth target.  Chief Executive Officer Steve Groves said in a statement
today the Surrey, England-based company doesn’t expect to see
growth in its year-on-year retirement sales in the fourth
quarter because of inflated sales in 2012 in the lead up to
rules that stop insurers calculating premiums based on gender.  “It seems that post the disappointing interim sales
figures, market expectations were not lowered enough,” said
 Barrie Cornes , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London with
a buy rating on the stock. “It would appear that the impact of
the Retail Distribution Review has been greater than the company
anticipated.”  Groves later told analysts on a conference call that
unchanged year-on-year sales growth would be at the “upper
end” of potential outcomes. He said the impact from RDR, which
came into effect this year and bans financial advisers from
taking commissions from fund managers, was a “temporary
disruption” rather than a permanent loss of capacity.  Partnership still reported a 3 percent increase in new
business sales to 300.3 million pounds in the three months to
Sept. 30 and said it remains on track to meet full-year
operating profit expectations.  Cinven owns about 52 percent of Partnership’s shares, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  