-- Pentagon Says It Won’t Buy More Disputed Russian Copters
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-13T23:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/pentagon-says-it-won-t-buy-more-disputed-russian-copters.html
The Pentagon won’t buy more Mi-17
helicopters from Rosoboronexport,  Russia ’s state-owned export
company, after completing a $572 million contract signed in
June, according to a Defense Department spokeswoman.  “The department has re-evaluated requirements in
consultation with Congress,” spokeswoman Maureen Schumann said
in an e-mailed statement. “We currently do not have plans to
purchase additional Mi-17s from Rosoboronexport beyond” the 86
already purchased for the  Afghanistan  military.  Pentagon officials have said Rosoboronexport was the only
source for the Russian-made Mi-17 that Afghanistan’s military
has flown since the 1980s. U.S. lawmakers raised objections
about the purchases because the company has supplied arms to
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  “I applaud the Defense Department’s decision to finally
cancel its plan to buy additional helicopters,” Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the Senate’s second-ranking Republican, said
today in a statement. “Doing business with the supplier of
these helicopters has been a morally bankrupt policy, and as a
nation, we should no longer be subsidizing Assad’s war crimes.”  The decision means that the Defense Department won’t
continue to seek $345 million that it had requested to buy 15
more of the helicopters, Schumann said. The Senate defense
appropriations panel rejected the request for the current fiscal
year.  The $572 million contract signed in June will provide
Afghanistan with 30 Mi-17s, she said.  A dozen senators in August called on the Defense Department
to “fully severe its business relationship” with
Rosoboronexport, including canceling the June contract.  Rosoboronexport, based in Moscow, accounted for 85 percent
of Russia’s arms exports as of 2010, according to
GlobalSecurity.org, a research group based in Alexandria,
Virginia. It’s the sole Russian company controlling exports of
the Mi-17, according to the Pentagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  