-- Pepper Opens Silicon Valley Office: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/pepper-opens-silicon-valley-office-business-of-law.html
Pepper Hamilton LLP opened a Silicon
Valley office yesterday with a team of lawyers from Goodwin
Procter LLP. The office is the firm’s third outpost in
 California  and first in the northern part of the state.  The three former Goodwin partners are Gregory S. Bishop,
Thomas F. Fitzpatrick and Andy H. Chan. Bishop will be the new
office’s partner in charge. Fitzpatrick will join Philadelphia
partner Paul J. Kennedy and Washington partner Goutam Patnaik as
co-chairmen of the national intellectual property litigation
practice.  Bishop specializes in complex patent litigation and other
technology-related disputes. Fitzpatrick focuses his practice on
intellectual property, including litigating patent, trade
secret, trademark, technology licensing and other related
disputes.  Chan focuses on intellectual property matters with a
concentration on patent litigation involving complex technology
in the biotechnology, chemical and information technology
fields.  “While Pepper Hamilton has long had a presence in  Southern
California , the northern part of the state is strategically
important as it is where many of our clients are based,” Chief
Executive Officer Scott Green said in a statement. “We are
especially pleased that three of the top IP litigators in the
country will help us grow there.”  Pepper has offices in Orange County, California, and  Los
Angeles , which opened last year. The firm has more than 500
lawyers at its U.S. offices.  Dickinson Wright Links With Bulgarian Firm on Gambling Law  To meet the needs of its gambling clients, Dickinson Wright
PLLC entered into a cooperative agreement with Sofia, Bulgaria-based law firm Velchev & Co., headed by Pavel Velchev.  Velchev is a 12-member firm whose lawyers have corporate
and commercial, administrative law, licensing procedures and
related regulatory affairs and litigation experience. The firm
has a special focus on consulting with new technology
businesses. Nadya Hambach leads the gambling law practice at the
firm.  “With recent and pending changes in the taxation of
gambling and already legalized  Internet gambling  with compliance
with European principles,  Bulgaria  is vying to become the
Eastern European leader in the development of the gambling
industry,” the firm said in a statement.  Dickinson Wright’s practice group has more than 30 lawyers
who handle matters related to the commercial and American Indian
gaming industries, both nationally and internationally. The firm
has counseled clients on many forms of gaming, including
sweepstakes, raffles, charitable gaming, Internet gaming, social
gaming and lotteries, it said in a statement.  The firm represents casino owners and operators, equipment
makers and suppliers, investors and financial institutions on
matters related to the acquisition, development, financing,
licensing and operation of casinos and other gaming facilities.  Dickinson Wright’s agreement with Velchev is similar to
those the U.S. firm arranged with WH Partners in Malta, Varela &
Fonseca Abogados in  Lima ,  Peru , and MdME in Macau.  Dickinson Wright is a full-service  law firm  with more than
350 lawyers in offices in the U.S. and  Canada .  Edwards Wildman’s Aarestad Takes Lead of Securities Practice  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP’s Boston business law partner
Stacie Aarestad was chosen to be the chairwoman of the firm’s
securities offerings and public company counseling practice
group.  Stan Keller, a business law partner also in the Boston
office, and Gene McDermott, a business law partner in
Providence, Rhode Island, will continue as co-chairmen of the
group.  Aarestad focuses on corporate and securities law matters,
public company representation and merger-and-acquisition deals.
She represents issuers in capital market transactions, including
public and private offerings of debt and equity securities, the
firm said in a statement.  Aarestad also advises companies with respect to tender
offers, exchange offers, debt repurchases and stock buybacks.  Edwards Wildman has 600 lawyers at offices in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Asia .  Moves  Winston & Strawn Adds Private-Equity Partner in New York  Winston & Strawn LLP said Jared A. Hershberg joined the
firm’s  New York  office as a private-equity partner in its
corporate practice. He was most recently a partner at Morrison
Cohen LLP.  Hershberg focuses on private-equity investments, private
investment funds and mergers and acquisitions. He advises
private equity and other investment funds, limited partners and
public and private businesses in connection with formation,
acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, recapitalizations, equity
and debt financings and joint ventures, the firm said.  “Jared brings to the firm tremendous experience advising
on highly complex and high-profile transactions involving
investment entities and financial institutions both in the U.S.
and globally,” Michael Elkin, managing partner of the New York
office, said in a statement. “His skills will greatly
complement the firm’s expanding private-equity and corporate
practices.”  Hershberg also worked as a  management consultant  in the
pharmaceutical/biotechnology industries with
PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Winston & Strawn has lawyers in 17 offices in  North
America , Asia and Europe.  Davis Polk Brings on Finance Lawyer Nick Benham in London  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP said Nick Benham, a finance
lawyer, will join the firm as a partner in its  London  office.
Benham joins from Ashurst LLP, where he was a partner in its
credit group since 2010.  Benham concentrates on complex finance transactions with a
focus on domestic and international leveraged finance
transactions and financial restructurings, acting for debt
providers and borrowers at all levels of the  capital structure .
He also has experience acting for strategic debt investors.  Davis Polk’s London-based English law practice started in
2012 with the hiring of capital markets partner Simon Witty, tax
partner Jonathan Cooklin and M&A partner Will Pearce.  “Our commitment to developing an English law practice in
London was subject to only one qualification -- that we attract
lawyers of the same high caliber as our U.S. practices,” Thomas J. Reid, Davis Polk’s managing partner, said in a statement.
“With Nick, once again, we have a lawyer of exceptional
intellectual and client capabilities.”  Davis Polk’s London office, which opened in 1972, is the
headquarters of the firm’s Europe practice and operates as Davis
Polk & Wardwell London LLP.  The firm has about 900 lawyers in offices in the Americas,
Europe and Asia.  Senate Judiciary Committee’s Chief IP Counsel Joins Covington  Aaron Cooper, the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee’s chief
counsel for intellectual property and antitrust law, is joining
Covington & Burling LLP’s global public policy and government
affairs practice as of counsel.  “Aaron’s extensive experience in IP, antitrust law and
policy development will be an important addition to our
capabilities in helping clients address the multiple IP issues
moving through Congress, the executive branch and the courts,”
Timothy Hester, chairman of the firm’s management committee,
said in a statement.  Cooper plans to work closely with Covington lawyers and
former lawmakers  Jon Kyl  and Howard Berman, with whom he worked
in the government. At Covington, they will help corporate
clients navigate legislative initiatives in the IP and antitrust
fields, the firm said.  Richard Hertling, former chief counsel and staff director
of the House Judiciary Committee and policy expert on IP issues,
joined the firm’s public policy practice in April.  “Aaron was among the most knowledgeable Senate staffers on
intellectual property, antitrust and other issues of importance
to U.S. and international business,” according to a statement
from Kyl, a former Republican U.S. senator from  Arizona , and
Berman, a Democratic ex-congressman from Southern California.
“He was widely respected on both sides of the aisle and both
sides of the Capitol for his substantive expertise and his
ability to get things done.”  In his role on the Judiciary Committee, Cooper had primary
responsibility for all aspects of Chairman  Patrick Leahy ’s
intellectual property and antitrust initiatives, including
drafting, negotiating and developing the legislative strategy
for passage of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act of 2011, the
firm said. He started his legal career at Covington as an
associate in 2001.  Covington has lawyers at 10 offices in the U.S., Europe and
Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  