-- Petronet’s Kochi Unit to Get Second Qatari LNG Cargo This Week
-- B y   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-11-13T10:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/petronet-s-kochi-unit-to-get-second-qatari-lng-cargo-this-week.html
Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) , India’s biggest
buyer of liquefied natural gas, will receive its second cargo at
the Kochi terminal in southern India this week.  The LNG cargo will arrive this week, Managing Director A.K. Balyan said in a phone interview from New Delhi. Petronet bought
the shipment from Qatar’s Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co.,
he said. The delivered price is at “little over $15 and below
$16” per million British thermal units, Balyan said.  Processing more LNG cargoes at Kochi will help boost the
company’s  profits , which fell as regasification volumes
declined. Earnings dropped to 1.82 billion rupees ($28.6
million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, the lowest in 11
quarters.  “With the present rate, we plan to bring in a cargo at
Kochi every second month,” Balyan said. “We are also looking
at a short-term deal for Kochi till long-term supplies from
Gorgon project begins.”  Petronet owns the 5 million ton-a-year  Kochi  LNG facility
that received its first cargo in August from the Qatari company,
known as RasGas.  The gas importer reached an agreement with  Exxon Mobil (XOM)  in
August 2009 to buy 1.5 million metric tons annually for 20 years
from Australia’s Gorgon project.  Petronet’s Kochi terminal is supplying the gas to customers
including state-run Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore, Bharat
Petroleum Corp.’s Kochi refinery and Nitta Gelatin India Ltd.  Petronet’s investors are GAIL India Ltd., Oil & Natural Gas
Corp., Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat Petroleum, according to
Petronet’s website.  India was Asia’s fourth-biggest buyer of LNG in 2012,
according to data from the Paris-based  International Group  of
Liquefied Natural Gas Importers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debjit Chakraborty in  New Delhi  at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  