-- PetroChina Buys Petrobras Assets in Peru for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-11-14T04:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/petrochina-to-buy-petrobras-assets-in-peru-for-2-6-billion-2-.html
PetroChina Co. (857)  will buy  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PBR) ’s Peruvian assets for $2.6 billion, as the
nation’s biggest energy company signaled business as usual
following a government graft probe launched in August.  The Beijing-based company will take over three blocks of
oil and gas fields in  Peru  from the Brazilian state-run producer
known as Petrobras, it said in a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange yesterday. Petrobras owns two blocks entirely and
has a 46 percent stake in the third, according to the statement.
PetroChina’s shares rose.  The deal marks the first acquisition by the state-owned
company since the government announced graft investigations
involving its executives, including former chairman  Jiang
Jiemin , in late August and early September. It also follows the
conclusion this week of the communist party’s plenum in Beijing,
which endorsed state dominance of the economy while pledging to
boost the role of markets.  “There were concerns that the government probe into five
former PetroChina officials may derail PetroChina’s overseas
acquisitions and put some of its deals on hold,” said  Gordon Kwan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “This
deal just proved PetroChina’s steps in overseas expansion
haven’t been slowed down at all.”  The acquisition also shows that “rumors that the state
will break up PetroChina into smaller companies were not true,
otherwise it would not be able to do deals of this size,” Kwan
said.  Shares Rise  China National Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s state-owned
parent, already owns oil and gas assets in Peru and  Venezuela .
If approved, it will be the second-largest acquisition in Peru
after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s purchase of liquefied natural gas
assets from Repsol SA in February for $4.4 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  PetroChina rose 1.2 percent to HK$8.60 in Hong Kong at
11:52 a.m. while the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.8
percent. Petrobras climbed 2 percent to 19.94 reais in  Sao Paulo 
yesterday.  The two companies won’t disclose the reserves in the
blocks, PetroChina spokesman  Mao Zefeng  said in a phone
interview. The Chinese explorer knows the assets well as it and
CNPC have operated fields nearby, Mao said. The deal brings
“good value,” he said, without elaborating.  “This will help PetroChina diversify its assets
internationally and help them learn operating lessons from their
partners that they can apply elsewhere,” said Nomura’s Kwan.  Most Acquisitive  CNPC, the most acquisitive energy company in  Asia , entered
Peru in 1993 and operates at least three oil and gas parcels,
according to its website. Peru is the first country where CNPC
worked on an overseas project.  The assets called Lot 57, Lot 58 and Lot X are located in
Peru’s Amazon jungle and PetroChina’s stake represents 12.1
billion barrels of oil equivalent, said Simon Powell, head of
oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd.  “On paper this doesn’t look like it was an expensive deal
for PetroChina,” he said. “But this is going to require
significant investment in building infrastructure to get it
out.”  Petrobras, the most indebted publicly traded oil company,
has been selling assets to help fund projects in  Brazil ’s deep
waters. The Peru deal takes Petrobras’s divestments this year to
$7.4 billion, said Bank of America Corp. analysts Frank McGann
and Vicente Falanga Neto.  “We view the asset sale positively,” McGann and Falanga
Neto wrote in a note to clients yesterday, reiterating a buy
recommendation for Petrobras. “It should help Petrobras to
reduce financing needs and streamline its portfolio.  Exploration Assets  The Brazilian government-controlled company, which entered
Peru in 1996, produces about 16,000 barrels a day in the country
and holds stakes in exploration assets in the Maranon, Huallaga
and Madre de Dios basins, according to its website.  Lot 57, in which Petrobras owns 46 percent, is operated by
 Repsol SA. (REP)  Repsol said last year that the block’s Kinteroni gas
field holds at least  2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. It
announced July 25 that the field is ready to start production.  Lot 58 has 56.6 trillion cubic meters of contingent natural
gas resources, according to Petrobras’s website.  Petrobras took a 40 percent stake in an offshore field
called Libra, the largest discovery in Brazil’s history, in a
government auction on Oct. 21.  The state-run producer, which last month reported a 40
percent drop in third-quarter profit, is seeking to finance
plans to spend $237 billion through 2017 to build refineries and
develop deep-water fields. The company has also requested fuel
price increases to phase out subsidies on imported gasoline and
diesel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  