-- Philippine Typhoon Survivors Flee City as Aid Trickles In
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o ,   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-11-14T10:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/philippine-typhoon-survivors-flee-city-as-aid-trickles-in.html
Medical teams, aid workers and
soldiers crammed onto flights to Tacloban city in central
 Philippines  as survivors told of desperation over the trickle of
supplies to the area six days after Typhoon Haiyan caused
massive destruction.  Philippine Air Force planes were making round trips from
neighboring Cebu to the area that bore the brunt of Haiyan, a
super typhoon that the government said killed at least 2,357
people. The planes ferried in aid workers and supplies, and
brought out survivors, mostly the elderly and injured.  Tens of thousands of people are living in the open or in
damaged buildings, exposed to rain and wind, said  Valerie Amos ,
United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs.
“Medical facilities for those who were injured, food, clean
water and basic sanitation are urgently required,” she said at
a briefing in Manila. “The situation is dismal. People are
extremely vulnerable and desperate for help.”  Field hospitals are being set up in Tacloban. Two teams
operating water purifiers will be sent to the city, Luigi
D’Angelo, leader of the European Civil Protection Team, told
reporters in Cebu.  As aid agencies called for donations and countries sent
supplies and teams, relief efforts were still being hampered by
roads washed away or blocked by debris, a lack of vehicles to
transport aid from Tacloban airport, and gridlock at Cebu
airstrips. The desperation among survivors in Tacloban led
President  Benigno Aquino  to declare a state of calamity on Nov.
11 and plead with locals to be patient.  ‘Not Prepared’  The country’s disaster agency said 3,853 people were
injured in the typhoon, which destroyed nearly 240,000 homes and
caused 4.1 billion pesos ($94.2 million) in infrastructure and
farm output damage. About 11.5 million people were affected,
with 545,000 displaced, the UN’s Amos said.  Survivors arriving by plane in Cebu from Tacloban said they
weren’t warned of the seriousness of the typhoon. “Even our
mayor didn’t understand what a  storm surge  is,” said Michael
Angelo Tan, 29, who saw 20 people dead in the city’s convention
center. “They were trapped there by the water, there was a
stampede,” he said.  “The government was not prepared,” said Rina Pontejos, a
29-year-old cashier. “Village guards at least should have given
warnings and asked people to evacuate. What were they there
for?” Tacloban has a population of about 221,000.  Melanie Valdestamon, a 29-year-old nurse, said her house
was hit by knee-deep water even though it was some distance from
the shore. “We tied big water bottles to a mattress to build a
raft for our baby so he would survive.”  Body Bags  The  Red Cross  is sending 1,500 more body bags to Tacloban,
the capital of Leyte province, to add to the 500 it already
dispatched,  Philippine Red Cross  Chairman  Richard Gordon  told
reporters in Cebu. “We’re picking the bodies up, managing the
dead,” Gordon said.  Relief efforts needed to be better coordinated, he added.
“I’m being careful, I don’t want my people to get hurt.
Somebody must be in charge there.”  About 2,000 soldiers and policemen are in the Eastern
Visayas region following looting incidents in Leyte, Office of
Civil Defense Administrator Eduardo del Rosario said in a
televised briefing in Manila. Eastern Visayas covers Leyte and
Samar islands. “The peace and order situation on the ground is
improving,” del Rosario said.  Rice Sack  Soldier Carlo Octa, 24, whose house in Burauen town in
Leyte was destroyed, said he paid 2,800 pesos for a sack of rice
and some dried fish in a market 41 kilometers (25.5 miles) from
his home. A 50-kilogram sack of rice sells for 1,800 pesos in
 Manila . “There are relief goods stocked in the town proper,”
he said by phone. “They have yet to be distributed.”  Survivors who arrived in Cebu from Guiuan in East Samar
province said some residents ignored advice to evacuate.  Elaine Pading, 42, scheduled a live band performance in her
karaoke restaurant on the night of the storm, thinking the winds
wouldn’t be that strong. The roof of her restaurant was ripped
off and windows smashed. “We thought we wouldn’t live until the
next morning,” she said.  Jason Gagala, 30, and his wife hid their 10-month old son
in a cabinet in their home during the storm. “The people of
Guiuan did not prepare,” he said. Police in patrol cars and
speaking on megaphones toured the town beforehand, appealing for
residents to leave.  Seeking Understanding  “We are seeking for understanding in this situation”
Communications Secretary Herminio Coloma said in a briefing in
Manila. “The severity and the magnitude of this disaster is
unprecedented and unparalleled in previous experience. In this
context, we have to understand that the demands were also
extraordinary.”  President Aquino must better mobilize the military and
police to collect bodies and distribute aid, said  Ramon Casiple ,
Executive Director of the Institute for Political and Electoral
Reform in Manila.  “He is running out of time and every minute counts,”
Casiple said by phone. “When he declared a state of national
calamity, people expected him to take charge,” he added. “This
event will define his presidency.”  Gas Stations  The military is focusing on carrying in food and medicine
as there are now enough troops in the area, said Brigadier
General Raymundo Elefante, commander at the Mactan Air Base in
Cebu. “Number one priority is that people there are hungry,”
he said in an interview.  The military has transported more than 6,000 people from
Tacloban and Ormoc in Leyte and from Guiuan in Eastern Samar,
Lieutenant Jim Alagao said by phone from Cebu. “Most of them
are typhoon victims, some are rescuers,” Alagao said.  Electricity in areas hardest hit by the storm may be back
on by Dec. 24, Energy Secretary Carlos Jericho Petilla said
today in Manila. To prevent hoarding, the government has limited
oil purchases to two liters per motorcycle and 500 pesos worth
for cars each day, he said in an interview. “Some gas stations
don’t want to open because of fear they may be mobbed.”  Japan , which will donate $10 million and has medical teams
on the ground, will send 1,000 Self-Defense Force troops, Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe said yesterday on his Facebook page. Japan’s
 Defense Ministry  said it is preparing to send in three vessels,
plus helicopters and planes.  China  will donate 10 million  yuan  ($1.64 million) in relief
materials, the state-run Global Times newspaper said, after the
government earlier offered $100,000.  The death toll would make Haiyan one of the deadliest
storms in the country’s history. In late 2012 Typhoon Bopha
killed 1,067, while the death toll from Thelma reached 5,080 in
late 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Cebu at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Cebu at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  