-- Dealer Isaac Wolf Is Buyer of $83 Million Record Diamond
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-11-14T09:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/pink-diamond-sets-83-million-record-for-priciest-gem.html
Isaac Wolf, a New York-based diamond
cutter, was the buyer of the 59.60-carat pink diamond that sold
for $83 million in Geneva last night, a record for any gemstone
at auction.  Wolf renamed the oval-cut stone the “Pink Dream,” New
York-based Sotheby’s said. He competed against three others for
the gem in bidding that lasted about five minutes before the
strike of the gavel, followed by cheers and applause.  The diamond led last night’s auction, which Sotheby’s said
raised a record $199.5 million, along with the new artist record
set by the $105.4 million sale of an Andy Warhol painting in  New
York  last night, are high-profile successes for the auction
house, which is facing pressure from investors.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  traded at an intraday
record before the sale of the stone, previously called the
“Pink Star.”  “It elicits almost a visceral response,”  David Bennett ,
the auctioneer, said of the gem. “This stone checks every
single box in terms of rarity, quality, size and everything. The
crown jewels of  England , which is one of the greatest jewel
cases, does not have a diamond this size or this color.”  Monaco Modelling  Steinmetz Diamonds, owned by Israel’s richest man, Beny Steinmetz, cut and polished the stone, which was mined by  De
Beers  in  Africa . After two years of preparation, the stone was
worn by Danish model Helena Christensen around her neck to
exhibit it to the public for the first time in  Monaco  in 2003.  The stone is fancy vivid pink, the highest grade for the
color of diamonds, and the purity of its crystals ranks among
the top 2 percent in the world.  Bennett had set the previous record for any stone sold in
auction in 2010 with the $45.6 million “Graff Pink” diamond.
The “Pink Dream” is more than twice the size of the 24.78-carat “Graff Pink.”  The sale crowns the Geneva fall auction season by  Sotheby’s (BID) 
and Christie’s, highlights of which include the $36 million sale
of the largest orange diamond known to exist, a $2.2 million
price tag for a 1957 Patek Philippe watch, and a record for a
Rolex Daytona.  Polished diamond prices have climbed 39 percent in the past
decade, according to the PolishedPrices Diamond price overall
index.  A Francis Bacon triptych became the priciest artwork at
auction on Tuesday night in New York when Christie’s sold it for
$142.4 million, beating Sotheby’s 2012 sale of Edvard Munch’s
“The Scream.’  Smithsonian Show  The diamond, originally named ‘‘The Steinmetz Pink,’’ was
sold privately in 2007 for an undisclosed amount. The gem has
been included in the ‘‘Splendor of Diamonds’’ exhibition at the
 Smithsonian Institution  in  Washington . It was the largest
internally flawless fancy vivid pink diamond ever graded by the
Gemological Institute of America.  The sale follows a Sotheby’s auction in  Hong Kong  in
October containing white and blue diamonds valued at more than
$28 million and $19 million each.  Investment-grade diamonds attract buyers both as status
symbols and hedges against volatility in the financial markets.
Colored stones, which account for about 0.01 percent of mined
production, are prized for their rarity and command the highest
price per carat.  Pricey Pink  Pink diamonds have set the highest auction prices for
gemstones sold at auction. The 34.65-carat ‘‘Princie” fancy
intense pink raised $39.3 million at Christie’s in New York in
April.  The desirability of pink as a gem color has increased since
rose-hued diamonds were first discovered in  India  centuries ago.  Famous examples include the Williamson, which was given to
 Queen Elizabeth  at her wedding, and the Darya-i-Nur, the largest
pink diamond in the world, which initially belonged to Mogul
emperors in India and is now stored at the National Treasury of
 Iran .  Pink diamonds are Type II stones that derive their color
from the process known as plastic deformation, whereby pressure
changes create structural anomalies during the crystal growth.  The “ Pink Panther ” was a fictitious gemstone that
featured in the 1963 movie of that title starring Peter Sellers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  