-- Plan to Link Northwest Europe Power Markets Delayed by 2 Months
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-11-13T11:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/plan-to-link-northwest-europe-power-markets-delayed-by-2-months.html
A project to link power markets that
account for 75 percent of  electricity supply  in Europe has been
pushed back two months to Feb. 4, a second delay that puts the
plan more than a year behind schedule.  The market coupling initiative, which intends to create a
single day-ahead electricity price in 15 countries ranging from
the U.K. to the Baltic states had been scheduled to start on
Nov. 26, according to a  statement  on the website of Oslo-based
exchange operator Nord Pool Spot AS. The November deadline was a
delay from the originally planned start date of December 2012.  “Parties involved agree that having final versions of
systems perform in a stable way for a certain time is an
absolute prerequisite for go-live,” according to the statement.
“Time left to Nov. 26 is therefore too short,” to allow the
minimum four weeks of operation before the Christmas holidays,
it said.  The EU wants a single electricity market across 28
countries by the end of 2014, allowing power to flow freely to
markets where prices are highest. Linking northern Europe would
be the first step toward achieving this goal. It will later be
linked to the southwest region .  Market coupling allows the calculation of prices, net
trading positions and power flows on interconnector cables
between market areas simultaneously, according to a document on
 Nord Pool’s website . It requires cooperation from 13 electricity
network operators and four power exchanges.  Having a single market for power will reduce national
barriers and cut consumer costs, according to the European
Commission.  Delay Warning  The initiative could be pushed back because of delays in
the U.K., Amsterdam-based exchange APX Group, which runs one of
the country’s two power auctions, told journalists at a briefing
in  London  on Oct. 31.  To complete market coupling in the U.K., APX Group and
N2EX, which runs the country’s second exchange, must set up a
virtual trading hub and harmonize their daily auctions to create
a single price, APX said. The day-ahead auction would then be
linked to the rest of Europe.  Not enough integration and testing has been completed to
meet the Nov. 26 deadline, said APX spokeswoman Sanna Maaria
Matilla by e-mail. Reliability and stability of the project are
more important than “holding a deadline at any cost,” she
said.  APX is responsible for making sure that the 1,000-megawatt
Netherlands-U.K. power connection is capable of participating in
market coupling, while N2EX has responsibility for the 2,000-megawatt cable between  France  and the U.K., according to Nord
Pool.  “The virtual hub remains ready to to go live alongside the
NWE project,” Stuart Disbrey, spokesman for N2EX, which is
jointly owned by Nord Pool Spot and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., said
by phone from London.  The February start date will be confirmed before Christmas,
said the statement on Nord Pool’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  