-- Pound Jumps as Carney Signals Rates May Rise Sooner Than Planned
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-11-13T16:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/pound-little-changed-before-boe-economic-forecasts-jobless-data.html
The pound strengthened for the first
time in four days after the Bank of England signaled that policy
makers may consider increasing interest rates sooner than they
previously forecast as the economy improves.  Sterling rose versus all of its 16 major peers as the
central bank said in its quarterly  Inflation Report  that the
jobless rate is more likely than not to fall to the 7 percent
threshold that will lead it to consider raising borrowing costs
in the third quarter of 2015. It previously predicted that would
only happen in the second quarter of 2016. Separate data showed
the U.K. unemployment rate declined. U.K. government bonds were
little changed.  “Both the Bank of England’s new projections and the
development in terms of employment should be positive for the
pound,” said Lee Hardman, a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The pound has room to
strengthen further although some may argue that a lot of that
has already been in the price.”  Sterling strengthened 0.7 percent to 83.89 pence per euro
at 4:13 p.m.  London  time after weakening 0.8 percent yesterday.
The pound jumped 0.6 percent to $1.5993 after falling to $1.5855
yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 13.  Bank of England Governor Mark Carney tried to temper the
more optimistic outlook by saying 7 percent is a “staging
post” and not an automatic rate-increase trigger, promising
that policy will remain loose until the Monetary Policy
Committee is certain the recovery is assured.  ‘Continued Support’  “When the threshold is reached, the MPC will set policy to
balance the outlook for inflation against the need to provide
continued support to the recovery,” he told reporters at a
press conference in London.  The U.K. currency gained 5.4 percent in the past six
months, the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
climbed 4.1 percent and the dollar rose 0.3 percent.  The jobless rate as measured by International Labour
Organisation standards declined to 7.6 percent, the lowest since
2009, from 7.7 percent in the three months through August, the
Office for National Statistics said in London.  Short-sterling futures fell as investors increased wagers
that interbank borrowing costs will increase.  The implied yield on contracts expiring in December 2015
climbed one basis point to 1.42 percent after increasing as much
as eight basis points. The rate dropped to 1.21 percent on Oct.
31, the lowest level since Aug. 12.  Higher Projections  “Sterling remained generally supported after the BOE
Inflation Report signaled that rate hikes could come a year
earlier than previously expected on the back of improving
outlook for employment and growth,”  Valentin Marinov , head of
European Group-of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in
London, wrote in a research note. “The BOE GDP forecasts are
still well above market consensus and could encourage the street
economists to revise up their own projections.  In their first Inflation Report since Carney introduced
forward guidance on the future path of interest rates in August,
policy makers also reduced the near-term prediction for
inflation. They now see consumer-price increases slowing to just
below the central bank’s 2 percent target by the first quarter
of 2015.  The central bank left its asset-purchase  target  at 375
billion pounds and its benchmark  interest rate  at 0.5 percent at
its most recent meeting on Nov. 7.  Slower Inflation  The pound fell the most in a week against the dollar
yesterday after a government report showed inflation slowed more
in October than economists forecast, damping bets the central
bank will raise borrowing costs.  The 10-year gilt yield was at 2.80 percent after rising to
2.85 percent, the  highest  since Oct. 16. The price of the 2.25
percent bond maturing in September 2023 was 95.325.  The extra  yield  that investors demand to hold 10-year gilts
instead of similar-maturity German bunds expanded five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.07 percentage points, set
for the highest close since October 2005.  The five-year  break-even rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from a yield gap between gilts and index-linked securities, shrank two basis points to 2.77 percentage
points, the narrowest since Sept. 2.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 3.5 percent this year
through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
German bonds dropped 1.6 percent and U.S. Treasuries declined
2.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  