-- Rate Cut Makes Draghi a Good German
-- B y   M e l v y n   K r a u s s
-- 2013-11-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/rate-cut-makes-draghi-a-good-german.html
The  European Central Bank ’s decision
last week to guard against deflation by  cutting  rates was in the
collective interests of the euro area. That includes Germany,
whose board members opposed the move and where the news media
has excoriated ECB President  Mario Draghi  for it.  Deflation should be thought of as the economic equivalent
of cancer: In both cases the effects can be extreme and an ounce
of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Just ask the Japanese.
Markets were surprised by the Nov. 7 move only because they
didn’t expect the ECB to act before it published its next
inflation projections, in December.  The bank, however, didn’t need to wait. The Governing
Council’s members already knew the numbers would be bad; the
October  reading  for euro-area inflation was a shocker at 0.7
percent, well below the ECB’s target inflation rate of 2 percent
or just below. Even after the rate cut, it looks as though
 Europe  is in for a prolonged period of low inflation.  Some in Germany, such as the prominent conservative
economist Hans Werner-Sinn, accused Draghi of cutting the bank’s
main refinancing rate to 0.25 percent from 0.5 percent purely to
benefit savers in southern nations, including  Italy , his home
country. That charge is unfair, damaging to the ECB as the
supranational institution that holds together a fragile
currency, and demonstrably wrong.  It is true that, so far, the main indicator of deflation --
inflationary expectations -- remains well anchored in the euro
area at 2 percent. That’s good news, and the ECB Governing
Council action is intended to keep it that way. You don’t accuse
a surgeon of panicking by removing a tumor that risks turning
malign.  Offering Alternatives  For some months now, Draghi has been holding off the
Governing Council’s doves, who were a majority and wanted a cut,
but were reluctant to force the issue in deference to Draghi’s
desire for consensus. He offered them a new forward guidance
policy as an alternative. On more than one occasion, the ECB
president sided with the hawks to thwart a  rate cut . If his
objective was to win a rate cut for the Italians, why didn’t he
act earlier? He had the votes.  There were even grumblings within the council at the time
that the bank’s Italian president was acting too much like a
German. Now he is being attacked by some Germans for being too
Italian, but with far less grounds: The ECB cut is clearly in
the interest of the  euro area  as a whole.  This is the second time the Bundesbank has been on the
wrong side of a major ECB decision since Jens Weidmann became
its chief in 2011. The first concerned the start of the ECB’s
bond-buying program, Outright Market  Transactions , an insurance
program that most commentators consider to have been a huge
success.  Now, together with executive board member Joerg Asmussen
and the central bank governors of  Austria  and the Netherlands,
Weidmann has opposed an ordinary rate decision that clearly made
sense for the euro area as a whole, but in his view not for
 Germany . By encouraging the false notion that there is a North-South split (Finland and  Belgium  supported the cut), Weidmann
isn’t helping the ECB, the euro or German influence in the
Governing Council.  It isn’t even clear that Germany would be well-served by
keeping the ECB’s policy rate higher, because if deflation took
hold in Europe, Germans would suffer, too.  The major gripe against the interest rate cut is that it
will hurt savers. ECB board member Benoit Coeure has  explained 
why this isn’t the case. In addition, falling inflation in
Germany (to 1.2 percent in October from almost 2 percent in
July) that preceded and motivated the ECB rate cut has benefited
savers: They gain from disinflation, because it increases the
real  interest rate  that is paid on their deposits. So if
anything, the ECB’s action last week took back a windfall gain
that Germany’s savers received as a result of the drop in the
inflation rate.  Heavy Price  The rate cut should also reduce the flow of “safe money”
into Germany by taking the heat off the periphery. Savers have
paid a heavy price for Germany’s status as a haven during the
crisis, because the flood of outside funds drove down the
interest rate that banks were willing to offer German savers.
The ECB’s cut should reduce these inflows, offsetting any
effects from the ECB’s reduced refinancing rate.  German taxpayers also stand to benefit from the ECB move.
Any policy that helps the finances of debtor countries means
there will be less pressure on Germany to rescue the south. By
increasing the real burden of interest payments, disinflation
has choked the debtor countries and made a rate cut necessary.  The euro area’s North and South are interconnected. It is
in Europe’s overall interest that deflation is averted and the
effects of falling inflation on debt liabilities is softened.
That is the explanation for the actions of Draghi and most of
his colleagues on the ECB’s Governing Council last week. They
were right and Europe should feel safer for it.  (Melvyn Krauss is an emeritus professor of economics at  New
York  University and senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution ,
 Stanford University .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Melvyn Krauss at  melvynbkrauss@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 