-- Regulator Slept as Rabobank Rigged Libor, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-11-13T15:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/regulator-slept-as-rabobank-rigged-libor-lawmakers-say.html
The Dutch central bank failed to act
after receiving signals Rabobank Groep was involved in rigging
benchmark  interest rates , members of Parliament said.  “We have the impression regulators were sleeping,” Aukje
de Vries of the governing  Liberal Party , or VVD, said in
Parliament in The Hague today. “The Dutch central bank blames
Rabobank’s management for not picking up signals. Yet regulators
could have asked Rabobank what was going on when they saw those
first signals themselves.”  Her comments were echoed by the Labor and Socialist
parties, representing a majority in Parliament, with members
expressing outrage at the blow Rabobank dealt to trust in the
financial industry. The bank, a co-operative formed in 1898 to
lend to farmers, on Oct. 29 received the second-highest fine, of
774 million euros ($1.04 billion), from regulators in the U.S.,
the U.K. and the Netherlands over manipulation of the London
interbank offered rate and Euribor. UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s
largest bank, got the biggest fine of $1.5 billion.  The Dutch central bank said on Oct. 29 that Rabobank
ignored internal and external signals, including reports in the
press and from the British Bankers’ Association starting in
2008. The Dutch regulator started an investigation in January
2012, almost two years after the bank informed it of requests
made by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  ‘Old Style’  Ben Feiertag, a spokesman for the Amsterdam-based central
bank, referred to a Nov. 8 letter Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem wrote to Parliament. The finance minister said the
central bank revised its supervision methods after 2010 to focus
on risk areas and consider probes by foreign regulators as an
important signal in setting its priorities. Jan Sijbrand,
central bank director responsible for banking supervision,
assumed his role in July 2011.  “We are talking about Dutch central bank old style,”
Dijsselbloem told lawmakers in The Hague today. “Now, a new
supervision model has been developed, which gives more room for
acting on external signals from the market or from other
supervisors.”  Thirty current and former Rabobank employees were involved,
Sipko Schat, the lender’s executive board member responsible for
commercial banking, said last month. Five were fired, he said,
and 14 are still there. Schat kept his job, while Chairman Piet Moerland stepped down months before he planned to retire.
Dijsselbloem said today he considers Moerland’s resignation as
“meaningful” and doesn’t see a need for further dismissals at
the board level.  Main ‘Culprits’  “The main culprits are firstly the fraudulent traders and
secondly their direct managers, trickling through to the
management board,” he said. “Thirdly, at a distance, there’s
the role of the responsible supervisor.”  Lawmaker Arnold Merkies of the Socialist Party called upon
Dijsselbloem and Justice Minister Ivo Opstelten to ensure all
former and current Rabobank employees involved are prosecuted.
Dijsselbloem, in the Nov. 8 letter, said Dutch prosecutors can
consider charging people who left the company, while the 14
still employed at Rabobank fall under a 70 million-euro
settlement the lender reached with the prosecutor.  “It has to be studied very seriously whether there are
grounds and possibilities” for charging individuals,
Dijsselbloem said. “We will await the prosecutor’s
investigation.”  Global regulators have fined UBS, Barclays Plc, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, ICAP Plc and Rabobank about $3.7 billion
for distorting Libor and similar benchmarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  