-- Republican Camp Raises Prospect of Missing Tax-Plan Date
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-13T19:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/republican-camp-raises-prospect-of-missing-tax-plan-date.html
The chairman of the U.S. House Ways
and Means Committee said he may not meet his self-imposed
deadline of pushing the biggest tax-code changes in 27 years
through his committee this year.  Representative  Dave Camp  said today that he would still
like to stick to that schedule, while acknowledging the lack of
time left this year to meet that goal.  Camp will meet tomorrow with top House leaders, who are
concerned about the political costs of proposing to curtail some
popular tax breaks and distracting from the party’s attacks on
the flawed Oct. 1 rollout of President  Barack Obama ’s health
law.  “I very much have wanted to stick to that, certainly to
have the bill ready and to be able to move forward this year if
we can,” he told reporters at the Capitol today. “Things do
change around here and I think you have to look at the timing
and circumstances you’re in.”  Camp and members of the committee are scheduled to meet
tomorrow with House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, with House Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Whip
 Kevin McCarthy  planing to attend, said a Republican aide,
speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the meeting. .  Republican leaders can’t stop Camp from releasing a bill,
which the Michigan lawmaker has said would call for the biggest
changes to the U.S. tax code since 1986. The leaders could urge
him to wait, say they would withhold support or ask other party
members to tell Camp that they oppose his plan.  Republican Meeting  Camp said today after a meeting with Republicans on the
Ways and Means Committee that he has thought about whether the
panel could do something short of moving a complete bill this
year to make some progress. He said that idea isn’t being
actively considered.  Three Republican aides spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss the intraparty quandary and said no final decisions have
been made on what to do about tax-law revisions or what leaders
should tell Camp.  The tax bill is a party priority that would advance a goal
Republicans have embraced in their budget each year since
winning the House majority in the 2010 elections. What they
haven’t done is add all of the details, showing who would win
and who would lose.  A major tax bill would affect multiple industries and
markets, including states that issue tax-exempt municipal bonds,
companies such as retailer  Macy’s Inc. (M)  that advocate lower
corporate tax rates and individuals who receive tax-free health
insurance from their employers.  ‘Entrenched Interests’  “When you open up  tax reform , you always bring to the
table a lot of entrenched interests,” said Phil English, a
former Republican lawmaker from  Pennsylvania  who was a member of
the Ways and Means panel. “And the question is: Can you manage
that process politically? And can you make a compelling argument
that what you are advocating for is a significant improvement,
not only for the taxpayer but also for the economy?”  Republican leaders are concerned about the lack of a path
to a tax law before this Congress concludes at the end of 2014,
given their opposition to raising taxes and Democrats’
insistence that major  tax-code  changes be accompanied by revenue
increases, the aides said.  The issue has reached the point where Republicans must
decide whether it’s the right time to move forward, a senior
House Republican aide said.  That aide said a potential worry is opposition from
lawmakers outside the Ways and Means panel who generally support
the concept without being steeped in the details and might
object to ending specific tax breaks.  Mortgage Deduction  “There are risks involved,” said English, now a lobbyist
at Arent Fox LLP in  Washington  whose clients include Xcel Energy
Inc. and the American Dental Association. “There are challenges
in messaging. But this is precisely the kind of process that
should be in the Republicans’ core, should be in their area of
expertise.”  Camp has held details of his plan closely, particularly
those on politically charged issues such as the mortgage
interest deduction, capital gains rates and the  tax exemption 
for  credit unions .  He has been holding a series of closed-door meetings with
his committee’s Republican members over the past few months as
they try to draft a proposal. The goal is to lower the top
individual rate to 25 percent from 39.6 percent and the top
corporate rate to 25 percent from 35 percent.  ‘Very Close’  Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican on
the committee, said the bill was “very close” to being done.  Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican on the
committee, said moving forward on a tax bill would demonstrate
that the party wants to support job-creating legislation.  “Tax reform unites this conferences in a significant
way,” Brady said.  Camp has released discussion drafts of changes to the
taxation of international income, derivatives and small
businesses.  Camp has been working with Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat. They have a joint
Twitter handle on their goal of revising the tax code and went
on a multi-city tour earlier this year.  Baucus has been set to start releasing discussion drafts
and told reporters yesterday that his plans were “proceeding.”  “It’ll be soon,” Baucus said when asked when he’d release
his plan. “We’re going to have some meetings this week.”  Camp and Baucus are both trying to finish their work before
leaving their posts at the end of 2014. Camp will reach a party-set term limit that prevents him from remaining chairman. Baucus
isn’t seeking re-election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  