-- Riverbed Said to Work With Goldman Sachs to Study Options
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/riverbed-said-to-work-with-goldman-sachs-to-weigh-possible-sale.html
Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD) , the
computer-networking company being pressured by an activist fund
to increase shareholder value, is working with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to help it study strategic options, people with
knowledge of the situation said.  While Riverbed is not soliciting bids, it has already
attracted informal interest from private-equity firms for a
leveraged buyout, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private. Last week, Riverbed’s stock rose
the most in more than a year after fund manager Elliott
Associates LP said in a regulatory filing it acquired a 10.4
percent stake and will push for strategic changes at the San
Francisco-based company. Before the Nov. 8 filing, the stock had
fallen 23 percent this year.  Elliott said in the filing that Riverbed is “significantly
undervalued,” considering that its technology speeds thousands
of networks and plays a vital role for clients. Riverbed could
boost its valuation by reviewing its strategy and capital
structure, Elliott said. Riverbed responded by adopting a
stockholder rights plan, imposing a “significant penalty” upon
any shareholder acquiring 10 percent of the company’s stock
without the board’s approval.  Representatives for both Riverbed and Goldman Sachs, a
longtime financial adviser that managed the company’s initial
public offering in 2006, declined to comment. With a 10.4
percent stake, Elliott would be Riverbed’s second-largest
 shareholder , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Riverbed climbed 8.3 percent to $19.04 yesterday after
 Bloomberg News  reported that the company is working with Goldman
Sachs, reversing earlier losses. It has a market value of more
than $3 billion.  NetApp, BMC  “Riverbed is focused on creating value for all of our
shareholders and maintains an open dialogue with our
shareholders, including Elliott,” the company said in a Nov. 8
statement.  Recent third-quarter results, with 21 percent year-over-year revenue growth and higher sequential operating margins,
show the company’s commitment to “strong execution and solid
expense management in a mixed economic and weak federal spending
environment,” Riverbed said then.  Elliott, based in  New York , has pressured technology
providers including NetApp Inc., BMC Software Inc. and Compuware
Corp. to boost  shareholder value , after taking stakes in the
companies. Activist funds generally buy shares and try to force
corporate management and directors to make changes that boost
investor returns.  Riverbed competes with companies such as F5 Networks Inc.,
providing technology that helps organizations manage  data
networks . Another rival, Blue Coat Systems Inc., was acquired by
private-equity firm Thoma Bravo LLC for about $1.3 billion last
year, after Elliott’s activism campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  