-- Rostelecom May Spin Off Wireless Assets for Tele2 Russia Merger
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-11-13T09:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/rostelecom-may-spin-off-wireless-assets-for-tele2-russia-merger.html
OAO Rostelecom,  Russia ’s state-controlled telecommunications operator, plans to spin off mobile
assets before their possible merger with  VTB Group’s (VTBR)  Tele2
Russia to form the fourth nationwide wireless operator.  Rostelecom is asking shareholders to vote on separating its
mobile assets into a newly formed entity, called RT-Mobile,
according to a regulatory filing today. The board will meet Nov.
19 to determine the price for buying out minorities who don’t
support the move, the company said.  VTB, the state-controlled lender that acquired the Russian
unit of Sweden’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  for $2.4 billion in April, sold half
of the operator last month to investors led by billionaire Yury
Kovalchuk, an ally of President  Vladimir Putin .  Rostelecom’s wireless operations and Tele2 Russia
complement each other geographically, and their combination
would form a national competitor for billionaire Vladimir
Evtushenkov’s  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , billionaire  Alisher
Usmanov ’s  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  and billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)   While Tele2 Russia has almost twice as many mobile users as
Rostelecom, the state-run company holds licenses for radio
frequencies needed for faster data services. Rostelecom may hold
40 percent to 49 percent in the combined mobile business, while
Tele2 Russia shareholders should get control based on the value
of its assets, VTB Chairman Andrey Kostin said last month.  Rostelecom has prepared a new strategy to focus on fixed-line broadband and may rely on partners to help develop its
mobile business, according to Kira Kiryukhina, a company
spokeswoman. The company’s board will discuss its strategy
through 2018 on Nov. 19, Rostelecom said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  