-- Rousseff Consumer Subsidy Fails to Ignite Brazil Growth: Economy
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-11-13T16:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/rousseff-consumer-subsidy-fails-to-ignite-brazil-growth-economy.html
Brazil ’s retail sales rose less than
analysts forecast in September, highlighting concerns that
President Dilma Rousseff’s efforts to fuel demand with tax cuts
will fail to spur economic growth.  Sales rose 0.5 percent in September, less than the median
estimate of 0.8 percent from 38 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Purchases (BZRTRETM)  grew 3.2 percent in the third quarter from
the prior period.  Economists are lowering 2014 growth estimates for  Latin
America ’s largest economy, even after the government cut taxes
by more than 13 billion reais ($5.6 billion) this year and
offered 18.7 billion reais in subsidized credit for  consumer
goods . The policies are hurting business confidence and
investment by widening the  budget deficit  and sparking
inflation, said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento in Sao Paulo.  “You’re not really creating a sustainable way of
growing,” Santos said by telephone. “You’re just having short-lived moments of growth. At the end of the day all they really
want to do is stimulate demand and keep people happy with the
possibility of buying things.”  Analysts surveyed by the central bank have cut their 2014
growth forecast by more than a percentage point, to 2.11
percent, since Rousseff five months ago announced below-market
interest rates for purchases of everything from televisions to
furniture by low-income Brazilians.  Pent-Up Demand  A good part of consumers’ pent-up demand has already been
met, so it will be ever more difficult to sustain retail sales
growth with tax breaks and other incentives, said Ronaldo Kasinsky, retail analyst at  Banco Santander Brasil SA (SANB11)  in  Sao
Paulo .  “Investors are starting to worry this isn’t stimulating
growth, and we’re starting to have fiscal problems,” Kasinsky
said by telephone. “I think we’re coming to a crossroads where
stimulus no longer has as much effect, and the government’s
entire fiscal policy starts getting questioned.”  September sales of furniture and appliances fell by 0.2
percent, down from a 0.5 percent increase in August and a 2.5
percent jump in July. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  index rose less than 0.1
percent at 2:25 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  ’Mini-Boom’  “Consumption seems to have softened a bit after a mini-boom in July and August, and purchase of big-ticket items may be
particularly weak,”  Neil Shearing , chief economist for  emerging
markets  at Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from  London .  The government may eliminate tax cuts on cars, appliances
and furniture amid increasing speculation that the nation’s
credit rating will be downgraded. Brazil will end some tax
breaks on consumer goods to shore up public finances, Treasury
Secretary Arno Augustin said in an interview at his Brasilia
office on Nov. 7.  Brazil’s budget deficit widened to 3.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the 12 months through September, more than
analysts expected and the highest since November 2009, the
Treasury reported on Oct. 31. The primary  budget surplus , which
excludes interest payments, fell to 1.6 percent of GDP in the 12
months through September, below the  Finance Ministry ’s 2.3
percent goal.  The effort to cut the budget shortfall will be hampered by
next year’s presidential election, which will make it harder to
contain spending, Santos said.  S&P Rating  The worsening fiscal situation in part prompted  Standard &
Poor’s  in June to place Brazil’s rating on negative outlook, and
Moody’s last month to lower its outlook to stable from positive.
Five-year credit-default swaps, contracts protecting holders of
the nation’s debt against non-payment, rose 57 basis points in
the month through yesterday, to 207, the highest level in more
than two months.  Retailer shares as measured by the  MSCI index  of Brazilian
consumer-discretionary stocks have underperformed the broader
Ibovespa stock index this year, posting a loss of 21.9 percent
through yesterday, compared with a 15 percent decline for the
benchmark measure.  “Optimism is more a function of the past than of the
future,” Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes, chief economist at the
National Commerce Confederation and a former central bank
director, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro . “Retail sales will
grow less next year, because families are more indebted, they’re
somewhat uncertain about their employment, and  interest rates 
went up. There’s not as much confidence as there was.”  Household Debt  Household debt  in August reached 45 percent of disposable
income, its highest level on record, according to data from the
central bank. Retail sales grew at an average annual 8.4 percent
pace in the six years through 2012, with a peak of 10.9 percent
in 2010. Purchases in the  12 months ended in September  rose 4.8
percent, the weakest year-over-year advance in more than nine
years and down from 8.3 percent in January.  Consumers’ purchasing power has also been whittled away by
inflation that has remained above the government’s 4.5 percent
target throughout the almost three years of Rousseff’s
administration. Twice this year inflation breached the 6.5
percent ceiling of the target range, which allows for two
percentage points above or below the target. In a bid to tame
price increases, the central bank this year has raised its Selic
rate by 225 basis points, more than any other benchmark rate in
the world tracked by Bloomberg, to 9.5 percent.  Still Shopping  Consumers are still shopping, if at a slower pace. “The
retail sales numbers came in a little weaker, though without
having been a negative number,” Carlos Kawall, chief economist
at Banco J. Safra, said by phone from Sao Paulo about today’s
data. “Consumption continues at a good level, even if the data
were outside consensus.”  While inflation in October slowed to 5.84 percent,
economists surveyed by the central bank project it to accelerate
to 5.93 percent next year.  At the same time, retailers are betting soccer’s  World Cup ,
the world’s most-watched sports event that Brazil will host next
year, will buoy demand for goods as the government bankrolls
purchases by low-income families. “Live the World Cup of your
life,” says a banner ad for Sony televisions on the website of
Brazilian electronics retailer Ponto Frio.  “If a family just wants to swap its old television for a
new digital one, one of those nice modern ones, to watch the
World Cup games, that family can ask for the credit,” Rousseff
said on radio program “Coffee with the President” the week
after announcing the My Better House financing program.  Interest Rates  The 18.7 billion-reais program provides up to 5,000 reais
for consumers in a country where the average monthly salary is
less than half that. The interest rate of 5 percent is almost
half the 9.5 percent benchmark rate, and beneficiaries have four
years to pay up.  The stimulus is a boon, and next year’s spectacle, plus the
presidential election, create opportunities to sell TVs and
other goods, according to Eneas Pestana, CEO of Cia. Brasileira
de Distribuicao Grupo  Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s largest retailer
and the majority stakeholder in Ponto Frio. Shares of the
company climbed 18.6 percent this year through yesterday.  With retailers’ past growth rates difficult to repeat,
continued government incentives would at least help provide
stability, said Julia Monteiro, retail analyst at Caixa Geral de
Depositos in Rio de Janeiro. Stimulus will also help sustain
Rousseff’s popularity in the run-up to the election, she said.  “People don’t want to lose their purchasing power,”
Monteiro said on Oct. 31 by phone. “They never had access, and
now they have the right to access. If they lose it, they’ll
start having a bad impression of the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  