-- RSA’s Irish Probe Raises Doubt About CEO’s Controls
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n ,   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-11-13T17:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/rsa-s-irish-probe-raises-doubt-about-ceo-s-controls.html
In September,  RSA Insurance Group
Plc (RSA)  Chief Executive Officer Simon Lee expanded the role of his
top Irish lieutenant,  Philip Smith , and praised his
“outstanding record.” Two months later, he suspended him.  Smith, 45, and two fellow executives were placed on leave
Nov. 8 pending an investigation of accounting practices at the
Irish unit. Lee faced questions from investors this week about
how much he knew about those accounting issues when he presided
over a trading update and analysts’ call six days earlier.  “We didn’t expect these issues to be material,” Lee, 52,
said on Nov. 11 as he discussed events that led to the
suspensions. “During the second half of last week, as the
investigation proceeded, it became clear that the financial
implications were much more serious.”  The news triggered the worst  sell-off  of RSA shares in
about a decade, erasing 417 million pounds ($664 million) of
market value and prompting downgrades from firms including
Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Analysts asked
whether the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer can manage its risks
properly after almost a decade of acquisitions and said the
London-based firm may have to cut its dividend for a second time
in two years.  RSA, which insured the house of British explorer Captain
James Cook in 1765, operates in 32 countries across  Europe ,
 Latin America ,  Canada  and the  Middle East  and has made more than
60 acquisitions in eight years, according to Gordon Aitken, an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets . The investigation could signal
a wider concern that the company’s management controls aren’t
strong enough, he told clients in a note on Nov. 11.  ‘Lack Confidence’  “We lack confidence in the business, management and the
strategy,” Aitken wrote, changing his rating on the firm to
sell from hold. “We are now more concerned about the potential
lack of control at the center following issues being
investigated in Ireland.”  RSA  fell  4.8 percent to 104.10 pence in  London . The stock
has slumped 17 percent so far this year, the  worst performer  on
the 19-member FTSE 350 Insurance Index.  Smith, the CEO of the Irish unit, and the other two
suspended executives -- Rory O’Connor, the local chief financial
officer, and Peter Burke, the claims director -- couldn’t be
reached for comment. The company said in its statement that “no
findings have been made against any individuals at this time.”  Claims Division  A woman who answered the door at Smith’s home in
Cabinteely, a suburb in south Dublin, said he didn’t have a
comment. She declined to give her name. No one answered at
O’Connor’s apartment in Dundrum, close to the RSA headquarters.
The firm declined to provide contact details for Burke.  The RSA probe centers on two issues: the “timing of the
recognition of earned premiums” and “the booking of large
losses” within its claims division over the past two years, RSA
CFO Richard Houghton said Nov. 11 on the call with analysts.  In other words, the insurer is investigating whether the
Irish unit reported the amount of premiums paid to the company
earlier than it should have, which could increase profitability.
It is also studying the timing of when the unit set aside
reserves for insurance claims.  RSA’s comment on Nov. 11 “was that they felt there might
have been an acceleration of earned premium,” said  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore Capital
Group Ltd. with a hold rating on the stock. “The reason someone
might do that, hypothetically, is to increase profitability or
reduce the losses. If you bring a premium forward, you reduce
those losses against the claims.”  Not ‘Material’  RSA had already gotten a handle on much of the second
concern, the “large loss issues” within the claims division,
by the time of a Nov. 5 call, Lee told analysts on Nov. 11. The
firm judged this not to be “material,” Lee said.  “I think it’s the accounting issues that have come to
light more recently,” he said.  In August, supervisors from the Central Bank of Ireland
visited RSA’s headquarters in Dublin and found issues with the
firm’s “delays in increasing cash reserves on large claims,”
the regulator said in an e-mail.  In September, soon after the regulators’ visit, Lee
expanded Smith’s position to RSA’s group director of global
brokers, a role beyond his local Irish duties.  ‘Outstanding Record’  “Philip has an outstanding record of delivery,” Lee said
in the  statement  announcing the move. “Under his leadership,
RSA has grown to become the number one general insurer in the
Irish market.”  Jon Sellors, a RSA spokesman, said that Smith hadn’t been
promoted in September. He’d received an “extension of duties,”
Sellors said.  Auditors reported the results to the Irish board, which
started an investigation into claims reporting and accounting
issues, RSA said on Nov. 11. The central bank said it set part
of the terms of the probe.  After the initial review was completed late in the
afternoon of Friday, Nov. 8, “we took the need to inform the
market,” Lee said. RSA issued a seven-paragraph statement at
6:25 p.m., after European markets closed, reporting the
suspensions and naming three senior executives, led by Adrian Brown, CEO of its U.K. and Western European operations, to take
control of the Irish business.  External Review  Before markets opened again Nov. 11, RSA directors in
London hired PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC to conduct an external
review into controls at the Irish unit, the firm said. The
accounting firm is also advising on an internal probe, which is
headed by three non-executive directors of the subsidiary, Leo
Blennerhassett, Roy Keenan and Fergus Clancy, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  When markets did open, RSA’s  shares  fell as much as 16.4
since Friday, their biggest drop since March 2004. Almost 420
million pounds have been wiped off the firm’s market value since
the accounting issues were disclosed.  Lee has grown RSA’s revenue by continuing an acquisition
strategy initiated by former CEO Andy Haste, who returned the
insurer to profit in 2005 after five years of losses caused by
surging U.S. asbestos claims.  Haste, who became CEO in 2003, made more than 40
acquisitions before he tried to buy London-based  Aviva Plc (AV/) ’s
U.K. non-life unit in 2010 for 5 billion pounds, an offer that
was rejected. Haste, now deputy chairman of Lloyd’s of London,
declined to comment for this article.  Before replacing Haste in late 2011, Lee ran RSA’s
international unit, helping turn it into the company’s biggest
division by revenue after making strategic acquisitions in
Ireland and Scandinavia.  Smith’s Role  RSA named Smith CEO of the Irish business in 2007,
according to the firm’s website. A former partner with  Accenture
Plc (ACN) , he helped the firm boost its share of the Irish market in
terms of premium income to 15 percent in 2011 from 10 percent
two years earlier, according to central bank data.  Among the acquisitions Smith oversaw was the purchase of
the 123.ie business unit for 65 million euros ($87 million) in
2010. The brand gained recognition through radio and television
advertisements using the jingle, “one, two, three, dot ie, just
log on and save mon-ey.”  “We’ll be judicious in our approach to M&A going
forward,” Lee said on the conference call on Nov. 11.  The company may also have gained market share in Ireland
through low pricing, according to Emmet Gaffney, a Dublin-based
analyst with Investec Bank Plc.  RSA Pricing  The fact the company increased motor premiums by 13 percent
in September “suggests their pricing was too low for the risks
they were pricing,” Gaffney said. “This is a fairly sizable
increase in what is a relatively competitive market place.”  RSA said then that its full-year operating profit will be
70 million pounds lower than analysts’ estimates as a result of
issues in the Irish business. This almost wipes out the local
unit’s 25 million-pound average underwriting profit, or what’s
left from premiums earned after claims and expenses, over the
past three years, according to Eamonn Hughes, an analyst at
Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers . It was the second time in a
week RSA said it may not meet its profit target.  Issues ‘Isolated’  Lee said Nov. 11 he’s “very confident” the issues in the
Irish business are isolated. “We believe that fundamentally the
control framework and the way the controls operate in the group
is strong and we will learn from any lessons that come out of
the reviews,” he told analysts.  RBC, Credit Suisse, Canaccord Genuity Corp. and JPMorgan
downgraded their ratings on the firm. RSA, which cut its
dividend in February, could reduce the payout again as a result
of the fallout while the various probes in the Irish business
could further punish investors,  Barrie Cornes , an analyst for
Panmure Gordon & Co., said in a Nov. 11 note to clients.  “The bigger concern, and the one likely to hang over the
stock until the review is completed, is the potential weaknesses
in group central control and oversight,” said Andy Broadfield,
an analyst with Barclays Plc who has a sell rating on the
shares. The news will “leave the RSA stock languishing until
year-end at the earliest,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  