-- Rudd Quits Australian Politics After Twice Serving as Leader
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-14T02:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/rudd-to-quit-politics-after-twice-serving-as-australia-s-leader.html
Kevin Rudd , who served as
 Australia ’s prime minister twice before losing the Sept. 7
election, announced his retirement from politics.  Rudd, 56, who reclaimed the top Labor job on June 26 after
 Julia Gillard  ousted him as party leader in 2010, stepped down
from the post in the wake of Labor’s election defeat and said he
will now quit his Queensland lower-house district of Griffith,
forcing a special ballot.  “It was right and proper that I report my decision to the
parliament at the earliest opportunity,” Rudd told parliament
in Canberra late yesterday. “I have chosen to do so now to
create minimal disruptions to the normal proceedings of the
House”. Parliament is sitting this week for the first time
since the election.  Rudd, a Mandarin-speaking former diplomat, entered
parliament in 1998, became Labor leader in 2006 and enjoyed
record-high popularity ratings after defeating  John Howard ’s
coalition government in 2007. His departure from politics may
help his party, which lost the September election to the Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National coalition, rebuild under  Bill Shorten ’s leadership.  “With Gillard and Rudd both gone, the ghosts of Labor’s
tumultuous six years in power have been put to rest and Shorten
now has a clear run at leading the party’s next generation,”
said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at
the Australian National University in Canberra.  Leadership Challenges  “This has been the product of much soul-searching for us
as a family over the last few months,” Rudd said yesterday.
“For me my family is everything, always has been, always will
be, which is why I will not be continuing as a member of this
parliament beyond this week.”  Rudd retained the district of Griffith in the September
election in a contest against the Liberals’ Bill Glasson,
securing 53 percent of the vote on a two-party preferred basis.
The  Australian Electoral Commission  will now set a date for the
special election in the seat. The two-party measure is
determined by votes for other candidates subsequently being
distributed as preferences to contenders from the major parties.  The former leader is seeking to have his daughter selected
as Labor’s candidate for the special election in Griffith, the
Canberra Times reported today, citing senior party officials it
didn’t identify. Jessica Rudd lives in Beijing and is 29 years
old, it said.  Early Popularity  Rudd’s initial popularity as prime minister was boosted in
part by his apology to the indigenous Aboriginal population for
past abuses and his move to sign the  Kyoto Protocol . That waned
after announcing plans to implement a 40 percent tax on resource
profits and as internal party criticism emerged of his alleged
autocratic leadership style.  After Rudd was ousted by Gillard in June 2010, senior party
figures accused him of seeking to destabilize her government,
claims he denied. He was appointed minister for foreign affairs,
a post he resigned when he mounted and lost a leadership contest
in February 2012.  Rudd’s defeat of Gillard in the June leadership ballot came
as Labor struggled in opinion polls, with voters turned off by
party infighting and concern over policy backflips. After losing
the September election, Rudd was replaced as party leader by
former union official Shorten.  “Along with the apology to Australia’s indigenous people,
history may show that Rudd led the nation through the subprime
crisis without going into recession,” the  Australian National
University ’s Hughes said.  “Many of his Labor colleagues are convinced that his
return to the prime ministership this year saved the party from
an election rout.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  