-- Russia’s Micex Slumps Most in Three Months as Mechel Tumbles
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-11-13T17:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/russia-stocks-drop-as-mechel-to-severstal-slide-on-china-concern.html
Russian stocks  fell the most in
three months as OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the nation’s biggest coking-coal
producer, tumbled to the lowest level since 2008.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 2.2 percent, the most since Aug. 15,
to 1,466.82 by the close in Moscow, after yesterday recording
the steepest increase in three weeks. Mechel, which also
manufactures steel, plunged 41 percent to 57 rubles. That’s the
lowest level and the biggest decrease since December 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. OAO Severstal, Russia’s second-largest steel producer, slid 6.1 percent to 269 rubles.  Moscow-based Mechel is being punished in the bond markets
as it seeks to obtain a waiver from debt covenants. Chief
Financial Officer Stanislav Ploschenko said Nov. 11 that talks
with banks on covenant holidays are “going well” and “should
be completed by the end of November.” Mechel is the worst
performer on the benchmark this year, with a drop of 72 percent.  “We’ll know the truth after the announcement of results of
the talks between Mechel and banks,” Oleg Popov, who manages $1
billion of securities for Allianz Investments, said by phone
from Moscow. “It’s hard to say if this is an exit of insiders
or speculative games.”  The Russian company, whose  net debt  was $9.55 billion as of
June 1, has as much as $2.48 billion due next year, according to
a June presentation on its website. Today’s sell-off is “purely
speculative” and covenant talks are on schedule to be completed
by the end of the month, Mechel spokesman Arseny Palagin said by
phone.  Mechel Bonds  Russia ’s Micex was the biggest decliner among markets in
developing Europe and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg today. Mechel
shares also slumped in  New York , losing 18 percent to $2.36 by
10:55 a.m. in the city, the lowest level since October 2004.  The yield on Mechel’s 5 billion rubles ($152 million) of
February 2021 bonds, which investors can force the company to
redeem next year, surged to a record-high today, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “This looks like a margin call,” Kirill Yankovskiy,
director for equity sales at UralSib Capital in London, said by
e-mail. “Most likely someone has a clear understanding that
it’ll be harder for Mechel to refinance covenants this time.”  China Meeting  Basic materials and utilities shares led declines among
nine industry groups on the Micex, losing 3.5 percent and 4.5
percent respectively on average, as most metals fell on the
 London  Metal Exchange. Chinese leaders at a meeting elevated the
role of markets in the nation’s economic strategy, while
stopping short of unveiling detailed policy shifts. Russia’s
metal producers export to  China .  “Investors expected more concrete market proposals from
the Chinese leadership meeting,” Aleksei Belkin, who helps
manage about $4.4 billion in assets as chief investment officer
at Kapital Asset Management LLC in Moscow, said by phone.
“Metal stocks are particularly sensitive to Chinese news, the
market is reacting to the expectations of global growth.”  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel fell 6.1 percent, the most
since May 2012, to 7.526 rubles. OAO Novolipetsk Steel tumbled
5.4 percent to 50.35 rubles while the stock retreated as much as
5.9 percent in London trading.  Brent climbed 1.1 percent to $106.99 in the U.K. capital,
while West Texas Intermediate crude oil traded 0.7 percent
higher at $93.65 in New York. Russia receives about half of its
budget revenue from oil and natural gas sales.  The  RTS Index (RTSI$)  slid 2.1 percent to 1,406.92. Russian
equities have the cheapest  valuations  among 21 emerging
economies monitored by Bloomberg, with shares on the Micex
trading at 4.2 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with
a multiple of 10.3 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  