-- S&P Says California Trying to Silence Free Speech in Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-11-13T19:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/s-p-says-california-trying-to-silence-free-speech-in-suit.html
Standard & Poor’s  is asking a
California judge to rule that its credit ratings are opinions
protected by a state law meant to block lawsuits filed by the
powerful to intimidate the weak.  Facing a $1 billion lawsuit by California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris  over its assessments of mortgage-backed
securities, the New York-based unit of  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI)  said in court filings that its ratings are similar to
newspaper editorials and shielded by a 1992 California statute
barring meritless lawsuits intended to bully targets.  “From a free speech perspective, there’s no more dangerous
opponent than the state,”  Floyd Abrams , S&P’s attorney, said at
a hearing today in state court in San Francisco.  S&P made a similar argument in a lawsuit filed by the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  that, like
Harris’s case, alleges S&P inflated credit assessments of
investments backed by subprime mortgages purchased by state
pension funds that later collapsed. While the judge in that case
found credit ratings are a form of free speech protected by the
law, he ruled last year that Calpers had shown sufficient
evidence to let negligence claims against S&P go forward. S&P
has appealed that decision.  Housing Boom  The California lawsuit is one of more than a dozen filed in
February against S&P by the U.S. and a group of states over
ratings on mortgage-backed securities during the housing boom.  Abrams , a free speech specialist at Cahill Gordon & Reindel
LLP, said in February that the U.S. lawsuit isn’t a First
Amendment case because the government is alleging that S&P
didn’t believe in the ratings it gave, a claim that isn’t
protected by the U.S. Constitution.  Yet the company is presenting a free-speech defense to San
Francisco Superior Court Judge Curtis Karnow after failing to
persuade him in August to dismiss Harris’ case because it was
allegedly filed too late and no state money was involved in the
pension funds’ securities purchases.  The credit rater last month filed a request to throw out
the California case under California’s anti-SLAPP law. SLAPP
stands for “strategic lawsuit against public participation.”
The law was passed in response to lawsuits filed by real estate
developers and other businesses against people and organizations
opposing their projects.  Free Speech  If S&P can convince Karnow that ratings are a form of free
speech, the burden of proof shifts to Harris to prove that
there’s enough evidence for her to win on the merits of her
complaint.  Harris alleged S&P used “guesses” and “magic numbers”
to inflate ratings of mortgage-backed securities purchased by
Calpers and the state’s teacher pension fund that ultimately
lost more than $1 billion on the investments.  Rather than using independent and objective analysis to
assign ratings to the securities, S&P lowered its standards and
gave its highest credit ratings to risky securities to bolster
its business with banks selling the investments, according to
the complaint.  By claiming the practice violated a law against using false
statements to defraud the state, the attorney general is allowed
to seek triple damages.  Key Issue  Karnow said today that ratings are “opinions at their
essence,” and the key issue in the case is whether Harris’s
lawsuit is immune from attempts to dismiss it under  California ’s
anti-SLAPP law, which includes an exception for enforcement
lawsuits filed by state prosecutors.  Those types of cases aren’t the type of malicious lawsuits
that the statute aims to protect against, said Rick Acker, an
attorney for the state.  “Not every enforcement action qualifies” for the
exception Karnow said.  Acker, a deputy state attorney general, told Karnow that
Harris’s lawsuit falls squarely within the exception because
it’s meant to protect the pension funds against fraud.  “By bringing this action she is protecting the community
of which we are all a part,” Acker said. “Pension funds could
not bring this case. This is a law enforcement case.”  The judge didn’t say when he would rule on the matter.  The case is California v. McGraw-Hill Cos., CGC 13-528491,
California Superior Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in state court in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  