-- TSA Behavior Detection Called Flawed, Not Worth Money
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-11-14T17:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/tsa-behavior-detection-called-flawed-not-worth-money.html
U.S. Transportation Security
Administration efforts costing $200 million a year to spot
potential terrorists by observing behavior are ineffective and
lawmakers should limit funding, the Government Accountability
Office said.  TSA’s techniques couldn’t be validated in a review of 400
studies of behavior detection spanning 60 years, the GAO said. A
review of the program’s referrals and resulting arrests -- none
of them related to terrorism -- showed it’s barely more
effective than chance, the GAO said.  “My concern with SPOT is that it doesn’t address the
threats emanating from overseas,” said Representative Richard Hudson, chairman of the House transportation security
subcommittee, referring the program known as Screening of
Passengers by Observation Technique.  “It doesn’t provide deterrence, and I’m not convinced it
really makes us safer in its current form,” Hudson, a North
Carolina Republican, said at a hearing today after the GAO
report was released.  The GAO’s  finding  follows a Department of Homeland Security
inspector general’s report last year that said the program
wasn’t objective and TSA couldn’t assess its effectiveness. The
agency has spent about $900 million on the program since 2007,
according to the GAO report.  Pistole Defense  TSA Administrator John Pistole, the FBI’s second-highest
ranking official before joining TSA in 2010, said he’s confident
SPOT is an effective deterrent.  “I know behavior detection works,” Pistole said at the
hearing. “I don’t want to take a layer away that may identify
the next terrorist.”  SPOT involves TSA officers roaming airports looking for
signs of people acting suspiciously.  At some locations, officers question passengers waiting in
checkpoint lines, a practice that’s been derisively referred to
as chatdowns. The agency has been accused by civil liberties
groups of using racial profiling in targeting travelers for
extra screening.  Few Arrests  Just 0.6 percent of 61,000 travelers selected by SPOT
officers for added screening at 49 airports in the past two
years were arrested by law enforcement, the report found. The
most common charges were possessing fraudulent documents and
being in the U.S. illegally.  In questioning at today’s hearing, Pistole said to his
knowledge a terrorist hasn’t entered a U.S. airport or airplane
since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on New York and  Washington .  The TSA needs to get away from screening all travelers for
objects, Stephen Lord, a managing director with the GAO, said in
an interview. The question is whether the SPOT program is the
way to do that.  Other law-enforcement agencies use intuition or carefully
structured interviews, simplifying officers’ techniques, while
the TSA uses a scoring system with 94 indicators, Lord said. Its
officers typically spend 30 seconds or less scanning travelers
waiting in line.  “They need to streamline the program,” Lord said. “It’s
too complicated.”  TSA Response  The GAO used faulty data and methods to evaluate the SPOT
program, TSA said in its response to the watchdog report. The
program remains at the core of its strategy to move toward
targeting passengers more likely to present a risk, it said.  “Significantly limiting funding would have a detrimental
impact on TSA’s goal of expedited risk-based passenger
screening,” Jim Crumpacker, DHS’s liaison with GAO, said in the
response.  Behavior detection has been an accepted practice for many
years in law enforcement, customs and border protection, defense
and security in the U.S. and internationally, Crumpacker said.  Because SPOT is part of a multipronged strategy, “to
disrupt one piece of the multilayered approach may have an
adverse impact on other pieces,” Crumpacker said.  The agency released the report ahead of today’s House
hearing on the behavior-detection program and the agency’s
responses to the Nov. 1 shooting of a TSA officer at Los Angeles
International Airport.  Pistole said since the shooting, TSA has worked with local
law enforcement agencies to make police more visible in
airports. The agency has met with aviation-industry groups to
review airport security, he said.  One item under discussion is TSA’s five-minute standard for
law enforcement agencies to respond to an emergency, Pistole
said. Police were on the scene at LAX in four minutes, he said,
and a shooter who wanted to inflict mass casualties could have
killed a lot more people than the one who died in Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  