-- Sainsbury Jumps to Highest Since 2008 as Profit Beats Rivals
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-11-13T11:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/sainsbury-first-half-earnings-beat-estimates-outperforms-rivals.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket company, said first-half earnings climbed 7
percent as a focus on fresh British food helped the grocer grow
faster than its main competitors.  Underlying pretax profit rose to 400 million pounds ($636
million) in the six months ended Sept. 28, the London-based
retailer said today. That beat the 394 million-pound median
 estimate  of nine analysts compiled by  Bloomberg News . The
retailer also raised its forecast for full-year profitability,
sending the  shares  to the highest in more than five years.  An increasing proportion of British-made produce helped
sales of own-label products to continue growing at more than
twice the pace of branded items, Sainsbury said. The grocer is
the only one of the U.K.’s four main grocers to be gaining
market share as more shoppers turn to discounters Aldi and Lidl.  “These numbers reflect Sainsbury’s operational strength as
it is the only U.K. listed grocer to have exceeded first-half
profit expectations,” Al Johnston, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc., said in a note to clients.  The shares rose as much as 4.5 percent to 416.7 pence, the
highest since Jan. 4, 2008 and the  steepest intraday  gain since
March 2012. They traded up 4 percent at 11:12 a.m. in  London .  Sainsbury’s emphasis on fresh food has helped win shoppers
as Britain’s grocery market polarizes toward discounters and
upscale stores as customers seek lower prices and place a higher
trust in the provenance of their produce.  Fresh Pork  All of the grocer’s fresh pork and breaded chicken are now
obtained from British suppliers, the company said today.
Sainsbury also emphasized that it gets all its fresh and frozen
beef from U.K. and Irish suppliers as it seeks to gain shoppers
made wary by an industry horsemeat scandal earlier this year.  Sales at stores open at least a year increased 1.4 percent
in the first half and will grow 1 percent to 1.5 percent for the
year, Chief Financial Officer  John Rogers  said on a conference
call with reporters.  “The reality is that we have pretty tough comparables
coming up, in the fourth quarter in particular,” Rogers said on
the call. “We would expect like-for-likes in the second half to
be a little bit lower than in the first half, but we are
maintaining our overall guidance.”  Operating profit as a percentage of sales will show “mid-single-digit basis point growth,” for the year as a result of
cost savings brought about by greater productivity and less
waste, Rogers said on a separate call with analysts. Sainsbury,
which previously forecast a “flat”  margin  for the year,
generated 55 million pounds of savings in the first half and is
on course to reach about 100 million pounds for the year, the
company said.  Market Share  Sainsbury’s share of the U.K. grocery market rose to 16.7
percent in the 12 weeks ended Oct. 13, from 16.6 percent in the
same period a year earlier, Kantar Worldpanel said last month.  The latest four-week sales exceeded those of Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s Asda, the second-largest U.K. grocer, for the
first time in more than a decade, Barclays analyst James Anstead
said in an Oct. 22 note, citing Kantar Worldpanel figures that
are not publicly available.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest retailer, reported unchanged
U.K. same-store sales in the second quarter last month and
Morrison last week posted the steepest drop in same-store sales
in almost a year in its fiscal third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  