-- Samsung, Apple, Hyundai, Tardis: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-13T20:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/samsung-apple-hyundai-tardis-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is set for a replay of a
court fight against Samsung Electronics Co. in which the iPhone
maker may seek to recoup more than the $411 million in damages a
judge cut from a $1.05 billion jury award in 2012 over patents.  Jury selection began yesterday in  San Jose ,  California , in
a retrial over how much Samsung should pay for infringement of
Apple’s  intellectual property . The original verdict in August
2012, which was the year’s largest in the U.S. at the time, was
found by a judge to be flawed because jurors miscalculated the
period that the infringement occurred for some of the 28 Samsung
devices on trial.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh will instruct jurors at the
outset of the retrial that the previous nine-member jury found
Samsung infringed five valid Apple patents and that their “sole
job” is to determine the amount of damages Samsung must pay for
the infringement of 13 Samsung products. While Apple hasn’t said
how much it will seek, this jury’s revision of the damages to
properly account for the infringement may result in more than
the $410.6 million subtracted from the previous award, according
to  Carl Howe , an analyst with  Yankee Group .  “The argument at this point is simply about how much
Samsung must pay Apple,” Howe said. “In my view, there is no
chance that the penalties assessed will be small; the argument
is just over whether they will be big or huge.”  Koh concluded in March that the original jury may have
overstated damages by basing its calculations on incorrect dates
for when Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung was first on notice
that its products infringed Apple’s patents. She also found that
the jury mistakenly awarded damages on profits for some Samsung
products that infringed only utility patents, which isn’t
legally permitted.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Samsung, and Kristin Huguet, a
spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment on the retrial.  The judge has said in court filings that evidence at the
retrial should “hew as closely as possible to that presented at
the original trial -- with the exception of the corrected notice
dates.”  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Apple in Trial With Inventor Who Calls Smartphone His Idea  Apple Inc., the world’s most valuable technology company,
faces a trial over claims by a California inventor that a patent
he holds covers key features of the iPhone.  Apple maintains the NetAirus Technologies LLC patent is
invalid because the technology was known long before the company
filed its patent. Cupertino, California-based Apple has won
pretrial rulings that cap any recovery NetAirus may win.  The company owned by inventor Richard L. Ditzik filed the
patent application in 1997 for a hand-held device that combines
computer and wireless-communications functions over both a
local-area network and a wide-area network. Jury selection
started yesterday in  Los Angeles  federal court in the lawsuit,
filed 3 1/2 years ago by NetAirus.  Apple said in court filings that its Newton message pad,
with add-on hardware, could perform the same functions as those
claimed by NetAirus’s patent as early as 1994.  U.S. District Judge John A. Kronstadt last year allowed
NetAirus to proceed on its claim that the iPhone infringes its
patent for a mobile phone configured as a personal digital
assistant that switches between a Wi-Fi and a cellular network
connection.  NetAirus can’t seek damages for alleged infringement that
occurred before Oct. 8, 2012, when the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office  issued a reexamination certificate that the judge agreed
“substantially” changed the patent’s claims. The ruling
narrows the potential damages to sales of iPhone 4 models after
that date.  NetAirus filed a new complaint against Apple in May for
patent infringement by the iPad, iPhone 4S and iPhone 5.  The case is NetAirus Technologies LLC v. Apple Inc., 10-cv-03257, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  Hyundai Rejected by Supreme Court on $11.5 Million Patent Award  The U.S. Supreme Court turned away a  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
unit’s appeal of an $11.5 million award in a patent lawsuit over
a means of creating customized printed proposals for prospective
customers.  The justices yesterday let stand a federal appeals court
ruling that upheld the award, won by Clear With Computers LLC
against Hyundai Motor America Inc.  Hyundai contended that faulty jury instructions given by a
federal trial judge undermined the company’s bid to invalidate
the Clear With Computers patent. Hyundai said similar
electronic-proposal systems were already available in the
marketplace when the patent application was filed.  The case is Hyundai v. Clear With Computers, 13-296.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Rights to ‘Dr. Who’ Tardis Disputed by Heir to Series Creator  The son of the writer who created the first episode of the
 BBC ’s “ Dr. Who ” science-fiction television series is disputing
the network’s right to the “ Tardis ” -- the blue police phone
box time machine that is bigger on the inside than on the
outside -- used in the program, the U.K.’s Independent  reported .  James Anthony Coburn, who died in 1977, wrote “An
Unearthly Child,” the first episode in what is now the world’s
longest running science-fiction serial, the Independent
reported.  His son Stef Coburn claims the idea of a police phone box
as a time machine was entirely his father’s and has demanded
that the BBC halt its use of the Tardis or pay a fee for each
use since that first program, according to the newspaper.  The BBC, which will run a program about the show’s genesis
in connection with its 50th anniversary this year, said it’s
considering the complaint and that its copyright until now had
been unchallenged since the network registered it in the 1980s,
according to the Independent.  Anheuser-Busch Sued Over Use of ‘Lady’ in Bud Light Commercial  Anheuser-Busch LLC was sued for infringement by the owner
of the copyright to “ Lady ,” a song performed by the U.S. rock
band Styx.  Dobre Films LLC , based in Los Angeles, is a co-defendant.  The lawsuit is related to the alleged unauthorized use of
“Lady” in a commercial for Bud Light beer made by Dobre.
Wooden Nickel Music of  New York  said it owns the copyright to
both the music and its performance in the recording by Styx.  The music company claims that Dobre’s video “ Bud Light
Commercial-The Elevator ” was uploaded to Google Inc.’s YouTube
video-sharing website. At the beginning of the video, the text
states this is a “Budlight Commercial Spec” directed by
Christopher D’Elia, and a notice that the copyright for the
commercial belongs to Dobre Films.  Counsel for Wooden Nickel contacted Anheuser-Busch in
August, notifying the brewer of the use of its music and asking
whether the company obtained a license to use it and, if so,
from whom.  Although counsel for Anheuser-Busch replied, saying the
company had no record of ever seeing the commercial and that the
company wasn’t responsible for Dobre’s use of the music, Wooden
Nickel named the brewer as a co-defendant with Dobre.  Wooden Nickel asked the court to bar further unauthorized
use of its content, and for awards of money damages, profits the
defendants realized flowing from their alleged infringement,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Dobre didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the suit.  Anheuser-Busch spokesman Phillip Cleveland said in an e-mail that the company looked at the video and “found this to be
an unauthorized work produced by a third party without
permission.”  Cleveland said the company hasn’t used “the work in
question or anything like it commercially, nor are we legally
responsible for the use of this music.”  The case is Wooden Nickel Music v. Anheuser-Busch LLC, 13-cv-08145, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  High Court Will Not Hear Case Involving Gagosian Gallery  The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear the appeal of a
copyright infringement case involving New York’s  Gagosian
Gallery Inc . and artist  Richard Prince .  Patrick Cariou , a Paris-based photographer, sued the
gallery, its owner  Larry Gagosian , Prince and Rizzoli Publishing
Italia Srl for copyright infringement in December 2008. The
photographer accused the defendants of unauthorized use of the
photos in his book “Yes Rasta,” which contains a series of
photos of Rastafarians.  Prince used the photos from the book in a variety of ways,
including scanning them into a computer and incorporating them
into his paintings, Cariou said in his pleadings.  “Canal Zone,” a show of the Prince paintings, was held at
the gallery, and Rizzoli published a book of the same name and
based on the show.  According to court papers, the show of the infringing art
was so successful that eight of the paintings were sold for a
total of $10.5 million, with 60 percent of the proceeds going to
the artist and the other 40 percent to the gallery.  In March 2011, a federal judge in  Manhattan  found that the
gallery and the artist did infringe, saying “it has been a
matter of settled law for well over 100 years that creative
photographs are worthy of copyright protection even when they
depict real people and natural environments.”  She gave the artist, the gallery and the  book publisher  10
days to deliver of all infringing art and unsold copies of the
catalog for destruction. She also required them to notify any
present or future owners of the Price paintings that the work
infringes the photographer’s copyright and because of this they
“cannot be lawfully displayed.”  Gagosian and Prince then appealed. The federal appeals
court said in April that the lower court ruling reached too far
to find infringement, and that most of the accused works fell
into copyright law’s area of “fair use” because they were
sufficiently transformative.  Cariou then petitioned the U.S.  Supreme Court  for a
rehearing. The court declined to hear the case without comment
yesterday.  The lower court case was Cariou v. Prince, 08-cv-11327,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The appeal was Cariou v. Prince, 11-1197,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  The Supreme Court case is Cariou v. Prince, 13-261.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Animal Sanctuary Bars Bear Fan’s Visits Over Trademark Dispute  Because of a trademark dispute, a Glendale, California,
resident is barred from visiting the animal sanctuary where a
bear she helped saved now resides, the Glendale News Press
 reported .  Meatball  the bear was headed for euthanization for his
wanderings in suburban neighborhoods before Sarah Aujero began a
media campaign to raise funds to relocate him to  Lions, Tigers &
Bears , an animal sanctuary in Alpine, California, according to
the newspaper.  The sanctuary asked Aujero to give up all rights to his
name and to the account on Twitter Inc.’s short-messaging
service she used in the campaign and when she refused, told her
she was no longer welcome at the facility, the News Press
reported.  Bobbi Brink, founder of the sanctuary, said it’s simply
trying to protect animals from exploitation, the newspaper
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  