-- Sanofi MS Drug Doesn’t Benefit Patients, U.S. Panel Says
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-14T08:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/sanofi-ms-drug-doesn-t-benefit-patients-u-s-panel-says.html
Sanofi (SAN) ’s Lemtrada hasn’t proven to
help against disability in the treatment of relapsing multiple
sclerosis, said U.S. advisers who questioned whether the
company’s studies were conducted well enough to assess the drug.  While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory panel
decided that potential safety risks don’t preclude approval of
Lemtrada, its members voted 14-2 that the drug didn’t help
improve a patient’s disability. The agency isn’t required to
accept the recommendations of its advisers.  Lemtrada, approved in the Europe Union in September, was a
key part of Paris-based Sanofi’s $20 billion acquisition of
Genzyme Corp. in 2011. If cleared in the U.S., the drug would
enter a crowded field in which relapsing MS patients now have 10
treatment options with varying degrees of efficacy, including
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tecfidera and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone.  “If the study is biased, then everything that flows from
the study can’t be trusted,”  Robert Clancy , a panel member and
professor of neurology and pediatrics at the University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, said at yesterday’s meeting.
The panel voted 11-6, with one abstention, that the two large
studies Sanofi submitted on the drug’s behalf weren’t adequate
and well-controlled.  Contingent Value  The FDA is expected to decide whether to approve Lemtrada
by Dec. 27. The agency will probably issue a so-called complete
response letter that rejects the drug until the company does
further work, said Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies in
New York.  “With the panel voting that the studies were not adequate
and well-controlled, the FDA probably has to issue a CRL,”
Holford wrote in a note today. “We continue to see the
probability of approval at 20 percent to 30 percent.”  The stock rose 1.2 percent to 78.73 euros at 9:28 a.m. in
Paris. Before today, Sanofi had climbed 13 percent this year,
including reinvested dividends,  compared  with a 25 percent
advance in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals Index.  Genzyme stockholders had received rights to additional fees
of as much as $14 a share, in the form of contingent value
rights, or CVRs, at the end of 2020 if Sanofi meets certain
goals, most of them tied to the approval and sale of Lemtrada.
The CVRs were halted from trading in New York yesterday.  Lemtrada may generate sales of $672 million in 2017,
according to the average of eight analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  plans to co-promote the drug and will
receive payments based on sales.  Debilitating Disease  Multiple sclerosis  is a debilitating disease that attacks
the central nervous system. Relapses, or flare ups, are episodes
of worsening neurological function, according to the National MS
Society.  Several patients who said they had severe MS testified
today in favor of Lemtrada’s approval, imploring panel members
to leave the weighing of risk versus benefit to those who have
the disease and their physicians.  “It’s critical that people with significant disease who
stand to lose function and become disabled have the opportunity
to access this drug,” said David Goldblatt, a neuroradiologist
from Austin,  Texas , who said he started taking Lemtrada 10 years
ago.  Patients’ Responsibility  “I understand your issues with safety,” Goldblatt told
the panel. “I think that nowadays patients are taking more
responsibility and should be allowed to make the decision that
they may decide that the risk/benefit ratio is adequate for
them, that they would like to take this medication.”  The panel agreed, with many members saying they voted that
the drug’s safety issues didn’t preclude its approval because
patients should be allowed to make that decision with their
doctor. While panelists said the drug appeared to be effective
against the disease, they also voted unanimously that Lemtrada
shouldn’t be a first option for patients, if approved.  “For the foreseeable future, I would rank it as a third-line drug,” said Justin Zivin, a panel member and professor
emeritus at the University of California at San Diego.  Staff Report  FDA staff determined in a Nov. 8 report that Sanofi’s
annual infusion has “serious and potentially fatal safety
issues” including risk of cancer and autoimmune and thyroid
diseases. FDA staff also questioned Sanofi’s claims the drug is
effective.  The company’s decision not to keep secret which patients in
clinical research were taking the medicine or an older treatment
and the subjective nature of determining whether the drug was
working may have skewed results, agency staff said. That was a
main focus of yesterday’s FDA advisory panel discussions.  Sanofi said it was unable to keep that information
confidential because of the differences in how the drugs,
Lemtrada and an older treatment, were given, including annual
dosing compared with three times a week. Follow-up data showed
findings consistent with clinical trial results, Sanofi said in
an e-mailed statement on Nov. 8.  “We are pleased that the advisory committee clearly
recognized the effectiveness of Lemtrada and voted unanimously
that the safety profile should not stand in the way of
approval,” Jack Cox, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “The committee vote did acknowledge FDA’s concerns
around study design but this appears not to have had an impact
on the committee’s votes of the effectiveness and safety profile
of Lemtrada. We will work with the agency to support their
completion of the review process.”  Lemtrada won European Union approval in September and the
active ingredient alemtuzumab was cleared by the FDA in 2001 to
treat a certain form of leukemia, though the drug is no longer
for sale.  Other treatments for relapsing MS include another Sanofi
drug Aubagio, Biogen’s Tecfidera and Tysabri and Teva’s
Copaxone. Lemtrada is given through two courses of infusions
given a year apart.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  