-- Saudis, China, Russia Elected to UN Human Rights Council
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/saudis-china-russia-elected-to-un-human-rights-council.html
China ,  Russia  and  Saudi Arabia  were
elected yesterday to the  United Nations Human Rights Council 
over protests by independent rights groups that the countries
aren’t suited to serve on the world rights watchdog.  The three countries have multiple  outstanding requests  from
independent UN monitors to visit and investigate alleged rights
abuses, according to New York-based Human Rights Watch.  The UN General Assembly yesterday filled 14 vacant seats
for three-year terms on the 47-member council. China, Russia and
Saudi Arabia were unopposed and will start serving on the
council Jan. 1 alongside newly elected members such as the U.K.,
France, Cuba, Vietnam and  Namibia .  China and Russia each won 176 of 192 votes, exceeding
France’s 174 votes and the U.K.’s 171. Saudi Arabia received 140
votes. The minimum required was 97.  “We regret that some countries elected to the  Human Rights
Council  have failed to show their commitment to the promotion
and protection of human rights,” U.S. State Department
spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters yesterday.  The council has previously been able to “work together and
make progress” during periods when Russia, China and Cuba were
members and “that is what we are hopeful of with the council
moving forward,” Psaki said.  The council has the power to raise awareness on human
rights by adopting resolutions or mandating special
investigations of individual countries on issues such as
torture, freedom of expression or the right to health.  Concrete Results  Thor Halvorssen, president of the New York-based  Human
Rights Foundation , said seats should be given only to countries
that abide by the council’s standards because members could seek
to block probes into violations in their countries.  “Human-rights defenders will have their work cut out for
them at the Human Rights Council next year,” Peggy Hicks,
global advocacy director at  Human Rights Watch , said in an e-mail. “Fortunately, no states have a veto in Geneva, so a hard-working majority can still achieve concrete results.”  Russia is listed 176th out of 196 countries surveyed in
Freedom House’s 2013 global press freedom  rankings . China is
ranked 179th and Saudi Arabia is 182nd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  