-- Schlumberger Sells Bonds in Europe as Discount to U.S. Widens
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-11-13T15:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/schlumberger-markets-bonds-in-europe-as-discount-to-u-s-widens.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield services provider, sold bonds in euros as the
cost of borrowing in the currency relative to U.S. dollars
approached the cheapest in almost five years.  Houston-based Schlumberger issued 500 million euros ($671
million) of notes due March 2019 to yield 37 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average yield difference between investment-grade bonds in
euros and comparable dollar notes widened 11 basis points in the
past week to 1.33 percentage points, near the biggest discount
since December 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Schlumberger’s deal adds to 3.75 billion euros of bonds
sold by U.S. companies last week, the busiest period since May
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowing costs
between the U.S. and Europe may diverge further after Federal
Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said yesterday
a reduction of U.S. bond purchases “could very well take
place” next month.  “Where there are indications tapering might begin sooner
than expected then that will tend to drive a greater wedge
between yields in the two markets,” said Andrew Sheets, the
head of European credit research at Morgan Stanley in  London .
“If an issuer is focused on getting the lowest possible yield
that will make the European market more attractive.”  Ariane Labadens, a spokeswoman for Schlumberger in Paris,
declined to comment on the bond sale.  Hertz Bond   Another American borrower in the European market today was
 Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  The Park Ridge, New Jersey-based car
rental company sold 425 million euros of five-year securities
yielding 4.375 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bonds are rated B2 by Moody’s Investors Service, five levels
below investment grade.  Borrowing costs for junk-rated companies are also lower in
Europe compared to the U.S., with the yield difference widening
to 1.44 percentage points, the biggest gap since April 2006,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Dover Corporation, a manufacturer of industrial products
and equipment based in Downers Grove,  Illinois , hired banks to
arrange investor meetings in Europe starting Nov. 18, according
to a person familiar with the matter. A euro-denominated deal
would be the first for the company, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Petroleos Mexicanos,  Mexico ’s state energy company, is also
meeting bond investors in Europe next week, another person said.
It would be the first euro-denominated bond sale since 2009 for
the Mexico City-based utility, which typically issues in U.S.
dollars, according to Bloomberg data.  WPP Sale  Also in credit markets today,  WPP Plc, (WPP)  the world’s biggest
advertising company, sold 750 million euros of 10-year notes
yielding 103 basis points more than the mid-swap rate, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the London-based company’s
first bond sale in the currency since April 2008, the data show.  The average yield investors demand to hold investment-grade
notes in euros held at 1.9 percent compared with an average in
the last five years of 2.9 percent, Bloomberg bond index data
show.  In the sterling market,  DirecTV (DTV) , the biggest U.S. satellite
television provider, is selling 20-year bonds in pounds to yield
about 185 basis points more than U.K. government debt, according
to a person with knowledge of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  