-- Scripps Howard News Service Will Close Down After 96 Years
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-11-13T21:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/scripps-howard-news-service-will-cease-operation-after-96-years.html
E.W. Scripps Co. (SSP) ’s Scripps Howard
News Service, which fed syndicated stories to papers across the
U.S. since World War I, plans to shut down, becoming the latest
symbol of readers’ shift away from print media.  McClatchy-Tribune Information Services, a joint venture of
 McClatchy Co. (MNI)  and  Tribune Co. (TRBAA) , will take over Scripps Howard’s
clients, according to a statement yesterday. The transition is
expected to be completed by January, the companies said.  The  Scripps Howard News Service , founded in 1917, supplied
newspaper clients with Washington coverage and news from around
the world, as well as photos, commentary and editorial cartoons.
The operation was a remnant of a once-thriving era of wire
services and news agencies, when an insatiable newspaper
industry had numerous publications in every city and multiple
editions per day. In an age when Internet news is typically
free, newspaper consolidation, declining advertising sales and
shrinking circulation have crimped demand for wire copy.  As part of the changes, Cincinnati-based Scripps is
restructuring its Washington newsroom to better serve online and
television audiences, rather than just newsprint readers. The
company has acquired DecodeDC, a podcast and website founded by
former National Public Radio reporter Andrea Seabrook. She
started DecodeDC with $100,000 raised on the Kickstarter site.  Cuts, Additions  Scripps -- the owner of daily newspapers in 13 markets, as
well as 19 local TV stations -- will cut seven jobs in the
Washington bureau associated with the wire service. The company
plans to create 10 jobs to further its new push into political
coverage and investigative journalism. Seabrook is joining the
bureau, where she will continue to produce her podcast.  “Our strategy to expand as a content-focused organization,
with a full commitment to investigative reporting and national
politics, led us to this decision to cease being a packager and
distributor of content from other news organizations,” Ellen
Weiss, chief of Scripps’s Washington bureau, said in the
statement.  Ernie Pyle, a  Pulitzer Prize-winning  correspondent and
columnist, was one of Scripps Howard’s best-known contributors.
He reported from the front lines of the conflict and died in the
Pacific in 1945.  Scripps’s stock  rose 3.8 percent to $18.63 at the close in
New York. Shares of the company, which has offset declining
newspaper revenue with a growing broadcast-television division,
have climbed 72 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  