-- Senators Seen Narrowing Military Sex Assault Bill to Win Support
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-11-13T21:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/senators-seen-narrowing-military-sex-assault-bill-to-win-support.html
Female senators backing a bill to
remove sex-assault cases from the U.S. military chain of command
say they may limit their proposal to just rape and sex crimes to
win support before a showdown vote as early as this week.  Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a  New York  Democrat leading the
effort, said today her proposal to give sex-assault cases to
independent military prosecutors may be scaled back to get the
60 votes needed to amend a pending defense authorization bill.
The current plan would strip commanders of a role in any crime
punishable by a year or more of confinement.  “We prefer our bill in its original form, but there is
such an egregious issue in regard to sexual assault and rape,”
Gillibrand, who with Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  of
 California  has pushed the measure for months, said after a
closed-door meeting of Senate Democrats. “So if we need to take
a first step to begin to see real reform and transparency and
accountability in the military justice system, this is an
excellent first step.”  The proposal restricting commanders’ prosecution authority
has emerged as the central issue in a debate sparked by a
Defense Department survey, which estimated 26,000 cases of
sexual assaults last year, compared with 2,949 victims
identified in criminal reports.  Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate Armed
Services Committee this year joined Pentagon officials in
rejecting a proposal to investigate sexual assault cases outside
the military chain of command, although it approved a change in
the handling of such cases.  ‘Fix It’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today he’d very
quickly announce his plans for legislation dealing with the
issue. He said he’s meeting with Pentagon officials during the
next two days.  “Sexual assault in the military is a significant problem
and it has not been fixed,” Reid told reporters at the Capitol.
“What we’re trying to do with this legislation is fix it.”  With a record 20 women in the Senate, a bipartisan group
this year is pushing for change, setting up a showdown with the
male leaders of the Pentagon.  The group has run into resistance from some allies. Armed
Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
opposes independent prosecutors for sexual-assault cases and
offered a plan approved by his committee that would keep sex-assault prosecutions with commanders while requiring a higher-level review of any officer’s decision not to prosecute.  McCaskill, Gillibrand  Not all the women in the Senate back Gillibrand’s approach.
Democrat  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri  sided with Levin’s bill,
which also would make it a crime to retaliate against victims
who report sexual assaults.  At a hearing last summer, military officers including Army
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
criticized the proposal to restrict commanders’ prosecution
authority. He said military discipline would be hurt if
commanding officers didn’t handle the cases.  Gillibrand reacted sharply.  “Not every single commander necessarily wants women in the
force,” she told the officers. “Not every single commander
believes what a sexual assault is. Not every single commander
can distinguish between a slap on the ass and a rape because
they merge all of these crimes together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  