-- HSH Nordbank Spends 3 Billion Euros to Finance Ship Construction
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-11-13T17:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/hsh-nordbank-spends-3-billion-euros-to-finance-ship-construction.html
HSH Nordbank AG, the world’s largest
shipping finance bank, spent about 3 billion euros ($4 billion)
since 2011 to help clients order new vessels and modernize their
fleet.  The bank financed 56 vessels a year, about half dry bulk
carriers and the rest product tankers, car carriers and a few
 container ships , said Christian Nieswandt, global head of
shipping for domestic clients.  “We have a strong interest in a modern fleet that is able
to compete,” Nieswandt told reporters in Hamburg, rejecting
speculation that the bank stopped new ship financing.  The lender, controlled by the states of Hamburg and
Schleswig-Holstein, needs to cut its core shipping loans to 15
billion euros from 16 billion euros by the end of 2014 to comply
with a state-aid ruling by the European Union in 2011. HSH
Nordbank has an additional 9 billion euros in a restructuring
unit, or bad bank, Nieswandt said.  One precondition for financing new construction is that the
vessels meet recent energy efficiency standards. About 90
percent of the vessels the bank financed are older models, he
said, referring to ships built before the financial crisis
started in 2008. Since then, high bunker prices and low charter
rates have accelerated technological development, he added.  As of January 2015, shipping lines must comply with low
sulfur fuel regulations in North Europe, the U.S. and  Canada ,
obliging them to buy more expensive fuel or equip vessels with
equipment to cut exhaust fumes.  This probably will result in more ship insolvencies in the
next 12 months than in the previous, especially among companies
with older, less competitive vessels that face additional costs
meeting new environmental regulations, the executive said.  “There have hardly been any insolvencies of shipping
companies, but what we have seen is insolvencies of closed-end
shipping funds that have hit individual shipping companies to a
greater or lesser extent,” Nieswandt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  