-- Shell Is Working on ‘Promising’ Renewable Technology, Voser Says
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-11-13T10:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/shell-is-working-on-promising-renewable-technology-voser-says.html
The following are excerpts from an
interview with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser  at the company’s headquarters in  The Hague .  Voser, who has headed  Europe ’s largest oil and gas
producer since 2009, steps down at the end of the year, 31 years
after first joining the company.  On Shell and renewable energy:  “It would be stupid from the oil and gas industry to say
that renewables will not play a major role in the energy system
of the next few decades.  ‘‘Today’s investment levels into wind and into solar have a
very rapid growth. Renewables will be developed.  ‘‘We are investing heavily in R&D solutions at the moment,
where we are looking at what part of wind and solar technology
delivers a greener and cleaner energy form for the future.’’  ‘‘Apart from biofuels it’s an R&D play, it’s in the
hydrogen space and some other spaces.  ‘‘We will develop a major technology play whatever it’s
going to be over the next few decades. As Shell, we want to be
part of the energy mix in the future.  ‘‘We have some very promising things, which we are
developing either through pilot projects already or through seed
monies into venture capitalist companies.’’  On Shell’s relationship with  China :  ‘‘We have global relationships with Cnooc and CNPC, and in
China also with Sinopec.’’  Cooperation  ‘‘has developed very nicely in many countries
in the world and also in China.  ‘‘We have already a material business’’ in China producing
more than 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day. ‘‘We have
significant chemicals investments, we have a significant retail
investments, we are one of the biggest lubricants players,
bitumen players in China. We are really growing very nicely into
a big business in China.  ‘‘If you take China as a destination country, where you
build across the world to get your energy in, this is going to
be an enormous business for us. That’s the way I look at
China.’’  On OPEC:  ‘‘They will remain a significant supplier to the energy
demand in the world. They will clearly play the role they have
played in the last few decades. I do like OPEC as a very
responsible energy provider.  ‘‘From time to time we underestimate how much they are
interested in keeping energy prices affordable and with low
volatility.  ‘‘But when you’ve got crisis situations like we had with
 Libya , like we had with  Syria , like we have with Tehran, the
world normally looks towards OPEC to be actually a responsible
producer.  ‘‘They were very, very fast in providing more supply when
the time was getting critical.’’  On Shell’s interest in  East Africa  after dropping a bid for Cove
Energy Plc last year:  ‘‘We have good exploration prospects, we have switched into
exploration-led strategy in East Africa.  ‘‘I have no regrets of walking away’’ from Cove. ‘‘I don’t
feel that we missed out on East Africa. We are quite long in
this stage anyway.  ‘‘ In any new province and a therefore a new country there
is always a steep learning curve’’ for companies and
governments.  ‘‘This will need a lot of development. It’s a managed
risk.’’  On investing in projects versus returning cash to shareholders:  ‘‘The tension will always be there and that’s the right
tension. But it doesn’t mean that we always give in.  ‘‘We have learned it the hard way over the last 20 years.
We slowed down in the late 1990s quite considerably and this
actually was one of our biggest regrets strategically, because
it took us 10 years to recover  ‘‘Over time when we deliver, the shareholders will be with
us reaping the benefit.’’  On plans to dispose of assets:  ‘‘At the moment the pipeline which we have is richer than
we can do. We will have to make choices. The right projects will
come through.  ‘‘We then can start to monetize opportunities or other
assets, which we have. We are entering into a divestment phase
like we had a few years ago. For three years we sold every year
$7 billion.  ‘‘The net  capital spending  is considerably going to come
down in 2014. We know exactly what we are going to do.  ‘‘It will have both upstream and downstream. We are
particularly rich on upstream options. That will also drive the
divestment policy, because we make our choices.’’  The downstream ‘‘portfolio will be under analysis given the
very strong headwinds. For the shorter term I am quite
pessimistic’’ on the refining outlook.  ‘‘I don’t want to set these things for my successor. We
have been in the low part of divestments this year and it was
deliberately so.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  