-- Shorts Get Rare Payout on Tesla in Worst Year for Bears
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-11-13T09:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/shorts-get-rare-payout-on-tesla-in-worst-year-for-bears.html
In one of the toughest years ever
for short sellers, betting against  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  is starting
to pay off.  Tesla, the best-performing stock in the Nasdaq 100 Index
for 2013, has lost 29 percent since Sept. 30. About $6.59
billion was wiped from its market value, the biggest decline
this year among the 10 most-shorted American companies, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Options traders are increasing the
cost of betting on declines amid speculation the shares will
keep paring a 307 percent rally.  The U.S. market’s broadest advance on record has burned
bears as increased confidence in the economy spurred demand for
smaller, faster-growing companies such as Tesla, which had a
decade of  losses  before 2013. Stocks that investors shorted the
most soared, partly because of forced buying during rallies by
speculators who borrowed shares and sold them.  “You’ve just had an incredibly strong market this year
and, in that type of environment, it’s hard to find stocks that
are going to go down whether their fundamentals deserve it or
not,” Gary Flam, a portfolio manager at Bel Air Investment
Advisors LLC in  Los Angeles , said yesterday by phone. His firm
oversees about $7 billion. “Tesla has gone straight up and the
valuation stopped making sense a long time ago.”  Tesla shares tumbled 21 percent on Nov. 6 and 7, the
biggest two-day retreat since 2010, as vehicle sales missed some
estimates. Last week, a Model S sedan in  Tennessee  became the
third accident in about five weeks to result in a blaze.  ‘Good Deal’  The stock is a “good deal” after the drop,  Elon Musk , the
company’s co-founder, said yesterday at the New York Times’
DealBook conference in New York, which was webcast and telecast
on CNBC. Liz Jarvis-Shean, a spokeswoman for the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company, declined to comment on the short sales
and the options trading.  Chief Executive Officer Musk said “there’s definitely not
going to be a recall” of the Model S as the electric-car maker
waits to see if U.S. regulators investigate crash-related fires
involving the sedan.  “We’re about five times less likely to have a fire than an
average gasoline car,” Musk said yesterday at the conference.
Reaction to the fires reported by some media was “extremely
inaccurate and unreasonable,” he said.  Implied volatility , used to gauge the cost of options, for
one-month contracts with an exercise price 10 percent below the
stock was 59.3 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with 53.9 for calls protecting against a 10 percent
gain. The price relationship known as skew was 6.3 on Nov. 11,
the highest level since January.  Rare Success  The stock declines are a rare success for bears in one of
the worst years for short sellers. More than 440  stocks (SPX)  in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are up in 2013, the most since at
least 1990, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The HFRI EH Short Bias Index, a measure of returns from
hedge funds that primarily bet on declines, slumped 16 percent
in the first 10 months of the year. A measure of U.S. stocks
that are the most shorted has jumped 38 percent since January,
according to data from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Tesla’s market value has shrunk to $16.9 billion from a
record $23.5 billion in September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , among the most-shorted stocks in
the  S&P 500 , had a similar drop after losing $6.1 billion
between May and June this year.  The move in Tesla is reminiscent of technology shares that
soared in early 2000 before the bubble burst, according to  John Thompson , who is short the stock at Vilas Capital Management
LLC. Tesla trades at 115 times projected earnings for the next
12 months, the highest in the Nasdaq 100, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Quick Pop  “It takes a while until inflated, but when they pop, it
goes quick,” Thompson, chief investment officer at the Chicago-based hedge fund, said yesterday in a phone interview. “I don’t
think the company can expand to the mass market like it’s
implied in its valuation. As the world figures that out, there
is going to be substantial downside to the stock.”  Tesla is the third-most shorted company in the Nasdaq 100
with 21 percent of tradable shares borrowed, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Markit, a London-based research firm.
While the proportion of bearish wagers has increased this month
as the stock tumbled, it’s down from 44 percent in March.  The valuation is in line with technology companies that are
expanding rapidly, Elaine Kwei, an equity analyst at Jefferies
Group LLC, wrote in a Nov. 6 research report. She said the
 price-earnings ratio  is between 26 and 32 based on estimates of
the company’s future profitability. Semiconductor company Cree
Inc. has a forward multiple of 31, according to the note.  Tremendous Milestones  “We’re only scratching the surface of things to come,”
Kwei wrote. “If we step back from the near-term focus on third
quarter results and look at the past year in context, it becomes
clear that TSLA has achieved tremendous milestones from a
design, marketing, technology, and manufacturing standpoint.”  The luxury auto company, started by PayPal Inc. and Google
Inc. founders, introduced its first modern battery-electric
sports car in July 2006. The company plans to deliver 21,500
units of its Model S this year, up from a previous goal of
21,000, Musk said last week.  Short sellers who bailed on their positions during the
Tesla rally may buy put options in an attempt to recover losses,
according to Robert Piton, a senior equity analyst at Chicago-based TJM Institutional Services LLC.  Bearish Options  The four most-owned  options  on the stock are bearish.
January 2015 $30 puts, with an exercise price 78 percent below
yesterday’s close of $137.80, had the highest ownership,
followed by January 2015 $18 puts and December 2013 $60 puts.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge of S&P 500 options prices known as the VIX, rose 2.3
percent to 12.82 yesterday.  Europe ’s VStoxx Index advanced 1
percent to 17.44 at 10:12 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  More traders are holding bearish Tesla  options  than bullish
ones. Open interest for puts reached a record 484,000 on Nov. 7,
a 31 percent increase from the beginning of the month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. At the same time, the number of
calls climbed 49 percent to approximately 463,000 contracts.  “The stock appears as though it might test the $131 to
$132 level and if it can’t hold that level, it might trade down
to its 200-day moving average of around $105,” Piton said
yesterday in an interview. “The options market seems to be
pricing things accordingly with the potential for such a
breakdown.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  