-- SingTel Second-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on Local Sales
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-11-14T03:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/singtel-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-domestic-sales.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, posted second-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as strong domestic sales
offset the negative impact of a rising local currency.  Underlying earnings after tax, which exclude one-time
items, rose to S$884 million ($709 million) in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from S$886 million a year earlier, SingTel, as
the Singapore-based company is known, said in a statement today.
That compares with the S$862 million median estimate of four
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  SingTel is boosting spending on acquisitions and adding
digital businesses such as mobile advertising to limit reliance
on its biggest markets,  Singapore  and Australia, where growth is
slowing. The company is expanding in faster-growing Asian
markets, including increasing its stake in  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,
India’s biggest wireless carrier.  “In the developing markets where our regional mobile
associates operate, millions of customers are experiencing the
internet for the first time via their mobile phones,” Chief
Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong said in the statement. “Our
strong operating performance was impacted by the strengthening
of the Singapore Dollar.”  Net income  in the quarter rose to S$870 million from S$868
million a year earlier, SingTel said. Sales fell 8.9 percent to
S$4.16 billion. The company will pay an interim dividend of 6.8
Singapore cents a share.  Mobile Business  The company maintained its full-year forecast. SingTel
previously projected a “mid-single digit” decline in group
revenue and a “low-single digit” drop in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  SingTel shares gained 0.5 percent to S$3.78 as of 11:11
a.m. in Singapore. The stock has gained 15 percent this year,
 compared  with a benchmark Straits Times Index that has added
0.8 percent. Shares in SingTel’s Australian listing rose 0.6
percent to A$3.24 in Sydney.  Revenue from its mobile business in Singapore rose 7.3
percent percent to S$516 million amid a 6.5 percent increase in
subscriber numbers, the company said.  Second-quarter Ebitda at  Optus , Australia’s second-largest
phone company, rose 3.2 percent to S$748 million.  The post-tax profit contribution from regional associates
dropped 12 percent percent to S$354 million in the quarter as
the Indonesian Rupiah and Indian Rupee slumped against the
 Singapore dollar , the company said. About 16 percent of the
company’s earnings are denominated in foreign currencies, Chua
said.  SingTel owns all of its Singapore and Australian phone
businesses in addition to minority stakes in other mobile
operators, including Bharti Airtel, Indonesia’s  PT
Telekomunikasi (TLKM)  Selular and  Globe Telecom Inc. (GLO)  in the
 Philippines .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  