-- Slovakia Suffering 7-Year Itch Weighs Cost of Enel Divorce
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-11-14T09:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/slovakia-suffering-seven-year-itch-weighs-cost-of-enel-divorce.html
Slovakia ’s relationship with  Enel
SpA (ENEL)  is suffering from the seven-year itch.  After promises broken, plans delayed and finances strained,
the main question is whether it can afford the divorce.  Things came to a head in May, when the government rejected
Enel’s demand for an extra 800 million euros ($1 billion) to pay
for a nuclear plant it was supposed to finish this year. The
440-megawatt reactors it agreed to build after buying two-thirds
of the state power utility in 2006 are 1 billion euros over
budget and won’t be ready until at least the end of 2014.  Premier  Robert Fico ’s cabinet approved only an emergency
260 million euros to finish the two Soviet-designed reactors at
the Mochovce plant, while hinting at irreconcilable differences.  “It would do no harm if some Slovak companies were
majority-owned and managed by the state,” Economy Minister
Tomas Malatinsky told Bloomberg News in an interview yesterday.
“The question remains whether we can afford it.”  The state’s ambition may be frustrated by its own laws and
budget constraints. Public debt to gross domestic product is
already expected to rise to within 1 percentage point of a level
that triggers automatic spending curbs under the law.  While Slovakia, which Moody’s Investors Service rates at
its sixth-best investment grade, has the capacity to raise the
funds, the additional debt may push it above the legal limit,
according to Maria Valachyova, an economist at Slovenska
Sporitelna AS, a unit of Erste Group Bank AG, in Bratislava.  Spending Limits  “The government can’t afford to do it as it needs to keep
public debt below the level that would trigger strict spending
limits,” Valachyova said by phone yesterday.  Public debt will grow to 54.3 percent of GDP in 2014 from
52.1 percent this year, according to the budget, which is yet to
be passed by parliament. Exceeding the 55 percent limit would
activate a spending freeze, while the government is obliged to
pass a balanced budget once debt reaches 57 percent of GDP.  The country, which needs to roll over 4.3 billion euros of
debt next year, must also abide by a European Union debt ceiling
of 60 percent as it adopted the euro in 2009.  Government efforts to squeeze its  budget deficit  below an
EU limit of 3 percent of GDP have helped keep borrowing costs
low, with 10-year euro-denominated bonds yielding 2.6 percent,
or about 80 basis points over similar-maturity German bunds.  State Control  Still, Slovakia has inched toward greater state control of
the country’s energy assets. Fico’s cabinet agreed to buy back a
stake in gas provider Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel this year
from EON SE and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA to curb rising retail prices. It’s
also taking sideways glances at neighbors like the Czech
Republic, owner of 70 percent of utility CEZ AS, and  Hungary ,
which paid $1.3 billion for EON’s gas operations in the country.  “The Slovak state needs to think about its energy
strategy, whether to actively re-enter the utility like the
Hungarians,” Malatinsky said. “The time is getting ripe.”  Hungary has outlined plans to buy as many as seven  utility
companies , control all gas storage plants and make the household
energy industry a state-owned, nonprofit operation.  There may be gains for Slovakia in wresting control over
prices for consumers, employment at facilities, and a steady
stream of income from setting dividend policy. CEZ is the
biggest corporate contributor to the  Czech Republic ’s coffers.  Fico, like leaders across  Europe , has attacked utilities
for raising the cost of living, while his administration has
imposed tax surcharges on energy companies. He also criticized
sales of state companies, including the deal handing Slovenske
Elektrarne AS to Enel under his predecessor Mikulas Dzurinda.  Honeymoon Over  For Rome-based Enel, the honeymoon may also be over.  Plans to counter weak demand in the company’s main Italian
and Spanish markets by selling power from the Slovak reactors to
eastern Europe crashed with the tsunami that destroyed  Japan ’s
Fukushima reactors and inflated nuclear-safety costs worldwide.  Now the company, which became Europe’s most-indebted power
producer after buying  Spain ’s Endesa SA in 2007, is planning 6
billion euros of asset sales through 2017 to cut borrowings.  “We see Slovenske Elektrarne as the ideal candidate for
disposal given its capital intensity and the fact that the
relationship between the Slovak government and Enel has
significantly deteriorated,” said Manuel Palomo, an Exane BNP
Paribas utilities analyst in  Madrid  who rates the Italian
company an underperform. “The combination of poor fundamentals
and political risk makes the unit unattractive to Enel.”  Enel shares rose 0.5 percent to 3.32 euros at 9:58 a.m. in
Milan. The stock has risen 43 percent since reaching a 2013 low
of 2.304 euros on July 12.  Aging Fleet  The utility, which declined to comment when contacted by
 Bloomberg News , has two older reactors at Mochovce and two at
Jaslovske Bohunice through its Slovak unit. It owns hydropower
and an aging fleet of unprofitable Slovak coal-fired plants,
with total installed capacity of 5.7 gigawatts as of 2012.  When Enel bought its 66 percent for 840 million euros, it
expected to complete Mochovce this year and invest 2.8 billion
euros. Now it says that will be at least 3.8 billion euros and
work won’t be finished until the end of 2014 at the earliest.  “The government is doubtful that even those dates are
achievable and that the proposed budget increase will be
sufficient,” Malatinsky said in the interview. “Enel should
already guarantee a final date and final price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava, Slovakia at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  