-- SocGen’s Anne Says Turkish Lira Cheapest in Emerging Markets
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-11-13T13:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/socgen-s-anne-says-turkish-lira-cheapest-in-emerging-markets.html
Turkey ’s lira is the most
undervalued currency in  emerging markets  and will strengthen
after the “temporary shock” of U.S. stimulus tapering is over,
according to  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   “The shock emerging markets are going to see next year is
only temporary,”  Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-markets
strategy at SocGen, said in an interview in Istanbul today.
“Turkey was excessively penalized by the markets and the
Turkish lira, tactically, I’d buy it.”  Anne’s view contrasts with that of other global banks
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which is predicting that the
lira will bear the brunt of a forced rebalancing in the Turkish
economy. Goldman says the currency will probably fall to 2.4 per
dollar within 12 months and to 2.5 in 2015. The currency traded
at 2.0536 against the greenback at 1 p.m. in Istanbul, down 13
percent this year.  The lira and Turkish bonds plunged after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 he could begin reducing his
monthly bond-buying program. Turkey’s economy will probably
require foreign inflows equal to about 7 percent of gross
domestic product next year to cover its current-account deficit,
which at $3.28 billion in September was bigger-than-expected,
according to central bank data published today.  Buy Lira  Investors should buy the lira against the euro as Turkey
offers some of the best growth prospects in emerging markets,
Anne said, targeting a value of 2.55 per euro from the current
level of 2.7573.  “If you’re talking about growth reviving next year in
emerging markets, which it seems to be doing, you cannot afford
to miss out on Turkey,” he said. “Turkey is the best in the
region in terms of growth performance.”  The government will “comfortably” meet its 3.6 percent
target for gross domestic product this year, Industry Minister
Nihat Ergun told parliament in Ankara today. The GDP will
probably accelerate to 4 percent in 2014, according to the
average of 33 economist estimates on Bloomberg. That compares
with a 3 percent forecast on average for emerging  Europe , the
Mideast and  Africa , according to Bloomberg surveys.  Societe Generale  predicts the Fed will begin tapering its
$85 billion in monthly asset purchases in March, a view also
held by a majority of economists in a Bloomberg survey last
week. Once tapering begins, the bond purchases will be reduced
to zero within five to six months, Anne said.  “Once this is completed, there will be a window of
opportunity for emerging markets” because market prices have
adjusted to the prospect of reduced stimulus, he said.
“Emerging markets are better prepared, valuations are better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  