-- Somalia’s Puntland Region Says 300 People Killed by Cyclone
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2013-11-13T09:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/somalia-s-puntland-region-estimates-300-people-killed-by-cyclone.html
At least 300 people are feared dead
in Somalia’s semi-autonomous region of Puntland after a tropical
cyclone struck several coastal districts at the weekend, the
authorities said.  Hundreds more people are unaccounted and “countless”
livestock were lost in the storm, which destroyed entire
villages, homes, buildings and boats in the northeastern Somali
region on Nov. 9, Puntland’s presidency said in an e-mailed
statement today. The main highway linking the capital, Garowe,
to its biggest port at Bossaso, has been cut off, causing “the
biggest logistical problems during the ongoing relief efforts.”  The area between Eyl and Banderbeyla on Puntland’s eastern
Indian Ocean coast is inaccessible, Mohamed A. Mohamed, media
adviser to President Abdirahman Farole, said by phone from
Garowe. “We’re expecting the death toll to rise based on
accounts from family members in the area,” he said.  An estimated 30,000 people in a 250 square-kilometer (97
square-mile) area need emergency supplies of food, water,
shelter and medical aid, the United Nations Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Puntland, located on the tip of the Horn of  Africa ,
declared autonomy in 1998 and seeks the creation of a federal
Somali government. Companies including  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  of
 Canada  and  Fort Worth , Texas-based  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  are
exploring for oil in the semi-arid region.  The government declared a disaster emergency after the
storm, known as 03A, lashed the region with “heavy torrential
rain, high wind speeds and flooding,” the presidency said. Many
fishermen are missing and feared dead, it said. Thousands of
livestock were killed as a result of “icy rain,” the UN said.  Farole reiterated his government’s appeal to the
international community for help with relief supplies and to
support the delivery of emergency assistance via airdrops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  