-- Soros-Backed Waypoint Wins $550 Million Helicopter Debt
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-13T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/soros-backed-waypoint-wins-550-million-helicopter-debt.html
Waypoint Leasing, a specialist in
helicopter deals whose backers include Soros Fund Management
LLC, reached an agreement for borrowing capacity of as much as
$550 million to secure $1 billion in assets by the end of 2014.  Waypoint has transactions lined up to bring its fleet under
management to 21 helicopters exceeding $300 million in value by
the end of this year, Chief Executive Officer Ed Washecka said.
The models, acquired largely through sale-leaseback agreements,
include aircraft from Eurocopter SAS,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s
AgustaWestland unit and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky.  Waypoint raised $375 million in equity this year from MSD
Capital, Cartesian Capital Group and Soros to help build up its
Limerick, Ireland-based helicopter leasing arm and tap demand
for models used in the oil and gas industry. The debt facility
includes a five-year, $335 million revolving credit line that
can be expanded to $550 million, the company said in a
statement.  “Having a sizable debt facility allows us to ramp up the
pace of transaction,” Washecka said in a phone interview.
“Over the medium-term, it will provide us with significant
flexibility to build out the business.”  Growth plans may exceed the initial $1 billion asset
target, even doubling that figure in the near term, Washecka
said. Existing debt facilities and equity capacity should assure
the goal can be met, he said.  Search-and-Rescue  Leases, which also include some agreements for helicopters
used in search-and-rescue and utility services, average about
five to six years, the CEO said.  Contracts include leases of Eurocopter EC225s in  Australia ,
Washecka said. Demand for the model has held up even after
crashes in the North Sea last year, he said.  “The issues surrounding the ditchings have been
satisfactorily explained,” he said.  Waypoint  will also start to take delivery next year of
helicopters bought directly from manufacturers. It placed an
initial order in March to acquire four helicopters from
AgustaWestland, including the newest AW169 and AW189 models.  The borrowing for helicopter acquisitions closed this year
will probably be bundled into a term-debt facility in the first
quarter of 2014, Washecka said.  The credit facility was arranged by Credit Suisse Group AG,
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. and CIT Finance LLC, with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Union Bank NA, Fifth Third Bancorp and
1st Source Bank also involved in the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  