-- South Korea Says Can’t Accept Japan Boosting Defense Force Reach
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-11-13T11:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/south-korea-says-can-t-accept-japan-boosting-defense-force-reach.html
South Korea  won’t accept the
Japanese government’s push to reinterpret its pacifist
constitution to broaden the reach of its military in a policy
known as collective self defense, Vice Defense Minister Baek
Seung Joo told Yonhap News.  Baek told Yonhap that Japan adopting the right to project
its forces abroad, even if to aid allies, would cause regional
instability. He made the comments after meeting with his
Japanese counterpart Masanori Nishi in Seoul today.  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is pushing for a more
flexible interpretation of the constitution as he seeks to
respond to threats ranging from China’s growing military muscle
to North Korea’s nuclear arsenal and terrorist attacks. South
Korea and  China , which suffered under the Japanese occupation
that ended with Japan’s defeat in World War II, have opposed
efforts to strengthen the country’s defense capacity.  “As a sovereign nation it goes without saying that we have
the right to collective defense,” Abe said today at a
government meeting on the issue in  Tokyo . “The international
situation surrounding our nation is becoming harsher, with
increasing cross-border threats such as terrorism and cyber
attacks.”  The U.S., which imposed the pacifist constitution on Japan
after the war, favors Abe’s push to develop a more robust
defense force.  “From an American viewpoint, it is only common sense that
we would welcome Japanese assistance in helping to defend our
ships from hostile missile strikes or in joining the  United
States  and others in the international community,” Kurt Tong,
U.S. Charge d’Affaires in Tokyo, said in speech last month.  Japan’s government has yet to set a date for its decision
on the collective self defense issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Hong Kong  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  