-- Spain’s Fagor Electrodomesticos Seeks Creditor Protection
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-13T15:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/spain-s-fagor-electrodomesticos-seeks-creditor-protection.html
Fagor Electrodomesticos Soc. Coop.
sought protection from creditors today after the appliance
maker, hit by Asian competition and  Spain ’s housing-market
collapse, failed to get emergency funding.  The company’s Irish unit also filed for creditor protection
and other divisions will do the same in coming days, Basque
Country-based Fagor said in a statement. The company, which said
 Oct. 16  it was seeking a refinancing deal amid preliminary
bankruptcy proceedings, had 850 million euros ($1.1 billion) of
debt as of June 30, according to Elena Goirizelaia, a
spokeswoman.  Fagor’s demise marks a setback for the cooperative movement
after its parent company Mondragon Corp., a closely held
cooperative conglomerate, decided against keeping the company
afloat. European appliance makers are suffering from increasing
competition from  Asia , while the collapse of the debt-fueled
boom, which saw Spain build more homes than  France ,  Germany  and
the U.K. combined, has also undermined demand.  Fagor’s debt is split between securities owed to banks, to
its shareholders including employees, to Mondragon, and to
suppliers, Goirizelaia said. The debt includes 185 million euros
of perpetual subordinated bonds. Fagor sold 60 million euros of
the notes in 2004 and 125 million euros of securities in 2006,
according to regulatory filings.  The manufacturer of refrigerators, washing machines and
ovens reported a first-half net loss of 60.5 million euros,
widening from a 20.3 million-euro loss a year earlier. Sales
declined 19 percent to 491.5 million euros from 609.4 million
euros in the first half of 2012, the company said.  “Fagor has lost a lot of money and the shareholders have
had enough,” said Javier Santoma, professor of financial
management at IESE business school in  Madrid . “Fagor is a
company that has run into problems and most of the shareholders
question the wisdom of supporting it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  