-- SSE Pledges to Curb Price Rises If U.K. Cuts Green Levies
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-11-13T14:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/sse-profit-falls-after-retail-unit-reports-loss-on-cost-increase.html
SSE Plc (SSE) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
energy supplier, pledged to curb increases in customer bills if
the government cuts environmental levies that push up tariffs.  The utility would “absolutely” rein in the increases if
Britain decided to fund environmental subsidies through taxes
rather than customer bills, Chief Executive Officer Alistair Phillips-Davies said today.  SSE, along with larger competitor  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and RWE
Npower Plc, were criticized last month for raising prices about
three to four times inflation, which they blamed in part on
levies for government-run green programs. Prime Minister  David Cameron  ordered a review of the environmental charges, which
added an average 112 pounds ($179) to bills this year.  “Absolutely we would look to implement and pass on any
cost reductions that we receive from government sensibly taking
these policies into general taxation,” Phillips-Davies said on
a conference call after SSE reported a decline in earnings. It
announced an average 8.2 percent jump in energy bills Oct. 10.  Phillips-Davies said a move to curb the increase may bring
SSE’s price revision in line with that of EDF Energy Plc, which
yesterday said it would raise bills by only 3.9 percent in
anticipation of a cut in social and environmental levies.  RWE Npower  would also scale back increases if the subsidy
burden is reduced, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported
yesterday, citing Director of External Communications Guy
Esnouf. Npower, which confirmed the comments today by phone,
announced a 9.3 percent increase in power prices and an 11.1
percent jump in gas on Oct. 21.  Carbon Floor  U.K. energy bills also include a charge to help utilities
cover carbon costs. The government set a floor on carbon prices
in April to spur investment in clean-energy projects by making
it more costly to burn fossil fuels. The minimum price of 4.94
pounds per ton of emissions will climb to 18.08 pounds for the
year through March 2016, the Treasury said in March.  That levy doesn’t look sustainable when compared with the
lower price for carbon in  Europe , and may harm industry,
Phillips-Davies said today.  “We believe firmly that either it disappears or that it
should be enshrined in primary legislation so people can
generally bank on the fact it could be there for a long period
of time,” he said. “We’ve made that clear to government.”  Labour opposition lawmaker Tom Greatrex wrote to Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey  on Oct. 31 asking whether the tax would be
part of Cameron’s review of environmental charges. The Treasury
couldn’t immediately comment when contacted today.  SSE’s adjusted pretax profit totaled 354 million pounds in
the fiscal first half, a 12 percent decline from a year earlier
after its retail unit reported a loss because of higher costs,
the Perth, Scotland-based company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  