-- Stada Shares Fall as Earnings Miss Estimates on German Weakness
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-11-13T11:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/stada-shares-fall-as-earnings-miss-estimates-on-german-weakness.html
Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  shares fell
the most in 15 months as lagging profit in the generic-drug
maker’s German home market pushed earnings below analysts’
estimates.  Stada’s third-quarter net income, adjusted for some one-time effects, fell about 16 percent to 30.2 million euros ($40.6
million), the Bad Vilbel-based company said today. That missed
the 39.6 million-euro average estimate of five analysts  surveyed 
by Bloomberg.  Stada partly blamed the decline on a tax rule that limits
interest deductions to 30 percent of the earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization a company reports
in  Germany . Stada said its taxes rose as its German profits
dropped. Meanwhile, faster-growing markets in Eastern Europe
couldn’t offset the domestic slowdown Stada faces, said James Vane-Tempest, a London-based analyst for Jefferies.  “The German market in particular was very weak,” Vane-Tempest wrote in a note to investors, calling the results
“light across the board.” He has an underperform rating on the
shares of Stada, Germany’s biggest publicly traded generic-drug
maker.  The shares fell as much as 6.9 percent in  Frankfurt , the
biggest intraday decline since Aug. 2 last year, and were
trading 6.6 percent lower at 37.45 euros as of 11:57 a.m. local
time.  Stada, which started selling generic Viagra in June, kept
its guidance for this year and next, saying that adjusted Ebitda
will rise in the high single-digit percent range both years. In
2014, the company forecast revenue of about 2.15 billion euros,
and a minimum of adjusted Ebitda of about 430 million euros and
adjusted net income of about 215 million euros.  Stada didn’t report third-quarter adjusted profit.
Spokesman  Patrick Meschenmoser  confirmed a number calculated by
subtracting half-year results from nine-month results reported
today. Sales rose 3.4 percent to 462.4 million euros with
revenue in Germany down 16 percent.  The company has scheduled a conference call with
journalists at noon Frankfurt time today and a call with
investors at 2 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  