-- Swiss Bank Decline Makes Way for Italy Mozzarella Makers
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-11-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/swiss-bank-decline-makes-way-for-italy-mozzarella-makers.html
After eating at 40 restaurants in
Ticino in a quest to gauge the quality of mozzarella, Andrea
Lamberti’s verdict was clear: it was bad. So he left his native
 Italy  and set up a cheese-making business in the Swiss canton.  “When I visited Switzerland for the first time, I
immediately knew I’d move here if I ever wanted to start my own
company,” said Lamberti, 44, co-founder of Caseificio Oro
Bianco Sagl, which produces and imports five kinds of mozzarella
cheese in the Italian-speaking region. “In Italy, businesses
don’t have the chance to develop. The state destroys
companies,” Lamberti, who set up shop in Chiasso in September,
said in a phone interview.  With its campaign Benvenuta impresa!, or “Businesses
welcome!,” Chiasso, the southernmost city of Switzerland, wants
to attract as many as 20 Italian companies per year to fill
office space left empty by the financial sector. In return it
offers lower taxes and less bureaucracy, according to Mayor
Moreno  Colombo .  The city started wooing Italian companies to replace banks
that relocated to Ticino’s finance center in nearby Lugano or
closed down. The number of institutions in the canton declined
to 64 at the end of 2011 from 78 in 2005, according to the
Ticino Banking Association.  Disappearing Banks  “Ticino has seen its banking sector shrink more strongly
than the rest of Switzerland in recent years,” said Raoul
Wuergler of the Association of Foreign Banks in Switzerland.
“The canton has many smaller financial institutions, who either
merged or didn’t survive because of the financial crisis and
other factors including tougher demands regarding cross-border
activities and tax matters.”  The canton’s focus on Italian clients meant that banks also
lost business when Italy passed a tax amnesty in 2009, according
to Wuergler. The pardon allowed Italians to repatriate
undeclared funds by paying a fine of 5 percent to 7 percent of
their assets.  To attract Italians, Ticino markets itself as distinctively
Swiss with an “unmistakable touch of Italy,” combining
political stability with a relaxing pace of life, according to
the canton’s Finance and Economics Department. The Alpine area’s
19.85 percent corporate tax rate compares with an initial 27.5
percent rate in Italy before regional levies and business-related charges are added.  Entrepreneurs Attracted  “We’ve had a lot of entrepreneurs from Italy interested in
operating from Switzerland in the last two to four years,” said
Marco Passalia, deputy director of the Chamber of Commerce in
Lugano, Ticino’s biggest city. “This is not only for tax
reasons. It’s easier to operate from Switzerland, as there is no
bureaucracy.”  Switzerland is 29th in the World Bank’s ease of doing
business ranking, which annually measures the effort required in
categories including starting a business, trading across borders
and business regulation. Italy comes in at no. 65, with the
country’s scores on companies getting credit pulling down its
mark. Singapore tops the list.  “When we started to grow internationally, Italy didn’t
seem the best base, because of the limited access to credit, the
labor costs, the lack of labor flexibility, and bureaucracy,”
said Fabio Cannavale, founder and chairman of tourism company
Bravofly SA. “We couldn’t have expanded the way we did if we
had stayed in Italy.”  Bravofly, founded in 2004 in Milan, moved the 34 miles (55
kilometers) to Chiasso two years later and now employs about
1,000 people, 250 of whom work in the Swiss city. It books more
than 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in travel transactions, up
from about 100 million euros six years ago, and may sell shares
to the public next year.  Italian Commuters  The population of Chiasso, which was invaded by the Swiss
in the early sixteenth century, doubles during workdays to about
16,000 as commuters, or “frontalieri,” cross from Italy to the
city. Ticino counts about 60,000 such workers, roughly a third
of its entire workforce. “If you look at the map, Ticino
basically is Italy,” Cannavale said.  The push in Ticino, the country’s largest financial center
after Zurich and Geneva by the number of institutions, is part
of a wider trend of Swiss regions trying to attract companies by
offering lower taxes or tax holidays. Whereas German-language
cantons compete for business from nations including  Germany , the
U.S., and the U.K., Ticino focuses on neighboring Italy.  “The goal is to revive Chiasso,” Mayor Colombo said in an
interview from his office in the town hall. “We are organized,
central and respond immediately.”  Fighting Back  Italy has noticed, and started fighting back. In response
to Chiasso’s offensive, Roberto Maroni, the governor of
Lombardy, the country’s wealthiest region, has begun a campaign
to counteract the movement to Ticino, pledging the region will
give small businesses access to funding and credit, as well as
tax relief to persuade them to stay.  Lombardy is trying to boost its competitiveness, Maroni
said. “Obviously we don’t blame the entrepreneurs, who, in an
attempt to survive, seek to use the more favorable opportunities
in terms of fiscal and environment, which can be found across
the border.”  Regaining the confidence of Italian entrepreneurs won’t be
easy. Italy, the euro area’s third-biggest economy, is mired in
its longest recession since World War II, with joblessness at
the highest since records began in 1977, signaling that the euro
area’s recovery may be bypassing it.  EUSolar Srl, a Northern Italian builder of solar plants
which opened a new headquarters in Locarno in August, cites
reduced funding costs as one of the reasons for its relocation.  “Credit conditions in Italy are prohibitive,” said
Maurizio Guidi, a co-owner EUSolar. Bravofly’s Cannavale agrees.  In Switzerland “everything is very easy,” as banks
readily lend to businesses at low cost, he said. “The access to
the capital market for a private company is much easier in
Switzerland because of access to investors and because people
generally prefer to invest in Swiss companies. They trust them
more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  