-- U.K. Stocks Sink as BOE Spurs Speculation of Rate Hike
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-11-13T17:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/u-k-stocks-drop-as-jobless-rate-approaches-boe-threshold.html
U.K. stocks  tumbled the most in
almost three months as the Bank of England said unemployment
will probably reach its threshold to consider increasing
interest rates sooner than previously forecast.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led banks lower,
losing more than 2 percent.  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  slid the most since
June after its largest shareholder sold its entire stake in
Europe’s biggest regional airline.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  gained the
most in 19 months as Britain’s third-biggest supermarket chain
posted earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 96.79 points, or 1.4 percent,
to 6,630 at the close in London, the biggest drop since Aug. 15.
The gauge has still soared 12 percent this year as the  Federal
Reserve  maintained stimulus measures. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index also lost 1.4 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
slid 0.7 percent.  “Investors had a myopic focus on the  Bank of England ’s
unemployment projection; they feared it would be brought forward
and it was,” said Guy Foster, the London-based head of
portfolio strategy at Brewin Dolphin Ltd., which oversees 28
billion pounds ($44.7 billion). “The Bank of England expects
the unemployment threshold to be passed in 2015. Traders think
the risk of interest rates rising has increased.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, GlaxoSmithKline Plc and two other
companies in the FTSE 100 are trading without the right to the
latest  dividend  payment today, shaving 11.6 points off the
benchmark measure.  Inflation Report  The Bank of England, in its quarterly Inflation Report,
said the U.K. jobless rate may fall to its 7 percent threshold
for considering interest-rate increases as early as the third
quarter of 2015. The bank had previously expected unemployment
to stay above the threshold until the second quarter of 2016.  The  jobless rate  as measured by International Labour
Organisation standards declined to 7.6 percent in the three
months through September, the lowest since 2009, the Office for
National Statistics said today.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President
 Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday a tapering of bond purchases
“ought to be on the table at upcoming meetings” of the Federal
Open Market Committee, including one on Dec. 17-18.  Janet Yellen , who was named last month as successor to Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will express her views publicly for
the first time in seven months on the stimulus measures she has
supported in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow.  Standard Chartered  Standard Chartered lost 2.5 percent to 1,448 pence as
Mizuho Securities Co. downgraded the lender to underperform from
neutral. The U.K. bank that makes three-quarters of its profit
in Asia, said this week it may not reach its target of growing
revenue by at least 10 percent for the next “couple of years.”  “Considering management’s downbeat outlook for revenue for
several years to come, we feel we have no choice but to
downgrade the stock,” Mizuho analyst Jim Antos wrote in a note.  Barclays declined 2.8 percent to 249.5 pence and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  slipped 1.9 percent to 683.2 pence, the largest
drop since August. A gauge of banks was the  third-worst
performer  among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Flybe plunged 11 percent to 93 pence as Rosedale Aviation
Holdings Ltd. sold its 48.1 percent stake to existing and new
shareholders in a deal valued at 37 million pounds, based on
Flybe’s closing price yesterday.  Sainsbury advanced 3 percent to 410.7 pence, the biggest
gain since March 2012, after saying first-half underlying pretax
profit rose 7 percent to 400 million pounds. That beat the 394
million-pound median projection of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  