-- U.K. Cocoa, Coffee Depots Raise Maximum Rents the Most
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-11-13T15:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/u-k-cocoa-coffee-depots-raise-maximum-rents-the-most-correct-.html
(Corrects price increases in story published Nov. 8 after
exchange  corrects  charge levels.)  Cocoa and coffee warehouse owners in
the U.K. raised maximum rents for storage of both commodities in
bags by the most of all 12 locations, NYSE Liffe data showed.
The second-biggest increase was in Antwerp,  Belgium .  The two U.K. warehouse owners storing coffee in bags that
back futures contracts on NYSE Liffe increased maximum rent
charges by an average 4.8 percent to 14.88 pounds ($23.76) a
metric ton for the first half of next year,  data  published by
the exchange and Bloomberg calculations showed. The four U.K.
depots that can hold cocoa in bags boosted rent charges by an
average 4.2 percent to 12.44 pounds a ton, the data showed.  The 11 warehouse keepers in Antwerp, where most of the
cocoa and coffee that can be delivered through the bourse is
stored, reported the second-biggest rent increase of the 12
locations, the data showed. While maximum rents for cocoa in
bags were boosted by an average 3.7 percent to 19.18 euros
($25.70) a ton, charges for robusta coffee in bags were raised
by 3.5 percent to 18.95 euros a ton.  Rents and movement out rates are being released after NYSE
Liffe delayed their publication, scheduled for September, and
last month asked some warehouse owners in Antwerp to resubmit
proposed fees. Rents for next year weren’t increased for cocoa
in bags in Bremen,  Germany , Le Havre,  France , and Hamburg. There
was no change for rents for coffee in bags in Bremen, Hamburg,
Marseille-Fos, France, and New Orleans.  Antwerp Depots  Depots in Antwerp held 87 percent of all the coffee with a
valid grading certificate that can be delivered into futures
contracts and 48 percent of the cocoa, according to exchange
data. Stockpiles are concentrating in fewer locations, slowing
withdrawal rates after buyers purchase the commodities on the
exchange and allowing warehouse companies to profit from rent.  NYSE Liffe said in September it was extending to cocoa
rules it implemented to speed up deliveries of robusta coffee.
Facilities storing as much as 30,000 tons of cocoa will have to
deliver at least 250 tons per working day. Those holding more
will have to deliver 500 tons a day. Withdrawal rates were first
set for coffee last year after companies including London-based
Armajaro Trading Ltd. complained depots were too slow in loading
out goods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  