-- U.K. Spy Found in Locked Bag Died by Accident, Police Say
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-13T12:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/u-k-spy-found-zipped-in-locked-bag-died-by-accident-police-say.html
U.K. police investigating the death
of a U.K. intelligence-agency worker who was found naked and
padlocked inside a duffel bag in the bathtub in his apartment,
said he wasn’t murdered.  Gareth Williams, 31, was found in August 2010 in his
apartment in the Pimlico neighborhood of  London . He had been
working for MI6, the British overseas intelligence agency, as a
code-breaker at the time of his death.  “It is now proven that it is theoretically possible for a
person to lock themselves in that exact holdall, with the same
type of lock,” Martin Hewitt, Detective Assistant Commissioner
of London’s Metropolitan Police, said in a press briefing today.  Officers interviewed 27 people from MI6 and Britain’s
Government Communications Headquarters, known as GCHQ, and
concluded that Williams’s death wasn’t connected to his work,
Hewitt said.  A London coroner ruled in May 2012 that Williams’s death
was “criminally mediated,” stopping short of calling his death
an unlawful killing on the grounds that there wasn’t enough
evidence.  Hewitt said it’s “a more probable conclusion that there
was no other person present when Gareth died,” but “there
exist evidential contradictions and gaps in our understanding.”  ‘Conscientious, Decent’  While there were no fingerprints from Williams on the
bathtub and police found unidentified traces of DNA from third
parties in the apartment, there was no evidence of forced entry,
a violent struggle, or anything to suggest that Williams’s
apartment had been cleaned, Hewitt said.  A collection of 15,000 pounds ($24,000) worth of women’s
clothing, including shoes and a collection of wigs, that were
found in Williams’s apartment had nothing to do with his death,
according to police. Williams was a “conscientious and decent
man” who liked cycling and climbing, the detective said.  Williams’s family said they were disappointed over MI6’s
failure “to take even the most basic inquiries concerning
Gareth’s welfare when he failed to attend for work.”  “We are naturally disappointed that it is still not
possible to state with certainty how Gareth died and the fact
that the circumstances of his death are still unknown adds to
our grief,” they said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  