-- U.S. Mint’s Silver-Coin Sales Reach Annual Record
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-13T21:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/u-s-mint-s-silver-coin-sales-reach-annual-record.html
Silver futures capped the longest
slump in seven months on mounting speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will act to reduce economic stimulus, cutting demand for
precious metals as alternative assets.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said
yesterday that talks on a cut in bond purchases by the central
bank “could well take place” next month. Even as industrial
consumption for the metal improves, “surplus supply and the
vulnerability of investor demand will introduce substantial
downside risks to silver prices,” Barclays Plc said Oct. 31.  Silver has tumbled 32 percent this year, heading for the
biggest annual drop since 1981 and making it the largest
decliner behind corn among the 24 commodities tracked by the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index. Prices have dropped amid
concern that the Fed was ready to start slowing its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases.  “The market has come back to concentrating on Fed
tapering,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated
Brokerage Services in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“Prices are declining, and we may hit a point where you start
getting mine closures. But you would need to see a significant
round of closures before we find long-term price support.”  Silver futures for delivery in December dropped 1.6 percent
to settle at $20.442 an ounce on the Comex in  New York . Prices
fell for five straight sessions, the longest slump since April
4.  The slump in silver, mostly a byproduct in the extraction
of other metals, may crimp profit for mining companies. Shares
of  Coeur Mining Inc. (CDE) , which got about 61 percent of its revenue
from the metal last year, slid 55 percent this year in New York
trading.  Prices still rebounded from a 34-month low of $18.17 in
June as the slump attracted buyers of physical metal. Sales of
American Eagle silver coins by the  U.S. Mint  since the start of
the year have surpassed the annual record set in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  