-- U.S. Names Nigeria’s Boko Haram ’Terrorist’ Group
-- B y   D a n i e l   M a g n o w s k i   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-11-14T10:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/u-s-names-nigeria-s-boko-haram-terrorist-group.html
The U.S. named Nigerian groups Boko
Haram and Ansaru as terrorist organizations, after an escalating
campaign of attacks against civilians by militants with
suspected links to al-Qaeda.  The groups “have been responsible for thousands of deaths
in northeast and central Nigeria,”  Lisa Monaco , President
 Barack Obama ’s counterterrorism and homeland security adviser,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The decision shows
“our strong support for Nigeria’s fight against terrorism and
its efforts to address security challenges in the north.”  President Goodluck Jonathan last week requested Nigerian
Senate approval to extend emergency rule for another six months
in three northeastern states of Africa’s largest oil producer.
It’s part of a crackdown on Boko Haram Islamists who were taking
over parts of the region, according to the government.  “We salute the U.S. government for partnering with the
federal government,” Nigerian Minister of Justice Mohammed Adoke was quoted by Lagos-based newspaper ThisDay as saying late
yesterday. “This step will assist this nation to deal with
these renegades.”  Attacks by Boko Haram include a 2011 suicide bombing at the
United Nations building in the Nigerian capital, Abuja. The
State Department decision may raise the risk that U.S. interests
in the country will be targeted.  Civilian Casualties  The move “legitimizes the Nigerian government’s offensive
in the northeast, which has resulted in quite a significant
number of civilian casualties,” Thomas Hansen, senior Africa
analyst at Control Risks in  London , said in a phone interview.
“Inside the Nigerian government, it will boost the hardliners
in terms of how to deal with Boko Haram.”  The group has received both training and limited financial
support from al-Qaeda’s North African affiliate, al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb, according to a U.S. official who briefed
reporters on the condition of not being identified. Ansaru is a
splinter group of Boko Haram.  Yesterday’s action by the State Department follows the
classification of three Boko Haram leaders as “specially
designated global terrorists” in June 2012. The Nigerian
government was consulted and supported the latest U.S. decision,
according to a second U.S. official who spoke under the same
rules as the first.  ‘Greater Collaboration’  The new designation “is likely to encourage greater
collaboration between Nigerian Islamist groups and Al-Qaeda and
its affiliates in the Sahel,” Murtala Touray, a senior  Africa 
analyst at IHS Country Risk, said in e-mailed comments.  “Moreover, the U.S. government’s decision will raise the
risk of targeted attacks on assets belonging to the U.S. and
other foreign businesses and organizations operating in northern
Nigeria,” Touray said.  Largely because of petroleum imports, Nigeria is the
largest U.S. trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa, according to
the State Department. Other U.S. imports include cocoa and
rubber. The U.S. is also Nigeria’s largest foreign investor.  The terrorist designation establishes a prohibition against
knowingly providing, or attempting to provide, material support
for Boko Haram and Ansaru, and freezes any property in which the
group may have an interest.  Boko Haram, whose name means “western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, started its violent campaign to impose
Sharia law in Africa’s biggest oil producer following the death
in 2009 of its leader,  Mohammed Yusuf . Since then the group has
killed thousands of people in gun and bomb attacks in the mainly
Muslim north, and in Abuja.  Nigeria’s population of more than 160 million has more than
300 ethnic groups and is roughly divided between a predominantly
Muslim north and mainly Christian south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Magnowski in London at 
 dmagnowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  