-- U.S. Calls for TPP Trade Deal Progress in Asia Before Year End
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-11-13T12:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/u-s-calls-for-tpp-trade-deal-progress-in-asia-before-year-end.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
sought progress on negotiations in the Trans-Pacific Partnership
in his trip to Asia this week as a year-end deadline for the
trade pact looms.  Some issues are still being “worked through” in the goods
component of the trade deal, Lew told reporters in  Singapore 
after meeting with the city-state’s finance minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  today. In  Tokyo  yesterday, Economy Minister Akira Amari advised Lew to understand that Japanese producers need
protection in agricultural areas.  Japan’s defense of its farming industry, Malaysia’s
proposal to keep tobacco control measures out of the deal, and
the impact of currency manipulation on markets are among issues
impeding progress on the accord the U.S. calls the cornerstone
of its economic policy in the region. At stake for member
nations amid an uneven global recovery is the prospect of faster
growth as their goods and services find new and bigger markets.  “I’ve made the case very strongly that we do need to try
and complete it this year not because it’s important to the U.S.,
because it’s important to all of the parties in the agreement to
reach a conclusion,” Lew said in an interview with CNBC
Television today. “There will be tough decisions to be made in
the final weeks and we’ve known all along that the hardest
decisions would come at the end.”  TPP Nations  A TPP accord, which involves countries such as  Australia ,
 Canada ,  New Zealand  and  Mexico , would link an area with about
$28 trillion in annual economic output. Four of the five
countries on Lew’s tour of Asia this week are TPP nations. After
Japan and Singapore, his stops are Malaysia, Vietnam and China.  The TPP “will ultimately boost trade, boost investment and
boost job creation in all our countries,” Shanmugaratnam said.
“We intend to raise standards of investor protection for
businesses and strengthen the financial services sector, and of
course the eventual TPP package will have to provide an overall
balance of benefits for all participants.”  Amari told reporters yesterday he explained to Lew
political difficulties around some TPP areas for Japan. Lew said
that  Japan  is U.S.’s ally on financial services matters in TPP.  “Japan stands to gain quite a lot from TPP being
successful,” Lew told CNBC today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  