-- UBI Quarterly Net Beats Estimates on Higher Trading Income
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-11-13T08:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/ubi-third-quarter-net-beats-estimates-on-higher-trading-income.html
Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA ,
 Italy ’s fourth-largest bank by assets, reported profit for the
third quarter that fell less than analysts estimated as income
from trading increased 38 percent.  Net income slid to 49 million euros ($66 million) from 63.2
million euros a year earlier, the Bergamo, Italy-based bank said
in a statement today. Earnings beat the 28.4 million-euro
average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Victor Massiah is cutting costs and
selling assets to strengthen finances and boost profitability as
Italy’s recession hurts lending and asset quality and low
interest rates squeeze margins. UBI advanced as much as 3.8
percent in Milan trading, the biggest intraday gain in two
weeks.  “The recent market trends may lead to a positive trend for
trading income in the fourth quarter that may offset a higher
cost of credit,” the company said in the statement, reiterating
that it expects lower operating expenses this year.  The shares rose 3.7 percent to 5.17 euros by 9:49 a.m. in
Milan, giving the company a market value of about 4.7 billion
euros. The stock is up 47 percent this year, exceeding the 16
percent increase in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index , which tracks 44 companies.  The results were better than expected “thanks to a
stronger operating performance,” Luigi Tramontana, a Milan-based analyst at Banca Akros, wrote in a note to clients today.  Revenue declined 0.8 percent to 834.1 million euros as
trading income rose to 59.1 million euros from a year earlier.
Loan-loss provisions increased to 192.7 million euros in the
quarter from 160.3 million euros. UBI is among lenders in the
country that will be reviewed by the European Central Bank in
its assessment of balance sheets next year.  UBI already meets fully applied Basel III capital rules,
with an estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio of more than 10
percent, the bank said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  