-- HUD Said to Fail in Bid to Sell $450 Million of FHA Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-11-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/hud-said-to-fail-in-bid-to-sell-450-million-of-bad-mortgages.html
The U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development for the first time failed to sell some of the
soured mortgages it’s auctioning off in the wake of the housing
crisis, according to four people with knowledge of the results.  HUD deemed bids on about $450 million of  home loans  too low
to accept at an Oct. 30 sale, said the people, who asked not to
be named because the details are private. Since 2010, the agency
has  sold  about 50,000 non-performing single-family loans insured
by the  Federal Housing Administration  to investors willing to
either help keep the borrowers in their homes or rehab the
properties for sale.  The sales are an attempt by HUD to simultaneously stem
losses at the financially troubled FHA and pursue its public
mission of averting foreclosures on the underlying properties.
The refusal to accept bids on some of the pools may reflect that
the FHA reached its limit on the losses it was willing to
realize to keep some borrowers in   homes  or stabilize markets.  “If you can get someone who’s willing to take these notes
and fix the mortgages, or the properties and rent them out or
transfer them to a nonprofit, the idea is that you’re not
hurting places that have been hit hard by foreclosures,” said
Andrew Jakabovics, senior director of policy development at
Enterprise Community Partners and a former HUD policy adviser
who helped design the note sale program. “It’s about striking
that balance but also making sure that they’re not giving
properties away far below what the value is.”  High Debt  The mortgages that HUD chose not to sell last month were in
the two pools that had the highest debt relative to the value of
underlying  properties , the people said. The department sought to
offload a total of $1.7 billion in loans. The auction differed
from previous versions of HUD’s main type by offering pools of
loans sorted by quality and geography, one of the people said.  HUD offers the loans at a significant discount to the
unpaid principal balance with the expectation that buyers will
try to modify the loan terms or take other actions to prevent
neighborhoods from being swamped with  vacant homes . Buyers of
the notes agree not to foreclose for at least six months as a
condition of the sale.  Homeowners have a better chance of keeping their properties
if the loans are sold because FHA’s rules prevent borrower-aid
tactics available to private investors, such as reductions to
principal balances.  The sales also potentially recoup more value for the FHA
than alternatives such as taking the properties to foreclosure
and then selling them or allowing delinquent borrowers to sell
their homes for less than they owe.  Higher Return  FHA recovered an average of 46 percent of the principal
balances on foreclosed homes it sold in July. Meanwhile, buyers
of the loans in HUD’s last round of sales in June paid an
average of 53 percent of the balances of the $2.4 billion of
loans sold, or 67 percent of estimated property values. Buyers
included Oak Hill Advisors LP, mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri’s Selene Investment Partners and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ’s securities arm, HUD disclosures show.  The FHA, created in the wake of the Great Depression to
insure low-downpayment loans, has been swamped with foreclosures
as a result of defaults on mortgages it backed as the housing
bubble burst. The agency required a $1.7 billion taxpayer
subsidy in September, the first in its history.  October Buyers  Buyers of mortgages auctioned in October included
investment firm Angelo Gordon & Co. and the securities arm of
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , two of the people said. Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest fixed-income
manager, also purchased some, another person said.  Ellington
Financial LLC (EFC) , which is run by hedge-fund manager Michael Vranos’s firm, also bought some of the loans, Chief Executive
Officer Laurence Penn said last week on a  conference call .  Allan Krinsman, senior counsel for Angelo Gordon, and Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, declined to comment, as
did HUD spokeswoman Addie Whisenant. Pimco’s  Mark Porterfield 
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message.  The mortgage sales are being conducted through an online
 loan-auction service  run by Debt Exchange Inc., known as DebtX.
The offerings differ from others in the market by requiring
investors to agree to buy all of the loans in the pools for
which they’re bidding on an as-is basis instead of allowing
loans to be “kicked out,” or removed, after relying on upfront
due diligence from providers they don’t choose.  Some potential bidders may also be prevented from
participating because of a variety of other  unusual rules ,
including disclosures about whether any of their employees are
related to individuals working at HUD, one of the people said.  Sales Surge  HUD’s auctions have helped fuel a surge of sales of non-performing mortgages in the past year, as banks also stepped up
their offerings.  About 24,000 loans are being offered over the agency’s
October and December “national pool” auctions, and an
additional 5,000 from Atlanta, Baltimore,  Washington ,
Indianapolis,  Las Vegas  and  California  in “Neighborhood
Stabilization Outcomes” pools, according to an  online posting 
by DebtX.  The current $5 billion round of auctions of non-performing
loans insured by the FHA, the largest yet, resumes Dec. 10. The
department, which conducted loan sales under the program as
early as 2002, had previously offloaded $8.1 billion since 2010,
with the offerings accelerating starting late last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  