-- Coulson Told Royal Story Based on Voice Mail, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   A l l e y n e   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/ukip-s-farage-hacked-by-tabloid-to-reveal-affair-lawyer-says.html
Andy Coulson , the former editor of
the News of the World, was told by a reporter at the News Corp.
tabloid in an e-mail that a story had been “scammed” from an
aide to the royal family’s voice mail, prosecutors said.  The phones of some royal aides were hacked as many as 104
times a month by a private investigator and a reporter employed
by the News of the World, Mark Bryant-Heron, a prosecution
lawyer, said in court in London yesterday.  Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, and the 45-year-old Coulson are among eight
people on trial over phone hacking and bribes to public
officials. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the tabloid
in 2011 to defuse a scandal over revelations that journalists
had hacked the phone of a missing teenager, who was later found
murdered.  Clive Goodman , the tabloid’s former royal reporter who is
also a defendant in the case, sent Coulson an e-mail outlining
how he obtained the information for the story, Bryant-Heron said
after showing jurors a transcript taken from the mobile phone of
Helen Asprey, Prince Harry’s personal assistant.  “The health inf. is from the doc himself, scammed from
Helen Asprey, so it is solid,” Goodman said in the e-mail to
Coulson, who later became a media adviser to Prime Minister
 David Cameron .  Yesterday at the three-week-old trial, prosecutors said
that the phones of other politicians and celebrities were
hacked.  UKIP Hacking  Glen Mulcaire, who has pleaded guilty to voice-mail
interception, hacked the phone of the leader of the U.K.
Independence Party days before the newspaper ran a story about
him having an affair, said Andrew Edis, the lead prosecution
lawyer.  He listened to the private voice mails of Nigel Farage, a
member of the European Parliament, on at least two occasions in
2006, Edis said.  Edis told the jury that notes found at Mulcaire’s house by
police suggested he had been asked to target actress  Sienna Miller , who at the time was in a relationship with Jude Law.
Law’s ex-wife, Sadie Frost, was also probed, he said.  Brooks, 45, was also targeted by Mulcaire, Jonathan Laidlaw, her lawyer, told the jury yesterday. A police officer
said while testifying that Brooks had been “extensively”
phone-hacked. Coulson was a victim of hacking by Mulcaire too,
his lawyers said earlier this month.  Gordon Taylor  Dozens of transcripts were found of voice mails intercepted
by Mulcaire from the phone of  Gordon Taylor , the CEO of the
Professional Footballers’ Association, Edis said.  The News of the World wanted to run a story that he was
having an affair with the soccer body’s lawyer, as the 76
messages included affectionate words including “darling,”
“love you” and “honey,” he said. The story was never
published, Edis said.  Other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old
former managing editor of the News of the World, and Ian
Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor, who are both
accused of phone hacking. Goodman, 56, is charged with
conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  