-- Union Calls on FIFA to Help Player in Contract Spat Leave Qatar
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-11-14T01:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/union-urges-fifa-to-help-player-in-contract-dispute-leave-qatar.html
Soccer’s biggest player union urged
the sport’s global governing body to help a French midfielder
involved in a contract dispute to leave Qatar, the host country
of the 2022  World Cup .  Zahir Belounis, a 33-year-old who moved to Qatar in 2007,
has been denied an exit visa following a claim for unpaid wages
against his employer, El-Jaish  soccer club . Belounis said in an
interview two days ago that only his family is keeping him from
suicide, and described himself as a “destroyed” man.  FIFPro, the Netherlands-based players union, said on its
website that it had asked for help from Sepp Blatter, president
of soccer’s ruling body FIFA, “in a desperate bid to unite the
international football family and finally end the impasse.”  Belounis said an agreement that would have allowed him to
leave fell through when the team changed the terms. El-Jaish
couldn’t be reached for comment.  FIFA  has said it can’t intervene because the player lodged
his claim with a court in  Qatar  rather than the soccer body’s
dispute-resolution panel, which deals with contract disputes.  “FIFA has to date received no contractual claim from
Belounis against his Qatari club as well as any accompanying
documentation to support his case,” the federation said in an
e-mailed statement.  Qatar has faced scrutiny over its treatment of foreign
workers since winning the right to host the 2022 World Cup three
years ago. The  U.K.’s Guardian reported  on Sept. 25 that 44
Nepalese workers died between June 4 and Aug. 8. Qatar said on
Oct. 3, through the state-run Qatar News Agency, that it hired
the law firm DLA Piper to investigate the allegations.  Presidential Visit  French President  Francois Hollande , who visited Qatar in
June, discussed Belounis’s case with the then-Emir Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani. Those talks failed to yield a
breakthrough.  Belounis said he can’t leave because of Qatar’s “kafala”
employment system, which prevents workers from exiting the
country without written permission from their employers.  Living without an income has forced Belounis to sell off
most of his personal possessions, and he and his family are
living in an unfurnished rented apartment that they must must
leave in days, according to FIFPro.  The  players union said  its secretary general, Theo van
Seggelen, has written asking for Blatter’s “urgent
intervention” in the case. The FIFA president was in Doha last
week, meeting with high-ranking officials including the emir.
Following the talks, Blatter told reporters Qatar was working on
changes to its  labor laws  and would carry out a greater number
of spot checks.  Foreigners make up about 80 percent of Qatar’s population
of 2 million. Under the country’s sponsorship system, most must
obtain their employer’s permission any time they want to leave
the country.  FIFPro said it was aware of similar cases involving players
and coaches contracted with Qatari teams.  “Therefore, FIFPro wants to have discussions with the
Qatari authorities and FIFA regarding the application of the
kafala sponsorship system,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  