-- University of Texas Asks Appeals Court to Allow Race Preferences
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-11-13T05:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/university-of-texas-asks-appeals-court-to-allow-race-preferences.html
The  University of Texas  will ask an
appeals court to allow continued race-conscious admissions that
the U.S. Supreme Court called into question over a white girl’s
claim she was rejected in favor of less-qualified minorities.  Both sides declared victory in June after the high court
vacated lower-court rulings in the university’s favor without
invalidating UT’s policy outright. The justices ordered the U.S.
Court of Appeals in  New Orleans  to scrutinize UT’s affirmative-action program again to determine whether the school had
exhausted “race neutral alternatives.”  A panel of three judges from the court will hear arguments
today in Austin to decide whether UT’s racial-preference policy
is “narrowly tailored” to achieve the educational benefits of
a diverse student body, as defined by UT and questioned by the
Supreme Court. UT,  Texas ’s flagship public university, uses race
as a factor in admitting about 25 percent of its freshmen.  “For seven years, UT tried all the key race-neutral tools
touted” by the plaintiff as ways to increase minority
enrollment “before it finally added race to its holistic
admissions plan in 2004,” the university said in a filing last
month.  Since  UT  began letting race play “a nuanced and limited
roll,” minority enrollment has increased, although not to the
point the university believes minorities have achieved
“critical mass” on its Austin campus, UT attorneys wrote in
the filing.  Abigail Fisher, a white student from the Houston area, sued
UT after she was denied admission to its 2008 freshman class. A
district court judge ruled in 2009 that the university was
within its legal rights to consider race as part of a student’s
“full file” of qualifications beyond grades and class
rankings.  Top Tier  In response to a previous  Supreme Court  ruling, Texas
implemented a policy guaranteeing admission to a public
university for every high-school senior graduating in the top 10
percent of the class. UT was admitting as much as 75 percent of
its freshmen class under what’s known as the Top 10 percent rule
the year Fisher applied.  Fisher’s lawyers claim UT had already admitted enough
minority students to reach “critical mass” and attain a
diverse student body by the time it violated Fisher’s
constitutional rights by considering race in evaluating her
application. UT’s 2008 enrollment was more than 40 percent
minority, according to court records.  “The Top 10 percent law has made (and continues to make) a
far greater contribution to racial diversity than UT’s racial
preferences ever could,” Fisher’s lawyers said. “Once UT
enrolls a critical mass of underrepresented minority students,
it is no longer necessary, and thus no longer permissible, to
discriminate among applicants on the basis of race.”  ‘Critical Mass’  “UT does not believe it failed to enroll a critical mass
of minority students –- it failed to enroll enough of the
minorities it prefers,” Fisher’s lawyers said.  The  Justice Department  filed court papers largely
supporting UT’s right to use race as a limited factor in filling
the part of its class reserved for students who don’t rank in
their high schools’ top percentile.  The government asked the judges to examine UT’s claim that
it hasn’t yet achieved “critical mass” in minority enrollment,
which allows the school to consider race to ensure the
educational benefits of diversity, UT’s stated goal.  The court should make sure UT’s evidence “stands for the
propositions the university says it does,” the Justice
Department said, rather than as justification for achieving
impermissible racial balancing, as UT’s critics claim.  Divergent Views  Scores of educators, universities, politicians and civil
rights activists have submitted opinions supporting and decrying
UT’s use of racial preferences. Hispanic, African-American and
Asian advocacy groups are aligned on both sides, with some
arguing the merits of affirmative action to achieve racial
diversity, and others claiming race-conscious admission policies
set some students up for failure.  UT urged the court to dismiss Fisher’s claims as
irrelevant, since the girl graduated last year from a different
university and didn’t sue on behalf of a class of individuals
who could benefit from a different admission standard. UT has
also questioned the validity of Fisher’s case by asserting she
didn’t qualify for admission even if race hadn’t been a factor.  The case is Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, 
09-50822,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  