-- Uruguay, Mexico Near Soccer World Cup Berth With Playoff Routs
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-11-14T01:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/uruguay-beats-jordan-5-0-in-world-cup-soccer-qualifying-match.html
Uruguay routed Jordan 5-0 and  Mexico 
thrashed New Zealand 5-1 to open their soccer World Cup
qualifying playoffs and close in on a berth at next year’s
tournament in Brazil.  Two-time world champion Uruguay, a semifinalist in 2010,
got goals from Maxi Pereira, Cristian Stuani, Nicolas Lodeiro,
Cristian Rodriguez and Edinson Cavani in Ammam yesterday to take
control of the two-match intercontinental playoff. Oribe Peralta
scored twice as Mexico overwhelmed New Zealand in Mexico City.  “I expected that the team would face difficulties and win,
but not with that number of goals,” Uruguay coach Oscar Tabarez
said in comments on the tournament’s website. “We have become
closer to the World Cup.”  The return games are scheduled Nov. 20, with the winners of
the home-and-away series advancing to the 32-team global
championship.  Twenty-one nations  have already qualified and the
remaining 11 spots will be decided by playoffs.  Uruguay, sixth in world governing body FIFA’s world
rankings, opened its fourth straight World Cup playoff by
overpowering a Jordanian team cheered on at the Amman
International Stadium by a crowd including King Abdullah II.  Pereira prodded in a rebound to score the opener in the
22nd minute, while Stuani took advantage of poor defending from
a throw-in to double the lead 20 minutes later.  The start of the second half brought the best chance for
70th-ranked Jordan, which had moved to within two games of its
first World Cup appearance by beating Uzbekistan on penalty
kicks in their Asian zone playoff. Striker Ahmad Ibrahim shot
wide after Adnan Hasan stole the ball and crossed in front of
goal.  Cavani’s Curler  Lodeiro scored in the 69th minute to quiet the crowd, with
Rodriguez getting the fourth less than 10 minutes later. In
stoppage time, Cavani curled a free kick from outside the
penalty area over the wall and goalkeeper Mohamad Shatnawi
didn’t move as the ball flew into the far corner of the net.  Uruguay, which hosts the second game in Montevideo, won the
inaugural World Cup as host in 1930 and took the title again 20
years later by beating  Brazil  at Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana
stadium. The arena will host next year’s final July 13.  Mexico, which reached the round of 16 at the past five
editions, included only home-based players for its playoff
against New Zealand. They secured a four-goal advantage at the
Estadio Azteca to take to Wellington next week.  Visiting goalkeeper Glen Moss denied Mexico with three
saves before Paul Aguilar opened the scoring in the 32nd minute
when Moss failed to get enough distance on his punched clearance.
Raul Jimenez’s header doubled the lead with five minutes left in
the first half.  Second-Half Headers  Peralta’s close-range finish made it 3-0 three minutes
after the restart and the striker added his second of the game
with an 80th-minute header. Home skipper Rafael Marquez put his
team 5-0 up four minutes later with another header before Chris
James scored a late goal for Oceania group winner New Zealand,
which is seeking its second straight World Cup berth.  Mexico entered the playoff after finishing fourth in its
regional qualifying group by winning only two of its 10 matches
and scoring just seven goals.  The  European playoffs  open tomorrow, when Portugal hosts
 Sweden ,  Croatia  visits  Iceland , 1998 champion  France  is at
Ukraine and Greece hosts  Romania . The second games are Nov. 19.  The  five African qualifiers  also will be decided in the next
five days.  Ghana , Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso all take
leads into their playoff second legs, while Cameroon hosts
Tunisia following a 0-0 draw last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  