-- Venezuela Payment Delays Surge to One Year for Airline
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-11-13T19:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/venezuela-payment-delays-surge-to-one-year-for-airline.html
Venezuela  is falling further behind
in payments to foreign companies as the government limits access
to dollars and inflation accelerates to a 16-year high.  Copa Holdings SA (CPA) , which runs an airline with routes
connecting the U.S., Caribbean and  Latin America , said the delay
in getting its funds repatriated from Venezuela has doubled from
an earlier six to seven months.  “We know we’re going to get it out eventually, but its
taking a while,” Copa’s Chief Executive Officer Pedro Heilbron
said on a conference call today. “Even with that money stuck in
Venezuela, our cash position is still strong.”  President Nicolas Maduro this week blamed a “parasitic
bourgeoisie” for looting South America’s biggest oil exporter
and has said he’d impose limits on profit margins after sending
troops to take over an electronics retailer last week. The
country’s dollar reserves tumbled to about $21 billion last
week, the lowest in nine years.  Panama City-based Copa Airlines received $153.5 million
from Venezuela’s currency board in 2012 after getting $472
million from 2004-2011, according to a document published on the
board’s website. The agency has not provided information for
2013 and Heilbron did not give more details.  The company, a member of the  Star Alliance , operates 82
aircraft with flights to 29 countries. It ended the third
quarter with $1 billion in cash and investments, the company
said in a statement today.  ‘Pending Repatriation’  “Of such cash, 38.4 percent or $391.8 million was subject
to exchange controls in Venezuela and was pending
repatriation,” according to the statement.  Venezuela’s currency board, known as Cadivi, sells dollars
at the official  exchange rate  of 6.3 bolivars per dollar. On the
illegal black market, the exchange rate is about 63.65 bolivars
per dollar, according to the Dolar Today website.  Maduro, who took over as president this year after his
socialist mentor  Hugo Chavez  died of cancer, is stiffening
government-imposed price controls that have contributed to
shortages of food and basic  consumer goods  including toilet
paper. Inflation surged to 54 percent in October, the fastest in
the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  