-- Virgin Australia $328 Million Share Sale May Lift Airline Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-11-13T23:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/virgin-australia-328-million-share-sale-may-lift-airline-stake.html
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , the
country’s second-largest carrier, said it plans to raise A$350
million ($328 million) in a share sale that allows airlines that
are its biggest investors to lift their stake to 70 percent.  The carrier’s three largest shareholders, Air New Zealand
Ltd., Etihad Airways PJSC, and Singapore Airlines Ltd.,
currently have 62.6 percent of the company and may lift that to
69.8 percent if they take the maximum stake in the raising, the
Brisbane-based company said in a regulatory statement today.
They’ll fund between A$220 million and A$316 million of the
entitlement offer, according to an investor presentation.  The capital raising will help reduce debt that Virgin took
on to fund its fight with Qantas Airways Ltd. for a share of
 Australia ’s domestic travel market. Virgin has spent at least
A$1.54 billion on capital projects since Chief Executive Officer
John Borghetti, a former Qantas senior executive, took over in
2010 and its debt ratios are the fourth-highest among global
airlines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are pleased that our major shareholders have indicated
their support for the offer,” Neil Chatfield, Virgin
Australia’s chairman, said in the statement today. “Significant
further benefits can be achieved from our alliances as we
continue to deepen relationships with our partners.”  Air  New Zealand  and Singapore Air may jointly take over
Virgin Australia in the medium term, Macquarie Group Ltd.
analysts wrote in an unsigned note last month. The carriers have
“overlapping strategic interest and the prospect of an improved
relationship,” the analysts wrote.  Shares Halted  Under the terms of the fully underwritten entitlement
offer, shareholders will be able to buy 5 new shares for every
14 they already hold for 38 Australian cents, a 6.2 percent
discount to the stock’s 40.5 cents closing price yesterday. The
shares were halted before today’s announcement.  The shares have slipped 3.6 percent this year, compared to
a 15 percent gain in the S&P/ASX 200 benchmark index.  The three airline shareholders have all committed to take
up their full entitlements and enter agreements that could
increase their stakes, according to the statement.  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Group will put in A$35 million to maintain its
existing 10 percent stake.  The three airlines offered A$90 million of credit lines to
the Australian carrier as part of about A$223 million of secured
debt, lease-back agreements and loan facilities with associates
that it entered during the 2013 financial year. Those airline
credit lines will be closed as a result of the share sale, the
company said today.  Virgin has also issued $797 million in bonds secured
against its aircraft as it adds flights and upgrades lounges and
business-class seats to crack Qantas’s 65 percent share of
Australia’s domestic market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  