-- Voser Says Shell to Quicken Disposals to Offset Spending: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-11-13T17:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/voser-says-shell-to-quicken-disposals-to-offset-spending-energy.html
  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is gearing up
to sell about $15 billion of assets as Europe’s largest oil
company accelerates disposals to offset the cost of projects
from  Australia  to  Canada .  Asset sales will allow Shell’s net capital investment,
spending on projects adjusted for acquisitions and disposals, to
fall from this year’s record $45 billion, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Voser said in an interview. New projects coming on
stream give room to sell oil and natural gas fields, he said.  The shares fell the most in two years on Oct. 31 when Shell
said net spending would rise this year because of acquisitions
and higher costs at projects. Voser, who steps down at the end
of the year to be replaced by Ben van Beurden, said while
investment in fields is vital to ensure sustained production
growth, there’s room to mitigate spending through disposals.  “We are entering into a divestment phase like we had a few
years ago,” Voser, 55, said at his company’s headquarters in
The Hague. “The net capital spending is considerably going to
come down in 2014. We know exactly what we are going to do. Ben
will introduce to the market” new targets, he said.  While Voser didn’t put a figure on disposals, Shell needs
to raise at least $15 billion over the next two years to meet
its financial targets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Increased Scrutiny  Capital spending at the biggest energy companies has come
under increased scrutiny from the investment community as costs
rise against a background of stagnant oil prices.  France ’s  Total
SA (FP)  has outperformed its peers this year after CEO Christophe de Margerie said spending had peaked.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
world’s largest oil company by market value and biggest spender,
also said it expects investment to decline.  Tension with investors on the mix of spending and returns
to shareholders will “always be there and that’s the right
tension,” Voser said. “But it doesn’t mean we always give in.
We slowed down in the late 1990s quite considerably and this
actually was one of our biggest regrets strategically, because
it took us 10 years to recover.”  Voser, a Swiss national and an economist by training, is
retiring 31 years after first joining Shell. Since his
appointment in 2009 he’s overseen the completion of some of
Shell’s largest projects including the $19 billion Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in  Qatar . Voser said his most important decision
as CEO was deciding to go ahead with the Prelude project, a
floating liquefied natural gas plant that will be the largest
vessel ever built and produce gas off Australia.  Forecast Spending  Shell forecast net capital expenditure of as much as $130
billion in 2012-2015 and expects it so far to total about $75
billion by January. That leaves $55 billion over the next two
years. Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry forecast investment
in projects will probably remain near this year’s level of $36
billion over the next two years. If so, Shell will need to cover
at least $15 billion through divestments.  “Given Shell’s size and scope, it’s almost inevitable that
there will be some acquisitions over the period, so in order to
hit their net target, disposals would have to be higher still,”
Neill Morton, a London-based analyst at Investec Securities
Ltd., said by phone. “If they choose to breach their target,
they may send the wrong signal to the market.”  Shell is investing in projects from  Brazil  to  China  and
plans to sell production assets in Nigeria, the U.S., and
possibly some other regions, along with interests in refineries
and retail, Henry said last month.  ‘Upstream Options’  While Voser declined to elaborate on disposal candidates,
the company will probably concentrate sales in oil and gas
production rather than refining, he said.  “We are particularly rich on upstream options,” Voser
said. “At the moment the pipeline which we have is richer than
we can do.”  The stock declined 1.4 percent to 2,028.50 pence at the
close in London. The shares have fallen 4.4 percent this year.  Shell’s share in the Libra field, Brazil’s biggest oil
discovery, was partly responsible for this year’s net spending
increase. The Petroleo Brasileiro SA-led group including Total,
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and China National Petroleum Corp., agreed to pay a
total $6.9 billion signing bonus to win the 35-year project in
deep waters of the Atlantic Ocean.  “Two major IOCs coming with deepwater skills, two major
Chinese coming in” bringing access to the fastest-growing
energy market, Voser said. “It’s actually a perfect model.
There is a lot be gained here and that’s the model going
forward” to work with national oil companies.  International oil companies control about 20 percent of the
world’s petroleum resources,  according  to  BP Plc. (BP/)  NOCs need
access to technologies, which are being developed by companies
such as Shell, which spends about $1 billion a year in research
and development.  “This will be a partnership development, more and more
focusing on NOCs and IOCs together,” Voser said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  