-- When the Police Come Knocking
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-11-13T22:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/when-the-police-come-knocking.html
“Knock, knock. It’s the police; can
we come in?” Word to the wise: If you say no, they can’t.  But what if they put you in handcuffs and drag you away?
Can they then come back and get permission from your live-in
partner? You may think the answer should be an obvious “No!” -
- but it isn’t. The appeals courts are all over the map on the
question, and the U.S. Supreme Court, in  Fernandez v.
California , has just heard arguments over whether your undoubted
right to keep the police out of your home ends when they haul
you away.  On the surface, it seems preposterous that the police could
get around your privacy rights by arresting you. After all, the
Fourth Amendment was designed precisely to protect people whom
the authorities wanted to take into custody. But law enforcement
is nothing if not creative when it comes to finding ways around
the Constitution -- and domestic violence makes the whole issue
far more complicated than it would otherwise be.  The legal background is actually pretty interesting. In
1974, in  U.S. v. Matlock , the court held that a spouse,
roommate, or live-in boyfriend or girlfriend could give the
police permission to enter a private dwelling. The theory was
that any resident could waive the privacy of the others and that
it was unreasonable to make the police find the primary owner to
get permission.  Respecting Privacy  But in the 2006 case of  Georgia v. Randolph , the court
clarified that if both residents were present and one invited
the police in while the other ordered them to stay out, the
police could not enter. The opinion was written by Justice David
Souter, who combined strong respect for privacy, exquisite
manners and lifelong bachelorhood (I know because I worked for
him, though not at the time of the case). To Souter, it seemed
obvious that “no recognized authority in law or social
practice” gave one resident priority over the other. The
privacy of the home was paramount, and someone standing outside
facing a disagreement between co-tenants would not feel invited
in. Under these circumstances, those inside enjoyed a reasonable
expectation of privacy.  This result did not satisfy police or advocates for
domestic-violence victims, who believe that the typical co-tenant disagreement is when an abusive husband tells the cops to
stay out while the battered wife invites them in. The solution
was obvious: Arrest the husband and remove him from the scene.
That would avoid the problem of the Randolph holding. Then,
under the authority of the Matlock case, the wife could invite
the police in to look for evidence.  This kind of legal chicanery in a good cause is a common
problem for the constitutional law of criminal procedure. In a
case called Missouri v. Siebert, the court struck down the so-called “Missouri two-step,” in which police try to get around
the Miranda warning by questioning a suspect without it, then
Mirandizing him and asking him the same questions again. Both
the George W. Bush and  Barack Obama  administrations have done
something similar with terrorism detainees, the first subjecting
them to Central Intelligence Agency interrogation techniques
(often for months or years), then giving them Miranda warnings
and trying to introduce their testimony in court.  When it comes to removing the husband, the intent is
similar: to bring about a just result by avoiding a pesky
constitutional protection.  Battered Wife  In the Randolph case, Souter insisted that domestic-violence concerns should not come into play, because the
decision to arrest a husband who is battering the wife is
different from the separate question of gathering evidence after
the fact. This was formally correct but not perhaps entirely
realistic, because conviction might depend at least in part on
evidence gathered inside the home where the battery took place.
In the case now in front of the Supreme Court, the evidence
gathered after the husband was arrested had nothing to do with
the domestic dispute that got Walter Fernandez arrested -- it
was evidence of drugs that the police wanted and Fernandez’s
wife was happy to let them see once he was off the scene.  It’s hard to feel too sympathetic to Fernandez, who
could’ve avoided the search by not hitting his wife and giving
the cops the chance to arrest him. But two-step constitutional
games are a bad idea, even when motivated by the laudable
desires to protect women from domestic abuse and send terrorists
to prison.  The whole point of the procedural protections imposed by
the Constitution is that they cover not only the innocent, but
also the guilty. The right to privacy in one’s own home, one of
the most basic liberties enshrined in the Constitution, should
exist when I insist on it. Arresting me to get me out of the
picture is a game. And fundamental rights are not to be toyed
with.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
@NoahRFeldman.)  To contact the writer of this article: Noah Feldman at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Tobin
Harshaw at  tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 