-- Whitney Hedge Fund Wins Backing From BlueCrest Principals
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-11-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/whitney-hedge-fund-wins-backing-from-bluecrest-principals.html
Meredith Whitney , the Wall Street
analyst who forecast a flood of U.S. municipal-bond defaults in
2010 that hasn’t materialized, won backing from billionaire
 Michael Platt  and other partners at BlueCrest Capital Management
LLP for her new hedge fund-firm, according to a fund
presentation.  Whitney’s Kenbelle Capital LP started trading on Nov. 1
with about $50 million from Bluecrest partners and other
investors, said the presentation, a copy of which was obtained
by Bloomberg News. Kenbelle, which invests in U.S. equities, is
aiming for returns of 12 percent to 17 percent annually.  Whitney, 43, gained renown after correctly predicting
Citigroup Inc.’s 2008 dividend cut. She started her own advisory
firm in 2009 and earlier this year closed the brokerage unit,
Meredith Whitney Securities LLC, after three unprofitable years.
Whitney’s fund, American Revival Fund LP, seeks to profit from
what she predicts will be the next cycle of growth in
“America’s Heartland,” according to the presentation, a thesis
that was documented in her book published in June.  Whitney told potential investors at a conference in  New
York  this week that she started her own investment firm in part
because she was tired of other people profiting from her trade
ideas, according to a person who attended the event and asked
not to be identified because the meeting was private. She had
told delegates that she has a unique way of gathering research
data that gives her a competitive advantage over rivals, the
person said.  Platt’s Bluecrest  Whitney and Kenbelle co-founder Stephen M. Schwartz didn’t
return messages left with an assistant seeking comment. Ed
Orlebar, a spokesman for London-based BlueCrest, declined to
comment.  Platt, a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. trader, co-founded
BlueCrest, which oversees about $35 billion, in 2000. Platt was
worth 650 million pounds ($1 billion), according to an April
2012 survey published by  London ’s Sunday Times. BlueCrest’s
partners are not using the firm’s investor capital to seed New
York-based Kenbelle, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Whitney predicts that growth in states such as  Arkansas  and
 South Dakota  will be twice the national average, according to
the presentation. Those states have one-third less consumer
leverage, lower taxes, right-to-work laws and high commodity
exposure, the presentation shows.  Whitney’s Book  In her book, “Fate of the States,’’ published by Penguin
Group (260 pages, $27.95), Whitney publicized a vision for a
“plodding” recovery in some coastal states and an attractive
future for “the central corridor of the country.” Whitney’s
marketing documents use her book’s maps of the U.S., with arrows
and circles showing economic and industrial growth over time.
The presentation doesn’t refer to the book.  Schwartz, who was most recently employed at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, had also worked at SAC Capital Advisors LP and
worked with Whitney in 2002, according to the presentation.
Kenbelle hired Mark Innaimo as a senior trader, according to the
documents. He previously worked at Bay Crest Partners LLC,
according data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Meredith’s track record of early trend identification
combined with Steve’s track record of superior risk adjusted
returns will seek to create alpha,” the fund documents said.  Whitney started her advisory business amid media coverage
including a Fortune cover story crowning her “the woman who
called Wall Street’s meltdown.” She predicted municipal-bond
defaults totaling hundreds of billions of dollars in a December
2010 segment of CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. She later
told  Bloomberg News  it had been “a guesstimate” involving
“fifth-derivative dimensions.” Instead of collapsing,
municipal bonds became a star performer of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  