-- Won Drops to One-Month Low on Fed Stimulus Concern; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-13T07:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/won-drops-to-one-month-low-on-fed-stimulus-concern-bonds-steady.html
South Korea’s won declined to a one-month low as U.S. policy makers added to speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will start tapering stimulus this year, weakening demand
for emerging-market assets. Government bonds gained.  “Some discussion of tapering could well take place” next
month, Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview. Dallas Fed chief
 Richard Fisher  said in a speech that monetary accommodation
“becomes riskier by the day.” Central bank Vice Chairman  Janet
Yellen  testifies tomorrow before a Senate committee. Global
funds sold more South Korean  stocks  than they bought for the
eighth day today, exchange data show.  “Since the last Fed meeting, foreign investors have turned
sellers of emerging-market assets, including local markets,”
said Park Dongjin, a fixed-income analyst at Samsung Futures
Inc. in Seoul. “Unless investors find Yellen’s stance on the
Fed’s stimulus at the testimony dovish, the weak sentiment will
continue.”  The won fell 0.1 percent to 1,072.53 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
1,074.20 earlier, the lowest level since Oct. 10. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, dropped 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 7.16 percent.  The world’s largest economy is showing signs of underlying
strength, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said Oct. 30. The
Fed’s March 18-19 meeting will probably dial down its monthly
bond buying to $70 billion from the current $85 billion,
according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Nov. 8
Bloomberg News survey.  Government Monitoring  South Korea closely monitors local and overseas financial
markets and capital flows, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said at
a meeting in Seoul today, Yonhap News reported.  The nation’s unemployment rate was 3 percent in October,
unchanged from September, official data showed today. That’s the
lowest level since December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Banks’ loans to households rose to a record 474.4
trillion won ($442.3 billion) in October,  Bank of Korea  said in
a statement today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 fell two basis points to 2.94 percent, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices. It touched 2.97 percent earlier, the
highest level since Sept. 6. Bank of Korea will probably hold
the  interest rate  at 2.5 percent at the policy meeting tomorrow,
according to the median forecast of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  